60 considered, that although the hon. Gentleman had spoken at great length against the policy of her Majesty's Government in foreign affairs, he had nevertheless failed to advance any solid arguments in support of his censure. The hon. Member had accused the noble Lord of breaking up the French alliance for inadequate reasons, but he could not concur in that view of the course pursued by the noble Lord. The foreign policy of the present Government had proved itself a sound policy by its results; indeed, no better course could have been pursued. The noble Lord enjoyed not only the approving testimony of his own conscience, but he believed of nearly every Member of that House, as well as of the great majority of the people of England, and, perhaps, of nine-tenths of the inhabitants of civilized Europe. He knew, that in some quarters it was said, that the present Administration were weak, inefficient, and incapable of conducting the affairs of the country, either domestic or foreign. He could net see the justice of that remark. If her Majesty's Ministers were to be considered as being correctly described in the terms he had just repeated, with respect to our foreign policy, they were, then, beyond all question and experience, the most lucky set of Ministers that England ever possessed; for their foreign policy had been most successful and brilliant in its results, and he very much doubled if ever any Ministry had in so short a space of time so ably vindicated our national honour and established our national interests. It was no business of his to support her Majesty's Government. But he had felt so strongly in favour of their foreign policy, that he was induced to trespass on the attention of the House to make these few remarks, and to say, that he acquiesced most cordially in the address, and that he congratulated her Majesty and the country, that the present Ministers were still in office,
60Mr. James
504948"The efforts of the several Governments, who are anxiously seeking to suppress the slave-traffic must, however, be directed against the facilities afforded by what are now recognised as legitimate commercial pursuits, before that object can be fully accomplished. Supplies of provisions, water-casks, merchandise, and articles connected with the prosecution of the slave-trade, are, it is understood, freely carried, by vessels of different nations, to the slave factories; and the effects of the factors are transported openly from one slave station to another, without interruption or punishment by either of the nations to which they belong, engaged in the commerce of that region."47"With all the powers of the world, our relations are those of honourable peace. The excitement which grew out of the territorial controversy between the United States and Great Britain, having subsided, it is to be hoped, that a favourable period is approaching for its final settlement. From the nature of the points in debate, and the undoubted disposition of both parties to bring the mutter to a conclusion, I look with confidence for a prompt and satisfactory termination of the negotiations."What has been, has been—and I have had my hour."Not heaven itself, upon the past has pow'r—The joys I have possessed, in spite of fate are mine;Be fair, or foul, or rain, or shine,"To-morrow do thy worst, for I have liv'd my day;464544 said, in rising to second the Address to the Crown, which had been moved by his noble Friend, he was happy on this occasion to have the opportunity of being able to congratulate the House and the country on the successful issue of the foreign and domestic policy which had been pursued by her Majesty's Ministers. Attached as he was to a system of liberal policy, and a supporter of the present Government, as he had been on many important occasions, he nevertheless felt sure, that he should not offer to the ear of the House, one single source of congratulation, the satisfaction of which was not shared in by every party present. He would lain hope and believe, that there was not a man to be found in England, in Ireland, or in Scotland, who did not rejoice at the news brought by every Indian mail of the triumph of British arms throughout the length and breadth of the continent of Asia. He congratulated the country, he congratulated the Government upon the Chinese war. Yes, he congratulated the Government upon the Chinese war, which
504948"The efforts of the several Governments, who are anxiously seeking to suppress the slave-traffic must, however, be directed against the facilities afforded by what are now recognised as legitimate commercial pursuits, before that object can be fully accomplished. Supplies of provisions, water-casks, merchandise, and articles connected with the prosecution of the slave-trade, are, it is understood, freely carried, by vessels of different nations, to the slave factories; and the effects of the factors are transported openly from one slave station to another, without interruption or punishment by either of the nations to which they belong, engaged in the commerce of that region."47"With all the powers of the world, our relations are those of honourable peace. The excitement which grew out of the territorial controversy between the United States and Great Britain, having subsided, it is to be hoped, that a favourable period is approaching for its final settlement. From the nature of the points in debate, and the undoubted disposition of both parties to bring the mutter to a conclusion, I look with confidence for a prompt and satisfactory termination of the negotiations."What has been, has been—and I have had my hour."Not heaven itself, upon the past has pow'r—The joys I have possessed, in spite of fate are mine;Be fair, or foul, or rain, or shine,"To-morrow do thy worst, for I have liv'd my day;464544Mr. Grantley Berkeley
4342414039 said, that, in rising to move that a humble Address be presented to her Majesty, in answer to her most gracious Speech, he felt the greatest possible pleasure—a pleasure unalloyed by any disagreeable feeling, except that occasioned by the sense of his own utter inability to do justice to the subject. In proposing that an Address be presented to her Majesty expressive of the grateful sense which the House entertained of the most gracious Speech which she had that day been pleased to deliver from the Throne, he felt happy that the subjects to which he should have to draw their attention were such as would confidently enable him to anticipate that hon. Members on both sides of the House would cordially agree with him in the Address which he was about to propose. Seldom had it fallen to the lot of any one standing in the situation in which he then stood to have to direct the attention of the House to topics of greater interest than those which had been put forward in the speech from the Throne, or to congratulate them upon a happier or more glorious state of things than was now before them. In entering on the various topics to which it was now his duty to refer, he could assure the House that he should endeavour, as far as possible, to acquit himself of his task without any manifestation of party feeling, it being his anxious desire to conciliate all parties in a cordial co-operation with him in the Address which he would shortly have the honour of moving. The first topic to which he would allude, was one which was not touched upon by her Majesty in her Speech, though it held a very prominent
4342414039Lord Brabazon
7877767574737271"It may also happen that events may receive a new impetus, and that we shall soon be obliged to take a decided part. If this should happen, the alternative in which we shall be placed will be this: either to act in concert with England on the question of Constantinople, and in obtaining from her, in that of Syria, some concessions for Mehemet Ali or to withdraw from the negotiation, leaving it to be conducted amongst the four powers, and holding ourselves apart to await the course
71"By a singular concurrence of circumstances, Russia shows herself disposed to abandon, to adjourn, at least, not only her projects of aggrandisement, but her pretensions of an exclusive protectorate over the Ottoman Empire, and to second England in her design of weakening the Pacha of Egypt."There is here, in the Cabinet, a sincere desire to maintain and to draw closer the French alliance, but, that this desire, and the prospective difficulties of execution, should outweigh the motives which drive England to seize the occasion of settling according to her own political views the questions of Constantinople and Syria, that I cannot affirm."It is important that you should know the state of things and, not make for yourselves any illusion upon the probable chances."I only say, that this conclusion appears to me probable, and that if we do not make the attempt to bring about between us and England, upon the question of Syria, a compromise with which the Pacha may be contented, we may expect the other issue, the arrangement between four, and hold ourselves prepared.70"If that happens, the alternative in which we shall be placed, will be this,—Either to agree with England, acting with her in the
70"But it may likewise happen, that matters may be hastened, and that we may soon find ourselves obliged to take a decision.696867D'Israeli:"In thus looking forward to an occurrence which we do not fear or desire, but in respect to which it appears to us wise to regulate our policy, because it is probable, we think certainly that we should take into very serious consideration, the means of giving as much stability as possible to an empire, destined according to appearance, to remain for a long time one of the principal elements of a political equilibrium.""No peculiar predilection animates us in favour of the Egyptian power. We certainly should not see without some regret the extraordinary work of Mehemet Ali overturned, and which, in the midst of numerous imperfections, contains undoubtedly, the germs of numerous improvements; but our faith in the duration of this work is not stable enough to induce us to think of causing it to form the base of a political system. We much rather believe, that at an epoch more or less distant, the vast provinces now under the power of the Viceroy, are destined to return under the immediate rule of the Sultan, and that the Ottoman Empire, notwithstanding its present fallen state of power, is still destined to outlive the establishment of Mehemet Ali, to absorb it, even, some day—because bound up with that fallen state, there remains, in its antiquity, in that religious character peculiarly attached to the Ottoman dynasty, in the resemblance of ideas, and of oriental institutions, a moral force which belongs only to itself."In a communication made on the 25th of September to the Cabinet of Vienna, of a plan of arrangement; the Cabinet of May 12th said, that it was thus necessary to protect Mehemet Ali."666564636261 said: After the objections that have been made by the hon. Member for London to the course of foreign policy that has been pursued by her Majesty's Government, I think it necessary to state my views of that policy, and to explain the grounds upon which I approve of that policy. I feel confident with regard to any and every objection, that may be further urged against the foreign policy of the Ministers, from whatever quarter it may come, my noble Friend, the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department is, and will be, now, and at any future period, perfectly ready to give the fullest explanation to Parliament, of the grounds upon which the Government are ready to defend their conduct with regard to that policy. Her Majesty, at the commencement of last Session, informed this House that the great powers of Europe had been unanimous in arresting the hostilities which had taken place in the Levant, and expressed a hope, that the same unanimity would continue, and would lead to a final settlement in such a manner as would maintain the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire, and give additional security to the peace of Europe. With regard to the object which her Majesty declared we had in view—to the great object, I say, in which this House declared their concurrence in their address, namely, to uphold the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire, and, by the settlement of the affairs of the Levant, to give fresh security for the peace of Europe; to these views the policy of her Majesty's Government has been directed; from that object they have never swerved; and I trust I shall be able to show, that the course they have pursued was the best course, and perhaps, I may add, the only course conducive to that end. Sir, I am relieved from the necessity of argument as to the great importance of the object in view, both by the general concurrence of this House not only in the Address of last year, but in the course of
7877767574737271"It may also happen that events may receive a new impetus, and that we shall soon be obliged to take a decided part. If this should happen, the alternative in which we shall be placed will be this: either to act in concert with England on the question of Constantinople, and in obtaining from her, in that of Syria, some concessions for Mehemet Ali or to withdraw from the negotiation, leaving it to be conducted amongst the four powers, and holding ourselves apart to await the course
71"By a singular concurrence of circumstances, Russia shows herself disposed to abandon, to adjourn, at least, not only her projects of aggrandisement, but her pretensions of an exclusive protectorate over the Ottoman Empire, and to second England in her design of weakening the Pacha of Egypt."There is here, in the Cabinet, a sincere desire to maintain and to draw closer the French alliance, but, that this desire, and the prospective difficulties of execution, should outweigh the motives which drive England to seize the occasion of settling according to her own political views the questions of Constantinople and Syria, that I cannot affirm."It is important that you should know the state of things and, not make for yourselves any illusion upon the probable chances."I only say, that this conclusion appears to me probable, and that if we do not make the attempt to bring about between us and England, upon the question of Syria, a compromise with which the Pacha may be contented, we may expect the other issue, the arrangement between four, and hold ourselves prepared.70"If that happens, the alternative in which we shall be placed, will be this,—Either to agree with England, acting with her in the
70"But it may likewise happen, that matters may be hastened, and that we may soon find ourselves obliged to take a decision.696867D'Israeli:"In thus looking forward to an occurrence which we do not fear or desire, but in respect to which it appears to us wise to regulate our policy, because it is probable, we think certainly that we should take into very serious consideration, the means of giving as much stability as possible to an empire, destined according to appearance, to remain for a long time one of the principal elements of a political equilibrium.""No peculiar predilection animates us in favour of the Egyptian power. We certainly should not see without some regret the extraordinary work of Mehemet Ali overturned, and which, in the midst of numerous imperfections, contains undoubtedly, the germs of numerous improvements; but our faith in the duration of this work is not stable enough to induce us to think of causing it to form the base of a political system. We much rather believe, that at an epoch more or less distant, the vast provinces now under the power of the Viceroy, are destined to return under the immediate rule of the Sultan, and that the Ottoman Empire, notwithstanding its present fallen state of power, is still destined to outlive the establishment of Mehemet Ali, to absorb it, even, some day—because bound up with that fallen state, there remains, in its antiquity, in that religious character peculiarly attached to the Ottoman dynasty, in the resemblance of ideas, and of oriental institutions, a moral force which belongs only to itself."In a communication made on the 25th of September to the Cabinet of Vienna, of a plan of arrangement; the Cabinet of May 12th said, that it was thus necessary to protect Mehemet Ali."666564636261Lord John Russell
 acquainted the House that he had that day attended her Majesty at the House of Peers, where her Majesty had made a most gracious Speech to both Houses of Parliament, of which, for greater accuracy, he had procured a copy, which he would then read.The Speaker
ante read her Majesty's Speech, for which, see anteThe Speaker
595857"That the communications made by the British Government to the Pacha of Egypt, and to Ibrahim Pacha, did materially contribute to bring about that arrangement between the Sultan and the Pacha by which the war was terminated."565554535251: In offering to the House a few remarks on the Address which has been proposed for our adoption, I shall not think it necessary to examine in detail the Speech which has been read from the Throne, nor to touch upon all or even most of the topics which it brings before us. The Speech, taken as a whole, is not very rich in promises; it presents to us the Sketch of a Session as blank in prospect as the last Session was in reality. But there is, among the public matters adverted to in the Speech, one eminent above the rest in interest and importance, which has excited men's minds and stimulated discussion to an unprecedented extent within the last seven months—I mean the expedition sent against Mehemet Ali in Syria, together with its causes and its consequences. On that topic I beg to trouble the House with some remarks; and, in approaching the subject, it is my first duty to say, that I thoroughly agree with what has been stated by the noble Mover of the Address, as well as in the Speech itself, in commendation of the gallantry, the efficiency, the naval skill and precision of our armament in its operations on the Syrian coast. But though I perfectly concur with the noble Lord in applauding the military conduct and merits of our officers and seamen, I cannot equally concur with him in commending the spirit in which the expedition was conceived, or the purpose which it was intended to accomplish. I cannot forget, that we have been exerting our force against persons with whom we have not the slenderest ground of quarrel. Neither Mehemet Ali nor his supporters, nor any other person in Syria has done the least injury to English men or to English interests. We have no complaints to redress—no injuries to avenge—no cause for anger or displeasure against any one. Nay, in so far as we and the other Christian nations of Europe are concerned, it stands on record, that we have been unquestionable gainers by the government of
595857"That the communications made by the British Government to the Pacha of Egypt, and to Ibrahim Pacha, did materially contribute to bring about that arrangement between the Sultan and the Pacha by which the war was terminated."565554535251Mr. Grote
 rose to explain. The right hon. Baronet, who had just sat down, and the noble Lord, the Secretary of the Colonies, appeared to have understood him to say, that it was his opinion that the design to occupy Constantinople by Russia was a sufficient cause for going to war to prevent that being done. He had, however, expressed no opinion pro or con; but he assumed only that it was the opinion of many of those who were near him.Mr. Grote
94"To express to her Majesty our surprise that her Majesty's advisers have recommended increased establishments, attended necessarily with increased taxation to her Majesty's already heavily burthened people, and regret that her Majesty has not directed our attention more particularly to the increase of expenditure beyond the revenue, and to the distress and
94"That, therefore, we humbly beseech her Majesty to direct her Ministers to lay before this House the grounds on which they have advised the employment of her Majesty's forces in Syria, as full information concerning them is necessary to enable us to judge of the wisdom and policy of the measures pursued by her Majesty's Ministers, and which her Majesty informs us has been attended with signal success, and that the objects which the contracting parties had in view are on the eve of being completely accomplished;"Humbly to state to her Majesty, that whilst admitting the undoubted prerogative of her Majesty to declare war and conclude peace, we consider it no less our undoubted right and duty to inquire into and examine the exercise of that prerogative:"That we regard with distrust the Convention formed by her Majesty's Ministers with the military governments of Russia, Prussia, and Austria, under the pretext of preserving the integrity of the Ottoman Empire, which has been more injured by the encroachments of Russia than by any other power:"That we view with especial uneasiness the state of our relations with France, as we consider the cordial alliance of Great Britain with that power essential to the permanent peace of Europe, and to the spread of freedom and civilization throughout the world:"That regarding war as the greatest calamity which can afflict a civilized community, and specially destructive of commerce and manufactures, which so largely contribute to the wealth and greatness of this country, we cannot but view with intense apprehension and regret any interruption of the peace which we have now for so many years happily enjoyed:"To thank her Majesty for having called us together in Parliament at a period when the finances of the country, the condition of the working classes, and the state of our foreign relations in every quarter of the world, alike require grave and mature consideration;9392919089Morning ChronicleMorning Chronicle88878685Morning PostMorning Post84 said, if he had not paid particular attention to this question, yet still he should have found sufficient grounds for his resistance to the policy of the Government in the Speech of the hon. Member for London. Having endeavoured, perhaps too pertinaciously, in the course of last Session, to bring the state of the negotiations on this question under the consideration of the House, he could not allow the present discussion to go on, without pointing out what, indeed, was but a realization of his fears—the dangerous condition in which the Government had placed this country. It would be recollected that so early as the 27th of March of last year, he had moved that the papers explanatory of the negotiations which had taken place between France and England should be laid on the Table. A long discussion ensued, in which the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs managed adroitly to evade the motion, and to allege as Ministers commonly did when they found it inconvenient to produce papers, that it would be injurious to the public service to do so. Yet he was satisfied that he had made the motion which he had done, for it had at least prevented the commencement of hostilities at the time. He had learned when in France
94"To express to her Majesty our surprise that her Majesty's advisers have recommended increased establishments, attended necessarily with increased taxation to her Majesty's already heavily burthened people, and regret that her Majesty has not directed our attention more particularly to the increase of expenditure beyond the revenue, and to the distress and
94"That, therefore, we humbly beseech her Majesty to direct her Ministers to lay before this House the grounds on which they have advised the employment of her Majesty's forces in Syria, as full information concerning them is necessary to enable us to judge of the wisdom and policy of the measures pursued by her Majesty's Ministers, and which her Majesty informs us has been attended with signal success, and that the objects which the contracting parties had in view are on the eve of being completely accomplished;"Humbly to state to her Majesty, that whilst admitting the undoubted prerogative of her Majesty to declare war and conclude peace, we consider it no less our undoubted right and duty to inquire into and examine the exercise of that prerogative:"That we regard with distrust the Convention formed by her Majesty's Ministers with the military governments of Russia, Prussia, and Austria, under the pretext of preserving the integrity of the Ottoman Empire, which has been more injured by the encroachments of Russia than by any other power:"That we view with especial uneasiness the state of our relations with France, as we consider the cordial alliance of Great Britain with that power essential to the permanent peace of Europe, and to the spread of freedom and civilization throughout the world:"That regarding war as the greatest calamity which can afflict a civilized community, and specially destructive of commerce and manufactures, which so largely contribute to the wealth and greatness of this country, we cannot but view with intense apprehension and regret any interruption of the peace which we have now for so many years happily enjoyed:"To thank her Majesty for having called us together in Parliament at a period when the finances of the country, the condition of the working classes, and the state of our foreign relations in every quarter of the world, alike require grave and mature consideration;9392919089Morning ChronicleMorning Chronicle88878685Morning PostMorning Post84Mr. Hume
8382818079 said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down had, he thought, satisfactorily answered the hon. Member for the city of London with respect to the guarantee of the five powers regarding the separation of the Turkish Empire; but he wished to impress upon the House that the intervention of this country which had taken place was wholly different from that moral intervention and support given to the Ottoman empire by the guarantee of the five powers, and in this he thought the noble Lord would find, lay the whole secret of the difference between the policy of England and the policy of France. In the case of the quadruple treaty, while this country actively interfered with Spain by sending the Spanish Legion into that country. France refused to interfere, except by the influence of her moral weight. So in this instance France had been ready to give all possible moral weight to an arrangement of the affairs of the Turkish empire, but said she would not consent to use force, or to fire a single gun, because she did not know where its echo would end. Keeping this important declaration in sight, he could not but shortly advert to what he thought a most painful omission in the Speech from the Throne. He was of opinion, that the peculiar situation in which the foreign relations of this country at present stood, not only authorized, but demanded, some expression of regret at the rupture which had occurred between this country and France. Allowing her Majesty's Ministers to have been as right and successful as the hon. Member for Cumberland seemed to believe, he was sure such an expression of regret would have been cordially responded to by the House, and received with delight by the whole of this nation. In the absence of any expression of regret, he felt bound to protest against the assumption in the Speech from the Throne, already protested against by the hon. Member for the city of London, and not contradicted by the noble Lord, that the objects of the treaty of July—namely, the integrity and inde-
8382818079Mr. Milnes
109108"In the important crisis into which the death of Sultan Mahmoud has precipitated the Ottoman empire, arising out of the events which marked the last month of his reign, the union of the great European powers can alone offer a sufficient guarantee for the maintenance of peace. The communications exchanged during the last few weeks have fortunately proved that this agreement is as perfect as possible. All the cabinets desire the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire under the present reigning dynasty. They were all disposed to employ their means of action and influence to secure the maintenance of this element, so essential to the balance of power, and they would unhesitatingly declare themselves against any combination which would affect that balance. Such an agreement in opinion and resolution will be enough (no one can doubt) to prevent any attempt being made against those high interests, as well as to remove every feeling of anxiety, the very existence of which already produces real danger, in consequence of the irritation it causes in the public mind. The King's government believes that the cabinets would be adopting a measure essential for the consolidation of peace were they to declare in written documents, to be mutually interchanged, and, in case of need, published more or less fully, that they were actuated by such intentions. On our part, we formally declare, that these are our invariable intentions, and I authorise you
108107106"I rejoice to be able to inform you that the measures which have been adopted in execution of these engagements have been attended with signal success; and I trust that the objects which the contracting parties had in view are on the eve of being completely accomplished. In the course of these transactions my naval forces have co-operated with those of the Emperor of Austria, and with the land and sea forces of the Sultan, and have displayed upon all occasions their accustomed gallantry and skill.""I have the satisfaction to receive from foreign powers assurances of their friendly disposition, and of their earnest desire to maintain peace. The position of affairs in the Levant had long been a cause of uneasiness, and a source of danger to the general tranquillity. With a view to avert the evils which a continuance of that state of things was calculated to occasion, I concluded with the Emperor of Austria, the King of Prussia, the Emperor of Russia, and the Sultan, a convention intended to effect a pacification of the Levant; to maintain the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire, and thereby to afford additional security to the peace of Europe."105104103102"M. Guizot—That is true; I believed that such would be the case. All the world knows, that during the last days of the negotiation, France was kept in ignorance of what was going on. I was not exactly informed of the proceedings. What I told you, was what I believed. The treaty was concealed from us. This was wrong. It was not delicate conduct, and it was a proceeding against which I loudly protested. I was myself ignorant of the treaty, and therefore could not inform you of it. The fact of the treaty having been signed was, not communicated to me until the 17th of July, two days after it took place.""M. Thiers—I will prove that you wrote to me on the 6th, 9th, and 14th of July, as follows:—'The English Cabinet is in deliberation—there is great agitation—there is a crisis; but nothing is yet decided. Two plans have been prepared—one for five Powers, for which propositions have been made to France, and the other for four Powers, in the event of France refusing the propositions that will be made to her.' This is what you wrote to me. All your letters contain the supposition that before signing any treaty a proposition would be made to France."M. Guizot—Certainly."This is all very true, but you quote only a portion of the letter. You will permit me lo quote the other portion."That is true. I foresaw what was probable, but I was sure of nothing."101"I will prove with the documents in my hands, since it appears that I am placed in a position of being compelled to justify myself in the presence of an Ambassador who received his orders from me, I will prove, I say, to M. Guizot, that he told me on the 14th of July, that we had still plenty of time before us, and that there was nothing to render urgency necessary."10099989796"Having deemed it necessary to send to the coast of China a naval and military force, to demand reparation and redress for injuries inflicted upon some of my subjects by the officers of the Emperor of China, and for indignities offered to an agent of my Crown, I, at the same time, appointed plenipotentiaries to treat upon these matters with the Chinese government. These plenipotentiaries were, by the last accounts in negotiation with the government of China; and it will be a source of much gratification to me, if that government shall be induced by its own sense of justice to bring those matters to a speedy settlement by an amicable arrangement."95 said, that there was one subject of such surpassing interest connected with the peace of Europe and with the general interests of humanity which so completely cast into the shade all other topics, however important those topics might be in themselves, that it was hardly necessary upon that occasion to notice the omissions that were made in the Speech, or to criticise the language in which the various topics were mentioned. If he were inclined to criticise the Speech, he could not say that he ever recollected a speech which was more successful than this in that merit which was generally conceded to documents of this description, the merit of saying as little as possible. On that point, he could not deem it a complete failure. The Speech must be considered as the speech of her Majesty's Ministers, and it possessed the advantage which had been ascribed by a great diplomatist to all language, that it was given to man for the purpose of concealing his thoughts. It was a careful Speech, for the hon. Gentlemen, the Mover and Seconder of the Address, found it so utterly impossible to eke out their own speeches with becoming decency to the ordinary length, if they had confined themselves to the topics mentioned in the speech itself, that they felt it absolutely incumbent on them, even at the risk of offending her Majesty's Government, to introduce many matters which they thought ought to have been introduced into the Speech itself. The state of Canada and the intentions of the Crown with respect to the union of the provinces was one instance. It was omitted in the Speech; it was touched upon by the hon. Mover. The boundary question, again, was touched upon by the hon. Seconder. The state of Ireland and the progress of the repeal agitation touched upon by the Mover. The state of the war in India, and the progress of our arms in Affghanistan, again touched upon by the Mover and the Seconder. They gave a tacit acknowledgement, from which it was clear what were the topics that they would have introduced, if they had prepared the Speech for the Throne. Nay, it was clear that they were in possession of information which did not appear to have reached her Majesty's Government; for, talking of China, one of the
109108"In the important crisis into which the death of Sultan Mahmoud has precipitated the Ottoman empire, arising out of the events which marked the last month of his reign, the union of the great European powers can alone offer a sufficient guarantee for the maintenance of peace. The communications exchanged during the last few weeks have fortunately proved that this agreement is as perfect as possible. All the cabinets desire the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire under the present reigning dynasty. They were all disposed to employ their means of action and influence to secure the maintenance of this element, so essential to the balance of power, and they would unhesitatingly declare themselves against any combination which would affect that balance. Such an agreement in opinion and resolution will be enough (no one can doubt) to prevent any attempt being made against those high interests, as well as to remove every feeling of anxiety, the very existence of which already produces real danger, in consequence of the irritation it causes in the public mind. The King's government believes that the cabinets would be adopting a measure essential for the consolidation of peace were they to declare in written documents, to be mutually interchanged, and, in case of need, published more or less fully, that they were actuated by such intentions. On our part, we formally declare, that these are our invariable intentions, and I authorise you
108107106"I rejoice to be able to inform you that the measures which have been adopted in execution of these engagements have been attended with signal success; and I trust that the objects which the contracting parties had in view are on the eve of being completely accomplished. In the course of these transactions my naval forces have co-operated with those of the Emperor of Austria, and with the land and sea forces of the Sultan, and have displayed upon all occasions their accustomed gallantry and skill.""I have the satisfaction to receive from foreign powers assurances of their friendly disposition, and of their earnest desire to maintain peace. The position of affairs in the Levant had long been a cause of uneasiness, and a source of danger to the general tranquillity. With a view to avert the evils which a continuance of that state of things was calculated to occasion, I concluded with the Emperor of Austria, the King of Prussia, the Emperor of Russia, and the Sultan, a convention intended to effect a pacification of the Levant; to maintain the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire, and thereby to afford additional security to the peace of Europe."105104103102"M. Guizot—That is true; I believed that such would be the case. All the world knows, that during the last days of the negotiation, France was kept in ignorance of what was going on. I was not exactly informed of the proceedings. What I told you, was what I believed. The treaty was concealed from us. This was wrong. It was not delicate conduct, and it was a proceeding against which I loudly protested. I was myself ignorant of the treaty, and therefore could not inform you of it. The fact of the treaty having been signed was, not communicated to me until the 17th of July, two days after it took place.""M. Thiers—I will prove that you wrote to me on the 6th, 9th, and 14th of July, as follows:—'The English Cabinet is in deliberation—there is great agitation—there is a crisis; but nothing is yet decided. Two plans have been prepared—one for five Powers, for which propositions have been made to France, and the other for four Powers, in the event of France refusing the propositions that will be made to her.' This is what you wrote to me. All your letters contain the supposition that before signing any treaty a proposition would be made to France."M. Guizot—Certainly."This is all very true, but you quote only a portion of the letter. You will permit me lo quote the other portion."That is true. I foresaw what was probable, but I was sure of nothing."101"I will prove with the documents in my hands, since it appears that I am placed in a position of being compelled to justify myself in the presence of an Ambassador who received his orders from me, I will prove, I say, to M. Guizot, that he told me on the 14th of July, that we had still plenty of time before us, and that there was nothing to render urgency necessary."10099989796"Having deemed it necessary to send to the coast of China a naval and military force, to demand reparation and redress for injuries inflicted upon some of my subjects by the officers of the Emperor of China, and for indignities offered to an agent of my Crown, I, at the same time, appointed plenipotentiaries to treat upon these matters with the Chinese government. These plenipotentiaries were, by the last accounts in negotiation with the government of China; and it will be a source of much gratification to me, if that government shall be induced by its own sense of justice to bring those matters to a speedy settlement by an amicable arrangement."95Sir R. Peel
: But you had time to communicate it to the French government. Indeed you did communicate it.Sir R. Peel
: To the French Ambassador.Sir R. Peel
117116115114R. Peel113in extenso: No doubt, on the second day after the signing of the treaty, we did communicate to the French ambassador, not only the fact of such a treaty having been signed, but also the substance of that treaty. But that was not a communication on which the French Government could pronounce an opinion whether they would sign the treaty or not. The French Government would have said, "Show us the letter of the treaty—make us acquainted with its details—let us see it 117116115114R. Peel113in extensoViscount Palmerston
: To whom?Viscount Palmerston
112111110: I certainly am not going to extend my remarks upon the speech of the right hon. Baronet to any very great length; but I trust that I shall be able to show the right hon. Baronet that the objections which he has made do not rest on any solid foundation. I am happy to say, that in much that has fallen from the right hon. Baronet I entirely concur, and especially in that which fell from him at the conclusion of his speech, I do most sincerely and entirely agree. I concur with him in lamenting that the course which this transaction has taken for a time, and I trust only for a short time interfered with and interrupted those good and friendly feelings, which so long, at least during ten years, have subsisted between England and France. I agree with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that it is of the utmost importance, not merely for the welfare and prosperity of the two countries, but that the peace and tranquillity of Europe require that there should be a good understanding between England and France. I have gone further than the right hon. Baronet on this question, for I have attached greater value than he has to the close connection between the two countries. It has often been my lot to stand in my place here, and justify myself against the charge of attaching too much importance to that connection, but I have always said when the topic has been brought up, that the alliance between France and England rests upon the interests of these two countries, and I cannot help thinking that the real interests of the former with regard to Turkey are identical with those of the latter, and that we have not been pursuing our own line of conduct in reference to Syria, in such a manner as to justify any resentment or hostility on her part to-
112111110Viscount Palmerston
 suggested that those petitions ordered to be printed by the House, without reference to the committee on petitions, should have a mark of privacy put on them to this degree, that they should be printed for the use of Members only. It was desirable that Members should have an opportunity of sifting the allegations of some petitions, but it was equally desirable that charges should not be circulated throughout the country under the sanction of their privileges which the parties affected had no opportunity of refuting.Lord Stanley
 observed, that it was only in cases of urgency that the rule was now departed from. He was of opinion that there should be a separate committee for the consideration of petitions containing criminatory matter and that that committee should have the power of deciding on the question of printing.Mr. O'Connell
: His desire was to prevent a general circulation. But there was nothing to prevent an individual Member from apprising the accused party of the charges made against him.Lord Stanley
125 said, that there was a great difference between getting through business and doing it. He believed, that the House of Commons got through more business than the French Chambers, but he doubted whether they did as much. A number of Acts of Parliament were passed
125Mr. O'Connell
133 said, that if his hon. Friend pressed his motion to a division, he should certainly vote with him, because he was inclined to think the committees wanted further improvement. At the same time he thought his hon. Friend had not completed the plan he intended to adopt. He agreed that the committees ought to be kept as pure as possible from local interests. He thought that the plan proposed by his hon. Friend might be more fully worked out, and he would therefore
133Sir G. Strickland
 considered it would be a great evil not to have local Members on the committees, and thought that a committee, constituted on the plan of the hon. Member for Wigan, might, with the greatest possible desire to do justice, commit gross injustice for want of local knowledge.Mr. Pryme
 said, that it was frequently considered an advantage at quarter sessions and assizes for a jury to have local knowledge of the matter in dispute.Mr. Rice
 said, that this question had been several times discussed, and he had never been able to perceive that, by the adoption of the rule which the hon. Member for Salford proposed, the House would be enabled either to do more business, or to do it more efficiently; on the contrary, he believed that the establishment of the rule would cause business to be postponed day after day, which at present was transacted conveniently and well. The hon. Member for Wigan seemed to think that the assistance of lawyers and merchants and others might be of no advantage; but, for his part, he doubted very much whether the debates would be shortened, or the business transacted as efficiently, if lawyers took no part in the discussions on legal points, merchants in those connected with trade, and official Members in those relating to official details. If such discussions were carried on in the absence of the classes of Members to whom he had referred, the House collectively would lack much of the information which it was essential it should possess. He did not wish to underrate the eloquence or talent for debate displayed by the members of the American Congress or the French Chambers, but there really could be no comparison between the amount of business done in Congress (which, alter all, was not the Legislature of the country),or in the French Chambers, and that transacted in the House of Commons.Lord John Russell
dictum120 said, that he certainly had not thought it necessary to make any statement to the House respecting the agitated question of the repeal of the union. He conceived, that his opinions upon this subject were sufficiently well known; and his noble Friend, the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland had recently expressed himself on the subject in a manner which might be taken to convey the declared opinion of her Majesty's Government. With respect to the policy of advising her Majesty to make a declara-
dictum120Lord John Russell
: There had certainly been greater abuse of the privilege of printing petitions in the manner represented by the noble lord than in the printing of any other of their records. It was a question whether they should not adhere to the practice of sending all petitions to the committee, unless in some cases of great, urgency.Lord John Russell
 said, it had been always thought most essential to have our tribunals as pure as possible from all private and local interests. This question was not a new one, but had been raised again and again before the House. It was necessary to have local information, but it was not necessary to have local interest—or if it were, the local interest he would have should be the same as that had by the House of Lords. It was admitted that no Member who had pecuniary interest could sit on a committee about to decide on some question that might affect it, and he could not distinguish between pecuniary interests and the bias and force imposed upon Members by the wishes of their constituents. The system adopted by the House of Lords was found to work very well, and he could not see why the House of Commons should be behind that noble House in reforming its private business. Sufficient time had been allowed for trial of the present system, The Speaker had had the honour of introducing many reforms, but many were still required.Mr. Aglionby
132 hoped that hon. Members would take the advice of the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey), and not press for a division. It was a question of great importance. If he considered a committee of the House of Commons as a purely judicial tribunal, he might agree with the hon. Member for Wigan; but he did not regard a committee of that House as acting in an exclusively judicial capacity. His view of them was that a committee was appointed to do that which the House
132Mr. Goulburn
: If petitions containing charges were sent to the committee upstairs, he did not see that they could exclude any portion without special instructions. In that way the objection as to publicity would remain as strong as ever. The only remedy in his mind was to print such petitions for the use of Members only.Mr. Goulburn
 hoped that his hon. Friend would not press his motion against the recommendation of the committee of last Session that the system then adopted should have a fair trial. The question whether committees should be exclusively official and divested of local interests was one of very great difficulty. That House could not separate its committees from the representative character of the whole body and render them strictly judicial, as were the committees of the House of Lords.Mr. Labouchere
 could draw no distinction between the duties of Members upon public bills, and their duties upon private bills. Members were sent there not as the agents or attorneys of their constituents, but to consider the interests of the whole empire. No doubt the present practice was an improvement upon the whole system, but even now repeated applications were made from committees on private bills, in consequence of the requisite number of disinterested Members not attending for permission to proceed in spite of that non-attendance. He was of opinion that the sooner the present system was changed the better it would be for the public.Mr. Warburton
135 could assure the House, that he did not intend to let even a stage of the bill pass without offering to it his most strenuous and determined opposition. When the matter was formerly discussed, either upon the introducing of the bill, or the second reading, Gentlemen on that side of the House stated, that they entirely disagreed, both with respect to the principle and details of the bill, but if he would allow the hon. and learned Member to bring in the bill, when it came into
135Mr. Warburton
 supported the motion. He referred to the day legislation of France and America, and said, it would better become the Members of the House of Commons to follow that example than to waste their time and constitutions in idle declamations and contentions.Mr. Briscoe
123 objected to the introduction of any new business after twelve o'clock. This proposition appeared to him so reasonable, that he could not believe it would be opposed. Whatever might be the feeling of that House with respect to limiting the duration of their proceedings, he was quite convinced that the feeling of the country did not approve of their late proceedings. They often boasted of the wisdom of their ancestors. Their ancestors wisely legislated in the day-time. All the Legislatures of Europe, and of the United States, did the same. It was objected by some honourable Members, that the adoption of his rule would lengthen the Session; but he was of opinion, that the principal effect of it
123Mr. Brotherton
: It would be well if notice were given the previous day of the presentation of any petition that was to be brought forward, and that it contained criminatory matter.Mr. Hume
 approved of the motion, and suggested that the House should adopt a rule to prevent the debate being adjourned for more than a single night beyond that in which it commenced. It must have occurred to every one who had watched the discussions in that House, that, after the second night of debate, no new matter was ever introduced. If his suggestion were acted upon, it would cause Members, who now postponed their speeches to a late hour, to speak early in the evening.Mr. Hume
134 would ask the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge what he would think if he were to see a jury-box filled with persons having a local interest in the matter to be tried, and the cases of a jury and committee were exactly similar. He would admit, that it had been usual to consider Members were placed on those committees to do the jobs of their constituents. But that was an abuse which he wished to see done away with altogether. He would admit, that many abuses which had existed formerly in respect to the appointment to private committees, had been remedied, but that, was only a reason for getting rid of the remaining ones. He thought, that the time had come when there should be no more temporising, and would, therefore, support the motion of his hon. Friend. He, for one, would not be afraid to go before the country on this
134Mr. Hume
 thought, that the hon. Member might more properly have introduced his proposition some years ago, when abuses existed in regard to committees on private bills, which had since been removed. The amendment had been made on various occasions, and some of them in the course of last Session. Besides, no system could obviate every possible inconvenience; and for his part he was of opinion that if they removed from private bill committees all Members who had an interest in them, they would only deprive themselves of the necessary local information.Mr. Estcourt
: knew that persons entrusted petitions to Members who, after the accusatory matter was mentioned in the House, said their object was gained, and they did not desire to push the matter further. This was a gross breach of the obligation by which every Member should feel himself bound. Every Member should certainly satisfy himself that there was at least some good ground for bringing inculpatory allegations under the notice of Parliament. If the suggestion of the noble Lord were acted on, the accused party would be shut out from a knowledge of the facts affecting him.Mr. Wakley
124 seconded the motion. He thought that late sittings pressed with peculiar severity upon those hon. Members who attended to their duties in the day time upon committees. It was alleged, that if the House adopted the proposition of the hon. Member for Salford, it would soon be found necessary to meet at an earlier hour, which would be very inconvenient to lawyers and merchants, who were Members of that House; but he could not admit, that the convenience of those Gentlemen ought to be put in competition with the public interests. If the House of Commons were to rise at an earlier hour, it would very soon produce aw effect on the customs of society; for it could not be doubted that the late hours which distinguished English society from that of every other country were the result of the protracted sittings of Parliament. The practice also produced a bad effect in the public offices, for there business was rarely transacted until one o'clock in the day. It would be better on every account to sit at one o'clock in the day, as in the time of Sir R. Walpole. Would it not strike a foreigner with astonishment to witness the dormant legislation which was transacted in that House at a late hour? On one bench a Secretary to the Treasury might be seen extended at full length; on another a Secretary to the
124Mr. Ewart
, with every disposition to accede to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, felt so strongly, that, justice and reason were on his side, that he must press the question to a division.Mr. Ewart
"1. That it is expedient that committees on private bills should be approximated, more nearly than they now are, to judicial tribunals, and exempted, as much as possible, from all motives of local and personal interest; and that the responsibility and efficiency of committees of this House in general would be promoted by diminishing the number of Members composing them."131130129128 said, that the reform he proposed related to the judicial, not the legislative, character of the House. Nothing was more important than that that portion of its character should be pure. It nearly concerned the public that it should be so, and it nearly concerned the House itself. It must have struck every Member who had either personally attended, or become acquainted with the proceedings of committees on private business, that the constitution and character of those committees were capable of much amendment. The most obvious defect lay in their constitution, the number of their members was too great for responsible or efficient action. He proposed at once to increase their responsibility and efficiency by reducing the number of their members. But the most serious ground of complaint lay not in the constitution, but in the character of the committees. It had been, he feared with too much justice, imputed to those committees, that they acted frequently from local, sometimes from personal, feeling. He need not say how grievous such a charge was when made against the Members of that House, how much it would tend to lower them in public estimation. How necessary it was, therefore, that the ground for such imputations should be removed. Members might now be personally interested in the subject of a bill proceeding from their own neighbourhood, and yet they might form part of the committee on the bill. They might be locally interested through their constituents in the fate of the measure, yet they served on the committee by which that fate was decided. He appealed to Gentlemen who had sat upon those committees, whether after the committees had met, they were not often divided into several local parties and swayed by local influences. He saw several hon. Members near him who served on a committee last Session, which was prolonged for the space of about two months; he alluded to the Liverpool Docks Committee. In that case the contest became one of local opinion and local interest; and it was almost impossible, from the views taken by most respectable persons on both sides, for the members to separate and keep clear of those feelings of locality, which, to the noble Lord, the
"1. That it is expedient that committees on private bills should be approximated, more nearly than they now are, to judicial tribunals, and exempted, as much as possible, from all motives of local and personal interest; and that the responsibility and efficiency of committees of this House in general would be promoted by diminishing the number of Members composing them."131130129128Mr. Ewart
 hoped the hon. Member for Wigan would not press his motion to a division, but would await the result of the improved system now in operation. He hoped the hon. Member would think his purpose was sufficiently answered in having brought the question before the House. If the hon. Gentleman did press for a division he should be compelled to vote against him.Sir George Grey
122 thought that all petitions
122Sir R. Inglis
119118 was anxious to take this opportunity of calling the attention of the House to a remarkable omission in her Majesty's Speech from the Throne, as also in the speeches of the Ministers of the Crown who spoke in the course of the debate last night. It had been complained of last night, that no mention had been made of France in the Speech from the Throne; but the omission to which he was now about to allude was of a matter nearer home, and of much deeper interest to this country. He believed, that every
119118Sir R. H. Inglis
 doubted whether the House would be willing to delegate such a power. The best security against abuse was in his opinion, the vigilance and precaution of the House and of the Member presenting any petition. He concurred, therefore, in the proposal of his noble Friend (Lord Stanley).Sir R. Peel
: The experience of every Gentleman for the last Session must convince him that they were rapidly relapsing into the old and condemned practice as regarded the presentation of petitions. Whenever a Gentleman wished to call particular attention to any complaint, no matter how ill-founded, he presented a petition according to the usual rule, and it was appended without opposition to the votes. The committee on printed papers, of which he was chairman, recommended that some steps should be taken to remedy this evil.Viscount Howick
164 said, he could not agree with the hon. Member for Finsbury, that the proceedings of the Poor-law Commissioners had been altogether characterized by harshness and cruelty, but he did agree with him that before the noble Lord called upon the House to continue the powers of the commissioners he ought to show some ground for the continuance, and give some reason why the further administration of the Poor-laws could not be intrusted to persons locally interested. When first the Poor-law Amendment Act came into operation, it was necessary that very large discretionary powers should be given to the commissioners, but that necessity, he thought, did not now exist. The course that should be taken now was this:—The rules and regulations which had been laid down by the Poor-law Commissioners, should be reported to the House and examined into. Such as were deemed necessary and proper might then receive the sanction of Parliament by an express vote in both Houses, and be placed on the statute-book; while those which were objectionable (and he believed there were many of that description) could be expunged and annulled by the same authority. He hoped that those hon. Gentlemen in the Opposition who had supported the Government on this question would not continue that support unless adequate reasons were given by the noble Lord, for prolonging the extraordinary powers of the Poor-law Commissioners. He would conclude by asking the noble Lord, whether it was his intention to continue, not merely the powers of the Commissioners at Somerset-house, but also that vast and expensive machinery, the sub-commissioners, who were dispersed all over the country? He asked that question because it was the intention of the House at the time, and, he believed, of the Government also, that the object of appointing sub-commissioners
164Mr. Hind
 observed, that though the hon. Member who had just sat down had stated, that nine-tenths of the lower and middle classes in the north of England were in favour of the new Poor-law, he could only declare, that his experience was entirely different, for he had found very little disposition indeed to acquiesce in the regulations of the present system. He must also state, that having originally objected to the introduction of the law into the northern counties, he had not seen anything in its working that at all reconciled his opinions to it, or would induce him to consent to its continuance. As far as regarded the adjudication of relief to the poor, he had always said, that he thought that might be much more safely left to the discretion of the guardians than placed under the rigid rules and regulations of a commission sitting at Somerset House. He was sick of hearing that relief was to be administered on just principles, because what were called just principles frequently led to unjust practice Many instances in which injustice had been suffered had been recorded in the public prints; many instances had also come under his own observation, that justified him in giving that character to the administration of the law. If in any bill that the noble Lord brought before the House for the amendment of the law it should be proposed to extend the duration of the commission, he gave the noble Lord fair notice, that he would not support him in the proposition, whether it should go to continue the commission for ten years, or for one only. That portion of the bill should receive his decided opposition; and as to the other portions, he should wait till the bill was laid on the Table to know how far he could or could not support it.Mr. Liddell
174173172l171170 said, that the motion he had made was for leave to bring in a bill to continue the powers of the commissioners for a limited time, and for the further amendment of the law relating to the poor. He had thought it right to state to the House the period for which he proposed
174173172l171170Lord J. Russell
156 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a "Bill to continue the Poor-law Commission for a time to
156Lord John Russell
 said, he was not aware of such a letter having been written. He had never heard of it until it was mentioned by the hon. Gentleman.Lord John Russell
 said, that if the hon. Gentleman gave notice of any question as to any act done by the advice of her Majesty's Ministers, he would be prepared to reply. But he could not undertake to be so prepared in reference to any act done by Prince Albert.Lord J. Russell
169 said, that having acted as chairman of the Sunderland board of
169Mr. A. White
"I receive with great satisfaction your loyal and affectionate Address. I thank you for your congratulation on the increase of my domestic happiness. I shall not cease to direct my earnest attention to every measure which may tend to the advancement of the public welfare, and the maintenance of the peace of Europe." reported that the House had yesterday attended her Majesty with the Address, to which her Majesty had been pleased to return the following most gracious answer:—
"I receive with great satisfaction your loyal and affectionate Address. I thank you for your congratulation on the increase of my domestic happiness. I shall not cease to direct my earnest attention to every measure which may tend to the advancement of the public welfare, and the maintenance of the peace of Europe."The Speaker
 wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, if he was aware of a letter addressed to "B. M. Rae, Esq.," and dated from "Buckingham Palace, January the 20th, 1841," and signed "G. E. Anson," returning thanks, on the part of Prince Albert, to the "Loyal Repeal Association of Ireland," for their address of congratulation on the birth of the Princess Royal. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether he was aware of such a letter having been written?Captain Polhill
 then gave notice that he would repeat the question on Tuesday next, when he hoped the noble Lord would be prepared to say whether the letter was genuine or not.Captain Polhill
165 said, he was not quite sure that he could agree in the recommendation of the hon. Member for Finsbury, that the noble Lord should divide his bill into two bills, because he was afraid in that case that the noble Lord would carry the bill for the further continuance of the power of the Commissioners for ten years,
165Mr. Darby
154153Paradise Lost152151150149148 was then to understand that the bill was of a precisely similar character. The hon. and learned Member bad alluded to the support which that bill had already received, and the majorities by which it had been carried on the second reading. What he complained of, as he had stated the other night, and which he was happy again to state in the presence of more than one Cabinet Minister, was that when the measure had been before introduced, either on its introduction or on its second reading, Cabinet Ministers or the Attorney-General or Solicitor-General had said that they were entirely opposed both to the principle and the details of the bill, but that they thought it uncivil to the hon. and learned Member not to allow him to introduce his bill, and that therefore they should vote for the second reading, in order to allow the hon. and learned Gentleman to get his bill into committee, in order that the details of it might be considered; and on that principle, not on the merits of the bill itself, the hon. and learned Gentleman had obtained the great majorities to which he had alluded. Now he had certainly expected the presence of those right hon. and learned Gentleman when the bill was in committee, but so far from that, when the bill had come into committee he had been left to fight the battle single-handed. But he believed that on any occasion when the bill came
154153Paradise Lost152151150149148Mr. Warburton
 had expected that the hon. and learned Gentleman would have stated whether the bill which he now wished to introduce was of the same character, and contained the same provisions, as the bills which he had introduced on this subject in former Sessions.Mr. Warburton
 wished to say, that he considered he was doing an act for the benefit of the public at large, in opposing the introduction of the bill. He agreed with his hon. Friend, that the period to which the privilege of copyright should be extended, was a matter for the most serious consideration, lint when he looked to the profits which authors had heretofore derived from their labours, he considered the monopoly they at present enjoyed as amply remunerating. The proposed bill would increase the difficulties of acquiring knowledge, and thus seriously injure the community. When the publication of Bibles was confined in Scotland to certain printers they were forty per cent, dearer than they were now that the monopoly had been abolished. For these reasons he hoped that the House would not countenance the introduction of the measure.Mr. Hume
 said, that having been one of those who supported the Poor-law Amendment Act, he could not allow the observation of the hon. Baronet, that it was founded on erroneous principles, to pass in silence. He was aware as well as ins hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, though he had not had so many opportunities of observing the operation of the poor-laws, that many cases of hardship had occurred; but it was impossible to prevent that. At the same time he was not to be unjust to those who had introduced the measure to check the greater evils which existed under the old law. Even the hon. Baronet himself admitted, that there had been cases of misappropriation of funds under the former system. As to the deserving poor, he believed that the very object of the Poor-law Amendment Act was to make a distinction between poverty undeserved and those who had become poor through their own vice or misconduct. He regretted that some abuses did exist under the new law, but he hoped that the effect of the bill now moved for by the noble Lord would be to remedy those abuses; and if any amelioration with regard to the classification of paupers could be made, he should be as glad as his hon. Friend to see it effected.Mr. Hume
158llll157John Russell: could not suffer that opportunity to pass without entering his protest against the unconstitutional character and tendencies of this bill. Its great principle was to govern by unions, and to place enormous powers in the hands of an irresposible and most objectionable body. When the measure was first introduced, it was distinctly stated by Lord Althorp, that the powers of the commissioners (which he admitted were of an unconstitutional character) were vested in them merely for a temporary purpose, and not only should not be continued beyond five years, but he understood the noble Lord to go the length of giving a pledge, that no attempt would ever be made to renew the commission. [Lord 158llll157John Russell:Mr. Grimsditch
 had, he thought, explained the other evening that the bill was in all respects similar to that of last Session.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
147 said, he would, with permission of the House, detain them for a few minutes on the question. He thanked the hon. Member for the opportunity he had given him of offering some explanations to the House, though he should not enter into the discussion of the merits of the case. He would simply call to the recollection of the House an outline of the history of the bill. He had, on five different occasions, moved for leave to bring in that bill, and it had been so frequently opposed, that it must have received ample attention from the House. It had received the sanction of considerable majorities. On one occasion more than three hundred Members had recorded their votes on the subject, and he found that there had then been a majority of nearly two to one in favour of the principle of the measure. Under those circumstances he would appeal to the House whether he were, not justified in abstaining at that stage of the question from entering into any discussion of the merits; and whether he had not a fair, a just, and a Parliamentary claim to move that the bill should be introduced for the purpose of receiving their consideration. The bill had also been the subject of numerous petitions from both sides of the House and he might say from almost all the great ornaments of our literature. When he coupled with the presentation of those petitions the support which the measure had received by the votes of the House, he could not help thinking there was sufficient reason why the Motion he was making should be granted, and why it should be followed by the introduction of the bill into the House. It was rather remarkable that notwithstanding the zeal—and, he was sure, the honest zeal—with which his hon. Friend had opposed the bill, he had never consented fairly to take the sense of the House on the subject on its first introduction. On the contrary, his hon. Friend had been
147Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
163162161"All paupers in workhouses, except the sick and those of the first, fourth, and seventh classes, shall rise, be set to work, leave off work, and go to bed at the times mentioned in a subsequent table marked A, and be allowed such intervals for their meals as therein stated; these several times shall be noted by the ringing of a bell, and during the time of meals silence shall be maintained."Amended Workhouse Rules160159 wished to know if it was the intention of the noble Lord to introduce two bills? He should have thought, that the noble Secretary would have submitted two motions. There could be no objection to an amendment of the existing Poor-laws. He was sure the House and the country desired such an amendment. But then there was another proposal annexed to this—that the Poor-law Commission should be continued ten years, He believed that proposal of the noble Lord would not receive the sanction of that House. Assuredly it would not receive the sanction of the public. He would, therefore, really submit to the noble Lord, if he wished to take the sense of the House fairly on this question, that he should divide his bill into two parts, obviously prescribed by the nature of the question—the one to amend the law, the other to continue the commission. He had expected that the noble Lord would not content himself with making so brief a statement as he had submitted to the
163162161"All paupers in workhouses, except the sick and those of the first, fourth, and seventh classes, shall rise, be set to work, leave off work, and go to bed at the times mentioned in a subsequent table marked A, and be allowed such intervals for their meals as therein stated; these several times shall be noted by the ringing of a bell, and during the time of meals silence shall be maintained."Amended Workhouse Rules160159Mr. Wakley
166 observed, that the old Poor-law had been proved to be a bad law, if not in principle, at least in practice, by" a majority of reports from all quarters of the country, while the system now in existence, whatever faults might be imputed to it, was, at all events, one that ought to be prolonged, inasmuch as it had set up a barrier against that invasion of property which was threatened by the rapid increase of pauperism in the country. But, if the present system ought not to be continued entirely in its present shape, at least some substitute should be provided. He thought the present system well calculated for those paupers who might be considered to have, either by their own fault or neglect, become burthensome to the country, and indeed for any class of paupers except those who had been industrious persons, and formed what he would call the meritorious class of destitute poor. But he did not think the system sufficient for all the demands of poverty in this country; and he most entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury as far as his remarks were applicable to the condition of the meritorious poor. Would any Member of that House get up and deny that there was such a class of paupers, or that they were a numerous class? Was it possible for hon. Gentlemen to shut their eyes to the fact, that in the manufacturing districts there were hundreds, nay, thousands of persons, who might be reduced to destitution without any fault of their own, but simply by the mere fluctuations of trade? He might appeal to the gentlemen acquainted with the state of the agricultural districts, especially in the southern counties, and ask, had they not themselves expressed their surprise that the very labourers who had tilled their estates and raised from them the rents which they enjoyed, were unable to provide for their families, and were standing on the verge of destitution? Over-exertion might, in a moment, reduce a man, who had been tempted to that over-exertion in his desire
166Sir C. Grey
168167 said, that in the present state of the House and of the question before the House, he would certainly not trespass on its patience at any great length; for he did not wish to see a discussion carried on which might be considered, in many respects, premature; at all events, under the present circumstances, and at the present moment, it was scarcely ripe for the attention of the House. At the same time, having always objected to this measure, he could not refrain from observing how much experience had confirmed the views he had held and expressed respect-
168167Sir F. Burdett
 expressed his approbation of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, and those which the hon. Member on his right (Mr. Wakley) had addressed to the House. But, at the same time, he must say, that he did not find fault with the noble Lord for omitting what those hon. Gentlemen desired to know. The noble Lord had stated quite enough to alarm him. He referred to the provisions in the new bill for putting down the corporations under Mr. Gilbert's Act, and annihilating Local Acts under which many towns were governed. Armed as he had been with petitions and remonstrances against any such inroad upon the Gilbert unions, he must protest against the proposition of the noble Lord, for he believed that it was impossible to find any fault in them, and therefore it was impossible to amend or improve them. The only objection to them was found in the jealousy of the Commissioners, who regarded them as so many blanks, or rather blots, in their map, interfering with their new unions. Now, he did not wish to oppose the introduction of the bill, or of any amendment the noble Lord might think proper to bring forward, but he hoped that those parts of the bill affecting the Gilbert unions, and the local acts governing parishes, would be omitted.Captain Pechell
181: The House is aware, that at the close of the last Session the House sustained a great loss by the death of Mr. Rickman, who was an officer of the House for thirty-eight years, and sat as a clerk
181The Speaker said
186lll185l184llll183 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for facilitating the Administration of Justice. In executing his task he would, he said, occupy but a small portion of time, because the measure he was about to ask leave to introduce had already been before the House, and was not likely to meet with serious opposition. This measure would be followed by others to improve the law, — for the appointing of localudges,— for the reformation of the ecclesiastical courts,— for amending the law with respect to bankrupts and insolvents, by bringing them under one jurisdiction, and for abolishing the Court of Review, which was, on all hands, admitted not to have answered the expectations originally formed respecting it. The present measure related merely to the administration of the law in the Courts of Equity— a branch of the law which was of very great importance, on account of the immense mass of property, real and personal, brought under its jurisdiction, and in the administration of which great delay was experienced, notwithstanding the high character and unwearied assiduity of the judges who presided in the Equity Courts. The great cause of this delay was the increased business thrown into those courts from the greatly increased population of the country, and from its still more increased wealth. With the enormous mass of property brought under the administration of the Equity Courts, it was impossible,
186lll185l184llll183 The Attorney- General
204l, in reply, said, that the vast number of causes in arrear was of much less importance than the period which elapsed between the setting down and the hearing of a cause; with respect to which, the accuracy of his statement could not be controverted. It was satisfactorily proved, before the Lords' Committee last Session of Parliament, that by increasing this period the arrear of causes would be diminished instead of being increased, from people in despair abstaining from filing bills, and from deaths, insolvencies, and compromises before a hearing could take place. Extend the period to fifty years, and you would have no arrear at all, as there would then be a universal, as there is now a partial, denial of justice. He maintained the necessity of two new judges, and thought it not improbable that the exigencies of justice might soon require a greater number. It had not been disputed that in the numerous cases of an equitable demand under 100204lThe Attorney General
 said, that he was not going to infringe what seemed to be the tacit agreement, nor to discuss anything which would lead to contention, but on Monday next he would call the attention of the committee to the subject of preventing East-India rum being slave produce, and also to the gross neglect of the East-India Company in following up the Act of Parliament, and in violation of that act, not producing rules and regulations for the mitigation of slavery. On general grounds he, of course, approved of the Govern meat measure.Mr. O'Connell
220 quite agreed with the bon. Member for Dublin as to the absolute necessity of excluding from the equalisation any produce which might be the produce of slave land. Not only did he concur in that opinion, but he must say, that he went further; because, attached as he was to the great principles of the motion of his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, yet he thought they could not, either with justice to the West Indies, or with due regard to the great principles laid down in that House from time to time, allow the East-Indian produce to be placed upon the same footing with the produce of the West Indies, unless the whole system of slavery existing in the East Indies were altogether extinguished. It was not extinguished— it was not extirpated— it continued to flourish, not only as a domestic system of slavery, but by the import of slaves up to that very hour. In 1833 his noble Friend Lord Glenelg, when he brought in the bill respecting the Company's charter, introduced a clause putting an end to all slavery in the East Indies, and that clause passed the House, he believed, without a single dissentient. Nor was it then hastily or rashly determined upon; the most eminent men connected with the subject were consulted, and the noble Lord was informed that it would be perfectly safe, therefore the clause was carried. It was true that the Lords threw it out, but they did not do so upon principle, they wanted to have further evidence on the subject. It was his intention to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Control to produce all the papers on the subject in order to know what steps the company had taken to carry out the intentions of that House, or whether they had done anything after obtaining a full knowledge of the proceedings of that House. He thought the House would never consent to allow, in the face of all its most solemn declarations upon the subject of slavery — it never would allow those principles to be set at nought in our Eastern dominions. He would say, put the East Indies on the same footing with the West Indies in respect to slavery— let slavery be extirpated,
220Dr. Lushington
232231230"Take notice that I object to your name
230primâ facie229228"In making the register of votes for any county, city, town, or borough, under the provisions of this Act, the name of every person who, when such register shall be made, shall be registered as a voter for such county, city, town, or borough, shall be placed and retained upon such register, so long as his right of voting as such registered elector would continue under the present law, unless he shall have lost his qualification since he was so registered, or unless he shall have been personally disqualified as such voter or have died; or unless his registry was effected by fraudulent Personation."227l226225224223222221 said, in bringing forward the present motion, I feel myself relieved from the necessity of trespassing on the time and attention of the House at any length, because the subject is not only not new, but I am afraid somewhat too familiar both within and without these walls, and because I cannot believe that the House will in the present Session refuse me permission to introduce a bill founded upon the same principle, and following very much the same provisions as that which, without division, I was allowed to introduce last year; which obtained the support of a majority on the second reading, which was much discussed in its various stages, and which I am almost warranted in saying, but for the lapse of time and delay, would at this moment have been the law of the land. I shall therefore very briefly remind the House of the main provisions of the measure by which I sought to correct certain abuses. It is not necessary for me now to argue them, because they have been admitted on all hands— because all parties of all political opinions considered it impossible that the registration laws, as regards Ireland, should remain as they are. There exists a universal and unanimous belief and conviction, that the abuses stated over and over again to have arisen out of the registration laws in Ireland, are great and
232231230"Take notice that I object to your name
230primâ facie229228"In making the register of votes for any county, city, town, or borough, under the provisions of this Act, the name of every person who, when such register shall be made, shall be registered as a voter for such county, city, town, or borough, shall be placed and retained upon such register, so long as his right of voting as such registered elector would continue under the present law, unless he shall have lost his qualification since he was so registered, or unless he shall have been personally disqualified as such voter or have died; or unless his registry was effected by fraudulent Personation."227l226225224223222221Lord Stanley
237236No, no235: I am in no way bound by any compromise between my noble Friend and the noble Lord. I stand here belonging to no party upon this question. I stand here representing the people of Ireland. I think that the House and the country ought to be somewhat surprised that the noble Lord, in a prepared speech which he had delivered, to make out the strongest case for himself, in order to gain what he said was his end—the prevention of the multiplication of fraudulent voters in Ireland—that was the noble Lord's object —yet that the noble Lord who alleged this has not given the House any evidence, has not adduced any instance, of the wholesale multiplication of votes. The noble Lord did not give any statistics of Irish counties; he did not say that in a county having only 100,000 inhabitants there were 2.5,000 voters, or 10,000, or 4,000; he did not contrast the overwhelming number of the Irish people who are entitled to the franchise, with the aggregate number of voters; that would have been the way fairly to investigate the subject. The county of Cork for instance has 713,000 inhabitants; there has been a multiplicity of fraudulent voters put upon the register. How many are there? There are 713,000 inhabitants, there are 3,800 voters. The utmost number that can vote is 3,800. Does the noble Lord grudge 3,800 voters to 713,000 inhabitants? Is that his plan? Is this his enormous multiplication of fraudulent
237236No, no235Mr. O'Connell
241240239l238 said, I confess that my objections to the measure of the noble Lord of last year have been very little diminished by the statement which he has made upon the subject of his measure of the present Session. It seems to me that, with the exception of some particulars, the main features of the bill are the same, and that they will produce the same calamitous consequences which it appeared to me would result from the bill of last year. I must own, although the noble Lord stated the case very fairly, and I do not mean to impute to him anything but a desire to reform the abuses of Irish registration— it is certainly somewhat singular, considering the abuses which exist in the mode of registration and of voting, and the practice of elections, in England, Scotland and Ireland, and upon one of which in Scotland the noble Lord dwelt in the course of his speech this evening, that he should pass by and neglect all these, and that it should be the abuses
241240239l238Lord John Russell
— Yes, in consequence of the suggestion of the Four Powers.Lord J. Russell.
182 said, all the information he could give was, that Commodore Napier had entered into a convention with Mehemet Ali, which the commodore had not authority to conclude, and which Admiral Stopford disapproved of, and therefore was not carried into effect. The submission of Mehemet Ali had been made
182Lord J. Russell
 said, he thought the House should express their sense of the great services of the late Mr. Rickman. As, however, there were not many Members then present, he should take the liberty of giving notice, that he would bring forward a resolution on the subject to-morrow.Lord J. Russell
 said, that since the hon. Gentleman had asked the former question, he had seen the letter alluded to in a newspaper, but he had not thought it necessary to make any inquiry on the subject.Lord J. Russell
203202201 said, he would draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, to the evidence which had some time ago been laid before that House, with respect to the business of the Court of Chancery. By that it appeared, that out of 1,068 causes instituted in that court, 300 only had been set down for hearing, and out of those 300, only 180 had been actually heard in one year. What would the right hon. Baronet say about the disposition of the other 120 causes then remaining? It could hardly be contended for but that some of those, nay, the greater number of these, were causes of compromise. Thus, the right of the client was turned often into a right of reversion, and not a right of possession. He contended, that these 120 causes alone would be quite sufficient for a single additional judge to dispose of in each term. There was at that moment a large arrear of causes in the Court of Chancery. Under all the circumstances, he thought there had been established sufficient grounds for the appointment of an additional judge. The right hon. Gentleman opposite himself had stated that the arrear of causes at present in the Rolls Court alone amounted to 455. He thought it might even be estimated at 500, and that that would be nearer the mark. He would ask his right hon. and learned Friend what had been the standing of that arrear? They had been told the arrears of the
203202201Mr. Lynch
 wished to say a few words merely in reference to the observation which the noble Lord (Russell) had made respecting himself. He certainly did state last year, and was ready to state again, that he did think it was desirable for all parties in Ireland, that the truth of the franchise in that country should be placed on some more satisfactory basis than the mere oath of the voter. But if the noble Lord imagined that he had intended to express an opinion that his noble Friend would have acted more justly if he had coupled the question of the franchise with this bill, be distinctly disavowed such an opinion. He had never said so; and he certainly was of opinion that, if the noble Lord had done so, he would have opened a Pandora's box, from which discord would have spread on all sides, and at the bottom of which not even hope would have been found to remain. He could, indeed, have taken no course which would have produced so much confusion. It was true his name had appeared to a bill respecting the franchise, in conjunction with t hose of Sir D. Norreys and Sir Rober Ferguson; but, though he did not complain of its having been placed there, his name was added to that bill when he had left town. Indeed, one of those hon. Gentlemen, in writing to acquaint him with the fact of his name having been annexed to the bill, had jocuMr. Lucas
200199198197196195194ll193ll192191190189188187 had first a few words to say respecting the proposition of the noble Lord, which was expected by the House last year. If it had come on last year, it was his intention to endeavour to have it postponed; but the noble Lord showed his judgment in holding over the bill until now, although he had done so because he saw there was no chance of its passing last year without opposition. His right hon. and learned Friend seemed to think there ought to be no opposition to this motion for the appointment of two new judges; but he must inform the House that this proposition for two new judges involved a proposition for two new courts. They deceived themselves if they supposed that the two new judges would be added to the old court. Each judge must have a separate court, a separate bar, a separate suite of officers, and a separate place must be built. If there be a greater evil than a want of a proper judicial power to meet the exigiencies of a country it would be found in the existence of a greater number of courts of justice than the business of the country required. There could be no greater evil than the creation of courts of judicature which were really not wanted in a country. The hon. and learned Gentleman's proposition was, that one of the judges whom he proposed to appoint should be only temporary— that at a certain period his office should cease, and that the court should, in fact, no longer remain an effective court. But he would beg leave to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman had he reflected upon the great inconvenience of such a court of justice? If they created a new court of justice, they would also create a great body of lawyers to attend that court, and they would soon find that the supply would be fully equal to the demand. He would be found at all times ready to go to the whole extent of supporting any increase
200199198197196195194ll193ll192191190189188187Sir E. Sugden
 said, that as he had not received a satisfactory answer from the noble Lord, to the question addressed to him on a former occasion, he hoped the noble Lord would now give him one. The question he had to put was, whether her Majesty's Government was aware of a letter addressed to T. M. Ray, Esq., dated Buckingham Palace, Jan. 20, 1841, and signed G. E. Anson, containing the sincere thanks of Prince Albert to the Loyal National Repeal Association of Ireland, for their address to his Royal Highness on the birth of a princess.Captain Polhill
219 said, that the right hon. Gentleman proposed to put East-India articles on a footing with West-India articles, to which, of course, he supposed nobody would object, but did he propose to put the produce of the West Indies on the same footing as the produce of the East Indies, in those colonies in which an
219Mr. Goulburn
216 had been taken by surprise by the motion. The report of the
216Mr. Goulburn
 was understood to say, "Certainly, if the right hon. Gentleman referred to Canada."Mr. Labouchere
215214213bona fide212211722,46887,998634,4701839
722,46887,998634,4701839694,4703,978690,4921838
694,4703,978690,4921838707,746707,7461837
707,746707,7461837815,928815,9281836
815,928815,9281836672,661672,6611835
672,661672,6611835790,398790,3981834
790,398790,3981834800,850800,8501833
800,850800,8501833Gallons.Gallons.Gallons.
Gallons.Gallons.Gallons.Total.East India.West India.
Total.East India.West India.
722,46887,998634,4701839
722,46887,998634,4701839694,4703,978690,4921838
694,4703,978690,4921838707,746707,7461837
707,746707,7461837815,928815,9281836
815,928815,9281836672,661672,6611835
672,661672,6611835790,398790,3981834
790,398790,3981834800,850800,8501833
800,850800,8501833Gallons.Gallons.Gallons.
Gallons.Gallons.Gallons.Total.East India.West India.
Total.East India.West India.1,155,7532,830,2634,021,8215,477,6691839
1,155,7532,830,2634,021,8215,477,66918391,134,4363,135,6514,641,2124,912,2271838
1,134,4363,135,6514,641,2124,912,22718381,174,2733,184,2554,418,3504,613,0951837
1,174,2733,184,2554,418,3504,613,09518371,279,8453,324,7494,868,1684,993,9421836
1,279,8453,324,7494,868,1684,993,94218361,678,3743,416,9665,453,3175,540,1701835
1,678,3743,416,9665,453,3175,540,17018351,642,2823,345,1775,112,3995,158,4891834
1,642,2823,345,1775,112,3995,158,48918341,834,2063,492,1335,109,9755,146,8771833
1,834,2063,492,1335,109,9755,146,8771833Galls.Galls.Galls.Galls.
Galls.Galls.Galls.Galls.From the Brit. W. Ind.Total from all Places.
From the Brit. W. Ind.Total from all Places.Re-exportedPaid Duty.Imported.Years.
Re-exportedPaid Duty.Imported.Years.STATEMENT OF THE QUANTITIES OF RUM IMPORTED INTO THE UNITED KINGDOM, DISTINGUISHING THE IMPORTS FROM THE BRITISH WEST INDIES; ALSO OF THE QUANTITIES ON WHICH DUTY WAS PAID, AND WHICH WERE RE-EXPORTED, DURING EACH YEAR, FROM 1833 TO 1839:—
STATEMENT OF THE QUANTITIES OF RUM IMPORTED INTO THE UNITED KINGDOM, DISTINGUISHING THE IMPORTS FROM THE BRITISH WEST INDIES; ALSO OF THE QUANTITIES ON WHICH DUTY WAS PAID, AND WHICH WERE RE-EXPORTED, DURING EACH YEAR, FROM 1833 TO 1839:—
1,155,7532,830,2634,021,8215,477,6691839
1,155,7532,830,2634,021,8215,477,66918391,134,4363,135,6514,641,2124,912,2271838
1,134,4363,135,6514,641,2124,912,22718381,174,2733,184,2554,418,3504,613,0951837
1,174,2733,184,2554,418,3504,613,09518371,279,8453,324,7494,868,1684,993,9421836
1,279,8453,324,7494,868,1684,993,94218361,678,3743,416,9665,453,3175,540,1701835
1,678,3743,416,9665,453,3175,540,17018351,642,2823,345,1775,112,3995,158,4891834
1,642,2823,345,1775,112,3995,158,48918341,834,2063,492,1335,109,9755,146,8771833
1,834,2063,492,1335,109,9755,146,8771833Galls.Galls.Galls.Galls.
Galls.Galls.Galls.Galls.From the Brit. W. Ind.Total from all Places.
From the Brit. W. Ind.Total from all Places.Re-exportedPaid Duty.Imported.Years.
Re-exportedPaid Duty.Imported.Years.STATEMENT OF THE QUANTITIES OF RUM IMPORTED INTO THE UNITED KINGDOM, DISTINGUISHING THE IMPORTS FROM THE BRITISH WEST INDIES; ALSO OF THE QUANTITIES ON WHICH DUTY WAS PAID, AND WHICH WERE RE-EXPORTED, DURING EACH YEAR, FROM 1833 TO 1839:—
STATEMENT OF THE QUANTITIES OF RUM IMPORTED INTO THE UNITED KINGDOM, DISTINGUISHING THE IMPORTS FROM THE BRITISH WEST INDIES; ALSO OF THE QUANTITIES ON WHICH DUTY WAS PAID, AND WHICH WERE RE-EXPORTED, DURING EACH YEAR, FROM 1833 TO 1839:—210209No208207Hear, hear206205 said, it might be for the convenience of the House, that he should state, that he was not about to ask Members to express any opinion which would be binding upon them in future stages of the question which he rose to bring forward. It
215214213bona fide212211722,46887,998634,4701839
722,46887,998634,4701839694,4703,978690,4921838
694,4703,978690,4921838707,746707,7461837
707,746707,7461837815,928815,9281836
815,928815,9281836672,661672,6611835
672,661672,6611835790,398790,3981834
790,398790,3981834800,850800,8501833
800,850800,8501833Gallons.Gallons.Gallons.
Gallons.Gallons.Gallons.Total.East India.West India.
Total.East India.West India.
722,46887,998634,4701839
722,46887,998634,4701839694,4703,978690,4921838
694,4703,978690,4921838707,746707,7461837
707,746707,7461837815,928815,9281836
815,928815,9281836672,661672,6611835
672,661672,6611835790,398790,3981834
790,398790,3981834800,850800,8501833
800,850800,8501833Gallons.Gallons.Gallons.
Gallons.Gallons.Gallons.Total.East India.West India.
Total.East India.West India.1,155,7532,830,2634,021,8215,477,6691839
1,155,7532,830,2634,021,8215,477,66918391,134,4363,135,6514,641,2124,912,2271838
1,134,4363,135,6514,641,2124,912,22718381,174,2733,184,2554,418,3504,613,0951837
1,174,2733,184,2554,418,3504,613,09518371,279,8453,324,7494,868,1684,993,9421836
1,279,8453,324,7494,868,1684,993,94218361,678,3743,416,9665,453,3175,540,1701835
1,678,3743,416,9665,453,3175,540,17018351,642,2823,345,1775,112,3995,158,4891834
1,642,2823,345,1775,112,3995,158,48918341,834,2063,492,1335,109,9755,146,8771833
1,834,2063,492,1335,109,9755,146,8771833Galls.Galls.Galls.Galls.
Galls.Galls.Galls.Galls.From the Brit. W. Ind.Total from all Places.
From the Brit. W. Ind.Total from all Places.Re-exportedPaid Duty.Imported.Years.
Re-exportedPaid Duty.Imported.Years.STATEMENT OF THE QUANTITIES OF RUM IMPORTED INTO THE UNITED KINGDOM, DISTINGUISHING THE IMPORTS FROM THE BRITISH WEST INDIES; ALSO OF THE QUANTITIES ON WHICH DUTY WAS PAID, AND WHICH WERE RE-EXPORTED, DURING EACH YEAR, FROM 1833 TO 1839:—
STATEMENT OF THE QUANTITIES OF RUM IMPORTED INTO THE UNITED KINGDOM, DISTINGUISHING THE IMPORTS FROM THE BRITISH WEST INDIES; ALSO OF THE QUANTITIES ON WHICH DUTY WAS PAID, AND WHICH WERE RE-EXPORTED, DURING EACH YEAR, FROM 1833 TO 1839:—
1,155,7532,830,2634,021,8215,477,6691839
1,155,7532,830,2634,021,8215,477,66918391,134,4363,135,6514,641,2124,912,2271838
1,134,4363,135,6514,641,2124,912,22718381,174,2733,184,2554,418,3504,613,0951837
1,174,2733,184,2554,418,3504,613,09518371,279,8453,324,7494,868,1684,993,9421836
1,279,8453,324,7494,868,1684,993,94218361,678,3743,416,9665,453,3175,540,1701835
1,678,3743,416,9665,453,3175,540,17018351,642,2823,345,1775,112,3995,158,4891834
1,642,2823,345,1775,112,3995,158,48918341,834,2063,492,1335,109,9755,146,8771833
1,834,2063,492,1335,109,9755,146,8771833Galls.Galls.Galls.Galls.
Galls.Galls.Galls.Galls.From the Brit. W. Ind.Total from all Places.
From the Brit. W. Ind.Total from all Places.Re-exportedPaid Duty.Imported.Years.
Re-exportedPaid Duty.Imported.Years.STATEMENT OF THE QUANTITIES OF RUM IMPORTED INTO THE UNITED KINGDOM, DISTINGUISHING THE IMPORTS FROM THE BRITISH WEST INDIES; ALSO OF THE QUANTITIES ON WHICH DUTY WAS PAID, AND WHICH WERE RE-EXPORTED, DURING EACH YEAR, FROM 1833 TO 1839:—
STATEMENT OF THE QUANTITIES OF RUM IMPORTED INTO THE UNITED KINGDOM, DISTINGUISHING THE IMPORTS FROM THE BRITISH WEST INDIES; ALSO OF THE QUANTITIES ON WHICH DUTY WAS PAID, AND WHICH WERE RE-EXPORTED, DURING EACH YEAR, FROM 1833 TO 1839:—210209No208207Hear, hear206205Mr. Labouchere
 stated, that the hon. Member for Beverley had assigned, as a reason why the committee had made no report, the apprehension of a still further mass of West-India evidence. Now, according to his recollection, it arose from the lateness of the Session, and a number of home manufacturers, alive to British industry, being anxious to be heard; and it was a singular fact, that in the list of evidence on which the Lords' report was founded, not one witness connected with those interests appeared to have been examined. Still, however, he had no fear but that due protection would be afforded to them in the conflict going on betwixt East and West India points at issue.Mr. Brocklehurst
242 said, that the noble Lord took great credit to himself for agreeing so much, with reference to the provisions of his bill, with the Ulster Association. He begged to inform the noble Lord, however, that the origin of that association was the noble Lord's bill itself — an origin not founded, too, in any
242Colonel Rawdon
217 said, that if the right hon. Gentleman was surprised at what had been brought forward, he was taken by surprise, not because the proposition was so extensive and vast, but because it was so trifling. As far as it went he perfectly accorded with the measure, but it was only one act of justice when many were required. Not only the interests of India but the best resources of England had been injured by the restrictions which had been suffered to remain so long upon commerce. The vast powers of India to promote commerce, and to increase wealth, we by our legislation had actually limited and prevented. India had not had fair play, on the contrary, she had been cramped and confined in the exercise of those ample powers which she naturally possessed for the extension of her commerce. The revenue of India had consequently suffered to so great a degree, that it was scarcely able to meet its increased expenditure. If England had been benefited, it might be some excuse for this state of things, but England had
217Mr. Hume
 asked, had this last step been done at the suggestion of the Four Powers?Mr. Hume
 begged leave to ask the noble Lord, whether he had received any more recent despatches from the Levant which would enable him to stale whether the treaty made by Commodore Napier, or by Admiral Stopford, with Mehemet Ali, had been yet carried into effect? Also, whether Syria had been yet evacuated by the troops of the Pacha, and the authority of the Sultan re established in that country?Mr. Hume
 would not go into this subject at any length, partly because his right hon. Friend had deprecated discussion on that occasion, and partly because there was a question pending before the House that evening which might possibly disincline many hon. Members from giving that attention to a commercial subject, which it was so well qualified to command. But he must express his regret at the mode of supporting his motion which had been adopted by the right hon. Gentleman. He thought it quite unnecessary upon a measure founded on the strictest justice to argue the question as one which might possibly affect the West-Indian body, or weaken a monopoly which -had been so long maintained. The question was one of justice, it was not to be narrowed and circumscribed into a West-Indian question, or a question of any monopoly whatever. He also regretted, that the hon. Gentleman had not made his motion more extensive, and taken in a greater range of commerce. The report to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, opened to him a wider field than the one over which he had expatiated. There was the question of extending the commerce in sugar, which now came almost exclusively from Bengal, then was the question of allowing produce growers, in many of our East Indian possessions, to be placed on the same level with the produce of Bengal. The Mysore, too, ought to be placed upon the same footing. Those questions might all have been referred to. He would, however, reserve any further observations which he might have to make upon this subject, until the second reading of the bill. For the present he would content himself with deprecating the course of narrowing this into a mere West-Indian question, and entreating the House, when the subject came again before them, to make the measure of relief as large and comprehensive as the case required. The subject was one of vast importance, not only to the East Indies, but to Great Britain herself, and to the commerce which bound the two countries together.Mr. Ewart
 thought that the amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was fully justified by the course which had been taken by the noble Lord, because he deemed that course to be factious. As a matter of prudence, however, he recommended the hon. and learned Member not to press his motion to a division. Seeing the array of hon. Members opposite, he thought it would answer no useful purpose to divide the House, and he besides deemed it of the highest importance that a question of this magnitude and consequence should be discussed with as much calmness as possible.Mr. W. S. O'Brien
 would not have risen, had it not been to remove an impression which the observations of the right hon. Member for Cambridge were calculated to produce. He had adverted to the report of the committee of the House of Lords, and had stated that the report of the committee of the House of Commons abstained from expressing an opinion coinciding with the Lords. Such a statement might induce the House to suppose, that the committee of the House of Commons had taken into consideration the subject matter of the report, and had determined to make no report, because they were unable to coincide with the Lords. He begged to inform the House, that the subject matter of the report was never once discussed in the committee. The committee was converted into a regular West-Indian committee, and when he argued the question of the report, he was met by this observation,—"How can you report? You have not heard half the evidence. We have witnesses on every subject—witnesses from every West-India island." He was helpless. Therefore the committee unfortunately arose without making a report, because, up to the latest hour, they were so assailed by witnesses, that it was in vain to make a report. He would make one other observation as to the extent of the measure. As far as he was able to comprehend the feelings of those connected with the West Indies, he was bound to say, that the bill would be hailed with pleasure, and received with the deepest gratitude. A more extensive measure might have been, and he hoped would ere long be introduced, but the great and crying grievance, as affecting India, and the consumer, was the question of rum.Mr. Hogg
 expressed his hope, that those Gentlemen who thought this a good measure, although it did not go far enough, still would support Ministers in this good measure. They would bear in mind the difficulties with which Ministers had to contend— the opposition of a formidable and intelligent body. He must remind them, that they had gone further in practice than the House of Lords had recommended, although not in principle, as his hon. Friend very properly explained. As far as the principle went, they recommended this change, and they said in their report, which was drawn with considerable care und dexterity, that the only objection which they made to the change was, that the West Indies were in a state of transition, which induced them not to recommend an immediate alteration. When the discussion should come on every one connected with the East Indies would be prepared to show that this argument would not apply, for there was also a transit ion going on in the East Indies. As to Ceylon and Australia, Ministers would be prepared to recommend, by an order in council, that the alteration should be made. Considering all the difficulties with which they had had to contend, they had not forgotten their duty. The House of Commons would show, that they were thinking, not of the West Indies or the East Indies, but of what they owed to the community at large; the time was past and gone by when any of the old fallacies would have an effect on the House.Sir J. C. Hobhouse
234233: My noble Friend has shown that he is so much enamoured of the subject to which he devoted so large a portion of his energy in the last Session of Parliament, that he has not been enabled to resist the temptation, although her Majesty's Ministers have given notice, in the very first week of the Session, of their intention to being forward a bill upon this subject, yet my noble Friend is so enamoured of his success, and so pleased with the reception which his project obtained in the last Session— so delighted with the majorities he obtained — so charmed with carrying twelve clauses in the course of four months, that determined not to be forestalled this year, he rejoices in the pleasure of having the first word. I am not disposed, Sir, to dispute with him that priority. The extremely temperate and moderate observations with which he has
234233Viscount Morpeth said
"That this House entertains a just and high sense of the distinguished and exemplary manner in which John Rickman, Esq., late Clerk Assistant of this House, uniformly discharged the duties of his situation during his long attendance at the Table of this House.":— Sir, in rising to move the resolution of the House of which I have given notice with respect to the late Mr. Rickman, expressing its sense with regard to the length and the meritorious nature of the services, I am sure it is one which will call for the general concurrence of the House. No man could have been more eligible or better fitted for the important situation he so long occupied; and no man was more eminent for a knowledge of the privileges, precedents, and every thing which related to the practice of the House. I wish, Sir, I could, without violating any of the forms of the House, add something to the resolution, expressing the sense of the House of Mr. Rickman's services to the country generally, by his labours in everything relating to all matters of public interest where statistical information could be required. No one can feel more strongly than I do the value of his services in matters of that kind; but it appears to me that we must confine our Resolution to the services performed by Mr. Rickman to this House. I therefore move this Resolution:—
"That this House entertains a just and high sense of the distinguished and exemplary manner in which John Rickman, Esq., late Clerk Assistant of this House, uniformly discharged the duties of his situation during his long attendance at the Table of this House."Lord John Russell
246: Sir,— I hope I may be permitted to mark my sense of the services of Mr. Rickman by seconding the motion of the noble Lord. It was my good fortune to have been acquainted with Mr. Rickman at a very early period, before he occupied a seat at that Table, where the manner in which he uniformly discharged his duties calls upon the House now to express its great regret at his loss. Mr. Rickman was distinguished at that time by all those qualities which have been enumerated by the noble Lord, and there was an universal feeling; of approbation and pleasure
246Mr. Goulburn
: Sir,—I am unwilling to allow this vote to pass without expressing my humble approbation of the conduct of the late Mr. Rickman. I have never known a public officer so modest, so unassuming, possessed of such varied knowledge respecting the affairs of Parliament, and yet so ready to afford every information to others. The labours of Mr. Rickman generally in statistical matters, to which I have paid particular attention have been highly valuable, and specially as regards the preface to the population returns,—will stand unrivalled in the amount of information, and in the concise manner in which he brought it before this House. I therefore most cordially concur in expressing my sense of the value of his services. I may add that I had frequently, occasion to consult him on matters connected with the rules of this House, and the documents before it, and I always found him most friendly, and ready to afford every information in his power. I am bound to say that I received the most valuable assistance from Mr. Rickman in my various duties in this House; and no man who saw the manner in which he discharged his duties at the Table of this House, could doubt the value of his services. I therefore, most cordially support the motion.Mr. Hume
nemine contradicente.249: Sir,—I should be very sorry to allow this opportunity to pass without adding my testimony to the value of the services of our late Clerk Assistant; I have reason to speak of his merits, for I had good opportunity of testing them. Sir,—Mr. Rickman possessed stores of knowledge, deep, varied, and extensive, not only with regard to Parliamentary matters, but other subjects connected with the history of the country generally. He was an excellent scholar; and I never applied to Mr. Rickman when he was not ready to afford me the information required. He was not slow to impart his knowledge to those who sought his assistance: he was solid is matter, though brief in language. When first I had the honour of sitting at that Table as Chairman of the Committees of the House of Commons, I derived constantly the most valuable assistance from Mr. Rickman: he had the merit, and a most valuable merit it was, of unwearying industry; and if he possessed a great and deep store of knowledge and learning, he day by day added to that store of knowledge, and he was not slow in the communication of it to those who needed it; I can bear good testimony to that, because the little knowledge I have derived, while sitting at that Table, is owing to the kindness and amenity of our lamented Friend.nemine contradicente.249Mr. Bernal
248247: Sir,—I desire to bear my part in this general testimony of respect to the late Mr. Rickman, and to the
248247Sir R. H. Inglis
 wished to say a few words on the subject. It seemed to him that the regulation, as it stood at present, was, like many others, highly favourable to the rich, and to great capitalists, and that it went to increase the influence of those who were already possessed of enormous wealth, while it acted injuriously as regarded the smaller capitalist. It had that effect in the country from which he came, where there was but little capital. They felt severely in that country the pressure of the present regulation, and he therefore believed it to be his duty to protest against it. All railways were now a monopoly, and he thought it would be better, in that instance, to relax the rule, as proposed by the hon. Member.Mr. O'Connell
bona fide thought, that they ought to modify the order as it now existed. He did not think that a large percentage should be required before a bill was brought into Parliament. That was the hardship of which he complained, and of which those who were favourable to the line of railway, referred to by the noble Lord, must bitterly complain. The modification which he wished for, was, that they should require a deposit of ten per cent., not before the bill was introduced into the House, but before the works were begun. That was the principle which had been acted on in the case of the Edinburgh and Glasgow railway, and which had been attended with complete success. It would, he thought, be quite sufficient that they should have a certificate from a public functionary before a spade was put in the ground. In that case they would be sure to have a bona fideThe Attorney-General
 in reply said, that almost all who had addressed the House were against rescinding the Standing Order. The noble Lord had said, that he considered the standing order as beneficial to the landed interest. Now, he considered, that if there was one standing order more injurious lo the landed interest than another, it was this very order requiring a deposit of ten per cent., for many railroad schemes, after having been brought lo a certain degree of maturity, were not brought under the consideration of Parliament, on account of the inability of the parties to make the deposit required; but these schemes were not on that account abandoned; they were merely postponed to another Session, and thus these schemes were kept hanging over the heads of the land-owners on the proposed line from year to year, in consequence of this standing order, without the decision of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that there were fifty-eight notices for railway bills this Session; now it was not by the number of notices given that they could judge of the effects of the standing order, but by the number of bills brought in, and he would venture to assert, that not more than half a dozen bills would be brought in of all the fifty-eight notices. He felt the sense of the House was against him, but he was desirous of recording his vote, because at another time, when the number of railway labourers thrown out of employment would be considerable, he thought the House would be glad to rescind this Order.Mr. Hodgson Hinde,
 inquired the names of the gentlemen from whose report the noble Lord was quoting?Mr. O'Connell
297lMorpeth:ll296llllllll295294: Under any circumstances I should have followed the example which was set me the other evening, by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies (Lord John Russell), and upon the motion of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, to introduce either his bill, as it originally stood for "the registration of Parliamen-
297lMorpeth:ll296llllllll295294Lord Stanley
306305304l303l wished, in the first instance, to call the attention of the House to a statement which had been made by the noble Lord on that side of the House, and alluded to by the noble Lord opposite, relating to the registration in the baronry of Balrothery, in the county of Dublin. The statement was, that out of 200 registered voters there were no less than 50, the whole of whose property was not rated at more than 10306305304l303lMr. O'Connell
 observed, that every parish in the county with which he was connected had petitioned against the bill of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire. He offered his thanks to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, for the Bill he had that night moved for leave to introducers he believed it would be productive of great good in Ireland. Nothing but a definition of the franchise would effect the object they had in view, which was to tranquilize the minds of the people of Ireland. The noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, was, or pretended to be, sadly afraid of any extension of the suffrage to the people of Ireland; but had he ever expressed the slightest horror at the extermination of the tenantry, which had taken place since 1832, and for political offences, as they were called? For the sake of Ireland and justice, he trusted, that a fair consideration would be afforded to the bill of the noble Secretary for Ireland, without regard to any party triumph. If that were not done, it would create in the minds of the people of Ireland, even in the minds of those who were earnestly in favour of the two countries, an estrangement, a species of insular feeling, because they would be convinced, that they had nothing more to hope for from that House, and then all feeling in favour of the union would be swept away by despair. He trusted the conduct of the House would still allow them to hope.Mr. Bellen
 agreed with the hon. and learned Sergeant, that the present system was accompanied with many evils, but it did not follow that the bill proposed by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire (Lord Stanley) would apply a proper remedy. He could state, from his own knowledge, that in the county of Waterford, in consequence of the trouble and inconvenience to which parties were put by the present system, there was an apathy on the part of the people with regard to the franchise, which, in his view, was fraught with danger to the country. If they were to have a really representative system, they must give the parties an easy way of acquiring their right. If they did not, the people would look to illegitimate sources for obtaining it. Instead of seeking their rights through the Imperial Parliament, they would endeavour to find them by setting up a sort of Parliament in Dublin or elsewhere.Mr. Villiers Stuart
Laughter.311 congratulated the House upon having some substantial measure at length brought forward that would at once settle all disputes arising out of the present defective system respecting the registration and the franchise in Ireland. The valuation upon the Poor-law rating was notoriously exceedingly low, and the noble Lord opposite had availed himself of that fact to raise an objection against the proposition of his noble Friend; but had his noble Friend, instead of mentioning that valuation, quoted the ordnance valuation, the noble Lord opposite could not have jumped to the same conclusion, because
Laughter.311Lord Clements
 could not help observing upon one statement that had been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken. That hon. and learned Gentleman had said that all the respectable people of Ireland were in favour of the bill of the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire. He hoped the hon. and learned Member did not, limit all the respectability of Ireland merely to the circle of his own acquaintance. He confessed that among his acquaintance there was a strong pervading feeling against the bill of the noble Lord. The general feeling throughout Ireland was that the intention of the noble Lord was not to amend the registry but to restrict the franchise. He thought the most beneficial part of the bill of the noble Lord below him (Lord Morpeth) was that which went to define the franchise. At present, for want of that definition, imputations of perjury were made on both sides, and, perhaps, neither party was really guilty of the crime.The O'Connor Don
320319 expressed his entire concurrence with the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Wigan (Mr. Ewart), and he hoped that the gallant Colonel (Colonel Sibthorp) would derive some consolation from the fact, that
320319Lord Stanley
 had not mentioned the case on account of any personal inconvenience to which he had been exposed, but because he thought such delays might be dangerous at some time, although not so in the present instance. After the lapse of an hour and a quarter, the train had been obliged to start without the cross mails. He confessed, that he was by no means satisfied with the reply of the right hon. Gentleman.Lord Stanley
328 must say, that the cases
328Lord Stanley
324 would be glad to see the noble Lord's bill, the leading provisions of which he for one would certainly support. It was necessary that the county voter should have protection from the present vexatious and harassing system; and that he should not, after his right had been allowed, be obliged to appear, year after year, before the revising barrister, perhaps to have the decision in favour of his franchise reversed, and certainly always experiencing and keeping up vexation. He wished, however, to ask one question of the noble Lord: he would like to know whether, in the present bill, there would be any clause for the purpose of preventing at contested elections the fraudulent personation of electors? That seemed to be the proper opportunity of introducing some more stringent enactment to prevent that which was not only an audacious violation of the law, but also a gross breach of the privileges of that House. It was a common practice, especially in sea-port towns, to represent electors who were absent from the borough and could not vote, and he believed that it would be a great improvement in the law, and by no means a grievous infringement of the liberty of the subject, if, upon the oath of any respectable individual in the polling booth, it should be sworn that the person tendering his vote was not the party he represented himself to be, the returning officer should have the power of handing over such party to custody till proofs should be given whether he was the person registered or not. There was a very recent instance of these practices, for he found in the address of the new Member for Walsall, thanking the electors for their support, that "the Leagueites polled nine dead men, three of whom were considered decided Conservatives," at the manifest risk of disturbing the repose in their graves of the three Conservatives, whose representatives were found voting for the Liberal. He hoped that the noble Lord would take notice of this great evil; but
324Mr. Liddell
326lllbonâ fidell325 in rising to move for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the acts relating to South Australia, said he felt some difficulty as to how far it would be proper to make any statement to the House, because, though he had formed his own opinion upon those acts, he wished that the committee should investigate the whole matter, without being previously bound in any manner by any statement. What it was necessary he should state was, that they could not longer allow the colony to remain in its present state, and that it was necessary either that he should bring a measure before the House, or that a committee should be appointed to investigate the subject. As the colony of South Australia was founded by Act of Parliament, and as it was founded in consequence of discussions in that House, he thought it far better, instead of bringing forward a measure on the responsibility of Government, to appoint a committee that should have power to examine the whole subject. The colony of South Australia was founded in a peculiar manner, and upon a peculiar principle; it was founded upon the principle which he confessed he considered not a little objectionable—the principle of dividing the authority between the Crown on the one hand, and, on the other hand, of certain commissioners, having some connection with the Crown, yet so remote as to induce persons holding office in the colony, and the inhabitants themselves, to consider themselves not under the Crown, but under the board of commissioners. The first governor of the colony, who was a most respectable man, and whom he had since had pleasure in recommending to her Majesty as the governor of another colony, was unable to control the different persons. In his very first despatch after his arrival he said, that the colony was in a state of disorganisation, that no one holding office thought himself bound to keep his office in order, or to pay any obedience to any one; and with regard to the finances at the beginning of 1839, it was impossible to obtain an account of the three first quarters. In the year 1839 matters proceeded under the government
326lllbonâ fidell325Lord John Russell,
329 agreed with the noble Lord with respect to the general principle, that it would not be for the public advantage that the affairs of a colony should be delivered over to the decision of a Select Committee of that House; but he begged to state at the same time that he did think that this colony formed a case by itself, from the fact that it was established, not by the Crown, but by an Act of Parliament, on the opinions and projects of individual Members of Parliament, and also of other persons not Members of Parliament. The Government, indeed, supported the measure, but the bill having received the sanction of Parliament, he conceived that a committee might be rightly appointed to see what had been the operation of the bill, and what had been the result of the clauses that were then settled. It was his intention that his hon. Friend the Under Secretary
329Lord John Russell
323322 rose for the purpose of asking leave to bring in a bill for the Registration of Parliamentary Electors in England. He had brought in a bill for this purpose in the last Session and he did not think that there was any essential alteration in the present bill. He proposed, in the first place, to alter the system by which there was a great body of revising barristers in England. Many of these gentlemen, as it was well
323322Lord J. Russell
s317 had always considered all railways public frauds and private robberies, by gambling speculators. The capital, at present, embarked in these undertakings was not less than sixty-four or sixty-five millions, and by the last returns there were not fewer than 108 railways. On these, the accidents had been much more numerous than appeared from the papers on the Table. Hardly one accident in ten came before the public, and
s317Colonel Sibthorp
l312 denied that the bill of the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire had been received in Ireland with disapprobation. On the contrary, he would
l312Mr. Litton
l was not surprised at the hon. and learned Member for Dublin being satisfied with the measure of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, for it might as well be called a bill to establish universal suffrage, as one to fix the qualification at 5lMr. Shaw
316315"On the other hand, the Government
315"With regard to the nature and extent of these powers, the proper distinction appears to us to be, that the Government should not attempt to interfere in questions of an experimental nature, which are still subjects of discussion, and admit of a fair difference of opinion among practical men; nor should it attempt to regulate matters of detail, so as to take the management of the railways out of the hands of the parties immediately responsible, viz, the directors and their officers."314313 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill for the better regulation of railways. He did not feel it necessary to
316315"On the other hand, the Government
315"With regard to the nature and extent of these powers, the proper distinction appears to us to be, that the Government should not attempt to interfere in questions of an experimental nature, which are still subjects of discussion, and admit of a fair difference of opinion among practical men; nor should it attempt to regulate matters of detail, so as to take the management of the railways out of the hands of the parties immediately responsible, viz, the directors and their officers."314313Mr. Labouchere
266bonâ fidebonâ fide said, that although he was certainly prepared to offer every opposition in his power to the motion made by the hon. Gentleman—the hon. Gentleman was quite right in assuming that he did not rest opposition on any wish to discourage the progress of railways in this country, provided they were real and 266bonâ fidebonâ fideMr. Labouchere
l267bonâ fide was so far from thinking the existing regulation requiring the deposit of ten per cent., at all excessive, he was convinced that in all l267bonâ fideMr. Warburton
 wished to press upon the consideration of the House the effect which the shutting up of the railways on a Sunday, when every other mode of public conveyance had ceased, would have upon the middle and lower classes; there was no other mode except the railway, by which these persons could travel cheaply, so that in case it should be necessary for a person of moderate fortune to travel from one place to another on a Sunday, the hon. Member's plan would absolutely cut off every mode of conveyance from those who could not afford to post. Where were they to end if they once began this interference? There were boys tending sheep on a Sunday. It was necessary; and there always were certain things, which, as well in profane times as in modern and Christian countries, were admitted to be done on festival days. The necessary consequence of putting away all other means of communication by which parties could travel cheaply was, that they must not cut off the opportunity now afforded to persons travelling by the railroads.Mr. Warburton
bona fide269 could not see the benefit of changing the present law. If the
bona fide269Mr. Freshfield
 wished to say, in explanation, that he did not state the rumour of the wearing of a badge by Mr. Blackman in the way of disparaging that Gentleman, he mentioned it only as illustrating a fact. It seemed that the hon. and learned Sergeant was the only person who thought that the wearing of an Orange badge was derogatory to a person filling an official station.Mr. O'Connell
309308 said, that as to the respectability of the meeting to which the hon. Baronet, the Member for Londonderry, had alluded, the House, he was afraid, must take the hon. Baronet's own word for it; for, with the exception of his own very respectable name, and the names of a few other equally respectable persons attached to the requisition, the names of the rest were shrouded in mystery. With
309308Mr. J. O'Connell
321 said, that a strong feeling pervaded the country that it was quite unnecessary to use the railways on the Lord's day. It was necessary that the engine drivers should be men of the most unexceptionable character; and how could such be obtained, if they continued at their work day by day, without any opportunity for rest or for religious instruc-
321Mr. Plumptre
 had been a member of the Committee of which his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, was the chairman; and, knowing the number of bubble schemes which were brought forward, he thought the present rule ought not to be relaxed. He wished to state a fact which he thought of considerable importance. The Liverpool and Manchester Railway Company, a year or two ago, obtained an Act for a railway to pass through the borough which he had the honour to represent, and they had contrived to introduce a clause leaving it optional to them whether they should complete the railway or not. The consequences were, that parties who had received notice that the railway would pass through their property were completely tied up from disposing of their land in any way—and the company had the sole power of determining whether the property should be required at any time for the purpose of the railways. He did think that Parliament should take every precaution for having their works vigilantly and vigorously carried into effect.Mr. Brotherton
 said, that although the hon. and learned Gentleman thought the proposition monstrous, he was more inclined to take the noble Lord's interpretation, which was, that it would give a fait and full representation to the people of Ireland. Was that a monstrous proposition? On the contrary, he thought the proposition a most excellent one, and was quite sure that it would put an end to the discontent and agitation at present existing in Ireland. He would not say more than that he hoped the House of Commons would show to the people of Ireland that they were determined to do them justice.Mr. Hume
 was satisfied with what the noble Lord had stated with respect to South Australia. It only proved that the government of the colonies in Downing-street must necessarily fail. Parties were tempted to go out to the colonies; they took out with them much property, that gave them a stake, and yet it was in a few colonies only that they were enabled to exercise their property; and he believed that the noble Lord would find, that the best means of promoting the prosperity of the colonies would be, by enabling them to govern themselves.Mr. Hume
310l did not rise for the purpose of offering any opposition to the introduction of the bill by the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, but he had hoped that by this time all those ridiculous and absurd attacks which had heretofore been made upon his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) would have ceased. He was glad to see evidence of a disposition on the part of the noble Secretary to improve the registration system in Ireland. There was no person of any political party that could deny that there were grievous evils existing under that system. So strong and general did this opinion prevail, that the noble Lord had actually been coerced to bring forward this measure. He would not at this stage of the debate enter upon a discussion of the provisions of the bill, but he could not help deprecating the clause which went to establish the 5310lMr. Sergeant Jackson
318Quarterly Review thought that the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade had drawn a most judicious distinction in wishing to centralise, for the sake of information, without needless interference with the directors of the various companies. Last year, he had doubled the policy of any interposition on the part of Government, but he now acknowledged the fitness of it, in the way and to the extent proposed. With regard to the danger of travelling on railways, if the gallant Colonel, who was so much alarmed, would read such an orthodox publication as the 318Quarterly ReviewMr. Ewart
 believed, that the directions of the Post-office were very general, and that much was necessarily left to the discretion of the railroad companies. The mail was engaged by Government at a very large expense, but they had nothing to do with the passengers conveyed by the same train. He was very sorry that the noble Lord had been detained for an hour and a quarter in the cold, but he did not apprehend that the delay arose out of any order issued by the Post-office. If the mail train were not able to keep its time, the passengers conveyed by the company must be contented to suffer from the delay. As to danger, in the instance in question, he apprehended that there was none, as there was no train either behind or before that in which the noble Lord was seated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought he had had the pleasure of hearing the noble Lord opposite (Lord Stanley) say that he would leave this question with confidence to the judgment of the House of Commons. He was, therefore, anxious to take the first opportunity of expressing his conviction that there would be a very powerful feeling in favour of the system proposed by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland. The noble Lord opposite must permit him to say (without meaning any discourtesy), that his bill was not an honest bill. It was a dishonest bill; because the noble Lord had avoided the very difficulty upon which all the other inconveniences rested. The noble Lord's bill did not mention the franchise; it did not attempt to define it. The noble Lord proposed nothing, but to throw more difficulties in the way of those who were entitled to exercise the franchise as the law now stood. It was his distinct conviction that the evils of the existing system must be corrected, and that the settlement of the question could be infinitely better effected by the bill of his noble Friend than by the bill of the noble Lord opposite. The remedy which that noble Lord proposed appeared to him to be worse than the disease. It would only lead to a series of embarrassments and persecutions in Ireland of the humbler class of voters by those who were placed above them.Mr. Ward
274273 begged, in reply to the questions of his hon. Friend, to say, in the first place, that he had no objection to the production of the extract from the letter of Lord Auckland, which he had read on the 27th of July last. It was true, that that letter was partly private and partly public; but still he had no objection to its production. Before he replied to the other questions put by his hon. Friend he wished to state, that the papers which had been moved for on this subject towards the end of the last Session, and which would give his hon. Friend much more information respecting it than he now seemed to possess, had not been laid on the Table of the House, before the close of the Session. He would take an opportunity, before the House rose that evening, lo move for the production forthwith of the papers moved for last Session, to which would be added other documents which, he trusted, the House and his hon. Friend would find satisfactory. As to the question whether he could take upon himself to say, that anything had been done as to the settlement of this unfortunate question, for so he would call it, he had the pleasure of being able to say, that he considered what had been done in all the presidencies with one exception, to put an end to all connexion between the company's civil or military servants and any of the religious ceremonies of the natives, had been most satisfactory. In Bengal, the pilgrim tax had been abolished at Allahabad, Gya, and Juggernaut, and some of the documents which he should move for would show that in the Presidency of Bombay the civil officers of the company had been removed from any attendance at or connexion with the temples, and with the exception of the Presidency of Madras, there
274273Sir J. C. Hobhouse
307 could not sit still and leave uncontradicted the misrepresentations that had been made on this subject. He would beg to ask, whether there was any county or parish in the province of Ulster that
307Sir R. Bateson
272 said, that pursuant to the notice he had given, he wished to put a few questions to his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control relating to the part alleged to have been taken in certain idolatrous ceremonies, by some of the East-India Company's servants in India. The House was aware that very great anxiety existed in this country, as well as in India, on the connexion of the company with some of the idolatrous ceremonies of the natives. His right hon. Friend had, on a former occasion, when he had put a question to him on this subject, quoted an extract of a despatch from Lord Auckland, the governor, in which it was stated, that the system under the despatch sent out in 1838 was working steadily and safely. Now his first question to his right hon. Friend was, whether he would have any objection to lay before the House a copy of the despatch of which he had read a part? His right hon. Friend had stated, that that document was half-public and half-private, but, such as it was, would he produce it among the other documents to be laid before the House? His next question was whether from any documents, public, or private, he could state to the House that the system under the despatch of 1838 worked well, and whether any substantial relief had been given from the grievances under which any of her Majesty's subjects had laboured under the system which the despatch of 1838 was intended to correct? His next question was, whether any one single measure of the directors or of the General Government of India had been adopted to carry out, as far as the Madras Presidency was concerned, the despatch of 1838, which despatch was itself a carrying out of the despatch sent out by the directors in 1833?—His next question was, whether
272Sir R. H. Inglis
302301l300lll299298 like his noble Friend who had just sat down, proposed to reserve the full statement of his views upon this subject for a subsequent stage of the bill which the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland now sought leave to introduce. But as he was last year placed in the very painful situation of being compelled on more than one occasion with reference to this subject to oppose those Friends with whom, during so long a series of years, he had constantly and regularly acted, he could not deny himself the satisfaction now, in this first moment that the measure was brought forward, of declaring at once, and without the slightest hesitation, that to the principle of so much of the bill as related to the alteration of the qualification of voters in Ireland he should give his most hearty concurrence. He stated last year, when the subject was under the consideration of the House, that he was persuaded—indeed the fact was admitted on both sides—that the existing system of registration in Ireland afforded facilities for fraud, and temptation for perjury. It afforded he repeated facilities for breaking through the provisions of the existing law, which it was hardly possible to expect that the people of Ireland could resist. Such being the case, he did not regret the opinion he then expressed, that he was bound to support any measure which would ensure a more satisfactory administration of the existing law. At the same time, however, he had said that if the law itself as
302301l300lll299298Viscount Howick,
268 said, that the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, instead of considering the regulation as it now existed as favourable to large capitalists, ought in his opinion to consider it as likely to operate in an exactly opposite way. Before the regulation had been introduced a great injustice was frequently done to parties having
268Viscount Howick
"I can, if necessary, produce several influential and highly respectable individuals of the colony now in this country, to give testimony in favour of the advantages of assignment.""I wish," he said, "to record my conviction, that families may emigrate to this colony with as little danger of moral contamination as they would be exposed to in any of her Majesty's dominions."327"That, apprehending the most disastrous consequences, and the total stagnation of agriculture and commerce (it being impossible that the earth can be tilled to yield even sufficient for our own consumption, and still less for that of the inhabitants of New South Wales, and the surrounding colonies, whose dependence upon us last year proved their sole relief from famine), his Excellency be called upon to suspend the orders from home for the abolition of assignment." did not intend to oppose the motion, but wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies to the fact, that South Australia was not the only colony in that quarter of the globe which stood in need of investigation. There was great dissatisfaction existing in the other Australian colonies, and as an instance of it he would just refer to a meeting that was held in Van Diemen's Land on the 29th of April, 1840, and attended by all the principal settlers in the colony, at which a resolution to the following effect was unanimously agreed to:—
"I can, if necessary, produce several influential and highly respectable individuals of the colony now in this country, to give testimony in favour of the advantages of assignment.""I wish," he said, "to record my conviction, that families may emigrate to this colony with as little danger of moral contamination as they would be exposed to in any of her Majesty's dominions."327"That, apprehending the most disastrous consequences, and the total stagnation of agriculture and commerce (it being impossible that the earth can be tilled to yield even sufficient for our own consumption, and still less for that of the inhabitants of New South Wales, and the surrounding colonies, whose dependence upon us last year proved their sole relief from famine), his Excellency be called upon to suspend the orders from home for the abolition of assignment."Viscount Mahon
293ll292ll291"Provided always, and be it enacted, that
l291bonâ fide290289l288ll09167Longford
09167Longford203366Scariff
203366Scariff1779220Parsonstown
1779220Parsonstown671348Lurgan
671348Lurgan1750200Balrothery
1750200BalrotheryNo. of ditto who appeared rated at sums under £5.No. of the preceding who appeared rated at sums under £10.No. of £10 elections whose rating could be ascertained.
No. of ditto who appeared rated at sums under £5.No. of the preceding who appeared rated at sums under £10.No. of £10 elections whose rating could be ascertained.
09167Longford
09167Longford203366Scariff
203366Scariff1779220Parsonstown
1779220Parsonstown671348Lurgan
671348Lurgan1750200Balrothery
1750200BalrotheryNo. of ditto who appeared rated at sums under £5.No. of the preceding who appeared rated at sums under £10.No. of £10 elections whose rating could be ascertained.
No. of ditto who appeared rated at sums under £5.No. of the preceding who appeared rated at sums under £10.No. of £10 elections whose rating could be ascertained.lss287ssssdsllldssldsssllllIn our reports from Lurgan, it will be found that even farms, the tenants of which could get 15ss287ssssdsllldssldsssllll"The standard of value adopted by them is nearly the same as that adopted by the other valuators whom I had previously examined. They formed in their own minds a scale of living, and valued the land at what a solvent tenant could afford to pay for the land, after having out of the produce of it maintained himself and family according to the scale laid down. That scale was merely a sufficiency of bread and milk every day for himself and his family, and meat two or three times a week, and comfortable clothing for himself and family."286ll"In our reports from the rural districts of Belfast, it will be found that wherever the valuation of a tenement coincided with the rent actually paid, the tenant could, in fact, if he were quitting the farm, sell his interest or his good-will, at from 10286ll: Mr. Hague and Mr. Vesey. The noble Lord then proceeded to read an extract from that part of the report relating to the rural districts of Belfast, as follows:—
293ll292ll291"Provided always, and be it enacted, that
l291bonâ fide290289l288ll09167Longford
09167Longford203366Scariff
203366Scariff1779220Parsonstown
1779220Parsonstown671348Lurgan
671348Lurgan1750200Balrothery
1750200BalrotheryNo. of ditto who appeared rated at sums under £5.No. of the preceding who appeared rated at sums under £10.No. of £10 elections whose rating could be ascertained.
No. of ditto who appeared rated at sums under £5.No. of the preceding who appeared rated at sums under £10.No. of £10 elections whose rating could be ascertained.
09167Longford
09167Longford203366Scariff
203366Scariff1779220Parsonstown
1779220Parsonstown671348Lurgan
671348Lurgan1750200Balrothery
1750200BalrotheryNo. of ditto who appeared rated at sums under £5.No. of the preceding who appeared rated at sums under £10.No. of £10 elections whose rating could be ascertained.
No. of ditto who appeared rated at sums under £5.No. of the preceding who appeared rated at sums under £10.No. of £10 elections whose rating could be ascertained.lss287ssssdsllldssldsssllllIn our reports from Lurgan, it will be found that even farms, the tenants of which could get 15ss287ssssdsllldssldsssllll"The standard of value adopted by them is nearly the same as that adopted by the other valuators whom I had previously examined. They formed in their own minds a scale of living, and valued the land at what a solvent tenant could afford to pay for the land, after having out of the produce of it maintained himself and family according to the scale laid down. That scale was merely a sufficiency of bread and milk every day for himself and his family, and meat two or three times a week, and comfortable clothing for himself and family."286ll"In our reports from the rural districts of Belfast, it will be found that wherever the valuation of a tenement coincided with the rent actually paid, the tenant could, in fact, if he were quitting the farm, sell his interest or his good-will, at from 10286llViscount Morpeth
285"We inspected the rate-books and the minute-books of the boards of guardians, and we extracted the various resolutions passed in each union with reference to the valuation. The proceedings with reference to valuation bear some traces of uniformity in all the unions. The general course followed was, to appoint a committee of three or more guardians, to inquire into existing surveys and valuations, and to report whether they were available or sufficient for the purposes of the poor-rate. The committee so appointed in all the unions that we visited, came finally to the resolution that the existing surveys and valuations were insufficient, and that new valuations were necessary. In some unions the number of valuations was two, in others three; in some only one. We found in the unions which we visited that the valuators had generally traversed each district of the union; ascertained, as well as circumstances enabled them, the boundaries of each farm; set an acreable value on the land comprised in it, generally added some small sum for the house, and finally entered in the rate book, ' net annual value ' of the whole tenement, according to the interpretation which, under the influence of the Poor-law commissioners, the guardians and inhabitants of the union, and their own opinion, attributed to that phrase. We found an opinion prevailing in every union which we visited that the valuation under the poor-law would
285284283bona fide"I will not consent to any franchise which may produce the uncertainty which has arisen under the act for the constitution of the elective franchise for Members of Parliament. I will not consent to increase the necessity for appointing a committee of inquiry to ascertain how far the carding out of this bill depends on fictitious votes. I will leave it to the committee, however, and I will say, that it is incumbent on Parliament to define what the franchise shall be. I find that the present test is unsatisfactory, and I would depend on no test which involves the mere principle of valuation. I think that that must be a bad principle which holds out the temptation to lake false oaths. That is entirely unsatisfactory; and I must say, that I expect the concurrence of the greater proportion of this House, in the opinion, that whatever franchise is granted, ought to be a bona fide282"It would therefore be decidedly better to take some other standard of the value of property which shall confer the elective franchise. The ordnance, or Poor-law valuation, as suggested by the hon. Member for Mallow, might be adopted for this purpose; and even valuations by competent surveyors; though these, I admit, are frequently liable to the objections of uncertainty, and therefore inferior to the other tests, would be preferable to the indefinite criterion now proposed. I must say, therefore, that I think the hon. and learned Gentleman will do better to adopt one of those tests of value; and at all events, I will venture to predict that, when this question shall come before the House, and the principle of this bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman shall have to be determined upon, the good sense of the English Gentlemen in this House will prevent such a measure as the one now proposed, from passing into a law."281"I agree with the hon. Baronet who has just sat down, that the measure now proposed will not remove the evils complained of. I think it will, on the contrary, have the effect of fixing and rendering permanent the evils which at present exist. With respect to the observations that the hon. and learned Gentleman has addressed to the House, as to the mode of ascertaining the franchise in Ireland. I shall feel myself guilty of a dereliction of my duty, if I did not express my concurrence in what has just fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Mallow. For my own part, I cannot refrain from saying, that I think a
281"I rise, Sir, for the purpose of expressing my regret that although the hon. and learned Gentleman has introduced a measure to remove doubts connected with the franchise in Ireland, he will still be leaving that franchise open to dispute, and to be decided by opinion, instead of upon fact. I repeat that I deeply regret that the hon. and learned Gentleman, who has paid greater attention to the business and interests of Ireland than any Solicitor-general I have ever yet seen, has not grappled with this difficulty, and at once attempted effectually to remove it; and I certainly think it is a subject well worthy the attention of the Government, now that Ireland has been regularly valued with reference to the rating under the Poor-law, to consider whether a plan to effect this object might not be formed, taking some standard of rating under the Poor-law upon which a man might claim the exercise of the franchise. According to the bill now brought forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman, proof of value will still be given on oath, and still be met by proof on oath of the contrary. Landlords will still be arrayed against their tenantry, and the tenantry against their landlords, differences which this subject, more than any other, tends to promote. Why not, then, now that the valuation under the Poor-law Act has been taken, adopt some standard of qualification for the franchise, that shall establish it on fact, and render it incapable of being questioned or contradicted? I can only say that I hope some such plan as this may be adopted: and I should be glad to see such a proposition originate with the hon. and learned Gentleman, convinced, as I am, that such a measure would conduce to the welfare of Ireland, by conciliating both landlords and tenants, and rendering votes secure, instead of uncertain and open to every sort of objection, as under the present most vexatious system."280279278277276viva voce275 in rising to move for leave to introduce the bill of which he had given notice, said:—The importance of the question to which the motion I am about to submit refers, and the special interest attached to it as the pivot on which the political struggles of parties have turned, and the fact of it bringing me into something like rivalry with my noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire, as regards the other Irish Registration Bill, in the way in which rivalry between us only can exist—namely, as to the quality of the measures, certainly not as to the qualifications of their proposers—these circumstances compel me to request that the House will, upon this occasion, honour me both with their attention and indulgence. Whenever this subject has been before us on previous occasions, it has been, as was correctly stated by my noble Friend opposite on a preceding evening, acknowledged, almost on all hands, that there are abuses and imperfections attached to the present system and practice of Registration in Ireland, which both admit of and call for the application of a remedy. As to the precise extent of these abuses, and the comparative degree in which fraud is practised either in this country or Scotland,
285"We inspected the rate-books and the minute-books of the boards of guardians, and we extracted the various resolutions passed in each union with reference to the valuation. The proceedings with reference to valuation bear some traces of uniformity in all the unions. The general course followed was, to appoint a committee of three or more guardians, to inquire into existing surveys and valuations, and to report whether they were available or sufficient for the purposes of the poor-rate. The committee so appointed in all the unions that we visited, came finally to the resolution that the existing surveys and valuations were insufficient, and that new valuations were necessary. In some unions the number of valuations was two, in others three; in some only one. We found in the unions which we visited that the valuators had generally traversed each district of the union; ascertained, as well as circumstances enabled them, the boundaries of each farm; set an acreable value on the land comprised in it, generally added some small sum for the house, and finally entered in the rate book, ' net annual value ' of the whole tenement, according to the interpretation which, under the influence of the Poor-law commissioners, the guardians and inhabitants of the union, and their own opinion, attributed to that phrase. We found an opinion prevailing in every union which we visited that the valuation under the poor-law would
285284283bona fide"I will not consent to any franchise which may produce the uncertainty which has arisen under the act for the constitution of the elective franchise for Members of Parliament. I will not consent to increase the necessity for appointing a committee of inquiry to ascertain how far the carding out of this bill depends on fictitious votes. I will leave it to the committee, however, and I will say, that it is incumbent on Parliament to define what the franchise shall be. I find that the present test is unsatisfactory, and I would depend on no test which involves the mere principle of valuation. I think that that must be a bad principle which holds out the temptation to lake false oaths. That is entirely unsatisfactory; and I must say, that I expect the concurrence of the greater proportion of this House, in the opinion, that whatever franchise is granted, ought to be a bona fide282"It would therefore be decidedly better to take some other standard of the value of property which shall confer the elective franchise. The ordnance, or Poor-law valuation, as suggested by the hon. Member for Mallow, might be adopted for this purpose; and even valuations by competent surveyors; though these, I admit, are frequently liable to the objections of uncertainty, and therefore inferior to the other tests, would be preferable to the indefinite criterion now proposed. I must say, therefore, that I think the hon. and learned Gentleman will do better to adopt one of those tests of value; and at all events, I will venture to predict that, when this question shall come before the House, and the principle of this bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman shall have to be determined upon, the good sense of the English Gentlemen in this House will prevent such a measure as the one now proposed, from passing into a law."281"I agree with the hon. Baronet who has just sat down, that the measure now proposed will not remove the evils complained of. I think it will, on the contrary, have the effect of fixing and rendering permanent the evils which at present exist. With respect to the observations that the hon. and learned Gentleman has addressed to the House, as to the mode of ascertaining the franchise in Ireland. I shall feel myself guilty of a dereliction of my duty, if I did not express my concurrence in what has just fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Mallow. For my own part, I cannot refrain from saying, that I think a
281"I rise, Sir, for the purpose of expressing my regret that although the hon. and learned Gentleman has introduced a measure to remove doubts connected with the franchise in Ireland, he will still be leaving that franchise open to dispute, and to be decided by opinion, instead of upon fact. I repeat that I deeply regret that the hon. and learned Gentleman, who has paid greater attention to the business and interests of Ireland than any Solicitor-general I have ever yet seen, has not grappled with this difficulty, and at once attempted effectually to remove it; and I certainly think it is a subject well worthy the attention of the Government, now that Ireland has been regularly valued with reference to the rating under the Poor-law, to consider whether a plan to effect this object might not be formed, taking some standard of rating under the Poor-law upon which a man might claim the exercise of the franchise. According to the bill now brought forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman, proof of value will still be given on oath, and still be met by proof on oath of the contrary. Landlords will still be arrayed against their tenantry, and the tenantry against their landlords, differences which this subject, more than any other, tends to promote. Why not, then, now that the valuation under the Poor-law Act has been taken, adopt some standard of qualification for the franchise, that shall establish it on fact, and render it incapable of being questioned or contradicted? I can only say that I hope some such plan as this may be adopted: and I should be glad to see such a proposition originate with the hon. and learned Gentleman, convinced, as I am, that such a measure would conduce to the welfare of Ireland, by conciliating both landlords and tenants, and rendering votes secure, instead of uncertain and open to every sort of objection, as under the present most vexatious system."280279278277276viva voce275Viscount Morpeth,
336 said, that standing as he did in that House, he was anxious to state, in a very few words, the grounds on which he cordially seconded the motion of the noble Lord. This was a subject on which no difference of opinion could arise from any political motive. They were not at that time called upon to discuss the bearings of the Syrian question, or to enter into any arguments as to the policy by which her Majesty's Government had been guided in that great question. To do so on such an occasion as the present would be exceedingly embarrassing. All they were called upon to do by the motion of the noble Lord was, to express on the part of that House the exultation they felt at the success which had attended her Majesty's arms, and the gratitude which they and the country were desirous of showing to those brave men, by whose combined exertions, by whose skill and bravery, by whose mental as well as physical powers, the great objects of the expedition had been attained, and an additional triumph afforded to the British arms. The noble Lord, and the members of the Government were alone fully in possession of the nature of the instructions sent out for the guidance of Sir R. Stopford, and the officers under his orders, and they alone could be aware how promptly and energetically those orders had been acted upon. But such was the critical nature of the situation in which that gallant Admiral was placed, so many circumstances might have occurred which would have rendered a modification of, or a total change in, or perhaps a neglect of those instructions necessary, that it required the exercise of the greatest vigilance and promptitude in obeying the orders given, but also great decision, and the highest degree of political prudence in acting for himself, as if no instructions had been sent out. He (Lord Stanley) therefore thought, without having more information on the subject than was already before the House, without knowing anything of the details known only to the Government, that there was no Gentleman
336Lord Stanley
 could not allow the vote to pass without offering his tribute of approval to the conduct of the gallant men whose exploits were now under their consideration. He regretted to find that there was an hon. Member of the House who differed as to the expediency of such a vote, because it was a question on which there could be no party or political feelings whatever. He hoped her Majesty's Government would attend to the hint thrown out by the hon. Baronet near him, of conferring some distinction on the gallant Commander of the Forces in the Mediteranean. There was one officer who in those operations (Colonel Walker) had met with his death, not by the guns of the enemy, but by the climate, and-whose services had been such as to merit the insertion of his name in this vote of thanks. He was an officer of marines, and perhaps it might be some consolation to his family to find such honourable mention made of the corps to which he belonged. The noble Lord concluded with expressing his cordial concurrence in the motion.Lord Ingestrie
357356Life of JohnsonLife of JohnsonClarissa355London Gazette354Tom JonesHistory of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.353352351350349348347346pars rationabilisjure divinojure divino.345: Though, Sir, it is in some sense agreeable to approach a subject with which political animosities have nothing to do, I offer myself to your notice with some reluctance. It is painful to me to tale a course which may possibly be misunderstood or misrepresented as unfriendly to the interests of literature and literary men. It is painful to me, I will add, to oppose my hon. and learned Friend on a question which he has taken up from the purest motives, and which he regards with a parental interest. These feelings have hitherto kept me silent when the law of copyright has been under discussion. But as I am, on full consideration, satisfied that the measure before us will, if adopted, inflict grievous injury on the public, without conferring any compensating advantage on men of letters, I think it my duty to avow that opinion and to defend it. The first thing to be done, Sir, is to settle on what principles the question is to be argued. Are we free to legislate for the public good, or are we not? Is this a question of expediency, or is it a question of right? Many of those who have written and petitioned against the existing state of things, treat the question as one of right. The law of nature, according to them, gives to every man a sacred and indefeasible properly in his own ideas, in the fruits of his own reason and imagination. The legislature has indeed the power to take away this property, just as it has the power to pass an act of attainder for cutting off an innocent man's head without a trial. But as such an act of attainder would be legal murder, so would an act invading the right of an author to his copy be according to these gentlemen," legal robbery. Now, Sir, if this be so, let justice be done, cost what it may. I am not prepared like my hon. and learned Friend, to agree to a compromise between right and expediency, to commit an injustice for the public convenience. But I must say, that his theory soars far beyond the reach of my faculties. It is not necessary to go, on the present occasion into a metaphysical inquiry about the origin of the right of property; and certainly nothing but the strongest necessity would lead me to discuss a subject so likely to be distasteful to the House. I agree, I own with Paley in thinking that property is the
357356Life of JohnsonLife of JohnsonClarissa355London Gazette354Tom JonesHistory of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.353352351350349348347346pars rationabilisjure divinojure divino.345Mr. Mucaulay
 did not intend to oppose the motion. He thought, that some reform with respect to the laws relating to the medical profession in this country, was certainly desirable; and he believed, that in stating that opinion he expressed the feeling of the three great medical bodies in the country—the College of Physicians, the College of Surgeons, and the Company of Apothecaries.Mr. Fox Maule
 said, he noticed he circumstance to prevent a misconstruction being put upon it elsewhere.Lord F. Egerton
337 wished to take that opportunity of saying a few words to express his entire concurrence in all that had fallen from the noble Lord (John Russell) in praise of the skill and valour of the brave men who had conducted and been engaged in the late operations on the coast of Syria. He hoped he should not be considered as making a captious objection to any expression used by the noble Lord; but there was one passage in the noble Lord's speech on which he would say a word to prevent a misconstruction being put upon it in another place. The noble Lord had spoken of the explosion of a powder magazine in the fortress of Acre,
337Lord F. Egerton
341 in explanation, said, he
341Lord J. Russell,
335334333332331 rose to propose the vote of thanks, of which he had given notice, to the officers and men engaged in the operations on the coast of Syria. He was quite sure, that in calling upon the House to agree to a vote of thanks to Sir Robert Stopford, Sir Charles Napier, Sir C. Smith, and the other officers and men engaged in the recent operations on the coast of Syria and at Acre, the House would generally allow that the motion was due to those gallant officers and the troops who bad served under them. The service had from the commencement been a very peculiar one. It depended in a great degree on the promptitude with which the orders of the Government were carried into effect, and upon the various operations which were necessary to carry out the general policy of the Government. Whether that policy were rightly or wrongly conceived—whether or not it were expedient to attempt any such operations—whatever the opinion of gentlemen might be with respect to those points, there could be no question that, such being the policy of the Government, and such the orders given by her Majesty, nothing could exceed the skill and effect with which those orders were executed. Sir R. Stopford was in the command of a considerable fleet in the Mediterranean; but at the same time it must be recollected the state of affairs was such—the appearances of the peace of Europe being disturbed were at one time so alarming, that with respect to all his operations, with respect to everything he undertook, as a prudent commander, anxious for the reputation of the navy, and likewise for the success of any measures he might be ordered to effect, he was obliged to consider with the utmost discretion and nicety what might be the ultimate events that would arise out of any oper-
335334333332331Lord J. Russell
 said, his hon. Friend, the Under-Secretary of State, had been misunderstood. He had not said, that the Government would not agree to any measure of reform, that did not meet with the sanction of the three medical corporations. What he had stated was, that the corporations themselves acknowledged that some medical reform was necessary. He would not now give any opinion on the general subject, but would content himself by saying, that he thought it desirable that some more effectual method should be taken to ascertain the qualifications of medical practitioners, than was taken at present.Lord John Russell
 rose to move for leave to introduce a bill to amend the laws relating to the Medical Profession. He felt justified in asking the House to entertain such a measure as this, from having been a member of the medical committee, which sat nearly six years ago, and from having given more or less attention to the subject from that time. The bill sought to obtain three principal objects—a representative body for the general government of the profession, uniformity of medical education, and a system of registration. There were many details which he declined to enter into, inasmuch as many opportunities would be afforded to consider them, and he was aware that to some of them many members entertained objections. He would, however, say, that any amendments not materially affecting these principal objects, sanctioned as they were by many very eminent medical authorities, he should be most ready to carefully and candidly consider. As he had reason to hope; that he should be permitted to introduce the bill, he would now simply move for leave, and reserve any further observations for the second reading.Mr. Hawes
339 had no protest to enter against the policy pursued by Her Majesty's Ministers on this question, or any approbation to offer, because that was not the occasion on which its merits could be discussed; and he thought the noble Lord, and those who followed him in the discussion, had acted wisely in abstaining from all political allusions. He believed that the account given by the noble Lord of the operations in Syria was most accurate, and he concurred with him in thinking that no men ever better deserved the thanks of their country than those brave and gallant individuals who had been engaged in those actions. Whatever might be the difficulties of any orders which the navy might receive, such were the resources, such the genius, and such the originality of that branch of our service, that, whether it was afloat or on shore, they always brought their efforts to a successful result. On the present occasion he considered that although the navy had not had the same hard fighting that it had had on former occasions, yet the skill and the science which they displayed were attributes of their superiority of the greatest importance; and he hailed their success with the greatest satisfaction. The noble Lord, in mentioning Admiral Stopford's success, had stated that before he received instructions from home he was fully prepared to attack Acre. Now not only was Admiral Stopford fully prepared, but he had also made up his mind to attack Acre before he received instructions to this effect. He thought it was due to the Gallant Admiral that that point should be clearly understood—that he had
339Sir H. Hardinge
362 concurred in the remarks of the hon. Gentleman, who had just sat down. He thought, that a reform in the three great bodies themselves, and their statutes would be desirable. He would not now go into details, but he hoped his hon. Friend would be more successful in pleasing the profession with his
362Mr. Warburton
338 hoped the time would never come when a difference of political opin-
338Mr. Hume
 said, the fault was not in the men, but in the system. Medical reform was a great national object, and the question ought to be taken up by the Government.Mr. Hume
360359 replied. He thought that if the right hon. Gentleman opposite had really cherished those deep and strong convictions that the bill was calculated to inflict those injuries he had mentioned, he would have expressed those
360359Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
344343342 said, that after the discussion which the principle of the bill had undergone in that House, he should feel himself unworthy of the attention which had been accorded to him on former occasions if he were to occupy the House for more than a few minutes; and
344343342Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
 said, that if the hon. Gentlemen who had last addressed the House were only prepared to support such a measure of medical reform as would have the sanction of the three bodies he alluded to, he would not give satisfaction to the profession or the public. The fact was, those bodies had given to the public the greatest possible amount of dissatisfaction, and it was from that dissatisfaction that the desire for a medical reform which so generally prevailed had arisen.Mr. Wakley
363 explained, that he had not meant to attribute corruption to any indi-
363Mr. Wakley
340 concurred fully in the motion, but expressed his regret that the names of some other officers, such as General Jochmus, had not been included
340Sir De Lacy Evans
 challenged the hon. Member for Finsbury to prove any charge of corruption against the medical bodies; and he should like to know to which of them the hon. Member alluded in bringing forward his charge, and when the corruption had taken place.Mr. Halford
 said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had accused the medical corporation of mismanagement and corruption. The question of mismanagement was one that might be fairly discussed, but he should as soon think of charging the noble Lord opposite with corruption as the College of Physicians. He had sat on the Medical Committee, and as far as he recollected no charge of corruption had been brought forward, certainly none had been substantiated.Sir R. Inglis
s.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.s.d.pro tanto358 said, that he rose with peculiar difficulty, after the speech of his right hon. Friend—a speech filled with illustrations from every page of English literature, and which he alone, perhaps, of the present House could have supplied. He would not enter into the metaphysics as to the origin of property with which that speech commenced. It was enough
s.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.s.d.pro tanto358Sir R. Inglis
 said, he had felt the greatest delight at the success with which it had pleased Almighty God to bless her Majesty's forces, he hoped this Christian people while looking to the instruments, would not forget that it was the hand of God that directed their efforts. He concurred with the noble Lord in the terms in which he had proposed this vote of thanks, the highest honour which this House could pay to any of their fellow-subjects. But he trusted, that the noble Lord would not feel that he had discharged his duty to the subjects of that motion, if high as was the honour proposed he limited his reward to that vote of thanks. It was in the power of her Majesty's Government to confer a pecuniary reward upon these men, but he trusted that, instead of that, there would be conferred upon the gallant commander one of a more enduring character, and one which had been generally bestowed on similar occasions. He trusted he had not unnecessarily obtruded these observations upon the House.Sir R. H. Inglis
371370369368 seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in his place, rose for the purpose of putting to him the question of which he had given notice the other evening. That question was one of so important a nature, especially at a period so critical as the present, that he was compelled to preface it by such a statement of facts as he believed the laws of the House permitted him to make. He could assure the House, that beyond that he did not wish to go one single step, and he was confident that the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair would have the kindness to stop him if he abused the liberty which the House accorded. It would be in the recollection of the House, that in the latter period of 1837, at a time when by the gallantry of the troops, both of the line and the militia, rebellion had been put down in the province of Upper Canada, and not a single rebel in arms was left within that province, a band of men, consisting partly of Canadians and partly of American subjects, was organized and armed within the frontiers of the United States. They possessed themselves of arms by seizing on the arsenals, the property of the United States, and in open day took possession of an island lying in the Niagara river, the property of her Majesty, to which they transported, also in open day, arms, the property of the United States, ammunition and stores, the property of the; United States, and brought frequent reinforcements of men, in order to make their position strong. From that position, and with those means, they for a considerable
371370369368Lord Stanley
—I apprehend that the noble Lord has not correctly understood my questions—for one of them, and that the most important, he has not answered. That question was, whether the Government had taken any, and if so, what steps, for the protection and liberation of Mr. M'Leod?Lord Stanley.
 rose. He begged the right hon. Baronet's pardon for interrupting him, and hoped he would be excused by the consideration that the subject just now before the House ought not to be left as it was. The life of Mr. M'Leod was at stake, and he was sorry that his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) had interfered, for he thought that there ought to be expressed in that House an opinion that Mr. M'Leod should be saved, as he acted under the command of the officers of Her Majesty's Government—in fact, under the command of Her Majesty. Whether Mr. M'Leod was right or wrong, the House ought to declare that it was prepared to assist the Government in preserving him.Mr. O'Connell
382381380379ad captandum378377376 felt conscious that, of many of those great measures which had excited the most elaborate discussion, and the most strenuous opposition in that House, the result had seldom answered either the hopes of their promoters, or realised the fears of their opponents. Ge
382381380379ad captandum378377376Mr. D'Israeli
404 regretted, that the noble Lord had not brought in a bill on this subject early in the last Session, for the purpose of remedying the discontent which existed in various parts of the country. It did not appear to him that the present measure was calculated to remove these discontents, and, unless greatly modified in several of its clauses, the noble Lord would meet with no little difficulty in finding persons who would consent to be instrumental in carrying it out. It was evident that the feelings of the House were very much divided with respect to the measure. It was possible, however, that an efficient measure might be passed, which would afford much benefit to the community, but that could only be done by an assurance on the part of the noble Lord, that he would allow some considerable alterations to be made in the clauses of the present bill. There was one thing to which he would particularly direct the attention of the House. He viewed with alarm, and many other persons were of the same opinion, the unrestricted powers professed to be given to the assistant-commissioners, and which were at present exercised to so great an extent. There was one case which he would state to the House as having occurred in his own neighbourhood. A highly respectable gentleman, a county magistrate, attended a meeting which was held at Barnstaple, for the purpose of expressing public opinion with respect to the operation of the New Poor-law. The gentleman to whom he alluded was called to the chair, and his presidency was the best assurance that the proceedings would be conducted with order and decorum. The House, he was assured, would hear with astonishment that this gentleman received a letter from an assistant Poor-law commissioner to appear before him
404Mr. Bucke
440l.ldssss439 hoped that this bill would be materially altered and amended, without affecting the principle of the measure, which would give protection to the public
440l.ldssss439Mr. Rice
443442 amidst cries for a division said, having all along taken great interest in this question, and being one of those who, intending to vote against the second reading of this bill, must be content to come under the special reprobation of the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, he hoped he should be permitted to address a few observations to the House. If arguments were wanting against the second reading, he should find them in the speech of that noble Lord. Scarcely had any hon. Member addressed the House in support of the bill who did not qualify their advocacy by expressing a full expectation that very material ameliorations would be made in the committee; but what hope could now be entertained of those amendments, after the tone adopted by the noble Lord? Upon every occasion when this matter was debated a number of hon. Members came forward and expressed their opposition not merely to the principle of the bill, but also to the mode in which it had been carried into operation; and, in the hope that the expression of opinion in that House would have its due effect in mitigating the severity of the law, they were induced to offer no decided opposition to the measure. But had the commissioners adopted any one of these ameliorations? On the con
443442Mr. W. Attwood
446ds445amidst calls to "divide."[446ds445amidst calls to "divide."Mr. James said,
444 begged to be allowed to make one or two observations upon a particular part of the question. In the first Session of the Parliament, he belonged to a committee which desired to enable the inmates of workhouses to go to their respective places of worship on the Sabbath day. The committee drew up a very strong resolution on this subject, and he had hoped that the bill of the noble Lord would have some clause embodying this desirable provision, for it was most unjust that inhabitants of workhouses should be kept months and years without ever being permitted to attend Divine worship at places of the persuasion to which they belonged. He regretted, that the noble Lord had overlooked that important point.
444Mr. Langdale
426425bonâ fide424ll.l423422 said that as cordially as the hon. Member hoped that the noble Lord would not pass his bill, so cordially did he hope that his noble Friend would not withdraw it; and in giving his testimony in favour of the principle of the measure, he would at least he supposed to give an impartial testimony, being unconnected with the country, and uninfluenced by any considerations directly or indirectly, which could in any way lead him to give a partial opinion on the subject. He must say, that he had heard with regret some of the observations of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; because, from the way in which this question had been treated on all sides, he had been led to believe, that they would not have had any foretaste of a renewal of such opposition as had formerly met this measure; and he hoped that he would abstain from giving any other than a fair opposition, and not act towards the measure as he did towards the close of the last Session. The hon. Gentleman had talked of the bill having been pressed to a second reading with indecent haste. He really must differ with the hon. Gentleman on that point; for if he would compare the bill with that which was before the House last year, he would find, that they differed very little in their various clauses. The only difference in fact was, that what last Session occupied two bills, was now contained in one. And let him also remind the hon. Member, when he talked of indecent haste, that although the bills of last year were not discussed until a late period of the Session, they were laid upon the Table early in the month of March. But he would first address himself to the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury, who had seconded the amendment. He had heard that hon. Gentleman with regret impute mercenary motives to the country gentlemen of England in the support which they had given
426425bonâ fide424ll.l423422Mr. Fox Maule
408407l.406 said, that it was his intention to vote with the hon. Member for Finsbury, against the second reading of the bill; in doing so he would observe, that he could not concur in everything
408407l.406Mr. Liddell
451450"The farmers had refused to pay able-bodied labourers the full prices, in consequence of their being able to go to the overseers of the poor and obtain from them labourers at nearly half the full rate of wages, the residue to be paid out of the poor-rates by the shopkeepers and landowners—that the idle were
450449448447 said, that after the severe terms which had been used with respect to this bill, it was necessary for him to occupy the House for a short time, before proceeding to a division. One hon. Member, the Member for Finsbury, who had almost commenced this discussion, said, that this was an act based upon a ferocious and a savage principle; and another hon. Member stated, that while he was very anxious for inquiry, he was ready to oppose this bill in every shape and on every occasion. He considered, that this measure had met with a great deal of abuse, but with very little argument. In replying to some of the observations which had been made against it, he must claim the indulgence of the House. The hon. Member for Sussex had disputed the validity of an opinion which he had given upon this subject. He had stated the other night that this Poor-law Amendment Act was founded upon the principle of the law of Elizabeth; and to prove, that he was mistaken in such an assertion, the hon. Member had quoted a passage from Mr. Blackstone; but whatever might be Blackstone's opinions to the contrary, upon a great question like this, he begged leave to differ from Mr. Justice Blackstone. It appeared to him, that this amended bill was founded clearly upon the principle of Elizabeth. He held the principle of Elizabeth to be this—that, with regard to the old, the infirm, and the helpless, that relief should be given by the State. To the able-bodied relief should also be given when in distress, but in this case due precaution should be observed as to whether destitution had really existed or not. With respect to the aged and infirm, no further inquiry was necessary to be made, but with
451450"The farmers had refused to pay able-bodied labourers the full prices, in consequence of their being able to go to the overseers of the poor and obtain from them labourers at nearly half the full rate of wages, the residue to be paid out of the poor-rates by the shopkeepers and landowners—that the idle were
450449448447Lord J. Russell
 moved the second reading of the Poor-law Amendment Bill.Lord John Russell
 said, he had understood that officers of Her Majesty's army and navy were employed on that occasion, under the orders of the colonial authorities, and that some of them were wounded in that service; but he had not heard that they had received any pensions.Lord J. Russell
"Her Majesty taking into consideration the great and brilliant services performed by John Lord Keane, a Lieutenant-General in her Majesty's army, late commander of her Majesty's and the East-India Company's forces at the Presidency of Bombay, during his command of the army engaged in the expedition to the westward of the Indus; and being desirous to confer some signal mark of her favour, for these and other distinguished merits, upon the said John Lord Keane and the two next surviving heirs male of the body of the said John Lord Keane, recommends to the House of Commons to adopt such measures as may be necessary for the accomplishment of this purpose. "V. R.""Victoria R. delivered a message from the Crown to the following effect—
"Her Majesty taking into consideration the great and brilliant services performed by John Lord Keane, a Lieutenant-General in her Majesty's army, late commander of her Majesty's and the East-India Company's forces at the Presidency of Bombay, during his command of the army engaged in the expedition to the westward of the Indus; and being desirous to confer some signal mark of her favour, for these and other distinguished merits, upon the said John Lord Keane and the two next surviving heirs male of the body of the said John Lord Keane, recommends to the House of Commons to adopt such measures as may be necessary for the accomplishment of this purpose. "V. R.""Victoria R.Lord John Russell
sssds438sssss437**"Their office and duty, according to the same statute, are principally these:—1st, to raise competent sums for the necessary relief of the poor, impotent, old, blind, and such other being poor, and not able to work; and 2dly, to provide work for such as are able, and cannot otherwise get employment: but this latter part of their duty, which, according to the wise regulations of that salutary statute, should go hand in hand with the other, is now most shamefully neglected." 437**436 said, that though he was not disposed to oppose the motion for the second reading of this bill, yet he must express his hope that some measures of relaxation would be adopted by her Majesty's Government. He must, indeed, repeat the question which had been put, whether the pauper should be buried in his own parish churchyard or not. He could only say, that there was nothing on which the poor were so sensitive as this point. Nay, even those who were dissenters were buried within the churchyard, and whole families attended the Church on those occasions. He trusted the noble Lord would look to this clause. Again he begged to call the attention of the House to the case of unions of parishes. The operation of the New Poor-law Act had been to induce the guardians in many parishes to remove most of the inmates of their workhouses. He objected to this,
sssds438sssss437**"Their office and duty, according to the same statute, are principally these:—1st, to raise competent sums for the necessary relief of the poor, impotent, old, blind, and such other being poor, and not able to work; and 2dly, to provide work for such as are able, and cannot otherwise get employment: but this latter part of their duty, which, according to the wise regulations of that salutary statute, should go hand in hand with the other, is now most shamefully neglected." 437**436Mr. Darby
405Cheers. had been long aware that the great misfortune of the people of the country was, that those who were the lawmakers were not the law-workers. If the noble Lord and his colleagues were to act as Poor-law guardians for only six months, they would never attempt to enforce such an obnoxious law, for it made no distinction between the honest, industrious man and the idle, dissolute, and drunken vagabond. If those stupid farmers who made up wages out of the Poor-rates, had discovered that they paid those rates themselves, and therefore gained nothing by the practice, they would have remedied the thing themselves, as he had seen it remedied in other places. He remembered a period when the same practice existed in the town of Birmingham, but in a very short time it was cured, and there was no danger that it would ever under any circumstances be revived. It was said, that there had been a great saving under this law. He doubted the truth of that statement. From all that he could learn, the amount of wages at present was fully equal to what it had been before the passing of the present law. [405Cheers.Mr. Muntz
403402401l.400 differed so entirely in opinion from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that he rose to congratulate the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, on having at last girded up his loins to apply to Parliament for a more than annual prolongation of the powers of the Poor-law Commissioners. The application should have been made before, but he trusted, that in spite of all the idle clamour about centralization, and unconstitutional authority, the good sense of Parliament would sanction now what he considered to be absolutely necessary for the establishment of the improved system. He was convinced, that without some central control of this kind, the new system could never have been introduced, and that without the continuance of this control, there could be no security against a very general relapse into the old abuses. Let it be recollected, that it was from the allowance of discretion by the 36th of George the 3rd, that the greater part of the old abuses had crept in—a sufficient proof that the superintendence of the commissioners was requisite till the new system should become the habit and usage of the land. But the hon. Member for Finsbury had taken advantage of the introduction of this bill to inveigh against the new Poor-law itself. He (Mr. Knight) was not surprised at this, for it was an easy road to popularity. It is always more agreeable to give than to refuse, especially when you are dealing with other people's money, and God knows, it was anything but agreeable to be denounced as cold-blooded and mercenary, however little a man's conscience might plead guilty to the charge. But he would intreat those who were so lavish of their censures to remember what was the state of things before the new law was introduced—to remember, not the impoverishment of proprietors, but the degradation
403402401l.400Mr. Gaily Knight
 complained, that the committee, before whom inquiry had been made as to the operation of the Poor-laws, was a most unfair one. It was a committee in whose labours the people placed no confidence. Let there be a fair inquiry, and if the result should show that the price of labour had been raised under the new law, he would no longer offer any objection to it; but he knew the fact was the very reverse, and that was the reason why he was determined to oppose this bill by every means in his power.Mr. Fielden
373 wished to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, but as the noble Lord had made a speech on the subject, he must first beg of the House to suspend their judgment until they had before them the whole of the papers on the subject. The question he wished to ask was this:—It appeared by the papers which he had in his possession, that in January, 1838, a motion was made in the House of Representatives, calling upon the Government to place on
373Mr. Hume
421420419 said, that had not the right hon. Baronet informed the House of the fact, he would scarcely have thought that he could have read the amendment which had been moved by the hon. Member for Maidstone, and seconded by his hon. colleague. The question was not, whether they should abandon the present system, but whether they should agree to the second reading of a bill, entitled, "A Bill to amend the present Act," but in which he found an aggravation of the grounds of every complaint that had been made by the people of this country against the present system. The present system was admitted, on all hands, to require amendment, and if he could see a prospect of that amendment being effected by this bill, then he would vote for the bill, and against the amendment of the hon. Member for Maidstone, which had been seconded by his hon. Colleague. It was very well to talk of speeches delivered on this subject in that House being inflammatory or irritating—no doubt it was little short of treason to say anything against the commissioners or the present system— but he, for one, would say, that if the system was to be continued at all, it could not be better than in the hands of those commissioners, and it was therefore against the system itself that he would make his stand, and on that ground he would make his observations to the House. He thought it would have been much fairer on the part of the Government to have introduced a short bill, of some six lines or so, merely stating that the commissioners should be perpetual, and that the commissioners should have the full powers of Commons, Lords, and Crown;
421420419Mr. T. Duncombe
399l.l.l.398397396395394sssss393sss.392391390l.389l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.ll.l.l388l.l.l.387386cheers and laughter from the Ministerial side385Cheers."He differed very much from his hon. and learned Friend who spoke on the second bench (the hon. Member for Tynemouth), in thinking that a distinction should be made in favour of merit. He thought it most unreasonable that any board should pretend to say what was meritorious. All that the public could do in the shape of relief was to adhere to the wise and good principle of the act of Elizabeth, that no poor person in the country should be allowed to starve." [Cheers.384383, in seconding the amendment, begged leave again to express his surprise that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, should have proposed to the House a bill of such vast importance without explaining fully and completely the grounds upon which the proposition was made. The bill which the noble Lord bad presented to the House consisted of two portions; the first portion was framed for the purpose of continuing the Poor-law commissioners for ten years; and the second portion was framed for the purpose of giving to that commission whatever powers it might think proper to exercise. He believed that the House was itself ignorant of the principles which the bill originally designed to carry into effect. He referred, of course, to the Poor-law Amendment Act, not to the bill now before the House, although the principles of the second were in fact identical with the first. He was emboldened to express this opinion from a remark which fell from his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny, (Mr. Hume). When the Poor-law Amendment Bill was first introduced into that House by Lord Althorp, the motion, he believed, was seconded by his
399l.l.l.398397396395394sssss393sss.392391390l.389l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.ll.l.l388l.l.l.387386cheers and laughter from the Ministerial side385Cheers."He differed very much from his hon. and learned Friend who spoke on the second bench (the hon. Member for Tynemouth), in thinking that a distinction should be made in favour of merit. He thought it most unreasonable that any board should pretend to say what was meritorious. All that the public could do in the shape of relief was to adhere to the wise and good principle of the act of Elizabeth, that no poor person in the country should be allowed to starve." [Cheers.384383Mr. Wakley
 next rose to address the House, but there was a general cry of "Order," "Chair."Mr. W. S. O'Brien
 rose to oppose the second reading of the bill. He had no objection to an amendment of the Poor-laws; but when he found that the provisions of the bill before the House would not ameliorate the condition of the poor, he could not give his support to it. He could not, however, vote for the amendment for this reason, namely, that it would be putting a veto upon any amendment of the Poor-law during the present year. He merely rose to set himself right with his constituents. He thought that in very many cases, such as those of a man with a family, out-door relief might be very properly given. If such relief were given, men, instead of being driven to the workhouse in cases of momentary distress might be placed in a situation to act honestly by their country and by themselves, doing their duty to their families, and causing much less trouble than was caused by the present system. As he said before, he could neither vote for the amendment nor for the second reading of the bill.Sir E. Filmer
429428"That in consequence of numerous applications for relief from able-bodied paupers in the union of Ashford, and from the crowded state of the union workhouse, they had thought it expedient in several cases to order out-door relief. The commissioners therefore direct that, in cases of the continued application of these parties for relief, that the guardians should in the first instance admit the heads of
428427 could not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat, down, that he had no reason for exhibiting any partiality for this bill. The hon. Gentleman held an important station in the Home-office, from whence this bill emanated; he, therefore, might have spoken with more warmth than he probably intended in support of it. He agreed, however, with the hon. Gentleman, that it would be better to let the details of this bill be discussed in the committee; he should, therefore, confine the few observations which he intended to make to one or two important points. With respect to the new clauses in the present bill, there were very few of them to which he could give his full and cordial assent. He had hoped, when her Majesty's Government introduced this bill, apparently for the amendment of the Poor-laws, that they would not have confined themselves almost entirely to giving increased powers to the commissioners. He thought that, instead of strengthening the hands of the commissioners, they should have enabled them to proceed with less stringent enactments
429428"That in consequence of numerous applications for relief from able-bodied paupers in the union of Ashford, and from the crowded state of the union workhouse, they had thought it expedient in several cases to order out-door relief. The commissioners therefore direct that, in cases of the continued application of these parties for relief, that the guardians should in the first instance admit the heads of
428427Sir E. Knatchbull
441 did not feel his objections to the measure diminished by all the amendments that had been spoken of. One of his strongest grounds of objection was, thas this bill would annihilate 200 parish unions that were incorporated under Gilbert's Act, and take the management of their own parishes from those who had for fifty or sixty years successfully administered the affairs of their localities, to the satisfaction of the poor and the rate-payers. The Poor-law commissioners in endeavouring to persuade the noble Lord to demolish the independence of those parishes spoke highly of their desire for uniformity, but this was the only argument they could bring forth; they could not prove, that the administration of the poor-rate had been ineffective or improper under Gilbert's Incorporation Act. He had many documents which he should not trouble the House by quoting now, but which he should bring forward at a future stage, and show how excellently those parishes had managed the affairs of their own poor. He would also prove, when he should go more at length into the subject, how groundless was the charge of the Poor-law commissioners, that the guardians of those parishes were men without education, actuated by illiberal and selfish motives. The report of Messrs. Hawley and Hall had done great injustice to a respectable and exemplary body of yeomanry. The charges of the Poor-law commissioners
441Captain Pechell
418417416415414413412411l.sl.l.l.l.l.l.slsl410409 wished to stale, as shortly as he could, the reasons for the vote which he was about to give in favour of the second reading of this bill. He might commence by stating, that two main questions had been started in the course of the present discussion: first, whether or no it was advisable to adhere to or abandon the great experiment, which had been begun in 1834 for the improvement in the administration of the Poor-laws.—that was the greatest and most important question; and secondly, whether, supposing it was desirable to adhere to that experiment, it were or were not advisable to continue the administration of the new system under the superintendance of a central board of commissioners. Now, he for one did not consent to the experiment for the amendment of the administration of the Poor-laws from any desire merely to effect a pecuniary saving; he had never contemplated as the chief advantage of that experiment, that it was to cause the diminution of the rates: he had come to the conclusion that this great experiment should be made from an actual experience of evils, which appeared to admit of no delay which were, as a
418417416415414413412411l.sl.l.l.l.l.l.slsl410409Sir Robert Peel
 resumed. He referred to the extracts which he had read for the purpose of asking the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether he could lay before the House any communication to show that the "differences" there alluded to had been, or were likely to be, "satisfactorily adjusted," and whether we were likely to be soon enabled to renew our friendly relations with Persia.Sir R. Peel
374 wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies one question as to a matter of fact; it was, whether there were not officers of Her Majesty's army and navy engaged in the affair of the Caroline, and wounded in that service; and further, whether they had received the same pensions as they would have received if they had suffered such wounds
374Sir R. Peel
"I have not yet been enabled to re-establish my diplomatic relations with the Court of Teheran, but communications which I have lately received from the Persian government inspire me with the confident expectation that the differences which occasioned a suspension of those relations will soon be satisfactorily adjusted.""Differences which have arisen have occasioned the retirement of my Minister from the Court of Teheran. I indulge, however, the hope of learning that a satisfactory adjustment of those differences will allow of the reestablishment of my relations with Persia upon their former footing of friendship." wished to put to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs the question of which he had given notice on a former evening. Before he did so, he wished to call his attention to passages in the speeches from the throne at the opening of the sessions in the years 1839 and 1840. In the speech of 1839 there was this passage:—
"I have not yet been enabled to re-establish my diplomatic relations with the Court of Teheran, but communications which I have lately received from the Persian government inspire me with the confident expectation that the differences which occasioned a suspension of those relations will soon be satisfactorily adjusted.""Differences which have arisen have occasioned the retirement of my Minister from the Court of Teheran. I indulge, however, the hope of learning that a satisfactory adjustment of those differences will allow of the reestablishment of my relations with Persia upon their former footing of friendship."Sir R. Peel
—Those differences have been pending now three years. Would the noble Lord have any objection to lay before the House the communications which have passed on the subject?Sir R. Peel.
435434Cheers433432431430 observed, that as he was one of those Members who thought the act of 1834 one of the most beneficial measures which had ever been carried, and that the commissioners who had framed the measure, and the Government who had carried it, deserved the gratitude of the country, it was gratifying to him to find that night, after the denunciations of the new Poor-law for so many months and years, both by the press and by hon. Gentlemen at elections, and at public meetings, and in after-dinner speeches, that those who had come to the House prepared to discuss the subject, and to defend the measure and the authors of it, did not find one single Member on cither side of it—not even the mover or the seconder ef the amendment—had given a single reason in favour of the old mode of administration, or had expressed a wish to return to the system which existed previous to the passing of the act of 1834. He had long since been convinced that this would be the case when hon. Members came seriously to loot the matter in the face, and that there would not be found a single hon. Gentleman who would stand up in his place and state, that he would return to that system of poor-laws which was at the same time wasting the resources of the country and destroying the character of the labouring classes. He was sure, that no one who was acquainted with the old system would wish again to resort to the parish gravel pit and to the putting up to sale the labour of the parish without having any regard to the feelings of the labourer, but placing the steady, industrious man on the same footing with the idle and the profligate. Thus, a man who by his exertions had raised himself immediately above want, was placed, as regarded his labour, on the same footing as the most idle and improvident, until the pittance which he possessed was spent, and he was virtually told that he should resort to the beer-shop until all he possessed was squandered away, and then he would become a proper subject for
435434Cheers433432431430Viscount Howick
 had no objection to the production of the documents referred to.Viscount Palmerston
 said,—I rather think that my hon. Friend will find in that correspondence that instructions from the American Government were given to Mr. Stevenson to abstain from pressing the subject. With regard to the letter of Mr. Forsyth, I beg leave to say, that the principle stands thus:—In the case of the American citizens engaged in invading Canada, the American government disavowed the acts of those citizens, and stated that the British authorities might deal with them as they pleased, and that they were persons who were not in any degree entitled to the protection of the United States. But in the other case they treated the affair of the Caroline as one to be considered between the Governments, and not to be left upon the responsibility of individuals. Until, therefore, the British Government disowned those persons, as the American government disavowed their citizens in the other case, the American government would have no right to change its ground upon the question.Viscount Palmerston
 was sorry to say, those differences had not yet been finally and satisfactorily adjusted. The right hon. Baronet and the House were aware that they had made certain demands on the Persian government for the redress of certain wrongs for which they considered themselves entitled to reparation. Many complaints consisted of acts of ill-treatment of persons attached to British missions, or of British officers in Persia; and another ground of complaint was, that Persia still maintained possession of a city which belonged to the Indian territory. On the several points of individual grievances they had received explanations and assurances which, if they did not amount altogether to a literal fulfilment of the demands, yet appeared to them such as the Government might, without derogating from the honour of the country, say they had received sufficient satisfaction. It was on the territorial claims alone that there lay any differences between the two Governments. But while those matters remained unsettled, the mission from this country to Persia, which had retired to and were still at Erzeroum, could not, according to their instructions, proceed to Teheran.Viscount Palmerston
—It was my intention to have answered that question of the noble Lord before I sat down, but it escaped my memory at the moment. I may state that a case somewhat similar in principle to the present was expected to take place a year and a half or two years ago, and at that time instructions were sent out to Mr. Fox, on which were founded some of the communications lately made by him to the American authorities. Of course, the House will, I trust, suppose that Her Majesty's Government will send —they have, indeed,sent—certain instructions; but till we get the conclusion of the correspondence it is impossible to send final instructions. I trust the House will believe the Government will send such further instructions as they may think consistent with their duty, but I am not prepared now to state formally what those instructions may be.Viscount Palmerston.
372—I must confess the noble Lord has adverted, with great discretion, to a subject of extreme interest, and which, from its great delicacy, involving considerations of a very grave nature between the two countries, I am sure the House will feel should be touched upon with great reserve, either by the noble Lord, or by myself, in my answer. Now, as to the statement of the noble Lord, with respect to the occurrences which led to this matter, it is strictly, as far as my memory serves me, correct. I will first answer the questions the noble Lord has put to me, and afterwards say one word in explanation of the transaction. I think it is not expedient in the present state of the discussion between the two Governments as to the seizure and destruction of the Caroline, to lay on the Table that correspondence. Whenever it is brought to a close, of course there can be no objection to do so. Her Majesty's Government having received within the last few days despatches from Mr. Fox, and his correspondence with the authorities of the United States, which correspondence has been furnished to the public in the American papers, there can be no objection to lay before Parliament those papers that are already before the public. But it is a departure from what I consider an important rule in regard to international affairs, and one which may operate injuriously to national interests to lay before Parliament documents relating to pending discussions; but, as I have before said, some of those having been already furnished, as respects them there can be no objection, I think it important to make, with reference to the note of Mr. Forsyth, one observation. The noble Lord said, he believed Mr. M'Leod was not one of the party by whom the Caroline was attacked. My information goes precisely to the same conclusion; but with regard to the ground taken by Mr. Forsyth, in reply to Mr. Fox, I think it right to state, that the American Government undoubtedly might have considered this transaction either as a transaction to be dealt with between the two Governments, by demands for redress by one, to be granted or refused by the other, and dealt with accordingly; or it might have been considered, as the British authorities consider proceedings between American citizens on
372Viscount Palmerston.
 inquired if the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, had any objection to lay before the House the treaty which had been concluded with Texas.Mr. O'Connell
457 said, that yesterday he had asked the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs, if he had any objection to lay upon the Table of the House the correspondence that had taken place with the United States since 1837, relative to the seizure of the Caroline; also whether he would lay upon the Table the correspondence that had taken place in respect of the apprehension, in the state of New York, of Mr. M'Leod, a British subject. The noble Lord had then stated, that he did object to the production of the correspondence with regard to these two subjects, but that he had no objection to lay before the House so much of the correspondence on the latter case as had been published in the American papers, inasmuch as it had been laid before Congress. Now he would submit to the noble Lord that he should re-consider his answer. At all events, the production of the correspondence in that form would be a matter for the noble Lord's discretion. He had asked for the whole correspondence; he had not asked for a partial correspondence
457Lord Stanley
 observed he had not asked for a part—he had asked for the whole.Lord Stanley
: The noble Lord did not answer my question. I wish to understand whether the noble Lord has or has not, up to this time, since the 12th of November, sent out to the British Minister, at Washington any specific instructions as to the protection and liberation of Mr. M'Leod.Lord Stanley
l462 thought he had just rea-
l462Mr. O'Connell
 had no objection to allow the hon. and gallant Member to amend his own clumsy and bungling legislation. The difficulty arose entirely from the hon. and gallant Member's taking up a subject with which he was not very familiar.Dr. Nichol
 hoped, that the measure would not be made instrumental in undermining the jurisdiction now exercised by county magistrates. It appeared to him that the Government intended to reserve the power of appointing the existing magistrates in the metropolitan districts to act under this bill. If this principle were acted on in the metropolitan districts, he considered that it would be highly objectionable. It would be much better, in his opinion, to keep the criminal and the civil business distinct, as was the case in the higher courts of judicature. Care, therefore, should be taken so to limit the appointments as not to render them instrumental in mixing up the administration of criminal justice with the adjudication of debts and other civil proceedings. Provision being made against such a result, he considered that the establishment of such courts would tend greatly to serve the poorer classes, whilst at the same time the expenses of the courts would be borne by the suitors. He would again advise those who had united with him in endeavouring to prevent the police courts from being also made courts for the recovery of civil debts, to avoid the same danger of a double jurisdiction from the present bill.Colonel T. Wood
Talfourd479 thought that the want of the connection in the measure which had been deprecated by the hon. Member for Middlesex, constituted its great evil. The judges of these courts ought to possess both civil and criminal jurisdiction. Let them look at the anomalous state of the law regulating these courts in the different counties. In England by this bill the judge of the county court had civil jurisdiction only. In Ireland he might possess both civil and criminal jurisdiction, and in Scotland, where he had originally only criminal jurisdiction, civil jurisdiction had been recently superadded, so that in the three different countries there were three different methods adopted in the administration of justice. In many cases of civil trial it was necessary that the judge should have criminal jurisdiction, and nothing could be more anomalous than this judge half dead and half alive, this paralytic judge, who was alive on one side only—alive on the civil, but dead on the criminal side. What the hon. Member opposite was afraid of was, that they would interfere with the jurisdiction of the magistrates. In Scotland, the magistrates had very little to do he believed, and that was just what they were fit for—and it would be for the benefit of this county if the magistrates here had also the opportunity of indulging in dignified leisure extended to them. An unpaid magistracy was a perfect anomaly which had no existence in any other county. The magistrates' court could not, at all events be considered as a poor man's court, at all events he had never known an instance in which the being rich had been a disadvantage to a man before the magistrates. He thought it would be better in all cases to leave the administration of justice to paid and responsible authorities. He was sorry to see that the bill proposed to give patronage to the judges. The Lord Chancellor was one of the Ministers of the day, removable with the Ministers, and, therefore, the giving patronage to him was, in fact, giving it to the Ministry—but if they wished to derive a method for spoiling the
Talfourd479Mr. O'Connell
481 apprehended that some insuperable objections would be found to the intended scheme, although personally he should be glad to see the cause papers of the different courts cleared of paltry cases, on which even success was attended with ruin. If parties, like those contemplated by the bill, had no appeal, injustice would often be done; and if an appeal were allowed, they would probably fall into the hands of the lower practitioners of the profession. At the same time he was most anxious that a measure should be perfected that would relieve some of the existing evils of the present system. As to the question of patronage, he cared little whether it were placed in the hands of the Lord Chancellor, or of the Chief Justice. Let it be where it would, he did not at all apprehend that the integrity of the bar would at all be affected by it. The hon. Member for Dublin had indeed
481Mr. Cresswell
 wished to ask, if quantity and cheapness were of the utmost importance to our foreign trade, in what respect could cheap calicoes be affected by the extension of the copyright, while the present state of the law was of serious injury to the finer branches of the trade. He entreated the right hon. Gentleman to consider if he looked to foreign markets and the markets of Europe alone, whether he would not effect his object better by taking care of the finer branches of the manufacture. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that the trade was nearly divided on the subject, but he could say, that, as far as the calico trade was concerned, there was an overwhelming majority in favour of the extension. If hon. Gentlemen would look to that large volume on the table, they would find abundance of evidence in it. In Manchester the trade was suffering to a large extent for want of the proposed protection. The hon. Member for Wigan had frequently brought before the House a plan for establishing a school of design, in connexion with our manufactures, but no school of design could be more effective than giving a liberal scale of remuneration, and thus raising the character of our designs by employing a higher class of artists. On all those grounds he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would extend the copyright to twelve months, or, at all events, to six months.Mr. Colquhoun
502 said, that after having paid great attention to the evidence taken before the committee who had sat on that subject, he had come to an entirely different conclusion from the hon. Member for Belfast. He was persuaded, that a change in the present law of copyright of designs would prove most injurious to the calico-printing trade of this country. The present law had been in operation for more than fifty years, and during the whole of that period, though many of the principal persons engaged in the calico trade had seats in that House, not one of those parties had proposed any alteration of the law. He was sure that if they extended the period of protection to designers, such a measure would be a source of endless litigation. All designs were taken from the vegetable or animal world, and how was it possible that every pattern taken from those sources, could be a completely new one? One of the largest calico printers in this country, had stated, that 250,000 patterns were produced here annually; and there could be no doubt, that not less than 30,000,000 of designs had been produced within the last fifty years. How, then, was it possible, that new patterns could be anything more than a compound of the old ones. If, therefore, they held out the prospect of a higher reward to designers, they would be introducing a measure which would probably lead to litigation and abuse. He would give his most decided opposition to any attempt to extend the copyright of designs, from an impression that it would
502Mr. Williams
503 would make an observation which was, he thought, rendered necessary by what had fallen from the hon. Member for Inverness. It was said, that competition was increasing daily between the manufactures of this country, and those of foreign countries in neutral markets, and that the day was fast approaching when the manufactures of those countries would be offered as cheap as our own; and it was also said that there was more of talent, skill, and taste, brought to bear in the manufacture of foreign goods than our own. What followed? Why, that we must compete with those countries in those higher qualities. He thought the argument of the hon. Member for Inverness was as much in favour of an extension of the term of copyright in designs to twelve months as six. The hon. Gentleman's conclusion did not agree with his argument; and he (Mr. O'Connell) hoped that at a future stage of the bill he would see the propriety of supporting
503Mr. O'Connell
l added, that he wished to put an end to any expectation, if it existed, that the proposed bill was intended to give the new judges jurisdiction in cases where the sum in dispute was above 20lMr. F. Maule
pari passul482 observed, that the other bill for which he had given notice of an intention to move, was connected with that which he had just obtained leave to introduce. For the sake of argument, he would presume that county courts had been established, and being established, he proposed, by a second measure, that the Lord Chancellor should have power to refer to them matters relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, and lunacy. The great question of the bankruptcy and insolvency laws must remain for more skilful and practised hands than his; that subject must be treated in a separate bill, and by those who were both more extended in their views, and more practical in their habits. All he proposed to do on the present occasion was, to empower the Lord Chancellor to remit to county courts matters at present disposed of by country commissioners, of whom it appeared, by a report already laid before the House, that there were 700 in 140 different districts of the kingdom. The duties they
pari passul482Mr. F. Maule
—It is so; such are the provisions of the bill.Mr. Fox Maule
 thought the learned Gentleman who had just sat down had no right to accuse the hon. and gallant Member in this instance, for he was equally responsible for the measure—indeed more so. It became him to watch over a measure which he says was bunglingly gone about, and prevent its passing into a law.Mr. Fox Maule
ll475lll474l473 felt great diffidence in approaching the subject of County Courts, on which he had given notice of a motion to ask for leave to bring in a bill to establish them, when he considered that the question had formerly been undertaken and discussed by such men as Lord Althorp and Lord Brougham; and his diffidence was in no way lessened when he considered the deep importance of the subject, and the humble powers of the individual who had now undertaken to bring the question before the House. He was sure that the House would agree with him when he stated that in the situation in which he was placed—connected with that department of the Government which had the surveillance of the administration of justice throughout the country—that it was impossible for him to shut his eyes to the demand which the public had made for legislation on that subject. Year after year petitions had been presented to the House, and he believed there was scarcely a district in England from which petitions had not been presented to the house for private bills, in order to enable them to establish some better sys-
ll475lll474l473Mr. Fox Maule
 said they would not be allowed to practise. He had now sketched the outline of the measure, the great feature of which was that which went to establish throughout the country local perambulatory courts, to which the poorer creditors would have immediate access. Instead of a court which obliged both them and their witnesses to travel an inconvenient distance to attend, they would now have one near to their own homes, and one that would give them cheap and speedy justice. He hoped that the measure would be the means of giving to the lower classes a confidence in the good intentions of Parliament towards them. He had witnessed the beneficial effects of a similar system in that part of the kingdom with which he was more immediately Connected. Three years since, a measure passed through Parliament, which attracted little notice; but which gave a power to her Majesty to declare in what part of any county in Scotland the sheriff should hold his small debt court. That measure had worked, and was still work-king, greatly to the benefit of the people of Scotland, and he sincerely hoped that this Session would see a similar measure bestowed on the people of England. Thanking the House for the attention with which they had listened to his statements, he begged leave to move for leave to bring in "a bill to improve the practice, and extend the jurisdiction of county courts."Mr. Fox Maule
470469468: The hon. and learned Gentleman who proposed this bill had stated very truly, that at the commencement of the present century there were not less than 300 offences punished capitally; and he was also correct in stating that there was for many years a very strong opposition to any amelioration of that punishment. Every proposition for mitigating the extreme severity of the law was opposed by all the strength of the Government in the House of Commons, and so pertinacious was that opposition,
470469468Lord J. Russell
 replied, that the communication quoted by the hon. Member had been made by order of the Lieutenant Governor, who stated that he approved of the act done. The Lieutenant Governor then reported the circumstances to her Majesty's Government, who received a counter-statement from the American government. As to whether her Majesty's Government approved of the act, his noble Friend had already answered that question.Lord John Russell
 observed that the case of Mr. Sheriff Salomons was not solitary, for in the town of Sunderland, which he represented, a gentleman of the Jewish persuasion, a most influential shipowner and merchant in the town, had been elected a member of the town council, and was prevented taking his seat because he could not conscientiously take the oath that was tendered to him. He also felt that the continuance of these religious restrictions on the Jews was a stumbling block in the way of their conversion to Christianity.Mr. A. White
 contended that the state was not justified in interfering with a man's religious opinions, as a ground of exclusion from a civil office. The only ground of justification for interfering with a man's civil rights was his violation of some law. He was satisfied that the result of the future discussion of this and other bills of the kind would be the extension of the opinion he had just expressed.Mr. Hawes
 observed, that the bill now moved for, would be a most important measure, as regarded the commercial community. Nothing was more notorious than the defective administration of the bankrupt laws in the country, and he said so without intending the slightest disrespect to the 700 commissioners mentioned by the hon. Gentleman. In London the change of system, and the working of it, had given universal satisfaction, and the extension of it to the country, would be a great advantage. In proof of this statement, he would mention, that a memorial from many most respectable and wealthy mercantile establishments in various parts of the kingdom had been presented to the Lord Chancellor, earnestly soliciting such a change.Mr. Hawes
478 was glad that the bill had been brought forward. He hailed the measure as a bold effort on the part of her Majesty's Ministers to endeavour to lessen the costs of the law, and facilitate the administration of justice. Numbers of small debt bills had been formerly passed, almost every year, through the House, each rendering the law more perplexed by introducing new principles. At present there were innumerable small courts, with various degrees of jurisdiction, the patronage of which was placed in the hands of private individuals. He thought such a system extremely injurious to the due administration of justice; and he hoped the rights of patrons would not prevent the passing of the measure then before them. The hon. and gallant Officer had given no reason for his opinion, that the giving to these judges criminal and civil jurisdiction would act injuriously. If in the metropolitan districts they had competent judges under the Police Act, why should they not have additional duties imposed upon them, if they had time to discharge such duties? He saw nothing injurious in such a plan, and he thought the public, having gone to a very great expense in the establishment of those courts, were entitled to have them made as beneficial to the people as possible. The vesting the appointment of judges of these courts in the Lord Chancellor or the Lord Chief Justice, would remove all objections that could be made an the score of political patronage. That was a subject which had been much discussed in the committee, and he understood the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Pembroke, to say that he had no objection to give the patronage of those courts to the Lord Chancellor, or the Lord Chief Justice, but that he would prefer the Lord Chief Justice. He also understood the right hon. Gentlemen as having given up the rights of the existing patrons. Now, if a great and useful measure of this nature were opposed by the other House, merely for the sake of preserving private patronage, it would give great support to the opinion that that House existed more for private purposes than for public benefit.
478Mr. Hawes
 observed that the hon. Member for Middlesex, (Captain Wood) had admitted, that this was a measure that would do a great deal of good; that there was a defect in the administration of the civil justice of the country, that it was dilatory and expensive, and that the present measure would make it cheap and speedy. But the hon. Member was afraid it might encroach on the criminal jurisdiction of the present magistracy, if that were the case he should consider it an additional benefit. He believed that many of the magistrates were anxious to be relieved from their present duties, and would gladly see them performed by competent officers acting in public and having in a bar and all the officers of a court the surest guarantees for proper decisions. Far therefore from looking on the objections made by the hon. Member for Middlesex, as reasons why he should not support the bill, there were on the contrary reasons why he should vote for it in all its stages.Mr. C. Villiers
505 said, that he had been induced to call the attention of the House to the subject which he was about to introduce to their notice, in consequence of a petition which he presented a few days ago from a gentleman of the Jewish persuasion of the name of Salo-
505Mr. Divett
466465464463, in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill for the abolition of the punishment of death, except in certain cases, observed, that from the ample discussion which a similar bill of his had undergone last Session, there was little
466465464463Mr. F. Kelly
 conceived that the most desirable object to follow, for the sake of Ireland was, the promotion of its agriculture, for which she was eminently adapted, in consequence of the great field open for exertion and enterprise in the waste lands and bogs of that country, and the abundant supply of labour at a cheap rate. After the agitation that had been got up on the subject of the exclusive consumption of articles of Irish fabric and manufacture, it was not very probable that anything attempted by its Government to increase the commerce of Ireland could be Very effective.Mr. Shaw
"I gave up in 1826 going the circuit, and never, either before or since, have belonged to any political society of any description, or worn any badge, whether Orange or not, either on the circuit or elsewhere. The charge, therefore, is not only unfounded in fact, but is contrary to all my habits."460 begged, the indulgence of the House while he referred to a matter that was personal to a gentleman of high respectability, holding an important judicial office in Ireland: he meant Mr. Blacker. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin, when speak-
"I gave up in 1826 going the circuit, and never, either before or since, have belonged to any political society of any description, or worn any badge, whether Orange or not, either on the circuit or elsewhere. The charge, therefore, is not only unfounded in fact, but is contrary to all my habits."460Mr. Shaw
 thought it necessary the House should be apprised that it was likely, if the bill passed, they would be called upon to advance money belonging to the public for the purpose of carrying it into effect. If the noble Lord contemplated that by the present bill there would be such a call made on the public, as would occasion an increase in our unfunded debt, he must protest against any such improvident project, more particularly in our present embarrassed financial situation.Mr. Goulburn
480 contended that this bill, if altered as recommended on the other side, would be an attempt to introduce the narrow end of the wedge, so as in time to take the whole administration of justice, especially in the country, out of the hands of magistrates, by whom it was at present satisfactorily administered. If criminal justice, as well as civil, were put into the hands of stipendiary magistrates, it would strike at the root of the welfare and prosperity of the nation. Nations did not depend for their prosperity so much on the habits and usages of the country as upon the laws; and what had made England superior to other countries was the mixing and blending together of the different classes of society, thus promoting that good understanding which was necessary to the prosperity and happiness of every community. He consi-
480Mr. G. Knight
498497 said, that as he was aware that there would be other occasions of discussing this question, he only troubled
498497Mr. Labouchere
 would not discuss this matter with the hon. Gentleman now, but the hon. Gentleman must admit, that it was by a bare majority the report was agreed to. Under these circumstances he confessed that he remained in the same opinion as that which he had entertained last year. He admitted, that he thought that a case of great hardship had been made out on the part of those who, having gone to the expense of procuring designs to be made, afterwards found that other persons had profited by their labour and exertions; and he wished that he could redress their grievances, but he felt that he could not do so without inflicting greater injury on others—without producing litigation in this country, and difficulties and inconvenience to our foreign trade. He could not agree with the hon. Member opposite, that the fears which had been expressed on the subject were quite so visionary as he described. He should be ready to give the measure, when it was introduced, his best consideration; but he would wait to see in what manner the hon. Member proposed to apply his principles before he expressed any decided opinion upon it, because he felt that on a question of such magnitude and importance, one false step might produce the most serious consequences. He had stated last year that he thought the best way would be to extend the copyright on the system of registration to six months, and he still thought that that might be the best course to adopt; but at present he held himself undetermined as to the decision to which he should come. He hoped that when the hon. Member brought in his bill he would give it time to be fairly and duly considered, not only as to its principle, but as to the mode in which that principle was to be carried into effect.Mr. Labouchere
 was rather surprised at the argument of his hon. Friend, as to the independent nationality of the Jews. Did his hon. Friend forget that the Jews at present possessed many privileges which they held as natives of this country. The law enabled them to purchase and inherit real estates, and they now enjoyed the privileges and incurred the risks in common with other possessors of property. According to the law, an alien could not hold real property; his honourable and orthodox Friend, therefore, to be consistent, should propose a motion for leave to bring in a bill to deprive the Jews of all the landed estates they possessed, on the ground that they were foreigners. A great outcry had been raised against Mehemet Ali, for the persecution of the Jews in Syria, but would any one deny that a similar spirit was then manifested in that House. He contended that the cases were similar, for what, then, was it but persecution to exclude an honest and conscientious man from an office which he was otherwise eligible to fill, by calling upon him to take a religious test?Mr. Warburton
 thought his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, went too far. He thought, with regard to the copyright, both in literary works and mechanical inventions, no one could say that no remuneration ought to be afforded to the inventors. The great object to be kept in view was to reconcile the interests of the inventors with those of the public, to give some short period of copyright, just sufficient to act as a stimulus to the inventor, and having done so, to secure the reversion to the public. That was the proper principle to found a bill as regarded literary copyright, and the copyright of designs. If, as the hon. Member for Inverness stated, the foreigners were so rapidly overtaking us, that in two or three years, they would be able to manufacture as cheaply as ourselves, they ought not to extend the copyright an inch beyond the time absolutely necessary, as the designs might otherwise be carried to foreign countries, where fac similes would be produced at a cheaper rate than the original was, inasmuch as they would not have to pay the original designer. He thought the term proposed by the bill would be a hazardous term for the export trade of this country if it were carried into effect.Mr. Warburton
—Oh, very well; then I have nothing more to say.Mr. Warburton
 hoped the provisions of that bill would provide for the proceedings and practice of the court. He should wish to see the same proceedings adopted in these courts, as were adopted before the commissioners of bankrupts, where both litigant parties were brought before the judge and examined.Mr. Warburton
501500, conceived that it was of the greatest importance that in this country the most liberal attention should be given to the improvement in the arts of design, in reference to our manufactures. There was a wide difference between the position of England in this respect and France, and the vast superiority which France had over us was most strikingly manifested by the magnitude and success of their silk trade. The very heavy amount of duty which they were enabled to pay, and yet sell their goods to advantage in our market, afforded a convincing proof of their superiority over us. They purchased the material at the same market with us, their labour was not less expensive than ours, and yet, by reason of the great superiority of the articles which they manufactured, they were enabled to obtain a price remunerating them for all their necessary outlay. He had adverted to the silk trade, because it was the most remarkable, for their cotton trade was by no means so suc-
501500Mr. Morrison
 wished to explain—The first motion for a report was met by a motion that there should be no report, and carried, he must admit, by his casting voice. The next question was, as to whether the report should be in favour of, or against the extension of the copyright, when six Members voted in favour of the extension and three against it.Mr. E. Tennent
"per fide et mensongère."494493"We have taken opinion of counsel on one case, who concur that our goods, being printed in the first instance, are entitled to three months' protection from the date of publication. But observe, our date of publication is the day of giving out to the worker to be sewed; and as the sewing and otherwise preparing for market, by bleaching, &c, varies from six weeks to three months, it is evident that even if we succeed in establishing our claim to protection it is a very inadequate one.""In the district of the north of Ireland, where this system of wholesale piracy is carried on, almost every Scotch manufacturer withdrew his work for a time, at least during the last year, and pushed the bonnet elsewhere. The consequence of this was a great reduction in prices, and distress amongst the workers; and thus, for the want of a proper protection for design, a branch of business affording employment to thousands of the industrious females of Ireland suffers very materially. And we may be allowed to say that there is no branch of the national industry that is more deserving of the protection of the Legislature than this of hand-sewing or embroidery, for, although in amount it may be insignificant as compared with others, it is to be considered that the employment is given to the females in their own houses; there is no congregating together of the people in masses, as in the towns and districts which are the seats of the cotton manufacture. Its benefits are known to every one acquainted with the condition of the people in the north of Ireland and Scotland.492491490489488"Are you a calico printer?" answered, "No I am a merchant of the firm of Nicholls, Lucas, and Co., New Wood-street Mews, extensive dealers in printed calicoes for foreign export." "Are you in the habit of having goods printed expressly for yourselves from your own designs?—Yes, frequently from what is exhibited to us; but this is the nature of our business. We are in the habit of receiving from abroad, almost constantly as the different packets arrive, patterns of prints suitable to those markets. We have a branch house at Manchester and they are sent to it, and we endeavour to find such calico printers as will produce them at the cheapest rate." "Irrespective of who may be the proprietor or inventor of the pattern?—We ask no questions upon that subject; we say this is a pattern received from abroad, and we want so many hundreds or so many thousands of them." "And you pay no regard to the fact whether these patterns be under an existing copyright, or under an expired one, or whose property they may be, provided you can have them executed at such a price as may suit the market?—That consideration has never entered into our heads—we never ask the question." "Price alone is the object with you?—Price alone is the question." "Do you purchase extensively of printed goods?—We do: in the last six months our shipments must have been at least 60,000 pieces." "Are you aware there is a law giving a copyright of three months on printed goods?—I have heard so."487486485484 said, he was about to recal the attention of the House to a subject which had been under its consideration last Session, and on which a committee above stairs, after a long and laborious investigation, had made a report in favour of the principle which it was now his object to incorporate in a bill. It would divest the question of much abstract matter and theoretical argument for him at once to state, that he sought to introduce no new principle of legislation, to found no new law, but simply to give force and efficiency to one already in existence, but which the lapse of time and other circumstances had rendered inoperative for the achievement of the object which it proposed. The question for which he had to entreat their consideration was, not whether there should be copyright at all, for that had been decided in the affirmative by the passing of a law by which it was established fifty years ago, but whether the House would render that law effectual by making that extension of the term which the altered circumstances of the trade had rendered indispensable for its prosperity. Early last Session he introduced a bill for this purpose, in which he proposed to extend the copyright of designs from three months to twelve. The question was felt to be one of much manufacturing and commercial detail, with which the majority of Members were not very familiar; and, under the circumstances of the imperfect information which the House possessed upon the subject, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade was reluctant to consent to an extension beyond half that period. But as he felt confident that the term he proposed was the very shortest which it was possible to adopt with any hope of effecting the desired object, and felt conscious at the same time that a thorough scrutiny of the subject could not but lead others to the same conclusion, he at once adopted a suggestion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth, and consented to refer the inquiry to a select committee, which was accordingly done; and the committee at the close of their labours made a report to the House of the minutes of evidence they had taken, coupled with a recommendation that the term of the present protection should be extended. He had, therefore, not only the principle of a copyright established by
"per fide et mensongère."494493"We have taken opinion of counsel on one case, who concur that our goods, being printed in the first instance, are entitled to three months' protection from the date of publication. But observe, our date of publication is the day of giving out to the worker to be sewed; and as the sewing and otherwise preparing for market, by bleaching, &c, varies from six weeks to three months, it is evident that even if we succeed in establishing our claim to protection it is a very inadequate one.""In the district of the north of Ireland, where this system of wholesale piracy is carried on, almost every Scotch manufacturer withdrew his work for a time, at least during the last year, and pushed the bonnet elsewhere. The consequence of this was a great reduction in prices, and distress amongst the workers; and thus, for the want of a proper protection for design, a branch of business affording employment to thousands of the industrious females of Ireland suffers very materially. And we may be allowed to say that there is no branch of the national industry that is more deserving of the protection of the Legislature than this of hand-sewing or embroidery, for, although in amount it may be insignificant as compared with others, it is to be considered that the employment is given to the females in their own houses; there is no congregating together of the people in masses, as in the towns and districts which are the seats of the cotton manufacture. Its benefits are known to every one acquainted with the condition of the people in the north of Ireland and Scotland.492491490489488"Are you a calico printer?" answered, "No I am a merchant of the firm of Nicholls, Lucas, and Co., New Wood-street Mews, extensive dealers in printed calicoes for foreign export." "Are you in the habit of having goods printed expressly for yourselves from your own designs?—Yes, frequently from what is exhibited to us; but this is the nature of our business. We are in the habit of receiving from abroad, almost constantly as the different packets arrive, patterns of prints suitable to those markets. We have a branch house at Manchester and they are sent to it, and we endeavour to find such calico printers as will produce them at the cheapest rate." "Irrespective of who may be the proprietor or inventor of the pattern?—We ask no questions upon that subject; we say this is a pattern received from abroad, and we want so many hundreds or so many thousands of them." "And you pay no regard to the fact whether these patterns be under an existing copyright, or under an expired one, or whose property they may be, provided you can have them executed at such a price as may suit the market?—That consideration has never entered into our heads—we never ask the question." "Price alone is the object with you?—Price alone is the question." "Do you purchase extensively of printed goods?—We do: in the last six months our shipments must have been at least 60,000 pieces." "Are you aware there is a law giving a copyright of three months on printed goods?—I have heard so."487486485484Mr. Emerson Tennent
504 thought, the House ought to pause before coming to a decision, when they considered the conflicting nature of the testimony given before the committee, and that the report in favour of copyright had only been carried by a majority of one. There was something like justice in asking, as the learned Sergeant had done, for a copyright for authors; but who would stand up and ask for a copyright for booksellers? Yet that was what was sought to be obtained by the present bill. These designs were not the inventions of the master printers themselves—they were purchased by them for a few shillings—and this bill was to enable them to make rapid fortunes by taking advantage of the inventions of others. He agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that there was no necessity for any copyright at all. It took two months
504Mr. Brotherton
 thought, that his hon. and learned Friend, who had just sat down, was going a great deal too far. Was he certain that the granting protection ensured excellence? How was it that other countries excelled without protection being afforded them? The manufacturers of chintz in Switzerland had never been excelled, and there they had no protection. He mentioned that country because there they had no custom-houses, and the Swiss manufacturer laboured under the disadvantage of having to bring the raw materials a long way by land to his manufactory. He thought instead of extending the time they ought rather to consider whether the three months at present allowed was not too much, whether they ought not to do away with all protection. The whole doctrine of protection was a fallacy. The witnesses who had been examined said, that three months was no protection, and if so, there could be no harm in doing away with it. He thought, the Government should correct the errors of the old times, and do away with what is falsely called protection altogether. The true way to excel was to pay attention to those arts by which our manufactures might be made superior—we were superior in weaving, why should we not be in all other arts? He, for one, thought, that all protection should be withdrawn.Mr. Hume
 then asked whether her Majesty's Ministers had ever signified that opinion to the Government of the United States in any way?Mr. Hume
477 could not conceive how the adoption of the measure could lead to the danger that criminal and civil jurisdiction would be confounded by its provisions. He completely coincided in the views expressed by his hon. Friend, the Member for Wigan, and his only regret on that occasion was that the bill did not go fur-
477Mr. Hume
 was of the same opinion. He thought it was the duty of the learned Gentleman opposite to have interfered; but though he knew better, he would not come to the relief of the hon. and gallant Member. The House was much obliged to the hon. and gallant Member, he had done something, but the learned Gentleman opposite had done nothing.Mr. Hume
459 wished to put a question to the noble Lord. He held in his hand a paper purporting to be a general order issued and signed by Colonel M'Nab, the
459Mr. Hume
 stated, that he had received a letter from Mr. Blacker to the same effect.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, at the head of the Board of Control, whether any despatches had ben received with respect to the state of slavery in India, and whether he would consent to lay such despatches upon the Table of the House.Sir S. Lushington
 wished to know whether the Government had adopted the acts of Captain Drew, who had acted under the orders of Sir Francis Head, as their own. He thought the House ought to know whether they had given or withheld their approbation of that act.Mr. T. Duncombe
 would not detain the House from the business before it, but having applied himself for some time to the consideration of a subject nearly akin to this, and being of opinion, that there was some analogy between inventions in machinery and the fine arts and literary productions in respect to copyright, he could not allow this discussion to pass without expressing his entire sympathy with the hon. Member for Belfast in the object he had in view, and tendering him his humble support. He quite agreed in the principle that there was a property in works of art, and that it was necessary to give some incitement to the exertions of genius and skill in the way of a right of property in the production, whatever it might be, be the term longer or shorter. With respect to his own bill (the Copyright Bill), he thought he had been defeated merely by an accident, and not by any argument that had been brought forward against him. He had no doubt that the result would be different when he brought forward the measure next Session. While he remained a Member of that House, he was determined not to lose sight of that which he considered to be no more than justice to literary men, viz., to give them a right of property in their own productions.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
507 said, that it appeared to him that the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, was the best justification which could have been pronounced, for the course which had been pursued by his hon. Friend, the Member for Oxford University, (Sir R. Inglis). He understood his hon. Friend to say, in effect, that this motion was not to be considered so much in respect to its intrinsic value, as to what it might hereafter lead to. This was an important question, because upon it rested the point whether the Jews should or should not sit in Parliament. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Divett) must see that he was under some obligation to his hon. Friend for not dividing the House (there not being forty Members present); but he thought it would be unfair to do so, because it would
507Mr. W. E. Gladstone
quantum valeat hoped he might be allowed to express an opinion on this subject, having been solicited by individuals in that part of Lancashire to which he belonged, to introduce a similar measure. These courts existed, and were found very beneficial in Scotland and Ireland, and he hoped they would soon be established in England. He, however, thought it would be better not to prevent the judges practising as barristers. There was one innovation in the bill worthy of all praise,—namely, that the evidence of witnesses was not to be limited by technical rules. Let a witness be sifted as much as possible, but let his evidence be taken quantum valeatMr. Ewart
467 begged to second the motion of the hon. and learned Member, because he had been particularly requested to do so by some parties highly desirous to see the proposed modification of the criminal law carried into effect. The experience of every day which had elapsed since the principle of adopting a milder system of punishment had been mooted and acknowledged, confirmed his own conviction that it was not only safe but expedient to dispense in future with the punishment of death. When the measure, for the introduction of which the hon. and learned Member had asked leave of the House, was a little more matured, he would submit, for the consideration of those hon. Members who took an interest in this subject, a series of calculations which had been furnished to him by the obliging communication of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, showing that crime had rapidly diminished in those states where the punishment of death was now unknown. He would also show, from
467Mr. Ewart
472l asked for leave to introduce a bill to amend the Tithe Recovery Act, 5 and 6 Will. 4th. He said that the House was no doubt aware that it was provided, by the 7 and 8 Will. 3rd., that all suits for tithes under the amount of 10472lCaptain Pechell
496495 said, that when this subject was brought under the attention of the House, in the course of the last Session, he had felt that it would not become him to oppose the institution of the inquiry
496495Mr. Mark Philips
 replied, that since the papers received in July, 1838, were laid upon the Table of the House, a correspondence had been carried on between the home Government and the Government in India, and he would have no objection whatever to lay the correspondence before the House.Sir John Hobhouse
 said, he had known Mr. Blacker for many years, and he felt authorized by that long acquaintance to state that the insinuation of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was perfectly unfounded.Sir R. Bateson
506 did not object to the motion on any personal ground to the gentleman who had been alluded to, nor in consequence of the magnitude of the demand made; but he did so on the ground that, by their constantly giving these little concessions, they were gradually leading to great and serious changes. He was sorry to say that this system had long been pursued in that House, and which, if continued, he feared would ultimately lead to the greatest evils. He thought, also, in the present case, that the motion ought rather to have been for leave to bring in a bill to enable David Salomons, Esq., to make such a declaration as would enable him to serve the office of alderman of the city of London. He denied that his was a question of religious toleration,
506Sir R. Inglis
461 rose pursuant to notice to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws relating to the drainage of lands in Ireland. It was proposed by this bill, which corresponded in its objects and almost in all its clauses with the bill of the last Session, to promote the welfare of Ireland, more particularly in respect to its agriculture. The projected sites for draining, were, upon careful survey, to be determined on by the proper authorities for conducting such inquiries. The duty of conducting them to completion would devolve, of course, upon the board of works in Ireland, which would be at liberty to recommend that persons willing to undertake the drainage of certain districts should be allowed advances of money, to carry these partial drainages into execution, upon approved security. He thought that with modesty he might say, though the author of the bill, that it was a measure which, if carried into effect, promised to effect quietly and without exciting either hostility or apprehension, more good for Ireland and more permanent relief for her population in the way of affording a stimulus to industry and
461Viscount Morpeth
 said, it was not in his contemplation to make any call upon the public for a grant of public money, but he saw no reason why persons or companies engaging in these undertakings, pursuant to the plan of the Irish Government, should not be permitted, like any other class of enterprising persons, to obtain loans of money upon good security.Viscount Morpeth
: That opinion has been submitted both to the Minister of the United States here, and, I believe, by Mr. Fox to the American government.Viscount Palmerston
: If the hon. Gentleman means to ask whether this Government do or do not consider the capture of the Caroline to have been a justifiable proceeding, I answer that her Majesty's Government do consider it, under the circumstances, to have been a proceeding perfectly justifiable by the consideration of the necessity of defending her Majesty's territory.Viscount Palmerston
 said, that the instructions to Mr. Fox were precisely to the same effect as those which were stated as having been given in the former case. It was not till Saturday last that the government had received from Mr. Fox the report of his last correspondence with the government of the United States, and he repeated that to-day was the first on which instructions could be sent to Mr. Fox.Viscount Palmerston
458: With respect to
458Viscount Palmerston
 replied, that when he stated yesterday, that he could have no reasonable ground of objection to the production of papers which had already been laid before Congress, and published, he did not intimate any intention, on the part of Government, to lay those papers on the Table of the House of its own accord. He thought the noble Lord, for the reasons he himself bad stated, had exercised a sound discretion in not press-sing for the production of those papers.Viscount Palmerston
 replied, that of course it would not be laid upon the Table until it had been ratified.Viscount Palmerston
 asked whether the expedition would not arrive on the coast at the most unhealthy season of the year, if sent out at the time fixed for its departure?Lord Ingestrie
 wished to ask a question of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, on the subject of the Expedition to the Niger. He understood, that the steamer had been delayed much beyond its time, and the consequence was, that the expedition, if now sent out, would arrive out at the most unhealthy season of the year. He wished to know, whether the Government intended that it should now proceed?Lord Ingestrie
521ll520lll519ds.llllllll"So soon as the war was ended, without inquiring into the misery likely to be caused to one part of the empire by so sudden and entire a change of measures, the Government reduced the duties on barilla and sulphur, and entirely removed the duties on salt. By these measures barilla and British alkali came at once into competition with kelp, and soon reduced the prices from 14ds.llllllll518ll517516515 said, it was with no ordinary feelings of embarrassment that he rose upon the present occasion to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, for a select committee to inquire into the condition of the population of the western highlands of Scotland, with a view to affording the people relief by means of emigration. He felt deeply the responsibility which must devolve upon any one who came forward as the advocate of a large body of his fellow-countrymen, whose future prospects of happiness or misery might in some measure depend upon the manner in. which their case was
521ll520lll519ds.llllllll"So soon as the war was ended, without inquiring into the misery likely to be caused to one part of the empire by so sudden and entire a change of measures, the Government reduced the duties on barilla and sulphur, and entirely removed the duties on salt. By these measures barilla and British alkali came at once into competition with kelp, and soon reduced the prices from 14ds.llllllll518ll517516515Mr. H. Baillie
532"Although it cannot be expected that any national survey should entirely supersede the necessity of all future local surveys, yet it ought to be sufficient for preliminary proceedings in the case of public works, such as railroads, canals, &c, and to enable the Government and the Legislature to form an opinion of them. The inadequacy of the present maps for these and other purposes of public improvement, is shewn by the numerous applications to this department from engineers and others engaged in such undertakings for copies of the original drawings of the Ordnance survey, and by the costly parochial surveys, which have recently been made for the settlement of tithes."531"(Signed) E. CHADWICK.""Yours, &c."From the frequency of applications to see the surveys made for rating, in order that they might be used for other general purposes, I should judge that the want of some settled plan of survey to answer for all public purposes is increasing."Having had some occasion to examine the subject of the public information in respect to the size of parishes, I directed a comparison to be made of the statements of the acreage, as given in the census, with the results of the measurements made under the tithe surveys. The enclosed will afford fair specimens of the ordinary results shewing the only information as yet possessed to be valueless, where accuracy is required. I should observe, that the acreage, as given under the tithe survey, does not invariably include the whole of the acreage of the parish."It is scarcely to be doubted that the machinery of a general survey may be made the means of obtaining the particular objects much better, at no greater, and perhaps at a reduced expense to the parties. The defects of the surveys already obtained, and the undue charges made for them, have been a great source of trouble in this office."It may be stated, that the surveys taken for the tithe commission have only regarded the titheable property; that the surveys taken for the poors rates have only noticed rateable property, or rateable objects, leaving generally unnoticed and undescribed, all the permanent objects of a national character, and boundaries that should be included in a general survey; that for these particular objects, of which I can speak more particularly as to the surveys for the poors rates, the surveys made have been generally very defective in point of skill, and obtained at a disproportionate expense."Dear Sir, February 11, 1841."Acts of Parliament for railroads have, in many cases, been sought (often fruitlessly) at an almost ruinous expense, where, from the want of an independent survey, the Legislature had little means of judging of their merits, except by the opposing representations of interested parties; a mode which renders the excessive waste of time and money inevitable.""In the establishment and improvement of great lines of communication through the country, such a survey is essentially requisite. It affords data for determining the best lines for roads, railroads, and canals, and enables the Legislature to judge of the merits of rival projects.Extract of Report from Lieutenant Dawson, Royal Engineers, to the Tithe Commissioners, dated September 8, 1836.530 rose to ask for leave to bring in a bill to enable the Board of Ordnance to complete the remaining portion of the ordnance survey of England and Scotland, on a similar scale to that in which the survey of Ireland was being executed. So long ago as the year 1791 the Board of Ordnance commenced the survey of this country, and the maps which had hitherto been prepared, engraved on a scale of one inch to the mile, and maps of all the counties of England, had been prepared, with the exception of the six northern counties. The Ordnance survey of Ireland was undertaken in 1825, in order to enable the Tithe Act, and the Grand Jury Cess Acts to be carried into effect, and the maps were directed to be prepared on a scale of six inches to the mile. The greatest advantage had resulted from laying down the maps on this extended scale, and it had long been a matter of regret that the maps of England had not been prepared on a similar scale. Indeed, the greatest inconvenience had been experienced in carrying some of the recent acts of the Legislature into effect, in consequence of this not having been done, and he might mention amongst others the Tithe Commutation Act and the Poor-law Amendment Act. Repeated representations had been made on the subject by several of the public departments, and they had called upon the Board of Ordnance to increase the remaining portion of the survey of England to the same scale as that of the Irish survey. He had been particularly pressed on the subject lately, and assured that by doing so a considerable expenditure would be saved. Not that such a survey could supply the place of those minute valuations of property which were necessary to carry some acts, such as the Tithe Commutation Act into effect, but it would facilitate even those surveys. He would not fatigue the House by referring to the various communications which had been read to the Ordnance department on this subject, but would merely read two letters which had been received. The first was from Mr. Dawson, of the Royal Engineers, who was engaged by the tithe commissioners in making surveys; and the other was from Mr. Chad-wick, the secretary of the poor-law commission. The right hon. and gallant officer read the following communications:
532"Although it cannot be expected that any national survey should entirely supersede the necessity of all future local surveys, yet it ought to be sufficient for preliminary proceedings in the case of public works, such as railroads, canals, &c, and to enable the Government and the Legislature to form an opinion of them. The inadequacy of the present maps for these and other purposes of public improvement, is shewn by the numerous applications to this department from engineers and others engaged in such undertakings for copies of the original drawings of the Ordnance survey, and by the costly parochial surveys, which have recently been made for the settlement of tithes."531"(Signed) E. CHADWICK.""Yours, &c."From the frequency of applications to see the surveys made for rating, in order that they might be used for other general purposes, I should judge that the want of some settled plan of survey to answer for all public purposes is increasing."Having had some occasion to examine the subject of the public information in respect to the size of parishes, I directed a comparison to be made of the statements of the acreage, as given in the census, with the results of the measurements made under the tithe surveys. The enclosed will afford fair specimens of the ordinary results shewing the only information as yet possessed to be valueless, where accuracy is required. I should observe, that the acreage, as given under the tithe survey, does not invariably include the whole of the acreage of the parish."It is scarcely to be doubted that the machinery of a general survey may be made the means of obtaining the particular objects much better, at no greater, and perhaps at a reduced expense to the parties. The defects of the surveys already obtained, and the undue charges made for them, have been a great source of trouble in this office."It may be stated, that the surveys taken for the tithe commission have only regarded the titheable property; that the surveys taken for the poors rates have only noticed rateable property, or rateable objects, leaving generally unnoticed and undescribed, all the permanent objects of a national character, and boundaries that should be included in a general survey; that for these particular objects, of which I can speak more particularly as to the surveys for the poors rates, the surveys made have been generally very defective in point of skill, and obtained at a disproportionate expense."Dear Sir, February 11, 1841."Acts of Parliament for railroads have, in many cases, been sought (often fruitlessly) at an almost ruinous expense, where, from the want of an independent survey, the Legislature had little means of judging of their merits, except by the opposing representations of interested parties; a mode which renders the excessive waste of time and money inevitable.""In the establishment and improvement of great lines of communication through the country, such a survey is essentially requisite. It affords data for determining the best lines for roads, railroads, and canals, and enables the Legislature to judge of the merits of rival projects.Extract of Report from Lieutenant Dawson, Royal Engineers, to the Tithe Commissioners, dated September 8, 1836.530Sir Hussey Vivian
 believed that the survey of all the northern counties would be completed within four years.Sir Hussey Vivian
ll reminded the right hon. Gentleman, that in the act of 1838 the sum of 240.000llMr. Pigott
523l522: I should be very sorry to have it supposed that in not making any objection to the appointment of this committee, I was implying assent to the statements and arguments of the hon.
523l522Lord J. Russell
 said, that the instructions were laid on the Table of the House last year. He was not prepared to lay any other instructions before the House on the subject.Lord J. Russell
 said, that the steamer was delayed, because it was ascertained, that the waters of the Niger were not sufficiently deep to admit that vessel, till later in the year.Lord J. Russell
 said, that the climate on the coast might be unhealthy, but it would not be found so as the expedition advanced up the river.Lord J. Russell
 seconded the motion, and thought that the present was a case where a deviation might be made from the course which the present financial state of the country might seem to require. The effect of the proposed measure would be to benefit both the landowners and the poorer classes, for it would render the land more valuable, better the condition of the remaining inhabitants, and add to the wealth of the country. Canada, too, was a more suitable location for these poor people than for the handloom weavers, who were not physically qualified to contend with the climate and the soil. The Highlanders were also better adapted for emigration than the Irish, being more sober and industrious, and they would form a population calculated to prove a strong defence for the frontier in case of necessity.Lord Teignmouth
536l explained that he had never meant to put the claim of the Irish clergy to the 100,000536lMr. Shaw
533 felt convinced that the greatest benefit would result from having maps
533Mr. Shaw
llds535lllll said, that he would take that opportunity of shortly alluding to what was considered a ground of strong complaint on the part of the Irish clergy with respect to the tithe. The Irish clergy had been exposed to very unnecessary delay and loss, in consequence of the mode in which the Tithe Act had been carried into effect. When the bill passed in 1838, the clergy had one-fourth of their income taken from them. This he admitted was a question of amount; for he admitted that they gained an advantage in having the payment of tithes transferred from the tenant to the landlord; he, therefore, did not complain on this account. He had, however, all along contended that the 100,000llds535lllllMr. Shaw
 seconded the motion. He felt the greatest satisfaction at the proposition of his right hon. and gallant Friend, and he felt that any expenditure that would be incurred would amply repay itself in the advantages which would result from having the Ordnance maps on an enlarged scale. He did not believe, that any one in that House would object to the bill on the ground that the adoption of the plan would cost a little money. Another advantage might arise from having the maps engraved on an enlarged scale, in consequence of a discovery which had been made within the last twelvemonth — he alluded to the electrotype. Copies of the plates might be multiplied at any stage of the etching, by means of the electrotype. Thus, after the early outline had been made in the copper, copies might be taken, and these might afterwards be employed for a variety of purposes. For instance, some for railroads or canals, others for tithe commutation, &c, and thus a variety of maps might be obtained for different purposes, and this could not have been the case until the present year. With this scale of six inches to the mile, he felt assured that they might have a great variety of maps for the most useful purposes. He would suggest to his right hon. Friend the propriety of making provision, that when the survey of the north of England and Scotland, was completed, they should go over the rest of England, and prepare maps on this enlarged scale.Mr. Warburton
 expressed his regret that the noble Lord had consented to a Committee, as in the first place it was calculated to excite false hopes; and in the next place, if there were to be an inquiry, it would be better conducted by a commission upon the spot.Mr. Warburton
526l said, that however both sides of the House concurred on many occasions in acknowledging and regretting the distress of particular classes, the House had never thought fit to take the steps that were now required of them. It appeared to him that the report of the commissioners in Upper Canada afforded much better information regarding the state of the few emigrants who remained there, than any that could be obtained by a Committee. If an inquiry were to take place at all, he thought a commission on the spot would be the only means of obtaining a fair and correct statement of the condition of the sufferers. But the hon. Gentleman need not have gone so far to look for distress. At Bolton, during the late distress, it was stated that 7,000 persons were obliged to leave their homes, and 1,480 houses were deserted. These poor people were now wandering and scattered abroad. At Nottingham, and fat Birmingham also, there was great distress, but in none of these cases was the House called upon to interfere in the manner now required. He objected to an inquiry in this particular instance, in preference to others, for this reason, two years ago this distress existed, and an officer was sent down from Deptford Dockyard with bread, beef, and other public stores to distribute. A large subscription was also raised, amounting to 70,000526lMr. Hume
 thought that it would be better to refer the subject to the standing order committee.Mr. Hume
 thought that it was probable that the right hon. Gentleman alluded to him, when he stated that some Members might object to his proposition on the ground of the expense that it would lead to. If this was the case, the right hon. Gentleman was completeiy mistaken, for he cordially concurred in the motion, as he was satisfied that it was for a most useful object. He would take that opportunity of thanking the right hon. Gentleman for having adopted a suggestion which he had made, of reducing the price of the Ordnance maps. He felt, that when a survey was made at the public expense, that the public were entitled to the maps at the cheapest rate at which they could be prepared When the electrotype came to be applied in the various ways suggested by his hon Friend, and the plates from which the maps were engraved were multiplied at various stages, he had no doubt but that the present price of the maps could be reduced to one-third of what they then were.Mr. Hume
534 regretted that his right hon. Friend had not stated, what was the ob-
534Mr. Hume
 wished to ask whether the noble Lord would have any objection to lay before the House a copy of the instructions given to those who had charge of the expedition? The public, in fact, did not know what were the objects of this expedition.Mr. Hume
 wished to know when it was likely the survey of Lancashire would be completed.Mr. Greene
 did not think, that the matter came within the scope of that committee; if it was thought necessary to refer the resolution at all, it should be laid before the general election committee.Mr. Greene
 altogether denied and repudiated the statements respecting the removal of Canadian emigrants to the United States. Of 25,000 who emigrated last year, if a few went over at least an equal number returned to Canada. Should a committee be granted, and that committee recommend to Parliament a grant of public money for this purpose, he should cheerfully contribute hs vote in support of that proposition. All he regretted was that the principle was not carried farther. It was his intention to bring forward a motion every Session for the promotion of emigration, not to one colony, or from one district alone, but to all our colonies, and from the United Kingdom in general.Mr. W. S. O'Brien
 said, that he had reason to believe the matter was now in a very fair course for a settlement; and he trusted it would be soon brought to a satisfactory conclusion. He wished to observe, that he felt very strongly as to the conduct of the Portuguese government; and he believed it would probably be found, that the whole of the delay of six years was attributable to the want of good faith on the part of that government. He thought it due to the claimants to make that observation. If the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, should find by and by when the investigation was proceeded with, that these delays, and these cruel and arbitrary proceedings towards the claimants were distinctly to be traced to the Portuguese government, it was to be hoped that he would support, not the right to an ordinary compensation for the delay and vexation they had suffered, but the most ample compensation for every loss and inconvenience they had sustained.Sir De Lacy Evans
527 objected, above all, to raising expectations which it would be impossible to realise, and as the wording of the motion might lead to misconstruction, he advised that "with a view to afford relief," should be erased, and "on the practicability of affording relief," be substituted. The interference of Government in cases of the kind was in general much to be deprecated, but, when it could not be avoided, instead of voting a sum of money, it had been found that the most expedient course was to send down an officer, in whom full confidence could be reposed, and to enable him at his discretion to administer relief. It was true, that frauds by misrepresentation had sometimes been committed, but they were not frequent, and the course to which he had referred had appeared to be the best practical mode of meeting the evil. It was his firm opinion that by far the wisest and safest course was to interfere as little as possible with the exercise of private benevolence. He admitted this was not a mere temporary distress, but had long continued in consequence of an over large population pressing against the
527The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the re-appointment of the following committee on banks of issue:—The Chancellor of the Exchequer, Sir Robert Peel, Mr. Hume, Mr. Labouchere,Mr. Goulburn,Mr. Mark Philips, Mr. O'Connell, Sir James Graham, Mr. Clay, Mr. Gisborne, Sir John Rae Reid, Mr. Oswald, Mr. Charles Wood, Mr. Rickford, Mr. Warburton, Mr. Pattison, Mr. Herries, Mr. Ellice, Mr. Sergeant Jackson, Mr. Hector, Mr. Grote, Sir Thomas Fremantle, Mr. John Abel Smith, Mr. Strutt, Mr. Matthias Attwood, and Mr. Morrison.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that it was of importance that the House should agree to the resolution without delay, to prevent their falling into the same situation in which they were placed last year in the case of the Ludlow petition. If they postponed the matter for even a few days, inconvenience might arise, as there was little doubt but that some election petitions would be presented.Sir G. Clerk
 said, that the object of the resolution which he intended to propose was, to obviate a technical objection as to the services of notices in cases of election petitions. Considerable inconvenience was occasioned last year, in consequence of some informality in the service of the notices on the agent in the Ludlow election case. He had consulted the officers of the House on the subject, and they informed him, that the adoption of his resolution would prevent the recurrence of the inconvenience he had alluded to:—"That, on or within ten days after the day on which any election petition, or any petition praying that the petitioner may be admitted as a party to defend any return, or to oppose the prayer of any election petition, shall be presented to the House, the petitioner do lodge in the office for election petitions, the name of the agent or other person upon whom, and the place where, may be served the notices required to be served on the petitioner by the general committee of elections, pursuant to the act passed in the third year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled, 'An Act to amend the Jurisdiction for the Trial of Election Petitions.'"Sir G. Clerk
 felt called upon to tender his thanks to the Master-General of the Ordnance for the attention which he had paid to the representations from Manchester, Liverpool, and other places on this subject. The adoption of this plan would be attended with the greatest benefit.—Leave given.Mr. Mark Philips
528 cordially agreed in this motion, provided the judicious alteration in the wording proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer were made. The result of the investigation would be looked to with great interest by another class, to whom, feeling allusion had been made by the right hon. Member for Tamworth—he meant the handloom weavers. He had been frequently solicited by the handloom weavers, to bring forward some motion of this sort in their behalf, and in answer to such solicitation, he desired them to wait until the Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry should be published, to see if they would not recommend some such plan of relief. With regard to the expense, he trusted that the House would never let a matter of pounds, shillings and pence stand between them and an attempt to procure some alleviation of such extensive distress. He agreed with the hon. Member for Bridport in thinking that a committee was not the best mode of investigating the subject. But if the committee should find any difficulty on account of the number of the witnesses, or the distance at which they resided, in properly investigating the subject, then he hoped the Government would issue a commission of in any. The committee on the subject of the handloom weavers
528Mr. Mark Phillips
 said, as the present motion was for a committee to inquire into a certain matter, he would not then enter upon the question involved in it, nor would he have stood up at all were it not for something which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the motion relative to the Niger expedition. He would only beg the House not to be led away by the hon. Gentleman's statements on that subject.Sir JR. H. Inglis
525l524 felt, on the whole, considerable satisfaction at the noble Lord having acquiesced in the motion. Considering the sufferings which had been so ably described by the hon. Gentleman, than whom no person more fit could be selected to represent them, considering the extent of the misery, and the amount of the suffering which had been endured with such exemplary patience and submission, he thought it would be a harsh proceeding to refuse the committee. He did not anticipate the results which the hon. Member for Bridport predicted, nor was he apprehensive that inquiry would render the refusal of the grant more difficult. On the contrary, he thought it would have the effect of
525l524Sir R. Peel
 said, there had been no delay on the part of the commissioners; but it would have been useless to go into a detailed examination of the claims until the principle upon which they were to be disposed of was settled.Viscount Palmerston
514513 could assure his noble Friend, it was with great regret, that he was not able to state to him and the House, that these claims were fairly and amicably settled. But his noble Friend was mistaken if he fancied that he found matters now as they were when he left London at the end of the last Session of Parliament. On the contrary very considerable progress had been made, and he hoped no great time would elapse before these affairs would finally be brought to a settlement. The House was aware, that a long correspondence had taken place between the two Governments before they came to an agreement for the appointment of a commission to sit in London; the commissioners to consist of one commissioner named by the British Government, and another to be named by the Portuguese Government. It was also well known, that the Portuguese wished the commission to sit in Lisbon, but they yielded that point. Then a difficulty arose in the choice of a commissioner on their part, and one or two persons to whom the appointment was offered, found themselves unable to undertake the duty. At last, the Portuguese government selected an officer well qualified in every respect for the duties attending the commission—an officer conversant with the English military service, who spoke the English language, and whose character was calculated to inspire confidence, that while he would do his duty to his own country, he would not take an unfair advantage of the English claimants. When the commissioners met in London, the first thing required of them was to draw up a code of rules and regulations to guide them in the performance of their duties. This occupied some considerable time, but at last the code was prepared and signed by the Portuguese minister in this country, and by him (Lord Palmer-
514513Viscount Palmerston
 withdrew the two first portions of the motion. He begged to observe that last year, his noble Friend had said the whole matter would be settled in a few days. He thought, that as there was no dispute about the Sartorius contract, the claims under it might ere this have been disposed of.Viscount Sandon
512"A copy of the mixed British and Portu-
512511 was very sorry to be obliged again to trouble the House with a question which had already too often occupied its attention. He had hoped from what transpired last Session, that the claims of British subjects upon the Portuguese government were in a fair way of being adjusted, and would require no further interference on his part. But on his return to London, he found, that the settlement of the claims of British officers and soldiers upon the Crown of Portugal, were exactly in the same position as when the Parliament closed. He found, that there was not one claim settled, and that no step had been taken towards the final adjustment. In order to show the House, that he was not needlessly complaining of delay, he would remind them of the state of this question. In the first place, these
512"A copy of the mixed British and Portu-
512511Viscount Sandon
 wished to know if the right hon. President of the Hoard of Control had received information whether or not Lord Keane or the Indian government had ordered any legal proceedings to be instituted against the authors of these libels?Mr. W. Williams
Agra UkhbarBombay Times said, the hon. Gentleman was mistaken. No names were given to the letters containing the villanous charges against Lord Keane; if there had, some opportunity for proof would have occurred. But the correspondents of the Agra UkhbarBombay TimesSir J. C. Hothouse
 said, there were the public tribunals to appeal to. There was the Board of Control; there was the India House. It really was too bad, that a gallant officer should be traduced in the way that Lord Keane had been maligned.Mr. O'Connell
563Agra Ukhbar. was enabled distinctly to state, that not only no such certificate as had been alluded to was granted, but Lord Keane was not aware, that any man had died until he saw the account in the 563Agra Ukhbar.Sir Hussey Vivian
582581 bore testimony, from a long and intimate acquaintance, to the merits ef Lord Keane. In answer to the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he could say that the officers of the British army were influenced by considerations as pure and honourable as the officers of any service. Nine-tenths of them gave their services to the country gratuitously, for they bought their commissions for a sum which would purchase an annuity equal to the amount of their pay, and the only reward they sought was the acknowledgment of their country that they had done their duty. But when an officer was placed in an important and hazardous situation like Lord Keane, and that officer, after discharging with signal success the important duty confided to him, was honoured by his sovereign with a call to the peerage, he did think that officer had a right to look to the country for the means of enjoying his dignity. When the noble Lord (Viscount Howick) said, that to grant the proposed
582581Sir Hussey Vivian
llll607606605 did not agree with the hon. Member for Wigan, that it was not the duty of the Government to consult the West-India interests in this matter, but he could not help saying, that West-India interests appeared to him to have the most direct and obvious connexion with English interests in relation to this subject—a connexion not of ruin, as had been said by his right hon. Friend below him (Mr. Goulburn), but a connexion of palpable benefit. On the ground of West-India interests he was anxious to call in free labour sugar from other countries. He considered that by the introduction of capital into India, and consequent improvement of lands, which he conceived would result from the proposed measure, a great benefit would be conferred upon India and upon West-India interests. But he thought he was bound to look also to another interest. He could not conceal from himself the vast importance of introducing the manufactures of this country into our East-India possessions, but it was impossible that we could expect to secure a market for our manufactures in those countries unless we received their produce in return. Looking then at the manufacturing interests of this country, he said it was important that
llll607606605Mr. Colquhoun
616l615ss614613 would, for the present, I exclude from his view of the subject the state of slavery in the East Indies, but would call the attention of the House to other topics. There were three great interests which should be considered by the House before it came to a determination on the subject. In the first place, they ought to consider the effect of the present system, and of the proposed measure on the consumer they also had to consider the just claims of the inhabitants of their extensive dominions in the east; and they likewise must not exclude from their serious attention the state and condition of the population of their West-Indian colonies. These were the three great points they had to look to. He most heartily concurred in the great principles laid down by his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade, as to the effect of their proceedings in India; and that the greatest consequences might result from their proceedings on this question. He believed, that
616l615ss614613Dr. Lushington
 said, in voting against the motion, he did not mean to detract from the services of Lord Keane, but only to do what he conceived to be his duty to his constituents.General Johnson
577576575ll574bonâ fidell573572: Although I regret that my noble Friend thinks it necessary to oppose this vote, yet I am not sorry
577576575ll574bonâ fidell573572Lord John Russell
l"That the annual sum of 2,000l said, it was quite unnecessary for him to make any statement of the merits of Lord Keane, that subject having been brought before the House last year, on the consideration of the vote of thanks. His right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control, had, on that occasion, laid the whole conduct of the expedition fully before the House, and had enabled the House to judge of the gallantry and ability with which Lord Keane had discharged his most important duties. He could not possibly conceive the grounds upon which the hop. Member for Kilkenny meant to oppose the vote he was about to have the honour of submitting to the Committee. The proposal he was about to make was the same as that which was made in the case of Viscount Lake, in 1808, and the Committee would agree with him, that it was useless to confer the highest honours of the country upon individuals, unless at the same time adequate means were granted to support the dignity that was conferred. He repeated, he could not understand the ground of opposition, when he considered the eminent services which Lord Keane had rendered to this country in India. He would say, that the name of that distinguished individual stood as high, if not higher, than it had before the commencement of the present discussion. The noble Lord concluded by moving: —
l"That the annual sum of 2,000lLord John Russell
 asked if the question of his noble Friend applied to emigration from India particularly, or from the colonies generally?Lord J. Russell
 replied, that with regard to free emigration from India, the noble Lord was aware that, by a decision of the House last year, further information was called for on the subject, and since that time there had been a report made, which, however, did not come to any decisive result. With respect to emigration from other quarters of the globe, there arose a different question, There could be no objection to voluntary emigration from India to the West Indies, individuals paying the passage-money, but it would not be just or fair to raise a tax in the colonies for such a purpose. In the next place, for the good of the colonies themselves, great care had been taken to see that emigration was properly conducted, and that there should not be that disproportion of sexes which had caused so many evils in some of the colonies. There remained a third consideration, which was to take care, by every possible means, that, under the name of emigration, nothing like the slave trade from the coast of Africa should arise. All these considerations he had held in view in looking at the laws passed by the colonies themselves. With respect to Trinidad, there an Order in Council had lately been passed, altering a former order, which forbade emigration from Africa to Trinidad as far as it related to Sierra Leone. In Jamaica, an act had passed, which he last year stated required amendment, and though the bill effecting those amendments had not yet been officially received in this country, still it had been passed with the same limitations as the Order in Council at Trinidad, and it was probable also that in British Guiana, the same measures would be adopted.Lord J. Russell
 wished, that time should be be given to afford opportunity to consider the bill.Mr. Hawes
 hoped the bill would not be committed till that day three weeks.Colonel Sibthorp
 hoped, that some relief would be given to the postmasters, who were much oppressed in consequence of the railways, the companies paying much less duty per passenger than the postmasters. If, instead of the duty of one halfpenny on every four passengers per railway, a penny were exacted, it would give the postmasters some relief.Colonel Sibthorp
 thought, that on an occasion of this kind, it was the bounden duty of every Member to support the proposed grant. When the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Howick) objected, as he understood him, to military men being raised to the peerage, he thought there were certain cases in which this had been done, particularly in regard to the noble Lord's own relative, Sir Charles Grey, who had been rewarded for his distinguished services in the West Indies. Another relative of the noble Lord's, during the period of Earl Grey's administration—he meant Sir Henry Grey—had been made a Knight Commander of the Bath. The noble Lord was also a member of that Government which granted a pension to Sir John Newport, to make room for the appointment of Lord Monteagle. He thought, then, that the noble Lord ought to have been the last person to object to a motion like the present, which he hoped the House would at once agree to.Colonel Sibthorp
 wished to declare that he should support the motion.Mr. Protheroe
 could not consent to give a silent vote, because, although he felt it to be his duty to vote against the motion, he did not wish any one to infer from that, that he meant to disparage the services of Lord Keane. On the contrary, he thought they ought to be amply and nobly rewarded, but still he could not agree to the present motion. He conceived that Parliament had a right to tax the people of the present day, but had no right to tax a future generation. It was on this principle alone that he would vote against the motion.Mr. Muntz
623 pointed out an irregularity, as it appeared to him, in the course
623Mr. Goulburn
596595594ad valorem593592591"Finding it impossible to conclude in the present Session the evidence proposed to be laid before them, they think that they shall best perform their duty by confining themselves to reporting to the House the evidence already taken,"590589"It would have been very gratifying to the committee had they deemed themselves justified in recommending further, at the present moment, that the duty upon East-India rum should be at once and in all cases assimilated to that levied in British ports on rum, the produce of the colonies in which slavery has been recently abolished; but they are reluctantly compelled to admit, that the circumstances
589588Labouchere587 said, he had deferred rising to the latest moment, because, from what had passed on a previous evening he had been led to expect that some gentleman would have been anxious to enter into the question of the existence of slavery in India, but as no Gentleman had thought that branch of the subject worthy of his attention, he should proceed to express his views on the question immediately before the House; namely, the alteration proposed by the right hon. Member opposite, in the discriminating duties on East and West-India rum. If he were to enter into a history or defence of all the discriminating duties which had been established in the different colonies of this country, he would have to enter upon a subject too extensive for a single evening's discussion. He should then confine himself to the simple question before the House, the subject of the petition which had been presented by his hon. Friend near him (Sir A. Grant). In dealing with questions of this sort it had generally been the practice of Government to take one of two courses. Either having acquired such information as their official facilities enabled them to obtain, they laid a proposition, before the House, for discussion in the House or, having ascertained that such
596595594ad valorem593592591"Finding it impossible to conclude in the present Session the evidence proposed to be laid before them, they think that they shall best perform their duty by confining themselves to reporting to the House the evidence already taken,"590589"It would have been very gratifying to the committee had they deemed themselves justified in recommending further, at the present moment, that the duty upon East-India rum should be at once and in all cases assimilated to that levied in British ports on rum, the produce of the colonies in which slavery has been recently abolished; but they are reluctantly compelled to admit, that the circumstances
589588Labouchere587Mr. Goulburn
 recollected, when the military sinecure appointments were done away with, the hon. Member for Kilkenny getting up in his place and stating that he would support the claims of military Gentlemen to rewards. "Take," said the hon. Member, "the military appointments from the Crown, and any officer who comes and claims from the House of Commons a reward for his services shall have my vote." Several hon. Members concurred in these views, but now, when a strong case was made out for compensation, the hon. Member turned round and said he did not choose to create a pauper aristocracy. He thought such conduct to say the least of it, not fair.Sir H. Hardinge
ds"That it is expedient to reduce the duties payable on rum and rum shrub, the produce of any British possession within the limits of the East-India Company's Charter, to a duty of 9ds moved—
ds"That it is expedient to reduce the duties payable on rum and rum shrub, the produce of any British possession within the limits of the East-India Company's Charter, to a duty of 9dsMr. Labouchere
42,822,0771828
42,822,077182864,213,633183719,138,7261821
64,213,633183719,138,726182151,777,2771835818,2081814
51,777,2771835818,2081814Yards.Yards.
Yards.Yards.QUANTITIES OF COTTONS AND MUSLINS OF BRITISH MANUFACTURE EXPORTED TO INDIA.
QUANTITIES OF COTTONS AND MUSLINS OF BRITISH MANUFACTURE EXPORTED TO INDIA.
42,822,0771828
42,822,077182864,213,633183719,138,7261821
64,213,633183719,138,726182151,777,2771835818,2081814
51,777,2771835818,2081814Yards.Yards.
Yards.Yards.QUANTITIES OF COTTONS AND MUSLINS OF BRITISH MANUFACTURE EXPORTED TO INDIA.
QUANTITIES OF COTTONS AND MUSLINS OF BRITISH MANUFACTURE EXPORTED TO INDIA.600"The natives generally abstaining from rum, and the demand for molasses ceasing, you can anticipate, unless the export of rum be permitted, no demand for molasses, if you increase the growth of sugar?" and his answer was "No. I do not see how we shall have any demand for our molasses."599598597 confessed, that he had heard the speech which had been just addressed to the House by the right hon. Gentleman, with the greatest satisfaction, because, attaching as he did, the greatest importance to the present motion on its own merits, but still greater on account of the principles which it involved, he did rejoice at the assurance, that a right hon. Gentleman, possessed of so much ability, and of so long an experience, had only to produce arguments of so little substance, that it would require only a comparatively short statement from him, inferior as he admitted himself to be. Still he trusted, that he should easily convince the House, not only that it should not oppose, but that it ought to adopt the present resolution. The right hon. Gentleman commenced his speech by condemning the Government for having assented to the appointment of committees of the House of Lords, and the House of Commons, during the last Session of Parliament, and then, after the House of Lords had expressed an opinion not unfavourable to the present measure, but, on the contrary, favourable in the highest degree, the right hon. Gentleman blamed the Government, and especially him (Mr. Labouchere). Having weighed well the report, and the evidence on which it was founded, he agreed with the committee in the principle which they had laid down, but had not been able to agree in the recommendation of delay. It was not for him to speak slightingly of the recommendation of the committee of either House of Parliament, and particularly not of a committee that had upon it noble Lords for whom he had the highest respect. He held, that no Minister of the Crown, placed in the situation in which he was, had a right to skulk behind the report of a committee of either House of Parliament in defending himself, either for bringing forward propositions which he did not in his conscience believe to be just, or for refraining from bringing forward those which he deemed to be inexpedient for the public interest, He thought that
42,822,0771828
42,822,077182864,213,633183719,138,7261821
64,213,633183719,138,726182151,777,2771835818,2081814
51,777,2771835818,2081814Yards.Yards.
Yards.Yards.QUANTITIES OF COTTONS AND MUSLINS OF BRITISH MANUFACTURE EXPORTED TO INDIA.
QUANTITIES OF COTTONS AND MUSLINS OF BRITISH MANUFACTURE EXPORTED TO INDIA.
42,822,0771828
42,822,077182864,213,633183719,138,7261821
64,213,633183719,138,726182151,777,2771835818,2081814
51,777,2771835818,2081814Yards.Yards.
Yards.Yards.QUANTITIES OF COTTONS AND MUSLINS OF BRITISH MANUFACTURE EXPORTED TO INDIA.
QUANTITIES OF COTTONS AND MUSLINS OF BRITISH MANUFACTURE EXPORTED TO INDIA.600"The natives generally abstaining from rum, and the demand for molasses ceasing, you can anticipate, unless the export of rum be permitted, no demand for molasses, if you increase the growth of sugar?" and his answer was "No. I do not see how we shall have any demand for our molasses."599598597Mr. Labouchere
 did not think it at all advisable to accede to the proposition. In point of fact, even if the resolution were passed, and the bill to be founded on it carried into effect, a considerable interval must of necessity elapse before it could come into operation. It was his intention in all cases to insist on the production of a certificate from India, so that neither the; rum now in bond, nor that now on its way to this country, could be affected by the equalization. It must at least take six months before the bill could come into operation, even allowing no time at all for the increase of the establishments in India. If the House were satisfied of the justice of the proposition, and that it could not inflict any serious evil on the West Indies by carrying it into immediate operation, he submitted it would only be trifling to adopt any amendment, the tendency of which would be to interpose any delay.Mr. Labouchere
 said, that every endeavour would be made to carry the bill with the support of the directors of the railway companies. The companies had always yielded to the representations of the Government whether they had infringed the Acts of Parliament relating to the railways, and had rendered it unnecessary for prosecutions to be resorted to against them.Mr. Labouchere
 thought, that he had given the parties affected by the bill ample opportunity for considering it; and he hoped, that the hon. Member would be satisfied with his (Mr. Labouchere's) general assurance, not prematurely to press on the bill.Mr. Labouchere
 said, if the second reading were allowed, he would consent not to go into committee on the bill for a fortnight, and would give notice of the precise day.Mr. Labouchere
 moved the second reading of the Railways Bill.Mr. Labouchere
 replied, that with regard to the first question it was impossible to make a precise statement on the subject at present. With respect to the second question it was the intention of his noble Friend (Lord Clarendon) to introduce a bill into the other House on the important subject referred to.Mr. Labouchere
 said, he must vote against the motion, merely because the proposed grant was continued to the successors of Lord Keane. He regretted that Government had proposed anything so directly contrary to their principles, but he had been long enough a Member of that House to know that the contrast between professions out of the House and acts within it, was melancholy in the extreme.Colonel Salwey
l suggested, that it would be better to postpone the Committee of Ways and Means, in order that the system might be put in a better course. If the transfer of aid was now taken, it would, legally speaking, be a mis-appropriation, if applied before the 1st of April, 1841. In the case of the navy estimate, this had been done to the extent of 300,000lMr. Herries
583 expressed a hope that he might be allowed to take that opportunity of suggesting to her Majesty's Government that it would have an important influence on society, if they would establish some mode of conferring honours on those who distinguished themselves in saving life, and not confine the highest honours to the naval and military professions. It might not be expedient in all cases to confer the honour of knighthood for such services as Captain Clegg performed last year in rescuing from destruction upwards of one hundred persons; but
583Mr. Brotherton
Injured Innocence explained, that it was not he who had introduced the mention of the military commission, it was the President of the Board of Control who had done so. He (Mr. Hume) did not, perhaps, differ much from the hon. Baronet in thinking that it was wrong to have published that report until it had been in the hands of the Bombay government. He thought it a most singular state of things if, in India, newspapers should be found hardy enough to put forward such serious charges like those against a distinguished officer upon an anonymous communication, and persist in repeating them for so many months, without any notice being taken by the Government of them. It was said, that the writer of the letter signed Injured InnocenceMr. Hume
580Hear, hear! and Laughter.579578 rose amid cries of "question," and "divide." He said it appeared to him, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, looked but a short way before him when he called in question the arguments of the noble Lord below him (Lord Howick.) That noble Lord had objected to the granting Peerages except for great and extraordinary conduct; and more so, to the giving a pension in the present state of the dead weight and burdens on the people. He (Mr. Hume) agreed with the noble Lord. He (Mr. Hume) wished to ask the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) who supported the present motion, whether in
580Hear, hear! and Laughter.579578Mr. Hume
557556Agra UkhbarBombay CourierCalcutta PressFriend of India"The Agra Ukhbur has published a letter from an old correspondent which makes no mystery of the wretched affair of the trooper of the 2nd regiment of Bengal cavalry, who it is now unequivocally asserted was put to death by order of Lord Keane; The 556Agra UkhbarBombay CourierCalcutta PressFriend of IndiaBombay TimesAgra Ukhbar"That the 2nd Bengal cavalry had been dismounted and disarmed, and were on their march to Bengal. Hitherto speculation and surmise had been at fault to account for the dastardly scene at Purwan Durrah. In default of this, violent and angry discussion has been stirred up afresh, in reference to the death (the murder it has been unhesitatingly called) of one of their troopers, in the Affghan campaign, with which the name of Lord Keane had all along in some shape been connected. It has been matter of astonishment to every one, that for the satisfaction of the army, and for the sake of the character of the late Commander-in-chief and his staff, no official investigation was ever entered into on the subject."Bombay Times555Agra Ukhbar begged leave to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control, to an important subject, which he (Mr. Hume) thought they were at this particular period, before proceeding to take her Majesty's Message into consideration, bound to take into their most serious consideration. He held in his hand certain Indian newspapers, which contained the most grave and serious charges against Lord Keane, for conduct which, if borne out by facts, and not satisfactorily explained to that House, must, of course, put an end to the question which the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, had given notice of bringing forward this evening with reference to Lord Keane. Certain reports having been circulated for many months publicly in India, to the prejudice of Lord Keane, it might have been expected, that an enquiry would have been naturally instituted by the Government on the spot, for the purpose of ascertaining how such reports had originated, and whether well-founded or not; but no inquiry had taken place. The late disgraceful conduct of the 2nd Bengal cavalry in the face of the enemy, had revived those reports with increased bitterness, and their conduct had been attributed to the circumstance of Lord Keane having at the time the 2nd regiment of Bengal cavalry was under his command, ordered one of the troopers of that corps, who was innocent of any crime to be shot. The allegations contained in a letter which appeared in the 557556Agra UkhbarBombay CourierCalcutta PressFriend of India"The Agra Ukhbur has published a letter from an old correspondent which makes no mystery of the wretched affair of the trooper of the 2nd regiment of Bengal cavalry, who it is now unequivocally asserted was put to death by order of Lord Keane; The 556Agra UkhbarBombay CourierCalcutta PressFriend of IndiaBombay TimesAgra Ukhbar"That the 2nd Bengal cavalry had been dismounted and disarmed, and were on their march to Bengal. Hitherto speculation and surmise had been at fault to account for the dastardly scene at Purwan Durrah. In default of this, violent and angry discussion has been stirred up afresh, in reference to the death (the murder it has been unhesitatingly called) of one of their troopers, in the Affghan campaign, with which the name of Lord Keane had all along in some shape been connected. It has been matter of astonishment to every one, that for the satisfaction of the army, and for the sake of the character of the late Commander-in-chief and his staff, no official investigation was ever entered into on the subject."Bombay Times555Agra UkhbarMr. Hume
, although he had not been personally called upon to answer the appeal made by the right hon. Baronet opposite, yet felt impelled to confirm most fully the statement that had been made by the right hon. Gentleman on both heads. He believed, that not one syllable of truth was contained in the charges against Lord Keane. He had heard that the sepoy trooper had been wounded under the circumstances detailed by the right hon. Gentleman. With respect to the affair of Major Clibborne, Lord Keane had nothing to do with that disaster, or with the circumstance that had led to it, inferiority of force.Sir R. Jenkins
 said, that he had had the honour, at a meeting of the directors of the East-India Company, to propose a vote of thanks to Lord Keane; and after what had occurred, he could not conceive how any person could object to reward services which had been of so great importance to the country.Sir R. Jenkins
Zoll-Vereinddsl604603602 said, the right hon. Gentleman opposite(Mr. Goulburn) had based his main defence on what he supposed was the impregnable position of the report of the Committee of the House of Lords; but that argument had been fully met by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. The right hon. Gentleman next took his stand on the proceedings of the committee of the House of Commons, on the ground that that committee had made no report. But why had they made no report? Was it that they were not convinced of the propriety of equalising the duties? No; but because they were delayed through their whole proceedings—he could not believe, from any unworthy motives—but undoubtedly, in fact, by the conduct of the hon. Member fur Mauritius (Mr. Irving). If, indeed, that hon. Gentleman had the remotest idea of delaying the labours of the committee, and disabling them from making a report—which he was bound to believe could not have been the case— the course he had taken would have that unquestionable tendency. The right hon. Gentleman next said, that the rum of India found a market in the east, and
Zoll-Vereinddsl604603602Mr. Ewart
 inquired whether it was probable there would be any reduction of the duties on Neapolitan Olive Oil. Also, whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce a bill with respect to the transfer of goods by document between principal and factor.Mr. Ewart
s612ll611 said, this question had been considered purely as a question between the East and West Indies, but he contended that the question ought to be discussed with reference to the peculiar circumstances in which the West-India colonies were placed. An important feature in the objections to this measure was the impossibility of finding a test to ascertain whether simulated or real produce of the East Indies was imported; and the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had quoted the opinion of the chairman of a committee of the East-India Company, who had said, that he would as soon rely upon the certificate of a revenue officer of the East-India Company as upon the certificate of a Government officer. But he begged to remind the hon. Gentleman, that the revenue officer appointed by the Government of this country could have no other interest but to do his duty in enforcing the proper regulations; and he could not help thinking that there was a broad distinction between the revenue officers appointed by the Crown and those appointed by the company. The argument of his right hon. Friend the Mem-
s612ll611Sir A. Grant
 denied the existence of slavery in the east, and defied the ingenuity of his right hon. and learned Friend to draw up any clause to effect his purpose without throwing the whole bill into utter confusion.Sir C. Grey
 said, there was no novelty in the course he proposed, which had been invariably followed of late years. He admitted the vote he had taken was a mere fiction, but like many others, such as John Doe and Richard Roe, it was a very useful fiction.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the Order of the Day for a Committee of Ways and Means.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 consented to the postponement of the committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that there was no novelty, except that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated the truth.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could not help thinking it would be gross inconsistency in the right hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets attempting to introduce such a proviso as he had described, "provided always, that it is not the produce of slave labour." He could not allow that a single pound of sugar was ever exported from Calcutta, or ever manufactured in India, the produce of slave labour. But if there was the remotest ground for the imputation which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had thrown out, he hoped some remedy more substantial and worthy the cause of freedom would be introduced, than the ridiculous and paltry check he proposed by way of a proviso.Mr. Hogg
562 had told the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who had asked the question of him on the night the noble Lord had given notice of the present motion, that no intelligence of the events alluded to had reached him. If the charges that had been brought against Lord Keane had any foundation in truth, would the House believe, that no complaint, no representation would have been made to the constituted authorities either in India or at home? It had been said, that the cavalry had made a remonstrance, but that statement was unfounded. Lord Keane had again and again issued orders—those orders had been disobeyed, and at last he had discharged that duty which, perhaps, it would have been better to have dis-
562Mr. Hogg
561560559558 expressed his surprise that his hon. Friend should have been influenced by the gross calumnies against Lord Keane, which had appeared in the Indian newspapers, calumnies which, gross and unfounded as they were, ought, however, to be contradicted, He was glad, that his hon. Friend had not waited for the vote which his noble Friend was about to propose, and that he had, as he thought there was something worthy for the consideration of that House in these rumours as to the conduct of Lord Keane, he had called for an explanation before that vote was proposed. He must, however, express the surprise he felt, that the hon. Gentleman, on the mere authority of newspapers, and such newspapers, too, as he was sorry to say circulated in India at this day, should have thought it possible that an English general officer could be guilty not only of murder, but of being an accomplice in murder, such as those papers had distinctly charged him with—namely, murder under the pretence of a discharge of duty. The hon. Gentleman had read extracts from certain newspapers, copies of which he (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) then held in his hands, and he was certainly surprised, that when the hon. Gentleman read those newspapers, he was not shocked at the terms in which the charge was made. Was this charge ever heard of before Lord Keane left India? There were Gentlemen present in that House connected with the East-India Company. He saw a director opposite (Mr. Hogg), and he would ask
561560559558Sir John Hobhouse
 said, he ought to have mentioned, that so shocked were the Bombay government by the appearance of the report of the military commission, that they had thought it their duty to censure the publication of it: and they had called upon the officers to explain how it had appeared. With respect to the Bengal cavalry, he had a report of certain proceedings that had taken place upon the conduct of that unhappy regiment, and it was to be disbanded.Sir John Hobhouse
 said, it would be better to postpone the present vote for a day or two, rather than run the risk of establishing a bad precedent. The right hon. Gentleman said, there was no novelty in the proceeding—this course certainly was not followed in the good year 1835.Sir R. Peel
621620ss619618 said, this was a most important discussion, for it should be borne in mind that they were now, in fact, called upon finally to decide the question, and that, after the resolution had been passed, it would not be competent for them in committee on the bill to alter the tenour of the proposition so far as the increase of any duty was concerned. He had, therefore, to state very briefly to the House the impression left on his mind by reading the evidence which had been taken before
621620ss619618Sir R. Peel
566565564 said, he certainly should not wait to hear the objections that were about to be made by the Hon. Member for Kilkenny to the motion proposed by the noble Lord; for he was so satisfied of the justice and policy of the grant, that he could not believe, any objections that could be urged by the hon. Gentleman Would have power to shake his opinion. He should avail himself of the opportunity of seconding the proposal, although the speech of the noble Secretary of State
566565564Sir R. Peel
 expressed a hope, that this bill would, as far as possible, be carried through in unison with the feelings of the railway companies. He did not mean, that the Government should comply with any unreasonable demands on the part of the companies, but it certainly would be more effective if passed with their approval. After all, the great security for the public was to be found in the attention of the companies. It was their interest to make travelling secure, for persons travelling for pleasure would not go by railways if they felt they could not do so in safety. As far as he could judge, the Birmingham and London, and Grand Junction Railways were admirably conducted. Whenever accidents happened, they did all in their power by making fresh arrangements to prevent their recurrence.Sir R. Peel
571570569568567 confessed, that he had seldom felt greater pain than in giving the vote that he felt himself bound to give upon the present occasion. He admired, in common with the House, the exploits of the Indian army under Lord Keane. He entirely disregarded, as he had already stated, all that had been stated at the beginning of the evening. He trusted, that that subject was for ever disposed of; and that whilst, on the one hand, it could not for a moment influence the mind of any reasonable man, and induce him to give a vote in opposition to the resolution now-proposed; so, on the other hand, he trusted hon. Members would be careful not to allow their minds to receive from it what would not be an unnatural bias, and be induced to mark their indignation against a charge so utterly unsupported, and so improperly brought forward by the Indian newspapers, by agreeing to a vote which otherwise they might not deem called for by the circumstances of the case. There was, as he had said, an inducement to agree to the motion before the House from admiration for the exploits of the Indian army, and the conduct of Lord Keane; there was also a natural feeling of
571570569568567Viscount Howick
584 said, he did not think it was quite consistent with the rules of that House, that any Member should make personal reference to any other hon. Member. Besides, the hon. and gallant Member should recollect that the parties he had alluded to received titles only, not pensions. With respect to what had fallen from his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies, he thought his noble Friend had not done justice to the observations which he had made. What he stated was, that they ought to reserve the high rewards of a pension and peerage to the greatest
584Viscount Howick
 thought, that the explanation of the right hon. Baronet was as satisfactory as possible, and, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny ought to admit, that it was so, even if it were for no other purpose than to allow the House to approach the discussion free from bias or difficulty,Viscount Howick
622 wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, whether it were the intention of Government
622Viscount Sandon
.—To emigration from any part of the globe.Lord Sandon
617 said, there was one class which had not been mentioned in the debate, but which he looked upon as very important—the free labourers of the West Indies. The House ought to protect the great experiment of free labour which it had there set on foot. With this view he thought it of great importance to encourage the exertions of the West-India proprietors to maintain and promote the industry of those colonies. The House should beware of doing any thing which would induce the West-Indian body to withdraw their capital, or diminish their exertions in the promotion of colonial industry, and thereby endanger the success of that great experiment which had already cost the country so much. He confessed that neither of the propositions now before the committee for the immediate or gradual equalization of the duty on rum exactly met his views of the justice and policy of the case. In his opinion, the interests of the whole empire would be best promoted by fixing a limited period— say two years, when the equalization should be carried into effect. This would enable the West Indians to provide an increase of labour, which was absolutely necessary to enable them to sustain competition with those engaged in the cultivation of sugar in the east. The struggle at present was an unequal one; it was essentially fettered labour against free labour. Parliament had not yet devised measures which would allow a free immigration of labourers into the West-India colonies without the risk of inhumanity; and the price of labour being thus enhanced artificially by restrictions of our own, some reasonable space, if not positive encouragement, should at least be afforded to increase the supply. He therefore hoped the suggestion he had offered, of fixing some period when the equalization should
617Viscount Sandon
629628627 wished to observe, that this measure was calculated to do much more good to England than to India. It was calculated to diminish the price of
629628627Mr. O' Connell
 had been misunderstood by his hon. Friend. He (Mr. O'Connell) had expressly said, he did not believe that these famines had been universal. He had spoken of them as local evils, but still evils of vast magnitude.Mr. O'Connell
 moved the order of the day for the bringing up the report of the Committee on her Majesty's message.Lord John Russell
 could not produce any correspondence on the subject, and with regard to any communication that might have taken place between the Government and the court of directors, he could only say, that the substance of it was totally different from what the hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose. The directors did not give an opinion to the Government, that Lord Keane had already been amply rewarded, but, on the contrary, they declared, that they thought it most just that an application should be made to Parliament, to confer upon that noble Lord some signal acknowledgment of its sense of the value of his services in India.Lord John Russell
 begged, for a moment, to claim the attention of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden) opposite with reference to the Administration of Justice (No. 2) Bill. When that bill was introduced, he bad informed the right hon. and learned Gentleman that it was the intention of the Government to oppose it, but that he could not then state in what stage of the measure that opposition would be offered. He was unable, at that moment, to state all the reasons and grounds which he wished to have an opportunity of stating, for not acceding to the bill, in consequence of the indisposition of the Lord Chancellor. The objections that he entertained would, perhaps, be more properly stated upon the motion for the second reading, which stood for that evening; but as he was prevented by the circumstance to which he had alluded from entering into the subject at that moment, he should not propose to resist the second reading, provided it were distinctly understood that he should have an opportunity afforded to him of stating his objections fully on the motion for going into committee.Lord J. Russell
pari passu was very much obliged to the noble Lord for explaining the course he proposed to pursue. He thought that the bill which he had had the honour to introduce ought to be read a second time that evening, in order that it might go on pari passuSir Edward Sugden
 begged permission to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, in reference to the duty on foreign wines and spirits. It would be in the recollection of the House, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in bringing forward the budget of last year, reserved a considerable sum in consequence of a contemplated diminution in the duty on foreign wines and spirits. It was understood that negotiations had been going on with the French government since that period, connected with the reduction of those duties; but the uncertainty that still existed as to the amount of the reduction, or, indeed, the doubt that, under all circumstances, might be fairly entertained as to whether there was to be any reduction at all, occasioned much inconvenience and embarrassment to the trade. The question, therefore, that he wished to put was, whether the President of the Board of Trade entertained a hope of the probable and speedy conclusion of the arrangements between the governments of the two countries, and a reduction of the duty on wines and spirits consequent thereupon.Mr. Grote
: And leaving the same prohibition upon the importation of rum into Ireland and Scotland.Mr. Goulburn
631 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, whether, in this proposed equalization of the duties on East and West India rum, it was intended to reduce the duty on rum imported into Scotland and Ireland to the same amount as the duty paid on rum imported into England. The right hon. Gentleman must
631Mr. Goulburn
 replied, that the sole object contemplated by the present bill was to place the rum of the East Indies on precisely the same footing as that on which the rum of the West Indies had previously stood.Mr. Labouchere
: That question is not touched by the present bill.Mr. Labouchere
626, before answering the question put to him by the hon. Member for London, begged to set him right upon a point on which he had fallen into a mistake as to what was last year said by his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was true, that his right hon. Friend stated, that he thought it right to provide a certain sum for duties which he apprehended might be diminished in consequence of negotiations then going on with the French government; but his right hon. Friend carefully guarded himself as to wines or brandies, or other articles upon which he thought it likely the reduction would be effected. He admitted that the suspense occasioned by the protracted nature of the negotiations going on between that country and France had caused great inconvenience to the trade, and it would be very desirable to put an end to that suspense as speedily as possible. Under ordinary circumstances, he should have felt it his duty to urge upon the French government the
626Mr. Labouchere
 looked upon the matter as one of great importance both to England and to India; and would urge his hon. and learned Friend to select a day on which the subject should be brought before the House. He believed, that any one who paid attention to the affairs of India must have heard, with great regret, of the statements made at different meetings respecting the proceedings in that country, and which statements he believed to be in many instances altogether groundless. It was not true that so many famines had taken place in India as his hon. and learned Friend had mentioned. There might have been much distress in certain districts, but such cases could not be considered as general famines. With regard to the creation of the tenure in India, it was a subject of great difficulty, and one which the House might more conveniently discuss at another moment.Mr. Hume
 said, that as the House had agreed by a large majority to the grant of the pension, he would not oppose the reception of the report, but should support the motion of his hon. Friend in committee. He wished to know whether, before that discussion came on, the noble Lord would object to lay before the House all the correspondence which had taken place between the Government and the court of directors respecting the granting a pension to Lord Keane. He (Mr. Hume) understood, that a correspondence had taken place, and that the court of directors had expressed an opinion, that Lord Keane was already amply rewarded. Now, if that were the case, he thought they should either have a copy of their proceedings, or a denial of the fact.Mr. Hume
632 said, that the noble Lord
632Mr. Hume
 rose, on account of an observation which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, to the effect that the measure would be of greater benefit to England than to India. Now, from the evidence taken before the committee of last Session, it was manifest that the measure would be very beneficial to India, because, in the manufacture of rum and sugar, they must employ the natives of India. It was the most economical plan to do so. This would be also beneficial to England, because it would increase the market for British manufacture; he thought, therefore, that they must admit that the measure was a great boon to India as well as to England.Mr. Ewart
 felt bound to state, that the court of directors, in reply to the application made to them, expressed, in the strongest terms, their opinion of the merits of Lord Keane, and their opinion, as far as it could weigh with her Majesty's Government, was, that Lord Keane was entitled to the pension to himself and his two heirs, in the way in which such grants were usually made to distinguished soldiers, who for their gallantry and skill had been raised to the Peerage. But the court of directors went on to say, not only as a matter of finance, but because they thought it honourable to Lord Keane, that as his services had been recognised by the British Parliament, the pension also should be conferred by the British House of Commons.Mr. Hogg
630 observed, that if a discussion were opened upon the subject to which the hon. and learned Gentleman alluded, it would occupy more time than could be afforded on that occasion. With respect to the permanent tenure, it could not be doubted that the Marquess of Cornwallis established it from the best of motives. But it had not been productive of the good that was expected. Its effect was to constitute the Zemindars absolute proprietors, and to deprive the rest of the population of the rights which they had from time immemorial enjoyed. Though that settlement had some advantages, it was also attended with inconveniences, which induced the Indian government to be cautious in extending it to other parts of the country. He would also observe to the hon. and learned Gentleman that he should not hastily adopt every statement connected with India that might be
630Mr. Hogg
"This House will upon Tuesday, the 23rd day of this instant February, resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, to consider of the following address to her Majesty, that is to say, that an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the Report, bearing date 12th May, 1840, made by the Commissioners to whom it was referred to examine and adjudicate upon the claims of certain British subjects, for losses sustained by the seizure and confiscation of their ships and cargoes by the Government of Denmark in the year 1807, and that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to advance to such claimants the amount of their respective losses as ascertained by the said commissioners, and to assure her Majesty that this House will make good the same." rose pursuant to the notice he had given, to move that—
"This House will upon Tuesday, the 23rd day of this instant February, resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, to consider of the following address to her Majesty, that is to say, that an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the Report, bearing date 12th May, 1840, made by the Commissioners to whom it was referred to examine and adjudicate upon the claims of certain British subjects, for losses sustained by the seizure and confiscation of their ships and cargoes by the Government of Denmark in the year 1807, and that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to advance to such claimants the amount of their respective losses as ascertained by the said commissioners, and to assure her Majesty that this House will make good the same."Mr. Cresswell
l.641 was fully convinced, that the claim was a just one, and ought to be paid. Indeed, the case was a good deal stronger than the learned Alderman had put it, because, in the first place, the insurers never could have contemplated the risk, although the general words of the policy covered that defect. He really was surprised at the opposition that had been given to the motion. For a number of years the entire claims were contested, and then a part was conceded, on the ground that the seizure of debts was against all international law—the seizure of goods on shore was resisted in like manner; but the House decided, that the Government ought to pay them, and did make it pay them. Now, in the present case, the shippers of cargoes were informed at the Admiralty, that no war whatever was in contemplation against Denmark, and it might be said, that the Government actually induced them to send out their cargoes, and yet that claim,
l.641Mr. O'Connell
646 notwithstanding what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was sure the House would go along with him in saying that there was nothing improper in the feeling which had brought him forward. Unless he had been urged to it by his constituents, he would never have brought before the Mouse a question of that nature, and he trusted that hon. Gentlemen would think that he was justified in speaking on behalf of certain firms in Liverpool. The right hon. Gentleman, like many other persons who had disagreeble things to encounter, was never pleased with the time which was chosen for this discussion. If he (Mr. Cresswell) came late in the Session all imaginable objections were made; he was told that there was no money for him, and that he should not have delayed his motion to so late a period. If he came early, he was met with the objection that there was no money in the Exchequer, and asked why he had come so soon. Now, he thought the best plan was, to bring it forward at an early period
646Mr. Cresswell,
 seconded the motion.Sir G. Strickland
670 was most unwilling to press any motion to a division against the general opinion of the House. He hoped, however, that the present discussion, if it were of any value, would make a step in the progress, and ultimately bring public opinion to maturity. As to the imputation that he sought to revive secret executions, or anything like the Inquisition, he was not liable to it; for no man would regret such a revival more than himself. And as to history being against him, he believed that in the best period of ancient history, before the approach of corruption, executions were comparatively private; it was only in the time of the abominations of Rome that the scenes in the public arena
670Mr. Rick
690 thought that the removal of these restrictions had now become matter of necessity, and that it would be highly advantageous to the manufacturers. It was admitted on all hands that in several foreign countries there was an alarming rivalry with many of our most important manufactures. The inquiry, therefore, should not be confined to the present
690Mr. Villiers
 wished to impress upon the attention of the House the gross inconsistency of the present state of the law, for while it admitted the exportation of models of machinery of all kinds, and the materials for machinery, the manufactured article was prohibited: was it, then, not an absurdity to continue the present system? He rejoiced that the question had met with such a favourable reception in the House, and he trusted that ere long they should attain a satisfactory result.Mr. Walker
 did not agree in the propriety of the suggestion just made by his hon. Friend, as to the levying a tax on the exportation of machinery, as the tax would only operate as a bonus to the smuggler, or a premium to the foreign manufacturer of machinery. It would prove highly injurious to have any impediment in the way of exportation.Mr. Thornley
No, no697lHumel. was surprised to hear the hon. Member for Kilkenny now ask the objects of an expedition, towards which, though so sensitive in money matters, he joined in a vote of 60,000No, no697lHumel.Mr. V. Smith
l.700699 did not think the noble Lord had made out any case to support his objections to the measure, and in endeavouring to prove the probability of its failure, the noble Lord had utterly failed. The noble Lord had commenced by stating, that there was a certain ship commanded by a Captain Bearcroft, which had undertaken the navigation of the
l.700699Mr. O'Connell
704 moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Registration of Voters in Scotland. He proposed to establish one appeal court for registrations for the whole of Scotland. It was to consist of barristers of seven years standing, to be named by the Speaker, and to sit in Edinburgh. He proposed to give no appeal on matters of fact to this court, but only on questions of law. The bill also contained clauses relative to costs in cases of appeal. He proposed that when the right of a voter had once been established, he should not be removeable from the register except for matters occurring subsequently to the registry. In cases where the value of premises giving a title to vote had been established, he proposed that no proof of subsequent alterations of value should disfranchise the party so long as he retained possession of the premises or property which gave the right. An annual revision, which would compel
704The Lord Advocate
 said, that there was no hope of the bill which the hon. Member asked leave to introduce ever passing into a law, because he thought that there was too much good sense, both in that and in the other House of Parliament, to permit parties to be privately put to death; a proposal pregnant with greater evils he could not conceive. The argument of the hon. Member, in fact, went to the great point of abolishing the punishment of death, and in that object he (General Johnson) agreed, but when the hon. Member talked of carrying out his argument by making the execution a private exhibition—a sort of raree-show, to see which, if too many applications were made, the precedence was to be decided by chance—he must say that he never heard a proposition to which he could more object. He would therefore oppose the present motion upon principle. He would divide against the introduction of the bill; and if that motion should be carried, he should feel it his duty to oppose its progress at every stage.General Johnson
669 could not let this question, which had been so ably introduced by his hon. Friend, go to a vote without giving his opinion upon the subject in as few words as possible. He must say, that he entirely concurred in the view taken by the hon. and gallant officer, who spoke immediately after his hon. Friend, that the attempt to have executions in private would be followed by great evils. The arguments which his hon. Friend had used appeared rather to make out a case for the abolition of capital punishments altogether, than to the execution of criminals in private; and his hon. Friend was somewhat unfortunate, because he found arrayed against him not only those who were in favour of continuing capital punishments, but also those who were against their further existence; he thought, therefore, that his hon. Friend would see the necessity of withdrawing his motion without pressing the House to come to a vote upon the principle on which he had displayed great ability and the arguments for which he had so admirably put before them. With respect to the details, he did not at that time mean to enter upon them, or to debate the question, further than to state
669Mr. Fox Maule
 said, it was notorious that the Reform Bill of Scotland required some such bill as this to remedy the practice of taking vexatious objections to persons who had been for years undisturbed on the roll, in the hope of removing them, in their absence and without being able often to obtain a hearing in defence of their franchise.Mr. F. Maule
645644 did not deny what
645644Lord John Russell
 said, the notion of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was, that if these claims were admitted, other similar ones would be brought forward on future occasions; but he contended that every claim should stand upon its own foundation, and he believed that the present one was founded injustice, for it ought to be recollected, that when the expedition was sent out in 1807 against Denmark, the country understood we were in a state of profound peace with that power, and therefore quite unprepared.Mr. Andrew White
702Warburton: said, accustomed as he was to pay every respect to what generally fell from the hon. Member for Bridport, yet he could not allow him to put forward the statement he had made, without inquiring from him his authority. [Mr. 702Warburton:Mr. Hawes
640 confessed his opinion was precisely the same as the hon. Gentleman's. He also had constituents who were interested in this question, and he should vote for the payment of these claims, because they were just. He was not at all intimidated by the prospect of being called to account at some future day to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, and which remark he thought had been improperly thrown out, to disturb their judgment. There were three classes of claimants, two of whom had been paid—those which were founded on book debts, and those which were founded on property on shore had been paid. The only property respecting the claim of which there could be any doubt by the law of nations, was that which the right hon. Gentleman hesitated to pay. He asked him to point out any difference whatever between these classes. He had listened attentively to hear of any difference, and had heard of none. He had heard nothing laid down in justice or principle, to deter him from giving his vote in favour of these claims. It had been twice argued, and on a former occasion means had been resorted to to postpone its payment, which he did not think consistent with the honour of any Government. When, on the 24th May, 1838, a motion for this purpose was carried by a majority of thirty-four, instead of complying with the vote, the Chancellor of the Exchequer directed the amount of the claim should be scheduled, but not examined. Now, the House had then heard the whole claim argued, and had come to a decision upon it, and he had yet to learn the propriety of any Minister afterwards opposing the payment. If there had been any doubt upon the subject, the Chan-
640Mr. Hawes
691l. should not have the slightest hesitation in assenting to the motion, if he was satisfied that the foreign manufacturers would, as was stated, be induced to take all our old machinery, and leave the improved machinery to the home market. He did not believe that that ever could be the case. They, at the present time, paid 25 per cent. more for their machinery than the manufacturers of this country. Would it, then, be an advantage to our producers to remove the restrictions, and give this premium to foreign manufacturers? The question, in point of fact, was, whether they should allow the exportation of machinery to an amount equivavalent to the sum annually expended in the employment of it, and in the profits derived from its use. For instance, suppose in a cotton-mill the machinery cost 60,000691l.Mr. Hindley
 objected to the intended court of appeal, as being likely to be unsatisfactory, if no matter could be inquired into before that tribunal, which had transpired or taken place before the claimant of the suffrage had been placed upon the registry.Mr. Shaw
 would be glad to concur in any measure which would put an end to the existing evils of the system of fictitious voting.Mr. G. Hope
 as a manufacturer and merchant, was anxious to state his opinion, which he should do as shortly as possible. He was for the entire removal of all restraint on the exportation of machinery. He did not, however, altogether agree with the hon. Mover and Seconder of the motion, as he thought that the appointment of a committee was altogether uncalled for, and would only be attended with a waste of time, and an unnecessary expenditure. He would venture to assert, that there was not a tool or machine made in this country which could not readily be exported, in spite of all the exertions of the Government to prevent it. The impediments at present thrown in the way of this exportation were nothing more nor less than a bonus to the manufacture of foreign machinery, and therefore so far injurious to the manufacturers of machinery in this country. He thought that the better course would have been, for the hon. Member for Manchester to have at once asked for leave to bring in a bill to allow the free exportation of machinery.Mr. Muntz,
 did not hesitate to say, that his opinion on the subject remained unchanged. He was quite ready to admit, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was equally entitled to hold his former opinions on the subject, and might very properly abide by that decision to which the House had already come. He was not influenced in his opinion by the amount of the demand if the claim were a just one, and if it would not be attended with fatal consequences he would at once say to the Government pay it; but his ground was, that if they made that particular payment there never would be a war hereafter, or those circumstances which led ultimately to a war, which would not ultimately involve them in claims which it was impossible to calculate, because it was impossible to calculate the activity of the enemy's cruisers against merchant vessels. It was no uncommon case that an embargo was laid on, and in particular circumstances that step might be followed by a war, and if in such cases were they to make allowance to the underwriters, or those who insured in consequence of the warlike measures taken by the country, there would be no end to the expenses they would be called upon to defray. He thought such a step would strike at the best energies of the country, and he should therefore give his vote against the hon. and learned Gentleman's motion.Mr. Goulburn
666665gazettes664663662ObserverHeraldGlobe"Before seven o'clock, several noblemen and gentlemen were admitted to the prison"—I here again omit their names—"with several Members of the House of Commons, and a list"—whose names I omit—"of foreign princes and counts who wished to see the English mode of disposing of great offenders; and lastly, a great actor, for the advantage of his professional studies."Observer"That those windows commanding the drop presented a considerable number of well-dressed women; while, in the crowd below, there was a smaller proportion, and that of the lowest and most abandoned rank."GlobeObserverHeraldGlobe"During the whole of Sunday large masses of people visited the Old Bailey;" "which," continues the ObserverHeraldGlobe661"Although the service was not to commence till half-past ten, the avenues to the prison were blocked up before nine by those who had been fortunate enough to obtain the privilege of admission, and among the congregation were"—here several noble Lords are named, whom I omit—"several Members of the House of Commons and a few ladies."Observer660"The execution of James Moslin took place at this prison on the 6th of September, 1838, at twelve o'clock. As early as eight o'clock in the morning, crowds of persons began to
660"Nothing could exceed the moral debasement exhibited on that occasion. The country, for the space of twenty miles around, was the night previous to the execution, overrun with persons of both sexes, of the most abandoned, dishonest, debauched, and dissolute characters. Petty robberies, of all descriptions, were committed, and the beer-shops and public-houses rang with blasphemy and obscenity. Within sight of the gallows, and while the unhappy victim was actually suspended, obscene jokes, horrible imprecations, drunkenness, and fightings were forced upon the eye and ear. On a late occasion, when two boatmen, named Owen and Thomas, were executed, the same moral pestilence was spread through the country. I trust in God, sir, your efforts may be crowned with success, for certain I am that for one person rescued from a life of crime by the sight of a public execution, twenty, by the same means, become rogues and prostitutes. Should you wish for any further information, I shall, at all times, be most happy to reply to any communication with which you may favour me. I have now held the situation of chaplain for seventeen years, and, of course, have witnessed many executions, and I can only say, that I shall hail with the greatest joy the law which ends for ever such brutal and heart-hardening exhibitions."659i. e"That no occasion was considered by pickpockets so favourable for the pursuit of their trade as executions;" adding with the experience of a practitioner, "that everybody's eyes were then on one person, and all were looking up to him."658Nouvelles recherches sur les Maladies des EspritsJournal des Tribunaux657"All the criminals executed whom I have either witnessed, or accompanied to the scaffold, have amounted nearly to fifty, and there was not a single malefactor but had seen the punishment of death inflicted, and some had seen it repeatedly. The only exceptions were three persons who were respited, and therefore not executed. I give this testimony from having asked each, and that singly, whether he had seen an execution. Some of these had been constant attendants at executions at the Old Bailey. Every criminal executed in Bristol, Gloucester, and Ilchester, that I have witnessed for nearly thirty years, has afforded no exception. Every one that I have attended had witnessed one punishment."656"The punishment of death has no terror for a common thief. Their common expressions used to be, such a one is to be 'twisted,' now it is such a one is to be 'top't.' One man whom I attempted to console told me, 'Players at bowls must expect rubbers.' Another, 'That it was only a few minutes, a kick and a struggle, and it was all over.' Others I have heard state, that they should kick Jack Ketch in their last moments.""I can hardly think it can have any moral effect, or make any advantageous impression upon the minds of persons attending these executions, when they will, even under the gallows, be often engaged in picking pockets. I apprehend that many of those who attend executions are of the most depraved and abandoned character. At some executions (he says), the people show approbation, at others there has been a cry of' Shame, shame!' and in one instance a cry of' Murder.'""Three persons were brought before me for uttering forged notes. During the investigation I discovered that these notes were obtained from a room in which the body of a person named Wheller (executed on the preceding day for uttering) then laid, and the notes in question were delivered for circulation by a woman with whom he had been living.""That it makes very little impression on the public. They appear to me to come to it as to a spectacle, and go away thinking no more about it, without some very extraordinary case or very particular crime occur; and generally, I am completely of opinion that it has not any effect by way of example. It seems to take away and blunt abhorrence against the crime, in pity and compassion for the sufferer."655"I think it a shock and a horror at the moment upon the inexperienced and young: but immediately the scene is closed, there is a forgetfulness altogether of it; but upon the
655"His procession to Tyburn, and his last moments there, are all triumphant; attended with the compassion of the meek and tenderhearted, and with the applause, admiration, and envy of all the bold and hardened. His behaviour in his present condition, not the crimes, how atrocious soever which brought him to it, is the subject of contemplation; and if he hath sense enough to temper his boldness with any degree of decency, his death is spoken of by many with honour, and by all with approbation. How far, (he adds) such an example is from being an object of terror, especially to those for whose use it is principally intended, I leave to the consideration of every rational man; whether such examples as I have described are proper to be exhibited, must be submitted to our superiors."654Gazette653felo de se652651"I think there would be great difficulty in, and very serious obstacles to, inflicting punishments of this extreme kind in private. I think such a practice would be very apt to revolt the public mind, and excite in private quarters the most rankling suspicions and the most distressing feelings.""That it does appear that more evils actually result from public executions than could occur from any other other mode of proceeding in these cases."650649: I should be unwilling to trespass upon the time of the House in asking leave to bring in a bill for the better ordering of the execution of criminals; but since it is a subject which has, I believe, never been discussed within these walls beyond a short conversation in committee, in May, 1837, on the Punishment of Death Bill, I am desirous, by some short explanation of the principles and plans of my bill, to prevent any misapprehensions or misrepresentations as to the nature of the change I am about to propose: and I am at least as anxious to hear the objections and opinions of hon. Gentlemen, in order that I
666665gazettes664663662ObserverHeraldGlobe"Before seven o'clock, several noblemen and gentlemen were admitted to the prison"—I here again omit their names—"with several Members of the House of Commons, and a list"—whose names I omit—"of foreign princes and counts who wished to see the English mode of disposing of great offenders; and lastly, a great actor, for the advantage of his professional studies."Observer"That those windows commanding the drop presented a considerable number of well-dressed women; while, in the crowd below, there was a smaller proportion, and that of the lowest and most abandoned rank."GlobeObserverHeraldGlobe"During the whole of Sunday large masses of people visited the Old Bailey;" "which," continues the ObserverHeraldGlobe661"Although the service was not to commence till half-past ten, the avenues to the prison were blocked up before nine by those who had been fortunate enough to obtain the privilege of admission, and among the congregation were"—here several noble Lords are named, whom I omit—"several Members of the House of Commons and a few ladies."Observer660"The execution of James Moslin took place at this prison on the 6th of September, 1838, at twelve o'clock. As early as eight o'clock in the morning, crowds of persons began to
660"Nothing could exceed the moral debasement exhibited on that occasion. The country, for the space of twenty miles around, was the night previous to the execution, overrun with persons of both sexes, of the most abandoned, dishonest, debauched, and dissolute characters. Petty robberies, of all descriptions, were committed, and the beer-shops and public-houses rang with blasphemy and obscenity. Within sight of the gallows, and while the unhappy victim was actually suspended, obscene jokes, horrible imprecations, drunkenness, and fightings were forced upon the eye and ear. On a late occasion, when two boatmen, named Owen and Thomas, were executed, the same moral pestilence was spread through the country. I trust in God, sir, your efforts may be crowned with success, for certain I am that for one person rescued from a life of crime by the sight of a public execution, twenty, by the same means, become rogues and prostitutes. Should you wish for any further information, I shall, at all times, be most happy to reply to any communication with which you may favour me. I have now held the situation of chaplain for seventeen years, and, of course, have witnessed many executions, and I can only say, that I shall hail with the greatest joy the law which ends for ever such brutal and heart-hardening exhibitions."659i. e"That no occasion was considered by pickpockets so favourable for the pursuit of their trade as executions;" adding with the experience of a practitioner, "that everybody's eyes were then on one person, and all were looking up to him."658Nouvelles recherches sur les Maladies des EspritsJournal des Tribunaux657"All the criminals executed whom I have either witnessed, or accompanied to the scaffold, have amounted nearly to fifty, and there was not a single malefactor but had seen the punishment of death inflicted, and some had seen it repeatedly. The only exceptions were three persons who were respited, and therefore not executed. I give this testimony from having asked each, and that singly, whether he had seen an execution. Some of these had been constant attendants at executions at the Old Bailey. Every criminal executed in Bristol, Gloucester, and Ilchester, that I have witnessed for nearly thirty years, has afforded no exception. Every one that I have attended had witnessed one punishment."656"The punishment of death has no terror for a common thief. Their common expressions used to be, such a one is to be 'twisted,' now it is such a one is to be 'top't.' One man whom I attempted to console told me, 'Players at bowls must expect rubbers.' Another, 'That it was only a few minutes, a kick and a struggle, and it was all over.' Others I have heard state, that they should kick Jack Ketch in their last moments.""I can hardly think it can have any moral effect, or make any advantageous impression upon the minds of persons attending these executions, when they will, even under the gallows, be often engaged in picking pockets. I apprehend that many of those who attend executions are of the most depraved and abandoned character. At some executions (he says), the people show approbation, at others there has been a cry of' Shame, shame!' and in one instance a cry of' Murder.'""Three persons were brought before me for uttering forged notes. During the investigation I discovered that these notes were obtained from a room in which the body of a person named Wheller (executed on the preceding day for uttering) then laid, and the notes in question were delivered for circulation by a woman with whom he had been living.""That it makes very little impression on the public. They appear to me to come to it as to a spectacle, and go away thinking no more about it, without some very extraordinary case or very particular crime occur; and generally, I am completely of opinion that it has not any effect by way of example. It seems to take away and blunt abhorrence against the crime, in pity and compassion for the sufferer."655"I think it a shock and a horror at the moment upon the inexperienced and young: but immediately the scene is closed, there is a forgetfulness altogether of it; but upon the
655"His procession to Tyburn, and his last moments there, are all triumphant; attended with the compassion of the meek and tenderhearted, and with the applause, admiration, and envy of all the bold and hardened. His behaviour in his present condition, not the crimes, how atrocious soever which brought him to it, is the subject of contemplation; and if he hath sense enough to temper his boldness with any degree of decency, his death is spoken of by many with honour, and by all with approbation. How far, (he adds) such an example is from being an object of terror, especially to those for whose use it is principally intended, I leave to the consideration of every rational man; whether such examples as I have described are proper to be exhibited, must be submitted to our superiors."654Gazette653felo de se652651"I think there would be great difficulty in, and very serious obstacles to, inflicting punishments of this extreme kind in private. I think such a practice would be very apt to revolt the public mind, and excite in private quarters the most rankling suspicions and the most distressing feelings.""That it does appear that more evils actually result from public executions than could occur from any other other mode of proceeding in these cases."650649Mr. Rich
l.698 said, that it was no
l.698Mr. Warburton
692 thought that great injury bad been inflicted upon our manufactures
692Mr. Morrison
689ex parte688687lsll.l686685684"That when machinery was of great bulk, and contained a great quantity of raw material, then no objection should be made to exportation, as he considered that no injury could be done to the country by it. But where the machinery was of modern improvement, and depended mainly upon the ingenuity and excellence of the mechanism, and where the raw material used was trifling, he felt that he owed it to the manufacturer to restrain as far as he could, the exportation of such machinery."683 said, that although he was by no means decided as to many of the points which had been made by his hon. Friend who had just sat down, yet he thought that the inquiry which he sought was one of the highest importance; and he had great pleasure in seconding his motion. Me would do so, because he believed it to be precisely one of those questions of difficulty, in which the assistance of a committee was essentially required, in order to discover the safe course to be pusued. The subject of inquiry was one beset with doubt and difficulty, one point only being absolutely certain, namely, that the administration of the existing law had utterly failed in realising its own object. The machinery which we wished to retain had neither been kept in the country, nor had our rivals on the continent been excluded, as we had hoped, from attaining the power and skill for producing it for themselves. The law, in fact, had become utterly inoperative, and the Legislature must speedily decide whether they would abandon the principle of prohibition altogether, or so amend and alter the law as to enable them to do that which they were now unable to do—to enforce it. The result of this inquiry must lead to one or other of these consequences, for it was quite clear the matter could not longer remain as it was; the prohibition under its present regulation, being a mere legislative delusion, so far as regarded any effectual protection to our own manufacturers, and a powerful incentive to machine-making on the continent, without being any advantage to our own machine-makers at home. He could not look back to the legislation upon this subject in 1824 and 1825, without believing it to have been either imperfect or mistaken. Indeed Mr. Huskisson himself seemed to feel its imperfection, and admitted the necessity of doing something more to simplify and strengthen the law upon the subject; but, in 1826, he justified himself to the House for declining to take any further steps then, on the ground of the alarm which might be created in the then depressed state of every branch of trade and manufacture were the question to be again mooted. That temporary impediment had long sine passed away, but, notwithstanding, no steps had ever since been taken to remedy the inconvenience admitted by Mr. Huskisson. Mr. Huskisson himself predicted, in 1824, that the
689ex parte688687lsll.l686685684"That when machinery was of great bulk, and contained a great quantity of raw material, then no objection should be made to exportation, as he considered that no injury could be done to the country by it. But where the machinery was of modern improvement, and depended mainly upon the ingenuity and excellence of the mechanism, and where the raw material used was trifling, he felt that he owed it to the manufacturer to restrain as far as he could, the exportation of such machinery."683Mr. Emerson Tennent
 entirely concurred in the object of the motion, because, although his own mind was made up as to the necessity of repealing these laws, he thought that inquiry was necessary to remove any prejudice existing in the public mind. He thought that there should be no medium between an entire prohibition and free exportation.Mr. Brotherton
 defended the policy of Mr. Huskisson, as regarded the repeal of the combination laws, and allowing mechanics to go abroad. Mr. Huskisson, though anxious to see the laws repealed which related to the exportation of machinery, had felt himself obliged to recommend that the laws should not be repealed, in consequence of the opposition of the manufacturers of machinery in this country. Had those laws been repealed, the manufacturers of machinery in this country would have been in possession of the whole continental trade for tools as well as machinery—the most lucrative trade, perhaps, in the world. Everything that had since occurred on the subject had proved the correctness of the views of Mr. Huskisson, who was deterred from advising repeal, not from any unwillingness, but from a knowledge of the extent of the prejudice of the manufacturers, with which he had to deal. He had always been convinced that the manufacturers would ultimately see their interest, and now the time was come. If the restrictions were taken off, our manufacturers would supply the greater part of the world with machinery. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Philips), who would no doubt be chairman of the committee, would endeavour so to expedite the report as that a bill could pass the House this Session.Mr. Hume
l.701 rose for the purpose of explaining what his intentions simply were. He had merely asked, whether the noble Lord would have any objection to adjourn the consideration of this question to another evening, for the purpose of hearing all the information that could possibly be given upon the matter. He would remark, that it was the first time since he had had the honour of holding a seat in Parliament that he ever heard a Member of the Government, when asked for information upon a subject then under discussion, refer to the speeches which had been made at a public meeting as his answer—that such speeches would inform
l.701Mr. Hume
 also suggested to the hon. Gentleman, that observing the sense of the House to be against him, he should withdraw his motion; at the same time he must say, that the House was greatly obliged to the hon. Gentleman for the strong and powerful case he had made out against public executions. He had proved that public executions were a nuisance—that they did more harm than good, and he recommended the noble Lord to weigh well those arguments, and to be prepared to answer them, or to acquiesce in the motion for the abolition of capital punishments when it should be brought forward. He was sure that the speech of the hon. Member would produce a great effect in the country.Mr. Hume
 was sorry that, not seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, he could not put to the noble Lord a question, to which he (Mr. Hume) received a very unsatisfactory answer a few nights ago. He wanted to know what were the objects of the expedition? Were they to plant a colony and alarm the inhabitants by taking possession of the country? Or was the expedition for the purposes of discovery? If colonization was the object, there should be more ships sent out. He thought they had better postpone the motion until the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies was present.Mr. Hume
696 said, that when the expedition was first arranged, it was intended that it should sail from this country in October. But since then the Government had learned from Captain Elliott, and other experienced persons, that during the dry season the navigation of the Niger was closed for six months. Consequently the time of departure was changed, in order that the ships should not arrive at the mouth of the river at a time when they could not enter it. The sailing of the expedition was, therefore, postponed until March, in order, first, that the smaller steamers, after crossing the Bay of Biscay, might arrive at the Niger before the dangerous weather broke out, that was at the end of June, and then they would ascend
696Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 had great pleasure, on behalf of the Board of Trade, in acceding to the motion. He had also very great pleasure in finding that the subject was in the hands of gentlemen of such experience, and who so thoroughly understood it.Mr. Sheil
642 considered that the objections of the right hon. Gentleman did not apply to the case before them. The House had on two occasions solemnly sanctioned the motion of his hon. and learned Friend, and it was shameful now if they had not the moral courage to put the parties in the way of getting satisfaction for their claims. The right hon. Gentleman did not deny, that the decision of the House had been in their favour, but his objection was, that he himself had taken a different view of the case. He thought it most unjust in the right hon. Gentleman to withhold his assistance from the parties in obtaining their money. The right hon. Gentleman had relied upon the first division, in 1836, when the majority was against the claims; but the right hon. Gentleman did not state what the amount of the majority was, or what were the numbers in the House. He knew that discussion had taken place at the close of the Session, when there were not one hundred Members in town—and when the majority did not exceed eight. Now it was perfectly well known that the greater number of the Members attending the House at the close of the Session were the friends of Ministers, and it was therefore impossible to suppose, that such a decision would at all weigh against the decisions which the House had twice come to since. On those
642Mr. Ingham
coram oculos668667 was certain that every hon. Member in the House would do justice to the excellent motives of his hon. Friend the Member for Knaresborough. He, with many others, had fully arrived at the same conclusion as the hon. Member, that the public execution of criminals was a great
coram oculos668667Mr. Ewart
 was satisfied that the prohibiting the exportation of machinery was only driving the foreigner to manufacture his own machines. It would have been of the greatest advantage to this country if a measure for the removal of this restriction had been passed when it was proposed in 1824. It was the opinion of all the authorities of the Board of Customs, that it was impossible to prevent the exportation of machinery, and that the laws that existed on the subject only operated as an impediment, and tended to enhance the price to the foreigner. The amount, then, of this difference of price operated as a premium to the manufacturer of machinery on the continent. Until 1750 there were no restrictions on the exportation of tools or machinery, and no evil was found to have arisen from the then state of things. When the subject was before the House in 1824, Mr. Huskisson observed, that as long as they allowed artisans to go out of the country, it was of no use to endeavour to prevent the exportation of machinery.Mr. Ewart
l said, with respect to insurance offices, when they insured property they received premiums according to the risk which they ran. He would join issue with the right hon. Gentleman opposite as to the very grounds on which these claims were opposed—because those ships' cargoes were insured, the claim ought to be refused. Now four or five times the amount of premium would have been charged had the case which took place been contemplated, and therefore the right hon. Gentleman's argument would not stand. He conceived, that when the House, by a majority of three to one, in the year 1839, directed that the commissioner should proceed and adjudicate on the claims, it substantially decided, that those claims ought to be paid, and were just. The right hon. Gentleman ought not to represent this as a question between the House of Commons and the merchants of Liverpool. It was a question that concerned all the traders of the kingdom. The question to be decided was, whether the merchants and shipowners of England should have justice done to them by the payment of 250,000lAlderman Thompson,
 said, his noble Friend had sought all information upon the subject, upon the best authority. The former expedition had, by attempting to enter the river in April, and afterwards in May, when the water was low, been compelled to remain in the Delta, to the great injury of the health of the crews of the vessels composing the expedition, which it was hoped would this year be avoided by entering the river later, when there was a greater depth of water for steam navigation.Admiral Adam
643 said, in voting as he intended for the present motion, he wished to guard himself from being supposed as pledged hereafter to vote for compensation to private individuals in case of losses consequent upon war. The facts of the present case were special, and as such he considered himself at liberty to pursue the course he then followed. The claims made
643Sir C. Grey
638l.l.llCresswell637l.l.l.636635 was sorry, after what the hon. and learned Gentleman had said, to announce that he should not only follow the course of his predecessor upon this question, but was fully prepared to appeal for support and approbation to the House, and even to the country at large. The hon. and learned
638l.l.llCresswell637l.l.l.636635The Chancellor of the Exchequer
682681bonâ fide680679bonâ fide678"The obvious evil arising from the present law has been, to encourage the exportation of machinery by all the illegal and deceptive measures which the chicanery and cupidity of man can devise. It is a monstrous fact that all our machinery is diffused over other countries almost as readily as over our own, and that every improvement is transferred as soon as it is discovered, either by the aid of the smuggler or the draftsman. Bulky machinery is regularly smuggled out at a premium of 40 to 50 per cent., and small machinery at a premium of 10 to 25 per cent. The average premium for smuggling out the whole of the machinery for a cotton mill is 25 per cent."67767667554,000In 1840 it had increased to
54,000In 1840 it had increased to7,690In 1831 the value of machinery exported to North and South America, exclusive of British possessions, was
7,690In 1831 the value of machinery exported to North and South America, exclusive of British possessions, was253,177Machinery exported to Europe in 1840
253,177Machinery exported to Europe in 1840£19,255Machinery exported to Europe in 1831
£19,255Machinery exported to Europe in 1831
54,000In 1840 it had increased to
54,000In 1840 it had increased to7,690In 1831 the value of machinery exported to North and South America, exclusive of British possessions, was
7,690In 1831 the value of machinery exported to North and South America, exclusive of British possessions, was253,177Machinery exported to Europe in 1840
253,177Machinery exported to Europe in 1840£19,255Machinery exported to Europe in 1831
£19,255Machinery exported to Europe in 1831ll674673"He had listened with great attention to the statements of his hon. Friend on a subject which was certainly of great importance, that was with regard to the exportation of machinery, for himself, he was certainly inclined to think, that such a repeal would be very advantageous; but he well knew, that a strong persuasion existed among a large body of the manufacturers, that it would be attended with the greatest injury to their interests. He had no doubt that the expected report of the committee would throw great light upon the subject; and enable it to be more distinctly seen how far the superiority of our manufactures was attributable to machinery, and how far to other causes. It ought to be recollected, that we had already permitted the free exportation of labour. Our mechanics might go whither they chose, and why the exportation of machinery should be placed on a different footing he was at a loss to conceive. He was, however, disposed, in the present state of alarm on the part of the manufacturers, on this subject, to treat the matter with as much delicacy as possible, and he was by no means disposed to propose the repeal of the existing prohibition without further enquiry. He could not help adverting to his hon. Friend's (Mr. Littleton's) observation, that he should not object to the repeal of the prohibition, provided the Board of Trade were empowered to use their discretion with respect to the articles of machinery to be exported. He felt very considerable doubt with respect to the expediency of such a course. It would throw on the Board of Trade a most invidious task, and would inundate them with applications, on the merits of many of which they would find it exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to decide. He could also assure his hon. Friend, that as the Board of Trade was at present constituted, it had as many duties to discharge as it could well get through."672"Although your committee are impressed with the opinion, that tools and machinery should be regulated on the same principles as other articles of manufacture, yet, inasmuch as there exist objections in the minds of many of our manufacturers on this subject, which deserve the attention of the Legislature, and as it is possible that circumstances may exist which may render a prohibition to export certain tools and machines, used in some particular manufacture, expedient, your committee beg to recommend, that until an alteration can be made in the laws on this subject, his Majesty's Privy Council should continue to exercise their discretion in permitting the exportation of all such tools and machines, now
672671 having presented a petition, signed by 1,960 inhabitants, manufacturers, &c., of Manchester and Salford, for the free exportation of machinery, said, I rise in pursuance of the notice in your hand, Sir, to move the appointment of a select committee, for the purpose of inquiring into the operation of the existing laws affecting the exportation of machinery. The machine-makers of this country have for many years considered these laws decidedly injurious to their interests, restraining them from the full exercise of their talents and mechanical ingenuity, circumscribing the advantageous employment of their capital, and restricting the enterprise of one of the most important branches of our national industry. They have petitioned the House in great numbers—I may say almost to a man—praying that the existing laws which oppose these obstacles may be revised or repealed; and the petitions are not confined to the master machine-makers, but they have been drawn up and signed by large bodies of the operative mechanics also, who feel that they share a common interest with their employers, in every thing which concerns the prosperity and extension of that branch of trade in which they are engaged. Before I proceed to state in detail the arguments which are advanced by these parties in favour of a repeal of the laws which prevent the free exportation of machinery, it is perhaps desirable that I should recall to the recollection of the House the proceedings of its select committee appointed in the year 1824, to inquire into the then state of the law respecting the emigration of artizans, the exportation of machinery, and the effects of the combination laws. That committee, after a long and laborious examination of witnesses, reported to the House, on the 21st of May, 1824, their decided conviction of the impolicy of the laws relating to the combinations of workmen and the emigration of artizans. The House of Commons,
682681bonâ fide680679bonâ fide678"The obvious evil arising from the present law has been, to encourage the exportation of machinery by all the illegal and deceptive measures which the chicanery and cupidity of man can devise. It is a monstrous fact that all our machinery is diffused over other countries almost as readily as over our own, and that every improvement is transferred as soon as it is discovered, either by the aid of the smuggler or the draftsman. Bulky machinery is regularly smuggled out at a premium of 40 to 50 per cent., and small machinery at a premium of 10 to 25 per cent. The average premium for smuggling out the whole of the machinery for a cotton mill is 25 per cent."67767667554,000In 1840 it had increased to
54,000In 1840 it had increased to7,690In 1831 the value of machinery exported to North and South America, exclusive of British possessions, was
7,690In 1831 the value of machinery exported to North and South America, exclusive of British possessions, was253,177Machinery exported to Europe in 1840
253,177Machinery exported to Europe in 1840£19,255Machinery exported to Europe in 1831
£19,255Machinery exported to Europe in 1831
54,000In 1840 it had increased to
54,000In 1840 it had increased to7,690In 1831 the value of machinery exported to North and South America, exclusive of British possessions, was
7,690In 1831 the value of machinery exported to North and South America, exclusive of British possessions, was253,177Machinery exported to Europe in 1840
253,177Machinery exported to Europe in 1840£19,255Machinery exported to Europe in 1831
£19,255Machinery exported to Europe in 1831ll674673"He had listened with great attention to the statements of his hon. Friend on a subject which was certainly of great importance, that was with regard to the exportation of machinery, for himself, he was certainly inclined to think, that such a repeal would be very advantageous; but he well knew, that a strong persuasion existed among a large body of the manufacturers, that it would be attended with the greatest injury to their interests. He had no doubt that the expected report of the committee would throw great light upon the subject; and enable it to be more distinctly seen how far the superiority of our manufactures was attributable to machinery, and how far to other causes. It ought to be recollected, that we had already permitted the free exportation of labour. Our mechanics might go whither they chose, and why the exportation of machinery should be placed on a different footing he was at a loss to conceive. He was, however, disposed, in the present state of alarm on the part of the manufacturers, on this subject, to treat the matter with as much delicacy as possible, and he was by no means disposed to propose the repeal of the existing prohibition without further enquiry. He could not help adverting to his hon. Friend's (Mr. Littleton's) observation, that he should not object to the repeal of the prohibition, provided the Board of Trade were empowered to use their discretion with respect to the articles of machinery to be exported. He felt very considerable doubt with respect to the expediency of such a course. It would throw on the Board of Trade a most invidious task, and would inundate them with applications, on the merits of many of which they would find it exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to decide. He could also assure his hon. Friend, that as the Board of Trade was at present constituted, it had as many duties to discharge as it could well get through."672"Although your committee are impressed with the opinion, that tools and machinery should be regulated on the same principles as other articles of manufacture, yet, inasmuch as there exist objections in the minds of many of our manufacturers on this subject, which deserve the attention of the Legislature, and as it is possible that circumstances may exist which may render a prohibition to export certain tools and machines, used in some particular manufacture, expedient, your committee beg to recommend, that until an alteration can be made in the laws on this subject, his Majesty's Privy Council should continue to exercise their discretion in permitting the exportation of all such tools and machines, now
672671Mr. Mark Philips
639l. hoped, that in taking the subject into consideration they would argue it on its own merits, and would not be misled by those arguments foreign to the question, which the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had introduced in his speech. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that the amount of these claims was extremely large, and so endeavoured to make an impression on the House. These claims had undergone a most rigorous investigation, and the House would perhaps be surprised to hear, that the amount of the debts amounted to no more than 225,000639l.Sir Walter James
634l.ex parte said, I rise for the purpose of seconding this motion. It has been with feelings of regret that I have for some time observed the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer give to this subject the same opposition as his predecessors, and adopt all the 634l.ex parteMr. Hutt
695694693 rose to call the attention of the House to the sailing of the proposed expedition from this country to the river Niger. He did not mean to enter into details respecting the policy or expediency, nor would he question the principle upon which the undertaking was founded. His chief desire, at present, was, to direct the attention of the House to the late, and, in his opinion, ill-selected and dangerous period at which the expedition was announced to sail from this country, on its perilous enterprise. Were he even much more competent to go into the details of this measure than he felt
695694693Lord Ingestre
703 in reply, said he was glad the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had called his attention to another matter. It was stated by Mr. Fowell Buxton, that this expedition should advance to the distance of 2,500 miles up the Niger. Now Captain Bearcroft had only been able to go the distance of 500 miles up the river, and then found the obstacles that met him so insurmountable, he could get no further. He thought, that the Government should postpone this expedition; if they did not, the money which had been voted for it would be completely thrown away. They should use some part of it in exploring and pioneering the way for the expedition to go out on the following year. There was no immediate haste for it. It was better not to undertake it at all than
703Viscount Ingestre,
 begged to inquire of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether he could give the House any information as to when it was probable that the Treaty with Texas would arrive?Mr. O'Connell
 under those circumstances, begged to withdraw the motion of which he had given notice for that evening, for "An address for the production of any treaty between her Majesty and the persons called the State of Texas, and to call the attention of the House to the state of the relations between this country and these persons;" and to give fresh notice that he would on that day fortnight, call the attention of the House to the state of the relations between this country and the States of Mexico and Texas.Mr. O'Connell
 expressed his astonishment that the Admiralty should hesitate, for one moment, to acknowledge services which had been so favourably spoken of by a commission appointed to inquire into the matter, and recommended by the most experienced naval officers. The Admiralty would incur a serious responsibility if they did not immediately give an order for fitting these conductors to every ship in the navy.Captain A'Court
"That a humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying, that she will be graciously pleased to direct, that this House be informed whether any and what measures have been taken for giving effect to this recommendation."JOHN FINCHAM, master shipwright.'J. F. DANIELL, Prof. of chemistry.JAMES CLARKE ROSS, captain.JAMES A. GORDON, rear-admiral.(Signed) 'A. M. GRIFFITHS, rear-admiral."'We have, &c."That it appears to this House, that, a commission was appointed, in May, 1839, by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiraly, to inquire into the plan of William Snow Harris, Esq., F. R. S., for the protection of ships from the effects of lightning. That the report of that commission, which was presented to this House by command of her Majesty, on the 24th day of January, 1840, contains the following recommendation: 'Having now completed our remarks on the several points to which their Lordships' instructions directed our attention, we trust we have shown from the evidence of facts, derived from the experience of many years, as well as by the opinions not only of scientific, but of professional men, the efficacy of Mr. Harris's lightning conductors, and considering the number of lives which have been lost by lightning; the immense amount of property which has been destroyed, as shown by Mr. Harris, and is still exposed without adequate protection; the inconvenience which has arisen, and is still liable to arise, from the loss of the services of ships at moments of great and critical importance; the difficulty of procuring new spars in times of war on foreign stations (not to mention the great expense of wages and victuals for the crews of ships while rendered useless till repaired); we again beg leave to state our unanimous opinion of the great advantages possessed by Mr. Harris's plan above every other plan, affording permanent security at all times, and under all circumstances, against the injurious effects of lightning, effecting this protection without any nautical inconvenience or scientific objection whatever; and we therefore most earnestly recommend their general adoption in the Royal navy.711710l.l.,709"Having now completed our remarks on the several points to which their Lordships' instructions directed our attention, we trust we have shown from the evidence of facts, derived from the experience of many years, as well as by the opinions, not only of scientific but of professional men, the efficacy of Mr. Harris's lightning conductors; and, considering the number of lives which have been lost by lightning, the immense amount of property which has been destroyed, as shown by Mr. Harris, and is still exposed without adequate protection; the inconvenience which has arisen, and is still liable to arise, from the loss of the services of ships at moments of great and critical importance: the difficulty of procuring new spars in times of war on foreign stations (not to mention the great expense of wages and victuals for the crews of ships while rendered useless till repaired); we again beg leave to state our unanimous opinion of the great advantages possessed by Mr. Harris's plan above every other plan, affording permanent security at all times, and under all circumstances, against the injurious effects of lightning, effecting this protection without any nautical incouvenience or scientific objection whatever; and we, therefore, most earnestly recommend their general adoption in the Royal navy."708 hoped he should receive the indulgence of the House whilst he called its attention to a subject in which much interest was generally felt. It might be recollected, that in the month of April, 1839, he (Lord Eliot) moved for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the merits of the plan of Mr. Snow Harris, for the protection of ships from the effects
"That a humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying, that she will be graciously pleased to direct, that this House be informed whether any and what measures have been taken for giving effect to this recommendation."JOHN FINCHAM, master shipwright.'J. F. DANIELL, Prof. of chemistry.JAMES CLARKE ROSS, captain.JAMES A. GORDON, rear-admiral.(Signed) 'A. M. GRIFFITHS, rear-admiral."'We have, &c."That it appears to this House, that, a commission was appointed, in May, 1839, by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiraly, to inquire into the plan of William Snow Harris, Esq., F. R. S., for the protection of ships from the effects of lightning. That the report of that commission, which was presented to this House by command of her Majesty, on the 24th day of January, 1840, contains the following recommendation: 'Having now completed our remarks on the several points to which their Lordships' instructions directed our attention, we trust we have shown from the evidence of facts, derived from the experience of many years, as well as by the opinions not only of scientific, but of professional men, the efficacy of Mr. Harris's lightning conductors, and considering the number of lives which have been lost by lightning; the immense amount of property which has been destroyed, as shown by Mr. Harris, and is still exposed without adequate protection; the inconvenience which has arisen, and is still liable to arise, from the loss of the services of ships at moments of great and critical importance; the difficulty of procuring new spars in times of war on foreign stations (not to mention the great expense of wages and victuals for the crews of ships while rendered useless till repaired); we again beg leave to state our unanimous opinion of the great advantages possessed by Mr. Harris's plan above every other plan, affording permanent security at all times, and under all circumstances, against the injurious effects of lightning, effecting this protection without any nautical inconvenience or scientific objection whatever; and we therefore most earnestly recommend their general adoption in the Royal navy.711710l.l.,709"Having now completed our remarks on the several points to which their Lordships' instructions directed our attention, we trust we have shown from the evidence of facts, derived from the experience of many years, as well as by the opinions, not only of scientific but of professional men, the efficacy of Mr. Harris's lightning conductors; and, considering the number of lives which have been lost by lightning, the immense amount of property which has been destroyed, as shown by Mr. Harris, and is still exposed without adequate protection; the inconvenience which has arisen, and is still liable to arise, from the loss of the services of ships at moments of great and critical importance: the difficulty of procuring new spars in times of war on foreign stations (not to mention the great expense of wages and victuals for the crews of ships while rendered useless till repaired); we again beg leave to state our unanimous opinion of the great advantages possessed by Mr. Harris's plan above every other plan, affording permanent security at all times, and under all circumstances, against the injurious effects of lightning, effecting this protection without any nautical incouvenience or scientific objection whatever; and we, therefore, most earnestly recommend their general adoption in the Royal navy."708Lord Eliot
l said in reply, as the gallant Admiral opposite had said the Government considered 7,000lLord Eliot
707 replied, that despatches had been received within the last two days from the Governor-general of Canada, stating that there had been some delay in the proclamation of the union; but that he expected to proclaim it on the 8th or 9th of this present month of February. There would be no objection to lay the despatch relating to that subject on the Table of the House; but he did not think that the despatches received during the recess contained any matter of such public interest as would call for their production. There were, however, some recent despatches relating to emigration, and con-
707Lord J. Russell
 stated, that amongst the ordinances laid on the Table of the House, on the 29th January, was included the ordinance respecting the seminary of St. Sulpice, and that the space of twenty days, during which the House was precluded from entering upon the subject, would count from the day on which the ordinances were laid on the Table. With respect to the printing of the ordinance relating to the seminary of St. Sulpice, it was not usual that documents of that nature should be printed.Lord John Russell
: I shall make no objection to its being printed; but it is not my intention to move that it be printed.Lord John Russell
 could not conceive how a more public notification could be given, than bringing the ordinance up to the Table of the House, laying it upon the Table, and inserting the fact of its being so laid upon the Table in the votes and proceedings of the House.Lord J. Russell
 moved the second reading of Lord Keane's Annuity Bill.Lord Seymour
 promised inquiry, but he apprehended that, in consequence of the large increase in the number of letters, the mails could not afford to give as much accommodation for these parcels as formerly.Lord Seymour
 had no objection to lay on the Table every information respecting the services of Lord Keane; but he could not give any positive opinion in the absence of the Secretary at War.Lord Seymour
 should be glad to see an alteration in the existing law, and was of opinion, that a clause might with advantage be introduced, providing that notes should be taken of all cases, particularly those of great importance, which he hoped to allude to on a future occasion. He believed, from the information conveyed through the public press —and he had read it with great care, and believed it to be correct—that it was desirable the public should be made acquainted with the transactions which took place before the coroner by some authentic record for that purpose.Colonel Sibthorp
ll remarked, that he understood the receipts of the Post-office in Ireland had been reduced by the late alteration from 600.000llMr. Shaw
 wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, whether it were the intention of the Government to introduce any measure relating to the officers of the superior courts of law in Dublin, so as to place them in the same situation as the similar class of officers in Westminster-hall, particularly with respect to superannuation allowances.Mr. Shaw
 thanked his hon. Friend for his proposed bill. He thought that at present a coroner was an officer of a most anomalous character, and that, therefore, an alteration should be made in the law. It was exceedingly desirable that there should be a legislative enactment, defining the duties of the coroner, more than they were at present; and he considered that the alteration in the mode of taking the elections, as contemplated by the proposed bill, would be a great improvement. There was one suggestion, however, which he wished to make, and it was, that, in case of illness, or of great emergency, the coroner for a county should be allowed to exercise his office by deputy. He also thought that some alteration in the mode of summoning juries should be adopted.Mr. Gally Knight
726 would not offer any opposition to bringing in the bill. So far as it went in giving greater facilities for holding the polls—for instance, instead of one polling place, giving several districts, in each of which there should be a poll— he should not object to it; but when the hon. Member spoke of narrowing the franchise, and cutting down the freeholders, who were the old constituents for counties—when he spoke of cutting down that constituency to the standard of the Reform Act, and introducing the system of registration, with all its vexations—he did hope, when the bill came to the second reading, it would meet with the most dogged resistance from the House. In looking at the business which came before the coroner, it would at once be seen how desirable it was that the franchise should be of the widest possible nature. It ap-
726Mr. Warburton
 observed, that there was some confusion in the manner in which the present motion was brought before the House, for it involved two distinct questions—the first of which was, why, after such a favourable report had been made by those appointed to examine the nature and value of Mr. Snow Harris's invention, conductors upon his plan had not been adopted in her Majesty's ships; and the second question which had arisen was, why, after such an unqualified admission of Mr. Harris's merits, he had not been adequately compensated? Now, when this subject was last before the House, there was no question as to the adequacy of metallic conductors to afford protection to vessels at sea; that was generally admitted; the only question mooted was, whether such protection was necessary at all times, and which was the best metallic conductor. What did the report of the commission, expressly appointed to examine the subject, say? Not only that Mr. Harris's conductor was good, but that it was superior to every other that had been invented. The hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty had told the House that other plans besides Mr. Harris's had been under consideration before the Board of Admiralty, and that the merits of these various proposals were still undergoing investigation. The hon. Member the Secretary to the Admiralty had gone much further than that, for he had thrown a doubt over the utility of all metallic conductors, by informing the House j that the York packet had been protected during a thunder storm at sea from the effects of a second stroke of lightning, notwithstanding a first stroke had fused her metallic conductor.Mr. Warburton
716: The question, however, at issue was, whether it was not prudent to have a conductor at all times on board ships, and whether it was not possible, by their size, to provide against the risk of their being fused by the electric fluid, and thus endangering the safety of the ship. That would entirely depend on the strength of the electric current, and the merit of Mr. Harris's plan for providing
716Mr. Warburton
728l.l727 moved for leave to bring in a bill for rendering a release as effectual for the conveyance of freehold estates, as a lease and release by the same parties. The most usual plan of conveyance at present in existence was this. First, the party selling conveyed the estate to the purchaser, by a lease for a year, and
728l.l727Mr. James Stewart
 observed that Government were always more ready to reward plans for sacrificing, than those for saving human life.Mr. Collier
 said, that in the present state of the House, it was not his intention to oppose the further progress of this bill. Every thing which had come to his knowledge since the bill was last before the House, confirmed him in the opinion that it ought not to pass. The reward was disproportioned to the service. It was setting up a bad principle, and acting with gross injustice towards those whose services had been much more valuable. The committee to consider of the abolition of naval and military sinecures, had recommended that they should be abolished, but that a certain amount should be reserved for what were called good services; and that there should be laid on the Table a record of those service. Would the noble Lord lay the record on the Table, in conformity with the recommendation of that committee? When that was on the Table, Members would be better able to judge how far it was right that this bill should pass.Mr. Hume
dssds said, his complaint was, that the parcels were taken by force from those who would deliver them free, and that they were then charged with the foreign postage; so that a pamphlet worth 1dssdsMr. Hume
s would not oppose the introduction of the bill of the hon. Gentleman; but he begged the hon. Gentleman to understand, that he did not concur in the opinion he had expressed with regard to narrowing the right of voting, and placing that right solely on the elective franchise of the Reform Bill, which meant, that no freeholder should be allowed to vote for a coroner unless his freehold was of the value of 40sMr. Hume
slsl729 took that opportunity of complaining that of late a very convenient practice relating to parcels coming from abroad had been broken through. When pamphlets and papers came from abroad, they were, on landing, seized by the Post-
slsl729Mr. Hume
ls725 had seconded the motion of his hon. Friend because he thought the law affecting coroners required to be altered; and he trusted his hon. Friend would extend his bill to Ireland, for the common law of the land upon this subject was the same in both countries. All the freeholders of the
ls725Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 explained, that what he meant to say, if he had not so stated, was, that the second stroke had fused the conductor, and the inference which he had drawn was, that any metallic conductor afforded a degree of security to a ship at sea in a thunder storm.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
l.l.l.,l.,l713l.l.l712 said, that as there could be no possible objection to the motion of the noble Lord, he should not have thought it necessary to trouble the House with any observations if the speech of the noble Lord did not seem to imply a considerable censure upon the Admiralty. He did not deny that great merit was due to Mr. Harris for the exertions which he had made during the last fifteen or sixteen years to draw the attention of her
l.l.l.,l.,l713l.l.l712Mr. More O'Ferrall
 moved for returns of the number of letters passing through the Post-office of the United Kingdom in the years ending November 1839, 1840, and 1841: and also the number of money orders issued in the three months ending February, 1839, 1840, and 1841.Mr. Wallace
 said, that the House was indebted to his hon. friend for undertaking this measure, and explaining it as he had done, and he trusted that the end of it would be to secure a legal reform.Mr. Ewart
722ll said, the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken wished to carry the adoption of this invention further than Mr. Harris himself. Mr. Harris only asked for its gradual introduction into the navy, while the hon. Gentleman would have it universally adopted at once. Now, several ships had been fitted on Mr. Harris's principle, although it was true that an equal number had been fitted up on another plan. That new invention was a perfect lightning conductor, and it had not been tried without the sanction of scientific men, while the fact was, that it might have been adopted without any infringement, even although Mr. Harris had obtained twenty patents. Mr. Harris's plan had been partially adopted in the navy, and there was certainly no reason why it should not be further applied. He allowed that economy in such matters ought to be a secondary consideration, but Mr. Harris, in his letter to the Admiralty, had stated his loss and the value of his scientific labour at 7,000722llSir C. Adam
721ll. could not well understand the answers which the Secretary to the Admiralty had given either in that House on the present motion, or that which he had been directed, in his official capacity, by the Board of Admiralty, to give to the letter requiring compensation which Mr. Harris had written to that department. In the answer alluded to it had been acknowledged, indeed, that Mr. Harris had been the first to direct attention to this subject. If that was indeed only what Mr. Harris had done, he might be entitled to some remuneration, but Mr. Harris had done much more than that. He had discovered the best method of obviating the danger. The commission had stated that distinctly in their report. It had been said, indeed, that the reason why he was not rewarded was, that the experiments the Admiralty were carrying on had not been yet perfected. Now, what were the facts of the case? Twenty years ago Mr. Harris had drawn attention to this matter, and now for ten years his plan had been adopted in the navy. No improvement had been suggested upon this plan until Mr. Harris had called upon the Admiralty to reward him for his discovery, and compensate him for the actual losses he had been at in perfecting his invention. At the time he had laid the matter before the Admiralty, he had been told that it would be necessary to wait, until they knew what the result of it would be. That period of delay had now lasted ten years, during which time Mr. Harris had lost from between 2,000721ll.Sir C. Lemon
705 rose for the purpose of withdrawing the motion he had given notice of with reference to the presentation of an address to her most gracious Majesty, that she would be pleased to
705Sir F. Burdett
 under those circumstances, felt bound to ask the noble Lord whether it was his intention to have the ordinance printed.Mr. Pakington,
706 before the notices of motion were proceeded with, begged to put a question to the noble Lord the Colonial Secretary, upon a matter of some importance as connected with Lower Canada. He would remind the noble Lord that on the 29th of January last certain ordinances, passed by the Government and Council of Lower Canada, were placed on the Table of that House. He wished to ask whether the ordinance relating to the seminary of St. Sulpice was included amongst those so laid upon the table; if so, whether it was necessary that that ordinance should be before Parliament for the space of twenty days prior to any step being taken by Parliament in reference to it; and whether those twenty days were to count from the time at
706Mr. Pakington,
724723 said, that in asking leave to move for a Bill to alter the mode of electing County Coroners, he hoped he should not be considered guilty of any impropriety if he expressed his regret, that her Majesty's Government had not themselves taken up the question, and introduced a bill respecting it. Three years ago, he proposed a motion upon the subject, though on a different principle; but the noble Lord, now the Secretary for the Colonies, and then Secretary for the Home Department, acknowledged, that the state of the law relating to coroners required alteration, and that it was only on account of want of lime, that the Government had not' taken it up themselves. He believed
724723Mr. Pakington
 remarked, that his principal object in introducing this bill was in the first place, to prevent fraud, and in the next place, to reduce the expenditure.Mr. Pakington
l.,720 thought it was rather extraordinary that so many hon. Gentlemen in that House, who differed upon so many other matters, should have concurred in opinion upon the present subject of discussion. This was purely a matter concerning the advancement of useful science, and was one amongst the few that he and the hon. Member for Bridport thought alike on. He had, completely uninfluenced by any political motives, either in or out of that House, given the present subject his most careful investigation, and he had no hesitation in saying, that it appeared to him that Mr. Harris's plan was universally approved of. Now, if there was such a concurrent testimony in its favour, of men on all sides of the House, he did
l.,720Sir R. Inglis
"We have considered all these plans, and have come to the conclusion that Mr. Snow Harris's plan has a decided superiority over all the others, and we most distinctly state our unanimous opinion of the great advantage possessed by it over every other."718"Having given the lightning conductors of Mr. Harris a considerable trial during the Beagle's last voyage, I believe it is proper to transmit to you the accompanying report.— ' Previously to sailing from England in 1831, the Beagle was fitted with the permanent lightning conductors invented by Mr. W. S. Harris. During the five years occupied in her voyage, she was frequently exposed to lightning, but never received the slightest damage, although supposed to have been struck on two occasions. At each of these times, at the instant of a vivid flash of lightning, accompanied by a crashing peal of thunder, a hissing sound was heard distinctly on the masts, and a strange, though very slightly tremulous motion in the ship herself, indicated that something unusual had happened. No objection which appeared to me valid was raised against them, and were I allowed to choose between having masts so fitted, and the contrary, I should decide in favour of those with Mr. Harris's conductors. Even in such small spars as the Beagle's royal masts and flying gib-boom, the plates of copper held their places firmly, and increased, rather than diminished the strength of the spars."717 said, when his noble Friend had at first proposed that a committee of that House should be nominated to inquire into and report upon Mr. Snow Harris's plan for preserving vessels from the evil effects of lightning, he had suggested that the mast proper tribunal to appoint for that purpose would be one composed of naval and scientific gentlemen, who by their superior knowledge could form the best and most correct judgment of the comparative merits of all the plans submitted to them. This suggestion had been accordingly adopted, and a commission had been appointed. Now it was perfectly open to the Admiralty, if they
"We have considered all these plans, and have come to the conclusion that Mr. Snow Harris's plan has a decided superiority over all the others, and we most distinctly state our unanimous opinion of the great advantage possessed by it over every other."718"Having given the lightning conductors of Mr. Harris a considerable trial during the Beagle's last voyage, I believe it is proper to transmit to you the accompanying report.— ' Previously to sailing from England in 1831, the Beagle was fitted with the permanent lightning conductors invented by Mr. W. S. Harris. During the five years occupied in her voyage, she was frequently exposed to lightning, but never received the slightest damage, although supposed to have been struck on two occasions. At each of these times, at the instant of a vivid flash of lightning, accompanied by a crashing peal of thunder, a hissing sound was heard distinctly on the masts, and a strange, though very slightly tremulous motion in the ship herself, indicated that something unusual had happened. No objection which appeared to me valid was raised against them, and were I allowed to choose between having masts so fitted, and the contrary, I should decide in favour of those with Mr. Harris's conductors. Even in such small spars as the Beagle's royal masts and flying gib-boom, the plates of copper held their places firmly, and increased, rather than diminished the strength of the spars."717Sir R. Peel
 wished to ask the noble Lord whether any despatches had been received from the Canadas of a later date than those laid before Parliament in the course of the last Session; and especially whether the Colonial-office had recently received any respecting the union of the two provinces.Sir R. Peel
 thought, that although the noble Lord was not bound to print the ordinance, yet that he certainly was bound to give a notification of its being laid upon the table.Sir R. Peel
719 said, this question had very properly been characterised by the noble Lord who had introduced the present motion as one of the greatest importance. Indeed, no one who had not personal experience of the dangers to which vessels were subjected from lightning, or were not acquainted with the effects of
719Sir T. Cochrane
l.714 could understand the reluctance of the Government to come before that House with proposals for making grants of the public money, but he could not comprehend why the Board of Admiralty, after the elaborate report of the commission on Mr. Harris's plan of constructing lightning conductors, and the unqualified and unanimous approval recorded by the Members of that commission, should have experienced any difficulty in adopting a plan based on such scientific principles, and in rewarding adequately its inventor. The hon. Member, the Secretary for the Admiralty, had told the House that the reason for their not doing so was, that there were other kinds of conductors under consideration. But it was not fair to Mr. Harris to mix other plans with his. The hon. Member had also stated, that safety existed where any
l.714Lord Ingestre
 reminded the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs of the assurance he had last year given the House upon the subject of international copyright, and begged to inquire whether the noble Lord still kept that subject in sight, and whether there was any probability of the negotiations into which he might have entered in reference to it, being brought to a speedy and favourable close.Viscount Mahon
 replied, that the Government was quite friendly to the principle of assimilation between the salaries and superannuations of law officers in England and Ireland. But the Treasury had thought it right to institute some inquiries as to the mode of proceeding, and the scale of payments in the Irish law courts. Until the result of those inquiries was ascertained, he should not be prepared with any proposition upon the subject.Viscount Morpeth
 said, that if the noble Lord had had the kindness to give him notice of his intention of putting the question, he would very gladly have answered him. Speaking upon the moment he could only say that he did not think that any of the negotiations had yet come to a conclusion. He would, however, inform himself more particularly upon the subject and reply to the question to-morrow.Viscount Palmerston
 replied, that the treaty had been sent to Texas three months ago, and that he hoped it would be ratified by the Congress in the course of the month of January; as yet, however, it had not been received in this country.Viscount Palmerston
 protested against the plea put forward on behalf of the Government, that although a discovery was admitted to be very great and very useful, no reward should be given for it until it should be ascertained that it was not possible, in the nature of things to improve upon it.Viscount Sandon
743 said, he was not aware of
743Mr. V. Smith
 saw no connection between this case and those contemplated by the committee on pensions.Sir J. C. Hobbouse
 answered that a measure upon the subject had been agreed upon, and would be brought forward by the Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords. Whether it might not be necessary also to introduce a bill regarding church rates into the House of Commons, he was not prepared to say.Lord J. Russell
 was aware that difficulties had arisen in two or three large towns, and he believed it would be necessary to introduce a measure on the subject.Lord J. Russell
 could have no objection: such a statement could only be honourable to Lord Keane.Lord J. Russell
 moved the second reading of this bill.Lord J. Russell
sss759Cheersl.l.l.l. did not think it necessary to state his views upon that point until the House went into committee on the bill, but it might be some comfort to the hon. and gallant Member to be informed that there would be a considerable saving under the new plan. At present the cost of registration was about 35,000sss759Cheersl.l.l.l.Lord J. Russell
 said, he had no intention to press the second reading to-night. He might now state, that in the committee it was his intention to propose to strike out all that part of the bill relating to chymists and druggists.Mr. Hawes
 would then withdraw the bill, and ask leave to introduce an amended measure.Mr. Hawes
 wished to know whether government intended to bring forward any measure for the reform of the ecclesiastical courts as regarded church rates? It was of great importance that the jurisdiction of those courts in this respect should be limited.Mr. Hawes
 thought, as the hon. Gentleman proposed to postpone the bill, that he ought to state that the clauses relating to chymists and druggists, being clauses which affected trade, should have been brought in in the committee of the whole House. The more proper way now would be to bring in a new bill.The Speaker
 referred to certain salaries named in the bill, and expressed his desire to learn from the noble Lord what they were likely to amount to? He was prepared to be astonished at very little from the other side of the House, but he should still be surprised if the noble Lord had not yet made up his mind on the point, after having proceeded thus far with his bill.Colonel Sibthorp
762 referred to a petition he had presented from Leeds regarding the registration of voters in municipal corporations. From that petition it appeared, that the measure had completely broken down during the last registration, and the voting was obliged to be taken according to the registration of the preceding year.
762Mr. Baines
753No752J. Russelll751750749748747746745prima facie744bonâ fide in calling attention to the provisions of the bill, begged to assure the House that he and those at his (the Opposition) side were as anxious as hon. Members on the other side to correct the errors of the present system of registration, and to have a 753No752J. Russelll751750749748747746745prima facie744bonâ fideSir E. Sugden,
757 did not mean to enlarge on the objections which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had thrown out against the bill, but he thought it had been an almost established point, that the present system of the revising barristers was objectionable and inconvenient to the country and to the House, from the great number of disputed points which had been brought before the election committees. Repeated discussions had taken place on the point, whether it were expedient to continue the present condition of the revising barristers, or to limit them to a smaller number with a court of appeal.
757Mr. Warburton
758 was willing to allow the weight of several of the objections taken to the bill by the right hon. and learned Gentleman; and the simple mode of getting rid of them all was, for the noble Lord to define in this bill, as had been done in the Irish bill, what the suffrage should be. It had been held that what was good for England was good for Ireland; and he saw no reason why what was good for Ireland should not also be good for England. As far as the bill went it seemed to him an improvement, and the two principal clauses would remove many existing difficulties; but the time had arrived when it
758Mr. Hume
 wished to save the House the trouble of presenting an address to her Majesty, and would therefore put a question to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs. At the commencement of the Session the noble Lord had promised to lay upon the Table of the House the papers connected with the late Syrian war. Three weeks had since passed, and he was desirous of being informed whether the noble Lord could fix any definite day when they would be ready? He was waiting for them in order to submit a question to the House founded upon them.Mr. Hume
 wished to ask a question of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies. He held in his hand a letter from Quebec, in which it was stated that the regiment of guards stationed there had asked permission to erect a tablet to the memory of Lieutenant-colonel Leicester, who was said to have died immediately after his return from a most important service. The bishop refused permission to erect a tablet to the memory of this officer, on the ground that he was not an habitual communicant of the church. He wished to know if Government had received any communication relative to this proceeding, which he thought showed a spirit of intolerance and persecution that could not be sufficiently reprehended.Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether there would be any objection to lay upon the Table a statement of the services of Lord Keane, in accordance with the report of the committee on pensions? He saw no reason why the rule laid down should be abandoned on the present occasion.Mr. Hume
 observed that the committee of twenty-two Members had been unanimous.Mr. Hume
 contended, that the pension was not granted for the particular, but for the general, services of Lord Keane.Mr. Hume
 remarked, that the delay that had occurred looked a little like trifling with the House, especially when it had been told that the object of the treaty of July had been attained.Mr. Hume
 was quite ready to move for the statement, if it were necessary to make such a motion. He moved, that a statement of the military services of Lord Keane (in the form recommended by the committee on pensions) be laid upon the Table of the House.Mr. Hume
 was also of opinion that the right of the voter ought not to depend merely upon the dictum of the revising barrister.Mr. Alston
756"Nor shall any objection to the title of any such established voter to hold any lands or tenements be allowed, unless the objection be grounded on something which shall have happened after the date to which the qualification of such voter was last established."755754 was happy to find, from the speech of the rt. hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that there was a large part of the bill to which there would not be much opposition. The evils sought to be remedied he conceived, were—first, those relating to the great facilities and encouragement which the present system gave to objectors; and in the second place, those which had arisen from the various interpretations of the law by the revising barristers. In respect to the first, the hon. and learned Member seemed to admit that the bill
756"Nor shall any objection to the title of any such established voter to hold any lands or tenements be allowed, unless the objection be grounded on something which shall have happened after the date to which the qualification of such voter was last established."755754Mr. Gisborne
 said, as his hon. Friend had brought his mind to strike out that part, he would entreat him to strike out the other portion of the bill also, because in such a shape it would not be satisfactory to any portion of the medical profession.Mr. Wakley
 had served under Lord Keane. No officer better deserved the gratitude of his country than that gallant officer, a statement of whose services was before the world, and not merely upon the Table of the House of Commons.Sir De Lacy Evans
 remarked, that the pension was given to Lord Keane for his services, as set out in her Majesty's Message.Sir J. C. Hobhouse
 wished to ask the hon. Member for Lambeth to what day he proposed to postpone the second reading of this bill, as the hon. Member must be well aware that a bill affecting the interests of so large a body in the three kingdoms would not be read a second time that evening.Sir R. Inglis
760 wished to be informed what was the precise position with the United States of America in reference to the question of the North-Eastern boundary? A report by two commissioners had recently been published; they had been appointed
760Sir R. Peel
 had referred to the report of Colonel Mudge and Mr. Fetherstonhaugh, which had been made without concert with the government of the United States, and by the recommendations of which they were of course in no way bound. He wished to know whether there had been no joint commission —no proceeding in concert between the two governments in order to bring the question to adjustment. All that had been done seemed to be, that certain proposals had been made on both sides which had been reciprocally rejected.Sir R. Peel
 inquired if the American government had agreed to the appointment of a commission which should have the power of deciding the matter at issue?Sir R. Peel
 replied, that at first a commission of one kind had been proposed by the United States, and the British Government had agreed to a modification of the arrangement. The United States had then proposed a commission of a different kind, to be connected with an arrangement for arbitration in case of difference. The first commission proposed was not connected with any arrangement for arbitration, but merely to collect information. Great Britain had agreed to that, but the government of the United States changed its mind: and thought that the course events had taken, made it desirable that the commission should be one coupled with an arrangement for arbitration. To that Great Britain had also agreed, and so far the two governments were in accordance. He could not enter into the particular points upon which the two governments had not yet agreed; but he might say, that the difference was not one of principle, but merely as to the mode in which the principle was to be carried out.Viscount Palmerston
761 said, that such was not precisely the case. The two governments had agreed to appoint a commission, but they had not agreed to the details of the arrangement. Colonel Mudge and Mr. Fetherstonhaugh had been employed by the British government alone,
761Viscount Palmerston
ex parte replied, that the present situation of affairs was this: Great Britain had first proposed a draft of a convention for the appointment of a commission to settle the boundary. That draft had not been accepted by the United States and a counter draft was sent over by that government. It was not one to which Ministers in this country could accede, and in the early part of last year they made another proposal. They thought that it would have been agreed to by the American cabinet; but that cabinet had despatched to Great Britain another proposition, which had not received assent on this side of the water. The survey on which a report had been made, had taken place independently of the pending negotiation, in order to save time and to secure as much information as possible relative to the geographical interests of Great Britain. Of course what had been done was only on the ex parteViscount Palmerston
 observed, that the time that had elapsed certainly might seem long, but there had been no unnecessary delay. The papers formed a great mass, and the severe pressure of the current business had, perhaps, in some degree interfered with their preparation. No time should be lost, but if he were to name any definite day it would only be mere guess-work.Viscount Palmerston
l819ll818ll817ls816"What are the description of persons from whom arrear is due?—of what description are the persons called farmers from whom arrears are due?—I should say the majority of persons under the class of farmers in the county of Kilkenny are persons holding from ten to fifteen acres of land. What is their situation from about the month of April to the month of September?—They are generally in those months in the greatest state of destitution. Farmers in that class have no means of meeting the demands made upon them but by their crop, and from the time the sale of the crop takes place till the next crop they are destitute of every means of obtaining money. What is the description of their living?—Potatoes generally, without either milk or meat, and they consider themselves very lucky if they have enough of them. Did you not state that the people considered themselves well off if they made two rents out of the crop?—I consider a farmer may, by converting the land to the best purpose, make double the rent; but I do not think that the small farmers in general make any thing like that, nor has it, I dare say, come into their heads to calculate. They have no means now of paying their arrears, except by wretched cattle: some have one, some have none. Such a farmer has seldom a second cow—they generally try to have one; a horse and car, they have not advanced to a cart yet; and he joins with the next farmer, and by working their horses together, so they do their ploughing. If there was a power to enforce the arrear of tithe by distraining the cow, what would be the situation of that description of tenant? He would then be very wretched, as it is his only stock, except he may have pigs. Is he living for these four or five months on dry potatoes? He will live on these dry potatoes until he gets milk from that cow. Do you mean to represent this as the general picture of the state of farmers in the county of Kilkenny? I do mean to represent it as the state of farmers of ten or fifteen acres in the county of Kilkenny. Are
816l815lll814llJohn Russell813Memberll812ll811810Cheers809"In every part of Ireland which we visited," —but what those parts were they did not condescend to mention,—"the number of existing leases seem more likely to diminish than to increase. An indisposition to grant leases prevails to a remarkable extent among landed proprietors. Leases expire, and they are not renewed. Landlords have ceased to wish that their tenants should possess the franchise. Whole districts are everywhere to be found, the tenantry of which are unrepresented."808807llll806"I do not conceal from myself that there will be some—although I do not think there will be a great—yet there will be some extension of the suffrage; whilst it will at the same time exclude a considerable number of persons who are actually now in possession of the franchise; but who, under a rateing of five pounds, will not be qualified to vote."805"Whereas it is expedient that for the purposes of this act all such property, although not rateable, should be valued in like manner, and upon the same scale, as that which is rateable or rated."804llldl803"Can it be fairly argued that those who are subject to the burdens should not have the right of the franchise? Do you intend to throw upon them the burden of taxation, and will you do them the injustice of withholding from them the franchise?"llll"The constituency of the Irish counties," said the hon. and learned Gentleman, "consisting already of freeholders of 10llllll802ll"Now with respect to counties, I cannot but think, that in giving the franchise to the amount of rent paid, rather than profits made, you act on a wrong principle; you give it to the burden which makes the man poor, and not to the profit which makes him rich. A man might on a lease have to pay 50802llll801lll800lllllllll799"Considered the valuation a fair one, because it put about two-thirds of the rate upon the landlord which he thought fair. The reduction of one-sixth was merely arbitrary—it was solely to throw the burthen of the rate on the landlord. He approved, however, of the present valuation, because upon reflection, he thought that the valuation ought to be considerably under the rent; and the people were notable to bear any additional taxation."ex officioO'Connellex officioldlssdllinter se798sdss797"The test of value enjoined by the Poor-relief Act, is, 'the rent at which, one year with another, the tenement in its actual state might be reasonably expected to let for from year to year; the probable annual average cost of the repairs, insurance, and other expences, if any, necessary to maintain it in its actual state; and all rates, taxes, and public charges, except tithe, being paid by the tenant.' The construction put upon this clause by valuators, the mode in which they have applied it, in setting a value on the tenements of each union, and the result of a comparison of their valuation, with the rents actually paid, and with the lists of registered electors have been the chief objects of our inquiries. The evidence of the valuators, and the results of these comparisons in the unions which we visited, will be found in detail in our separate reports. In all the unions, however various the forms of language adopted by the valuators in their evidence, we found, that the test of value which had been in fact adopted in valuing a tenement, was the rent at which a good landlord ought, in their opinion, to let it. And in applying this test, the valuators have almost universally reduced their valuations below the rents even of the most indulgent landlords in Ireland."796lss"That he valued the land at from 8lssdslslsllssll"There is very good competition (they said) for land in this country, and you cannot get it for the value. They mean by value what a tenant could afford to pay living decently—living decently, they consider having potatoes and milk, and butter, and bacon occasionally for self and family, and warm, comfortable, clothing, and a comfortable house.""He did not make any valuation of what a farm would be likely to produce: his only rule was, what a solvent tenant could pay with ease, applying himself industriously to the cultivation of the soil. He supposed him to be able to meet all his demands, to be able to give himself and his family milk, butter, and potatoes, and meat occasionally (say twice a week), and keep himself and family decently clad, and keep a comfortable house."795"Thinks the valuation for the division of swords is higher than the rent received by the landlord, and he estimates the value at what
795"We did not take the price at which the tenement would let in the market, because that is raised by competition for land, but took what a solvent, steady man would be reasonably able to pay for it. We did not take the rackrent as a criterion, although a man might continue to pay it; we assumed the value to be rent which a person might pay for it, supposing him to have a reasonable remuneration for his labour, time, and capital.""In general (said Messrs. Haig and Deasy) the persons appointed were not surveyors by profession, but respectable farmers of the district, who in some instances had been employed as rural surveyors. In many cases, they had never before attempted a survey or valuation. The guardians do not appear to have generally insisted on professional knowledge, nor do the valuators in general lay claim to any; in some unions, however, professional persons have been employed."794'It has been recommended by some persons, that the rent paid by the occupier to his immediate landlord, should be assumed in all cases to be the real annual value of the property; but the rent payable to a landlord is never conclusive as to the rateable value of the property. The net rent received by the landlord may, from various causes, exceed ' the annual value,' and it is frequently brought much below it, by the payment of a fine, or by an improvement in the value of the pro-
794"It is delared by the 64th section of the act, that the rate 'shall be a poundage rate, made upon an estimate of the net annual value of the several hereditaments;' and the estimate of value is required to be,' the rent at which, one year with another, the hereditaments might, in their actual state, be reasonably expected to let from year to year—the probable annual average cost of the repairs, insurance, and other expenses, if any, necessary to maintain the hereditaments in their actual state—and all rates, taxes, and public charges, if any, except tithes, being paid by the tenant.' A valuator must therefore estimate the rent at which each tenement or holding would be likely to let, at the time when viewed by him, and in the state in which he shall then find it—the tenant undertaking repairs, with all expenses of maintaining the premises, and all public charges, except tithes and ministers' money."793bonâ fide792791790"Whereas doubts and difficulties have prevailed with respect to the mode of ascertaining the qualification of persons in actual occupation, claiming to be entitled to be registered and to vote as Parliamentary electors in Ireland, in respect of freehold and leasehold property."789ll788l"He might be told (he said) that the English franchise was unjust as well as that of Ireland, and should be extended. Be it so: give the people of Ireland an extended franchise, and he would join them in regulating the English franchise. He had once thought of altering the present form of his motion, which included both the assimilation and extension of the franchise in the two countries, but he considered it better to take the sense of the House on it in the terms in which it now stood on the paper, as he should most assuredly once every fortnight or three weeks while the Session lasted take the sense of the House on a motion somewhat similar. He might be called on to declare what extension of the franchise he proposed. The 10ll788l"Thinking that the Legislature ought not thus lightly to disturb the arrangements which had accompanied statutes of such vast importance and of so recent a date; and believing that encouraging any endeavour to do so would only lead to protracted and resultless debates, he must give his decided, though reluctant, negative to the motion."With faltering tone, and visage uncomposed;—With hesitating voice,787"Be it enacted, &c, that in determining whether any person who shall claim to be allowed to register as a voter has a beneficial interest to the amount in value required by law to entitle such person to register as a voter in respect of any freehold or leasehold premises, the tribunal determining upon such a claim shall estimate such value according to the beneficial interest which such premises actually yield, or are capable of yielding, to the person so claiming to register, calculating such interest to be the profit or advantage derived or derivable by such claimant out of such premises, after deducting the rent, tithes, rent-charge (if payable by such claimant), and expenses, if any, of cultivating the same, and not according to the rent which a solvent tenant could afford to pay for the same, over and above the rent which the person so claiming to register is liable to pay.""A bill to remove doubts with respect to the qualification of voters, and to create a tribunal of appeal on matters of law relating to the registration of voters in Ireland."786785sine qua nonsine qua non784"Such a certified copy shall be conclusive evidence of the voter's right to be registered in any proceedings by the clerk of the peace."783"That it shall be lawful for the said court of appeal to make such order respecting the payment of the costs of the respondent in any appeal, or of any part of such costs, as to the said court shall seem meet."l782781780779seriatim said, that if the objections which those who sat on his side of the House entertained against the Bill introduced by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland had been confined to matters of mere detail or arrangement, if, agreeing in the main objects of the bill, or in the principles sought to be carried out, they differed from the noble Lord as to the mode and machinery by which those principles were to be carried into effect, or even in the subordinate provisions of the bill, he, for his own part, however wide that difference might be, or however important the points on which they differed, notwithstanding the opposition which had been offered to his own bill during the last Session, would have been content on the present occasion to have reserved all discussion to a subsequent stage. He should have offered no opposition to the second reading, but have felt it his duty to have taken the discussion l819ll818ll817ls816"What are the description of persons from whom arrear is due?—of what description are the persons called farmers from whom arrears are due?—I should say the majority of persons under the class of farmers in the county of Kilkenny are persons holding from ten to fifteen acres of land. What is their situation from about the month of April to the month of September?—They are generally in those months in the greatest state of destitution. Farmers in that class have no means of meeting the demands made upon them but by their crop, and from the time the sale of the crop takes place till the next crop they are destitute of every means of obtaining money. What is the description of their living?—Potatoes generally, without either milk or meat, and they consider themselves very lucky if they have enough of them. Did you not state that the people considered themselves well off if they made two rents out of the crop?—I consider a farmer may, by converting the land to the best purpose, make double the rent; but I do not think that the small farmers in general make any thing like that, nor has it, I dare say, come into their heads to calculate. They have no means now of paying their arrears, except by wretched cattle: some have one, some have none. Such a farmer has seldom a second cow—they generally try to have one; a horse and car, they have not advanced to a cart yet; and he joins with the next farmer, and by working their horses together, so they do their ploughing. If there was a power to enforce the arrear of tithe by distraining the cow, what would be the situation of that description of tenant? He would then be very wretched, as it is his only stock, except he may have pigs. Is he living for these four or five months on dry potatoes? He will live on these dry potatoes until he gets milk from that cow. Do you mean to represent this as the general picture of the state of farmers in the county of Kilkenny? I do mean to represent it as the state of farmers of ten or fifteen acres in the county of Kilkenny. Are
816l815lll814llJohn Russell813Memberll812ll811810Cheers809"In every part of Ireland which we visited," —but what those parts were they did not condescend to mention,—"the number of existing leases seem more likely to diminish than to increase. An indisposition to grant leases prevails to a remarkable extent among landed proprietors. Leases expire, and they are not renewed. Landlords have ceased to wish that their tenants should possess the franchise. Whole districts are everywhere to be found, the tenantry of which are unrepresented."808807llll806"I do not conceal from myself that there will be some—although I do not think there will be a great—yet there will be some extension of the suffrage; whilst it will at the same time exclude a considerable number of persons who are actually now in possession of the franchise; but who, under a rateing of five pounds, will not be qualified to vote."805"Whereas it is expedient that for the purposes of this act all such property, although not rateable, should be valued in like manner, and upon the same scale, as that which is rateable or rated."804llldl803"Can it be fairly argued that those who are subject to the burdens should not have the right of the franchise? Do you intend to throw upon them the burden of taxation, and will you do them the injustice of withholding from them the franchise?"llll"The constituency of the Irish counties," said the hon. and learned Gentleman, "consisting already of freeholders of 10llllll802ll"Now with respect to counties, I cannot but think, that in giving the franchise to the amount of rent paid, rather than profits made, you act on a wrong principle; you give it to the burden which makes the man poor, and not to the profit which makes him rich. A man might on a lease have to pay 50802llll801lll800lllllllll799"Considered the valuation a fair one, because it put about two-thirds of the rate upon the landlord which he thought fair. The reduction of one-sixth was merely arbitrary—it was solely to throw the burthen of the rate on the landlord. He approved, however, of the present valuation, because upon reflection, he thought that the valuation ought to be considerably under the rent; and the people were notable to bear any additional taxation."ex officioO'Connellex officioldlssdllinter se798sdss797"The test of value enjoined by the Poor-relief Act, is, 'the rent at which, one year with another, the tenement in its actual state might be reasonably expected to let for from year to year; the probable annual average cost of the repairs, insurance, and other expences, if any, necessary to maintain it in its actual state; and all rates, taxes, and public charges, except tithe, being paid by the tenant.' The construction put upon this clause by valuators, the mode in which they have applied it, in setting a value on the tenements of each union, and the result of a comparison of their valuation, with the rents actually paid, and with the lists of registered electors have been the chief objects of our inquiries. The evidence of the valuators, and the results of these comparisons in the unions which we visited, will be found in detail in our separate reports. In all the unions, however various the forms of language adopted by the valuators in their evidence, we found, that the test of value which had been in fact adopted in valuing a tenement, was the rent at which a good landlord ought, in their opinion, to let it. And in applying this test, the valuators have almost universally reduced their valuations below the rents even of the most indulgent landlords in Ireland."796lss"That he valued the land at from 8lssdslslsllssll"There is very good competition (they said) for land in this country, and you cannot get it for the value. They mean by value what a tenant could afford to pay living decently—living decently, they consider having potatoes and milk, and butter, and bacon occasionally for self and family, and warm, comfortable, clothing, and a comfortable house.""He did not make any valuation of what a farm would be likely to produce: his only rule was, what a solvent tenant could pay with ease, applying himself industriously to the cultivation of the soil. He supposed him to be able to meet all his demands, to be able to give himself and his family milk, butter, and potatoes, and meat occasionally (say twice a week), and keep himself and family decently clad, and keep a comfortable house."795"Thinks the valuation for the division of swords is higher than the rent received by the landlord, and he estimates the value at what
795"We did not take the price at which the tenement would let in the market, because that is raised by competition for land, but took what a solvent, steady man would be reasonably able to pay for it. We did not take the rackrent as a criterion, although a man might continue to pay it; we assumed the value to be rent which a person might pay for it, supposing him to have a reasonable remuneration for his labour, time, and capital.""In general (said Messrs. Haig and Deasy) the persons appointed were not surveyors by profession, but respectable farmers of the district, who in some instances had been employed as rural surveyors. In many cases, they had never before attempted a survey or valuation. The guardians do not appear to have generally insisted on professional knowledge, nor do the valuators in general lay claim to any; in some unions, however, professional persons have been employed."794'It has been recommended by some persons, that the rent paid by the occupier to his immediate landlord, should be assumed in all cases to be the real annual value of the property; but the rent payable to a landlord is never conclusive as to the rateable value of the property. The net rent received by the landlord may, from various causes, exceed ' the annual value,' and it is frequently brought much below it, by the payment of a fine, or by an improvement in the value of the pro-
794"It is delared by the 64th section of the act, that the rate 'shall be a poundage rate, made upon an estimate of the net annual value of the several hereditaments;' and the estimate of value is required to be,' the rent at which, one year with another, the hereditaments might, in their actual state, be reasonably expected to let from year to year—the probable annual average cost of the repairs, insurance, and other expenses, if any, necessary to maintain the hereditaments in their actual state—and all rates, taxes, and public charges, if any, except tithes, being paid by the tenant.' A valuator must therefore estimate the rent at which each tenement or holding would be likely to let, at the time when viewed by him, and in the state in which he shall then find it—the tenant undertaking repairs, with all expenses of maintaining the premises, and all public charges, except tithes and ministers' money."793bonâ fide792791790"Whereas doubts and difficulties have prevailed with respect to the mode of ascertaining the qualification of persons in actual occupation, claiming to be entitled to be registered and to vote as Parliamentary electors in Ireland, in respect of freehold and leasehold property."789ll788l"He might be told (he said) that the English franchise was unjust as well as that of Ireland, and should be extended. Be it so: give the people of Ireland an extended franchise, and he would join them in regulating the English franchise. He had once thought of altering the present form of his motion, which included both the assimilation and extension of the franchise in the two countries, but he considered it better to take the sense of the House on it in the terms in which it now stood on the paper, as he should most assuredly once every fortnight or three weeks while the Session lasted take the sense of the House on a motion somewhat similar. He might be called on to declare what extension of the franchise he proposed. The 10ll788l"Thinking that the Legislature ought not thus lightly to disturb the arrangements which had accompanied statutes of such vast importance and of so recent a date; and believing that encouraging any endeavour to do so would only lead to protracted and resultless debates, he must give his decided, though reluctant, negative to the motion."With faltering tone, and visage uncomposed;—With hesitating voice,787"Be it enacted, &c, that in determining whether any person who shall claim to be allowed to register as a voter has a beneficial interest to the amount in value required by law to entitle such person to register as a voter in respect of any freehold or leasehold premises, the tribunal determining upon such a claim shall estimate such value according to the beneficial interest which such premises actually yield, or are capable of yielding, to the person so claiming to register, calculating such interest to be the profit or advantage derived or derivable by such claimant out of such premises, after deducting the rent, tithes, rent-charge (if payable by such claimant), and expenses, if any, of cultivating the same, and not according to the rent which a solvent tenant could afford to pay for the same, over and above the rent which the person so claiming to register is liable to pay.""A bill to remove doubts with respect to the qualification of voters, and to create a tribunal of appeal on matters of law relating to the registration of voters in Ireland."786785sine qua nonsine qua non784"Such a certified copy shall be conclusive evidence of the voter's right to be registered in any proceedings by the clerk of the peace."783"That it shall be lawful for the said court of appeal to make such order respecting the payment of the costs of the respondent in any appeal, or of any part of such costs, as to the said court shall seem meet."l782781780779seriatimLord Stanley
 said, he had not made use of the words.Lord Stanley
 wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether a document which had lately been published in the newspapers relative to the suppression of the convent of Argan, in Switzerland, was an authentic document.Lord Eliot
 intimated that the object of the regulation of which the hon. Gentleman complained, was to prevent the possibility of fraud upon the Post-office.The Speaker
831830829lll828ll827826825llll824lll"That he had always been of opinion, that it would be preferable to take the payment of the county cess rather than the 10l823822lls821primâ facie820 said, that he was aware
831830829lll828ll827826825llll824lll"That he had always been of opinion, that it would be preferable to take the payment of the county cess rather than the 10l823822lls821primâ facie820Mr. C. Wood
834l833quid pro quo832 intended to vote against the second reading of this bill, because the government by it, under the pretence of amending the registration in Ireland, intended to alter the qualification of the electors, and revoke the best provisions of the Reform Act in Ireland. He was satisfied that the bill was nothing more nor less than an attempt to repeal the Irish Reform Act and open the register to a body of men which should never be allowed to have the franchise, as they were incapable of exercising it with advantage to themselves or the country. It had been stated repeatedly in former discussions on this subject in that House, that under the present system the grossest frauds and perjuries had been perpetrated, and those who had asserted this had been stigmatised as libellers and slanderers of Ireland; but the examinations before the committees of that House, and the investigations of commissioners had shown that those who entertained that opinion were fully justified. So clearly had this been made out, that he believed all impartial persons would admit that within the last few years the fair and honest constituency contemplated under the Reform Act in Ireland had been swamped by a body of persons who had been placed on the register by the perpetration of the grossest frauds. During this state of things, the Government had been called upon from month to month and from year to year, not only in that House but by the country, to give a remedy to evils which were so extensive and so pernicious in their effects. Two or three bills had been introduced on the subject by successive Attorney-generals for Ireland, but they had always been brought forward at such a late period of the Session as to make it clear that there
834l833quid pro quo832Mr. Litton
838837vice versa836 said, that the noble Secretary for the Colonies, on a former occasion, had most illogically and unjustly made use of some expressions which had
838837vice versa836Mr. Lucas
835bonâ fidebonâ fide said: I cannot allow myself to give a silent vote on a question of so much importance, and of such vital interest to the country with which I am connected. No one seems to deny, that there are very many and vast evils attendant on the present Registration Act of Ireland. The sole point then we have to determine is, how we may best check these evils, punishing the fictitious claimant without obstructing the 835bonâ fidebonâ fideMr. Fitzpatrick
 seeing the Foreign Secretary in his place, begged to put a question to him in reference to the detention of Colonel Stoddart, in Bokhara. The noble Lord, in reply to a question put lo him upon, the same subject on a former occasion, promised to use every means in his power to bring about the liberation of that gallant officer. He now wished to inquire whether that object had been attained?Mr. Monckton Milnes,
777 begged
777Sir Frederick Trench
778 begged leave to renew the question which he had put on a former occasion to
778Lord Mahon
Stanley839 said, that among the many objections which the noble Lord opposite, the Member for North Lancashire, had urged against the details of the bill which he had the honour of introducing to the attention of the House, there were two charges which the noble Lord had brought forward as against her Majesty's Ministers, and which rather partook of a personal character. The noble Lord, had accused them, in the first instance, of having, in their proposal of this measure, and in the policy they had pursued upon the questions of the elective franchise and the law of registration in; Ireland, unsettled men's minds, and produced disturbance with respect to the working of the elective franchise. He must own he thought, that in that particular they had still something to learn from the noble Lord; for whatever other eminent qualities the noble Lord might possess, it was certainly not as a settler of disturbances, or a peace-maker, that he was particularly distinguished. He talked of the Government having made the cauldron boil out, but it seemed to him (Lord Morpeth) that, on this occasion, the noble; Lord's was the hand which had thrown in the most noxious ingredients, and evoked
Stanley839Viscount Morpeth
 then moved the order of the day for the second reading of the Registration of Voters (Ireland), Bill No. 2.Viscount Morpeth
Hœc Provincia, si ad belli utilitatem, si ad pads dignitatem, retinere vultis, non modo a calamitatc sed a metu calamitatis est defendenda.854853852851850lll849lllllllll848847bonâ fidell"There were a great number of persons produced as witnesses—so many, that in many cases the contrariety of swearing was so great, that it depended more upon the probability of what was sworn than any actual test of truth; they started up from all sides if you discredited a voter, and said you did not think he had sufficiently proved his value. It is necessary to state I first examined the claimant myself, and if I was satisfied of what he swore, I said, 'I was satisfied with the person.' Then the counsel cross-examined him, and afterwards evidence was brought up in every case in which it was necessary to support his vote, and a great number of persons very often came forward from both sides of the court, saying, 'I will give 10ll846845"Mr. Courtney does not think that taking the man's own oath is a good or politic system, either to the prevention of perjury, or to the obtaining a sound constituency; and in the place of it he proposes that the holding, out of which the claimant seeks to register, should be viewed and valued by the county-cess collector, and that the voter himself should not be tested as to the value of it. Nor his neighbours, who swear for each other. And put a value upon land outrageously beyond anything that could be obtained for it; double the rent, and beyond double the rent that could be obtained for it."l"Then from what you observed in the course of that long inquiry, you conceive that it would be desirable to have some other test of value besides that of the oath of the party, or the oath of other witnesses? Unquestionably; I was always of that opinion, and said that it would be preferable to take the payment of the county cess as a test, than the 10l844"No joys for him pacific sceptres yield,
War sounds the trump—he rushes to the field."843842s841840 had, he repeated, taken down the words at the time. The noble Lord might have wished to convey a different sense to his words, or these words did not express what he meant; but of this he was perfectly confident, that the noble Lord had said, that it was not until after his own bills had been carried through a second reading, that he had heard of a definition of the franchise; whereas it was notorious, that in every one of the bills in previous years that had been introduced by his right hon. and learned friends—in every one of them without exception, a definition of the franchise was specifically included, and that, too, as an essential part of the measure, without which there could not be proper nor just legislation. When, too, they made their proposition of last year, so far was it from being considered as a tack or a mere postscript to the measure itself, that he had stated, and that too with the cordial approbation of those who supported his bill,
Hœc Provincia, si ad belli utilitatem, si ad pads dignitatem, retinere vultis, non modo a calamitatc sed a metu calamitatis est defendenda.854853852851850lll849lllllllll848847bonâ fidell"There were a great number of persons produced as witnesses—so many, that in many cases the contrariety of swearing was so great, that it depended more upon the probability of what was sworn than any actual test of truth; they started up from all sides if you discredited a voter, and said you did not think he had sufficiently proved his value. It is necessary to state I first examined the claimant myself, and if I was satisfied of what he swore, I said, 'I was satisfied with the person.' Then the counsel cross-examined him, and afterwards evidence was brought up in every case in which it was necessary to support his vote, and a great number of persons very often came forward from both sides of the court, saying, 'I will give 10ll846845"Mr. Courtney does not think that taking the man's own oath is a good or politic system, either to the prevention of perjury, or to the obtaining a sound constituency; and in the place of it he proposes that the holding, out of which the claimant seeks to register, should be viewed and valued by the county-cess collector, and that the voter himself should not be tested as to the value of it. Nor his neighbours, who swear for each other. And put a value upon land outrageously beyond anything that could be obtained for it; double the rent, and beyond double the rent that could be obtained for it."l"Then from what you observed in the course of that long inquiry, you conceive that it would be desirable to have some other test of value besides that of the oath of the party, or the oath of other witnesses? Unquestionably; I was always of that opinion, and said that it would be preferable to take the payment of the county cess as a test, than the 10l844"No joys for him pacific sceptres yield,
War sounds the trump—he rushes to the field."843842s841840Viscount Morpeth
 had found, upon inquiry, that propositions had been made to the Governments of the United States, the German Confederation, Saxony, and Prussia, but none of those overtures had led to any satisfactory result.Viscount Palmerston
 could not answer for the authenticity of documents which might appear in the newspapers, or which one foreign government might make to another. Undoubtedly the Austrian Government had informed the Government of her Majesty that they had made certain communications to Switzerland on the subject alluded to by the noble Lord; but as regarded the document in question, he could not say whether it was authentic or not.Lord Palmerston
 was sorry to state, that the exertions of her Majesty's Government to obtain the liberation of Colonel Stoddart had not as yet been successful. Still he had hopes that they would eventually succeed. Colonel Stoddart had been subjected to very severe and unjustifiable treatment during his confinement. He would not now go into the details, but he might state generally that he had reason to believe, that during the time he was confined, Colonel Stoddart might have obtained his release at the intercession of the agent of a foreign power, but Colonel Stoddart, not knowing that the intervention of that agent was sanctioned by his own government, very honourably and nobly declined to avail himself of it. Colonel Stoddart felt, that as he was employed by the British Government, it was only through the British Government that he could be released. Government would use all the means in their power for the purpose of obtaining his release.Viscount Palmerston
 said, he would not interfere with the adjourned debate of last night, and would, therefore, postpone the order of the day for the committee on the Danish claims to Thursday, the 4th March.Mr. Cresswell
867ls866ls865sslsl864863 wished to offer a few observations on the bill of the noble Lord opposite, with respect to the accusation which had been so often brought forward, of a settled enmity being entertained by the party amongst whom he stood, against the peace and the liberty of Ireland. He would have hardly thought it necessary to take notice of what had been stated in the speech of the noble Lord (Morpeth)
867ls866ls865sslsl864863Mr. Young
869llll868lll said, from the admission made by the hon. Member, he thought the time was not far distant when he would be found supporting the extension of the franchise in Ireland. As regarded the tendency of the present bill, he denied that it would create an inferior class of voters, ambitious only of possessing political power, or that it would lead to a subdivision of property. In the earlier part of his speech the noble Lord, who led the attack on the measure last night, had resorted to the usual source of much argument—Hansard; but most assuredly the charge of inconsistency he had founded, on his reference to the Debates, against the noble Secretary for Ireland, came with a peculiarly ill grace from the noble Member for North Lancashire. The noble Lord himself was in many cases more open to the charge of I inconsistency. The noble Lord had complained that a 5869llll868lllMr. Smith O'Brien
914lbona fidelsll"He conceived, that it was quite sufficient for the freeholder to prove that he had a beneficial interest of 10lbona fidelslls"The ordinary question was put every day to the freeholder—'By virtue of your oath, sir, would you take 40s913llll912ll911l910Nisi Prius909908907906sl905 was not sorry that he was able at that period of the debate to rise and address the House, after the speech of his right hon. and learned Friend, who had introduced into the discussion some matters which had not previously been adverted to on the present occasion. In the consideration of this bill, and in the progress of the legislation which the Government had suggested to Parliament on the subject, the main subject of discussion was, whether the franchise, on the basis on which it existed in Ireland at present, ought to be continued. To the consideration of this question, as the debate proceeded, the chief attention of the House seemed to be directed. The main question was, whether or not they should continue as the qualification the test of value as it had been described by the noble Lord opposite, and by those who had followed him in the debate, and who supported the view which he had taken of the question. In the first place, then, let them see what the test at present was by law. He would ask the House what was the present state of things as regarded the test of value? He would again and again ask the House to stop and consider what was the present state of things as regarded the test of value for the franchise. He asked this, not only in cases where the franchise was doubtful in itself, but also when it was mixed up with contested questions of law. This, then, was the main question upon which he wished for a distinct answer from Gentlemen opposite. As it was, the question of value was made a matter of the greatest difficulty. It was stated, that there were three things necessary for the possession of the franchise: first, that the claimant should have a title; secondly, that there should clearly be an occupancy; and thirdly, that the test of value on the part of the tenant should be clear and distinct. All the allegations of which they had heard so much, with respect to cases of fraud, and which had been so strongly urged on the attention of the House, referred to this last conflicting test on the subject of value, and not at all on the two other points. As to the title of the claimant of the franchise, that could be clearly proved, for the party could easily show the deed under which he claimed to be placed upon the
914lbona fidelsll"He conceived, that it was quite sufficient for the freeholder to prove that he had a beneficial interest of 10lbona fidelslls"The ordinary question was put every day to the freeholder—'By virtue of your oath, sir, would you take 40s913llll912ll911l910Nisi Prius909908907906sl905Mr. Pigot
 obtained leave to bring in a bill for removing doubts as to the construction of certain local Turnpike Acts, and for continuing until the 1st of June, 1842, or if Parliament shall then be sitting, until the end of the Session of Parliament, the Local Turnpike Acts for Great Britain, which expire with this or the ensuing Session of Parliament.Mr. Fox Maule
 said, if any opposition was intended to be given to the motion of which he had given notice, he would postpone it until some future day. It was certainly one of some importance, as it was for leave to bring in a bill to amend the law of evidence in certain cases. He thought it might possibly meet the convenience of the House were they to give him leave to introduce the bill, and take the discussion on it at some future stage.Mr. C. Buller
 asked for leave to re-introduce the bill, which had already been before the House in the previous Session, for facilitating the drainage of lands in England and Wales.Mr. Handley
Cheers876"I cannot avoid communicating to you the pleasure which Lord Morpeth's views on the Irish Registration Bill have given me, and I feel the more pleased, because I have lately been a witness of the present system of registration in this country. With the intention of registering my vote, I attended the last sessions held at Stradbally, and I cannot convey to you any idea of the intense feeling of pain which the registry court system gave me. Without high colouring, it appears to me an arena in which the combatants were hard swearers, and the hardest swearer was, of course, victorious. The honest voter, the man who had experience of the worth of his land and property, and who had sworn to what he was thus so well qualified to know better than any one else, was quite put aside, and was rejected; nay, more, his fate was decided by the swearing of opinions."875 would request the indulgence of the House for a few moments, for the question which was at present in deliberation was one of such great, of such very great importance to this country generally, but more particularly to that part with which he was connected, that he could not, either in accordance with his own feelings, or with those whom he in that place represented, give a silent vote on that occasion. He should not detain the House very long, nor did he think it necessary, after what had been presented to the notice of the House that evening (and in the previous debate of last night) to enter into any minute details of the noble Lord's bill; but he would at the same time observe that amongst many of the evils attaching to the present system of registering electors in Ireland, amongst many of the abuses which called most loudly for alteration and improvement, and which characterised that system, intimidation, and he might add, in many instances, vexatious conduct towards freeholders, held a high and very considerable rank. He had known instances, they had come under his own immediate observation, in which substantial farmers had been kept waiting all the day in attendance at the registration courts, wasting their valuable time, and uncertain when their turn would arrive. He had seen these persons, after having undergone a great deal of unpleasant and vexatious cross-examination, return home without having effected their object, having oftentimes been rejected on mere technical, and it would seem (and it certainly did so appear to them) unimportant and vexatious grounds. What, then, was the effect of such a system as this? With such a system, could it be expected that freeholders would willingly come up to the registry court, and claim the franchise? Was it the case in many instances that they did so? He thought that it was well, he was afraid but too well, known to be the case, that, owing mainly to the cause to which he had alluded, a considerable degree of apathy existed among the freeholders in Ireland, accompanied with a disinclination to come forward and register their votes. He thought that the noble Lord's (Viscount Morpeth's) bill was calculated in an eminent degree to remove
Cheers876"I cannot avoid communicating to you the pleasure which Lord Morpeth's views on the Irish Registration Bill have given me, and I feel the more pleased, because I have lately been a witness of the present system of registration in this country. With the intention of registering my vote, I attended the last sessions held at Stradbally, and I cannot convey to you any idea of the intense feeling of pain which the registry court system gave me. Without high colouring, it appears to me an arena in which the combatants were hard swearers, and the hardest swearer was, of course, victorious. The honest voter, the man who had experience of the worth of his land and property, and who had sworn to what he was thus so well qualified to know better than any one else, was quite put aside, and was rejected; nay, more, his fate was decided by the swearing of opinions."875Mr. Carew
904ls"It is well known that the disfranchisement of the 40ssl"The motion of the hon. and learned Member, if assented to, would be in direct contravention both of the settlement which accompanied the Emancipation Act of 1829 and of the settlement made by the Reform Act of 1832."s"Do you think the Catholics of Ireland would be content to exchange the indirect political power they now possess, by means of the 40ssl903lll"Do you think the raising the qualification to 10lllss902"If the law were to require any excess of rating over rent, however small, framed as the Poor-law valuations have been, such a test would exclude the tenants, even of the most indulgent landlords. This is a necessary consequence of the valuations being generally below the rents."901"Is it to be said that the Irish reform bill has utterly failed and perished? This, at least, cannot he said with any grace by the hon. and learned Gentleman, when he looks around on those who surround him, and sees the benches on all sides of him filled with such a large majority of Gentlemen from Ireland who profess the same opinions as his own."900ss899ll898s897"The motion of my hon. and learned Friend, if assented to, would be in direct contravention both of the settlement which accompanied the emancipation act of 1829, and of the settlement made by the Reform Act of 1832."llllll896llll895l894 said, there were some parts of the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down, in which he cordially concurred. He had expressed himself in reference to the conduct of some of the Irish judges in a manner which every man anxious for the honour of the profession, and the due administration of the law must approve of. If the object of the bill before the House were to establish, what he concurred with the noble Lord in thinking was very desirable, namely, a test of the qualification, which would put an end to all doubt and perjury, he should give it his hearty concurrence. If it were what it imported to be in its preamble, he would have no hesitation in giving it his support; but the bill before the House was anything but a bill carrying into effect its own preamble. The noble Lord had also stated what appeared to him a very decisive reason for opposing the second reading of the bill—namely, that they had not sufficient information before them on which to proceed. That he conceived was quite sufficient ground to prevent their wasting the time of the House in going into committee, when they had not sufficient evidence to act upon throughout. Under these circumstances, he had not the slightest hesitation in giving his unqualified support to the motion of his noble Friend, for the postponement of the bill. It was admitted by the hen. Member for Halifax, who last night took a leading part in support of the bill, that it abolished all the county franchises, and substituted a new species of franchise in their stead, and reduced those
904ls"It is well known that the disfranchisement of the 40ssl"The motion of the hon. and learned Member, if assented to, would be in direct contravention both of the settlement which accompanied the Emancipation Act of 1829 and of the settlement made by the Reform Act of 1832."s"Do you think the Catholics of Ireland would be content to exchange the indirect political power they now possess, by means of the 40ssl903lll"Do you think the raising the qualification to 10lllss902"If the law were to require any excess of rating over rent, however small, framed as the Poor-law valuations have been, such a test would exclude the tenants, even of the most indulgent landlords. This is a necessary consequence of the valuations being generally below the rents."901"Is it to be said that the Irish reform bill has utterly failed and perished? This, at least, cannot he said with any grace by the hon. and learned Gentleman, when he looks around on those who surround him, and sees the benches on all sides of him filled with such a large majority of Gentlemen from Ireland who profess the same opinions as his own."900ss899ll898s897"The motion of my hon. and learned Friend, if assented to, would be in direct contravention both of the settlement which accompanied the emancipation act of 1829, and of the settlement made by the Reform Act of 1832."llllll896llll895l894Dr. Lefroy
939Oh! oh!Oh938937936Hear935934933932931Cheersl930ad infinitum929928927llllll: Sir, if this were a mere legal question, I should think it most presumptuous in me to interfere, or intrude into a discussion between two persons so distinguished for forensic ability as the hon. and learned Member who has just sat down, and my right hon. Friend behind me. If this were a question to be decided by local knowledge, I should be equally disposed to leave it to the numerous representatives of the Irish constituencies who have shown an inclination to address the House. But as it appears to me that at this stage of the bill, at least, it is possible, for one who pretends to neither legal nor local knowledge to form an opinion of the subject of which it treats, I shall venture to state what appears to me to be the grounds on which a representative of a British constituency, bringing to the subject no knowledge beyond that general information which is common to every hon. Member, may feel himself justified in supporting the second reading of the bill. Sir, in what I have to say, I shall attempt to follow the precept rather than the example of the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down. The hon. and learned Member began by declaring his intention to go into none of the questions which might, with more advantage, be regularly discussed when you have left the chair; but I must say, that it appears to me that the greater part of his observations did relate to questions of detail—to important questions of detail I admit; but I never can consider, that whether the time be fourteen years, or whether the sum be 5939Oh! oh!Oh938937936Hear935934933932931Cheersl930ad infinitum929928927llllllMr. Macaulay
874lsl873ssslllll872"For God's sake do not ask me to register; I have the highest regard for you and your family, and am most anxious to oblige you, but if I do I must leave the country, for there will be an end to all peace for me and my family.""You will hear it alleged, in the course of the debate, that the constituencies of Ireland are extremely small, in proportion to the English constituencies; and you will hear various reasons given for it; but I will tell you the real one—it is the unwillingness of tenants to register; because in so doing they bring themselves into collision either with their landlords or their priests."871870 said, that it would ill become him, after the luminous exposition they had heard from his noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire, to enter into any lengthened detail of the merits of the bill then before the House; but, nevertheless, he felt it his duty, as the representative of an intelligent. Irish
874lsl873ssslllll872"For God's sake do not ask me to register; I have the highest regard for you and your family, and am most anxious to oblige you, but if I do I must leave the country, for there will be an end to all peace for me and my family.""You will hear it alleged, in the course of the debate, that the constituencies of Ireland are extremely small, in proportion to the English constituencies; and you will hear various reasons given for it; but I will tell you the real one—it is the unwillingness of tenants to register; because in so doing they bring themselves into collision either with their landlords or their priests."871870Sir Robert Bateson
926lllll925l"I wish to inform the guardians, in reply to their inquiry, that they have no power of directing the valuator to value the lands, &c., according to their wishes, even though it should be against the judgment of the valuator, unless they have satisfied themselves by an inspection of the property that his valuation is incorrect, and ought to be set aside. It is contrary to the principle of valuation, defined by the Act of Parliament, to assume any fixed sum as the maximum value of the land in any particular division of the union. Each occupation must be separately inspected by the valuator, and separately valued by him; and the value affixed will be the rent at which, one year with another, in its actual state, it might be reasonably expected to let from year to year, the tenant undertaking to pay all public taxes and charges, including such as are necessary to maintain it in its present condition. If the valuation be not conducted strictly on this principle, it will lead to useless appeals when a rate is to be raised, and the union be thereby involved in serious litigation and expense.""I am directed by the guardians of the Scariff union to forward to you the foregoing resolutions, and to request an answer, as to whether the board of guardians have the power of directing the valuator to value lands of the union according to their wishes, even though it should be against the judgment of the valuator."924"It does not appear to us, that summaries prepared in that form could be sufficient for that purpose; but those summaries manifest on the part of the board an anxiety to secure a uniform scale of value in all parts of their own union, and a desire to counteract the original defects in the constitution of their revising bodies. These localities, having each had the power of valuing itself, each being interested in lowering its valuation, and having no common standard of value but opinion, it is natural to expect, that some irregularity must result. The steps taken by the board, with, a view to correct this tendency to irregularity, we have described; but it is worthy of remark, that the attention of the board appears to have been directed entirely to the object of securing uniformity in the valuation between different parts of the union; but no steps appear to have been taken to ascertain how far their valuation approached or varied from the actual letting value of the tenements."923lll922ssslssslHear, hear921lllll920llll919918lllll917l916915 quite agreed with the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just addressed the House, that the question which they had properly to consider on the second reading of this bill, was with respect to the clauses which had been introduced respecting, the elective franchise. He quite agreed with the right hon. and learned Gentleman, that the details of the bill respecting registrations in Ireland would be much better discussed in committee. But it was the question involved in those clauses respecting the elective franchise that now properly arose on the second reading of the bill. And he must say, at the outset, he could not avoid expressing his surprise, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-general for Ireland, under whose auspices this bill was mainly introduced, should have concluded his speech without addressing a single word to the House on the great and sweeping change, without one single word on the great and sweeping alterations made by those clauses in the principle of the Reform Bill, which related to the elective franchise in Ireland. He could not suppose that the right hon. and learned Gentleman was not perfectly aware of the full scope and intent of this bill, although he had treated it as if the whole principle which they were discussing,—as if the whole principle which those on his side of the House were opposing, was the application of the Poor-rate valuation as a test of the elective franchise. That was the main argument of the right hon. and learned Gentleman's speech, with the exception of the argument, partly legal and partly political, which he had addressed to the House on the meaning of the beneficial interest under the Reform Bill. But was the application of the Poor-rate, as a test of value, really the great objection on that side of the House? or had they really offered the application of that test? On the contrary, he (Sir W. Follett) for one was perfectly prepared to agree with the observation of his hon. Friend, the Member for Monaghan (Mr. Lucas), and with the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, that it would be extremely desirable that some test, arising
926lllll925l"I wish to inform the guardians, in reply to their inquiry, that they have no power of directing the valuator to value the lands, &c., according to their wishes, even though it should be against the judgment of the valuator, unless they have satisfied themselves by an inspection of the property that his valuation is incorrect, and ought to be set aside. It is contrary to the principle of valuation, defined by the Act of Parliament, to assume any fixed sum as the maximum value of the land in any particular division of the union. Each occupation must be separately inspected by the valuator, and separately valued by him; and the value affixed will be the rent at which, one year with another, in its actual state, it might be reasonably expected to let from year to year, the tenant undertaking to pay all public taxes and charges, including such as are necessary to maintain it in its present condition. If the valuation be not conducted strictly on this principle, it will lead to useless appeals when a rate is to be raised, and the union be thereby involved in serious litigation and expense.""I am directed by the guardians of the Scariff union to forward to you the foregoing resolutions, and to request an answer, as to whether the board of guardians have the power of directing the valuator to value lands of the union according to their wishes, even though it should be against the judgment of the valuator."924"It does not appear to us, that summaries prepared in that form could be sufficient for that purpose; but those summaries manifest on the part of the board an anxiety to secure a uniform scale of value in all parts of their own union, and a desire to counteract the original defects in the constitution of their revising bodies. These localities, having each had the power of valuing itself, each being interested in lowering its valuation, and having no common standard of value but opinion, it is natural to expect, that some irregularity must result. The steps taken by the board, with, a view to correct this tendency to irregularity, we have described; but it is worthy of remark, that the attention of the board appears to have been directed entirely to the object of securing uniformity in the valuation between different parts of the union; but no steps appear to have been taken to ascertain how far their valuation approached or varied from the actual letting value of the tenements."923lll922ssslssslHear, hear921lllll920llll919918lllll917l916915Sir William Follett
893892l891890889primâ facie888O'Connell:887886885884883882l881l880l879l878877l said, that the question which, as he conceived, the House was called upon to decide was, whether, in attempting to revise and to amend the system of registration as now existing in Ireland, they should also at the same time attempt a clearer definition of the existing franchise—not whether they were to adopt all the details which his noble Friend had introduced into his bill—not whether the right of voting there ought to depend upon a rating of the exact amount of 5893892l891890889primâ facie888O'Connell:887886885884883882l881l880l879l878877lViscount Howick
 said, that with respect to the power of the Poor-law commissioners to take evidence on oath, it was given them by the act, and it was therefore unnecessary for him to give any other answer. With respect to the propriety of exercising that power, he might, with equal propriety be called upon to discuss any other provision of the bill by way of question. It seemed to him that there might be certain questions in which it would be proper for the commissioners to examine in this manner. Whether in this particular case there had been any abuse of power he was unable to state, not knowing the circumstances which, perhaps, on the discussion of the Poor-law Amendment Bill, the hon. Gentleman would state to the House.Lord J. Russell
994Cheers993992991990989988987986985984983ll982Oh, oh!981980Oh, oh!979978977976llprimâ facie975974Stanley:Stanley:973 said, that it was peculiarly agreeable to him to rise to address the House when it had been brought to such a calm and reflective temper as it had been by the two speeches which they had just heard. He thought, that the House was much indebted to the hon. Member for Shrewsbury in urging on the House to pause before they came to a decision, so that they might discuss the bill in a spirit of candour, and try to make out how far by mutual concessions, they could get rid of the angry elements which had been introduced into the subject. He (Mr. Buller) was inclined to lament that so much personal acrimony had been introduced into the debate, as much by Members of his own side of the House as by Gentlemen opposite, and he must confess, that he thought that the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had been rather harshly treated by some of his (Mr. C. Buller's) Friends, for the noble Lord had certainly given ample time to the Government to bring forward a bill on the subject since the defects of the present system had been acknowledged. Not one Member on his side of the House had brought the subject forward with the view of introducing a general measure; therefore, under these circumstances the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, whom, with all respect, he (Mr. C. Buller) could not help calling the author of all the mischief, ought not to be found much fault with for bringing in a bill on the subject, but all the fault that he was guilty of was, that he brought in so very bad a bill. But the consequence of this was not so bad as had been described, because it compelled the Government to bring in a very good bill on the subject. They were not now in the very awkward position in which they were last year, when those with whom he acted were obliged to oppose the remedy proposed by the noble Lord as worse than the disease, while the Government had not proposed any remedy to this disease which they acknowledged to exist. Now, however, the noble Secretary for Ireland had introduced a measure, and he trusted, that the House would be perfectly satisfied with the superiority of the Government bill. This bill was far more complete and comprehensive in essentials than that of the noble Lord opposite; while it
994Cheers993992991990989988987986985984983ll982Oh, oh!981980Oh, oh!979978977976llprimâ facie975974Stanley:Stanley:973Mr. C. Buller
941"The question I wish to put to Lord John Russell is, whether, when he gave powers to the assistant Poor-law commissioners to examine on oath, he ever contemplated their carrying on private examinations into matters cognisable by the common law of the land, and especially whether he ever anticipated that they should put men upon a species of trial, hearing witnesses on oath against them, and not allowing them any legal advisers in matters which, if proved, would blast their characters and make them liable to severe penalties under the common law? That they do this sometimes I can prove, as I have a large mass of evidence in my possession, that has been so taken against a most respectable man, he being charged with embezzlement; it is now some weeks since he was thus tried, and is as yet in complete ignorance of what maybe the issue of this unconstitutional species of attack upon his good name. He of course is most materially injured by it, and has no means of redress. The writer proceeds to say, that he considers there is much 'good in the New Poor-law, but where it works well it works in the teeth of the commissioners; whenever the guardians carry out literally their rules it is most oppressive.'": the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, is doubtless aware of the general nature of the question I have given notice of, and I am equally aware of the reply that I shall in part receive; but, although I know that, under the 2nd section of the New Poor-law Act, assistant commissioners have the power of summoning individuals and examining them on oath, I trust they have not the sanction of the noble Lord in exercising those inquisitorial powers that I have now to complain of. I shall not, however, occupy the time of the House, but with its permission will read an extract from a letter which I have received from a magistrate of the county of Bucks, which will at once put the noble Lord in possession of the nature of my query. The writer is a most intelligent magistrate of that county, and not, as the noble Lord may suppose, an ultra-Tory or Radical, and therefore, as a matter of course, opposed to the New Poor-law bill; but, on the contrary, a general supporter of that measure, and in his political creed a good sound Whig. The writer says—
941"The question I wish to put to Lord John Russell is, whether, when he gave powers to the assistant Poor-law commissioners to examine on oath, he ever contemplated their carrying on private examinations into matters cognisable by the common law of the land, and especially whether he ever anticipated that they should put men upon a species of trial, hearing witnesses on oath against them, and not allowing them any legal advisers in matters which, if proved, would blast their characters and make them liable to severe penalties under the common law? That they do this sometimes I can prove, as I have a large mass of evidence in my possession, that has been so taken against a most respectable man, he being charged with embezzlement; it is now some weeks since he was thus tried, and is as yet in complete ignorance of what maybe the issue of this unconstitutional species of attack upon his good name. He of course is most materially injured by it, and has no means of redress. The writer proceeds to say, that he considers there is much 'good in the New Poor-law, but where it works well it works in the teeth of the commissioners; whenever the guardians carry out literally their rules it is most oppressive.'"Mr. Charles Hamilton
972"Claim leads to claim, and power advances power."l971llsll970llll969ss968sslllsss967966 was of opinion, that the hon. Member for Shrewsbury's endeavours to conciliate the House in favour of the principle of the noble Lord's bill would hardly be successful. Hon. Members at
972"Claim leads to claim, and power advances power."l971llsll970llll969ss968sslllsss967966Mr. Thesiger
942 said, that in declaring his own wish that justice should be done to Ireland, he also expressed the wishes of the majority of his constituents. It might be a question with some Gentlemen, whether or not the complaints of the people of Ireland were well founded; but if they were so, what just man would refuse to listen to them and to grant redress? On this point he begged the House to consider the state of the constituency of Ireland, as compared with that of England and Scotland. He found that the proportion of electors to the population, in England, was one in twenty; in Scotland, one in twenty-six; while in Ireland it was only one in seventy-two. He found, that in England the proportion between the representatives, and the represented was one to every 30,000 inhabitants; in Scotland, one to every 44,000; but, in regard to Ireland, there was but one representative to every 75,000. He was not disposed then further to curtail the elective franchise, or to increase the disproportion already existing between the two countries. His belief was, that the bill brought in by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, would have the effect of curtailing the franchise, and on that ground alone the people of Ireland had a fair and
942Mr. Brotherton
ss964in toto963962slss961ssl960959slllllfive foundsl958ll"I think an annual revision of the registry desirable. I think a double appeal desirable on matters of law, both as affecting the exclusion and the admission of electors on the registry. I think the abolition of the certificate also desirable."l957"Doubts and difficulties prevailed with respect to the mode of ascertaining the qualification of persons in actual occupation claiming to be entitled to be registered and to vote as Parliamentary electors in Ireland in respect of freehold and leasehold property,"956"And whereas an act was passed in the
956ll"Is occupancy to be substituted as the ground of the franchise for county electors instead of the property qualification proposed by the Reform Bill."l955toties quoties954slsl953sl952 was not surprised that the speech of the hon. Baronet who had just addressed the House had been received with approbation. It had been delivered in a tone of extreme moderation, and was characterized by great candour and fairness, and it was gratifying to find that this important subject was likely to be debated in such a tone and spirit. The hon. Baronet would, however, excuse him for saying that he had followed a bad example. He had followed in the footsteps of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, and had made the bill of his noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire, the subject of debate, rather than the merits of the bill of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland. The hon. Baronet and the Secretary at War had assailed the
ss964in toto963962slss961ssl960959slllllfive foundsl958ll"I think an annual revision of the registry desirable. I think a double appeal desirable on matters of law, both as affecting the exclusion and the admission of electors on the registry. I think the abolition of the certificate also desirable."l957"Doubts and difficulties prevailed with respect to the mode of ascertaining the qualification of persons in actual occupation claiming to be entitled to be registered and to vote as Parliamentary electors in Ireland in respect of freehold and leasehold property,"956"And whereas an act was passed in the
956ll"Is occupancy to be substituted as the ground of the franchise for county electors instead of the property qualification proposed by the Reform Bill."l955toties quoties954slsl953sl952Mr. Sergeant Jackson
945944l943 hoped that the House would permit him to say a few words in explanation of the vote which he intended to give on the bill then before the House. He was the more anxious to do so, in consequence of the misrepresentations to which the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, when he introduced a bill of a different nature, had been subjected, misrepresentations which every supporter of that noble Lord's bill should be prepared to bear. He felt the greatest anxiety that this great and important question should be finally settled; and he sincerely regretted that her Majesty's Government had brought forward a measure which must, as
945944l943Mr. Milnes
10161015ll101410131012101110101009: The right hon. Gentleman, who has just closed a speech, remarkable for the number and the bitterness of the personal allusions with which it was replete, rose to speak after my hon. Friend, the Member for Liskeard had pronounced a speech distinguished by pre-eminent ability, and containing a vast mass of various but most appropriate matter. The right hon. Gentleman, who has just sat down scarcely glanced at that speech, although it afforded to the right hon. Gentleman much matter, most deserving of his attention—he turned once to the speech delivered last night, by the Secretary at War, which had been, no doubt, the subject of his nocturnal meditation. Upon that speech he has animad-
10161015ll101410131012101110101009Mr. Sheil
965 would not detain the House by going into the details of this measure at any length. He thanked the hon. Member for Cavan for the calm and temperate manner in which he had spoken upon this subject, and also the hon. Baronet the Member for Drogheda, for the able speech which he had made. Hon. Members of all opinions admitted that the franchise, as it at present stood, was pregnant with the deepest injury to the real interests of the people of Ireland, and that some alteration was absolutely necessary. The interpretation of the clause of the act under which the existing law was maintained, was admitted to be the subject of dispute, and of difference of opinion amongst all classes in Ireland, from the highest judicial authorities down to the poorest voter, but there did not exist any difference of opinion on the question whether or not some act ought not to be passed to set at rest the disputed
965Mr. Slaney
Is work for rebels who base ends pursue."To change foundations, cast the frame anew,For all beyond it is to touch the ark.Thus far is duty: but here fix the mark;To patch their flaws and buttress up the wall,"When ancient fabrics nod and threat to fall,1008100710061005Hume:"All that has lately passed in Ireland shows that the objects in view are neither more nor less than an attempt made under the name of a Repeal of the Union, and separate Parliaments, to disunite the two countries, to confiscate the property of all Englishmen who had property there, to overturn the united Parliament, and to establish in the place of King, Lords, and Commons, some Parliament of which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin should be the leader and chief, and in which no doubt he would play a conspicuous part, but in which it would be impossible to go on for a single year without involving the two countries in a war which must tend to the destruction of one or the other, which must lead to the degradation of both, and to that loss of power and dominion which this country has hitherto possessed."1004lll1003l10021001s1000llll999ll998997996Hearhear, hear!995: If I considered this House to be a mere theatre of display—an arena for dialectics, or for the trial of rhetorical skill—I would gladly have contented myself with giving a silent vote on this occasion, and confided the dissection of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down to some more able hands. When the hon. and learned Member first rose I doubted whether it was consistent with my duty to follow him. The hon. Gentleman commenced his speech with a legal argument, and boasted of the candour he was about to display, and the calmness with which he meant to apply himself to the discussion of the question before the House; but whilst that was his strain, I confess I somewhat marvelled at some of the topics which he introduced. I, at first, attached some weight to the hon. and learned Member's legal opinion, but my respect for that was diminished when, with the candour of which he boasted, he declared that no lawyer could be found who would express an opinion against the party with which he acted. The hon. and learned Gentleman also gave a specimen, not only of his candour but of his knowledge, which, I own greatly surprised me, when he ascribed to my noble Friend the Member for North Lancashire all the evils of the certificate system in Ireland, although, as every one knows, the source of those evils dates from the period of the 35th of Geo. 3d. The hon. and learned Gentleman likewise censured my noble Friend for introducing, or, at all events, continuing the present system of registration in Ireland, and when my noble Friend demurred to this accusation, the hon. and learned Member had the candour to suggest, that possibly my noble Friend had, in this matter, erred from an oversight. So far from it being the result of an oversight, the noble Lord opposite, the Secretary for the Colonies, will bear me out in stating, that at the time of the introduction of the Reform Bill, both my
Is work for rebels who base ends pursue."To change foundations, cast the frame anew,For all beyond it is to touch the ark.Thus far is duty: but here fix the mark;To patch their flaws and buttress up the wall,"When ancient fabrics nod and threat to fall,1008100710061005Hume:"All that has lately passed in Ireland shows that the objects in view are neither more nor less than an attempt made under the name of a Repeal of the Union, and separate Parliaments, to disunite the two countries, to confiscate the property of all Englishmen who had property there, to overturn the united Parliament, and to establish in the place of King, Lords, and Commons, some Parliament of which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin should be the leader and chief, and in which no doubt he would play a conspicuous part, but in which it would be impossible to go on for a single year without involving the two countries in a war which must tend to the destruction of one or the other, which must lead to the degradation of both, and to that loss of power and dominion which this country has hitherto possessed."1004lll1003l10021001s1000llll999ll998997996Hearhear, hear!995Sir J Graham
951950sStandard"The Irish registeries are improving though not rapidly, and Lord Stanley's bill would purify them altogether, and give the Conservatives at least 80 out of the 105 Members.'?Standard949948ll947946 said, that as the proposition then before the House was a new one, he trusted that he might be permitted briefly to state his views, and the reasons which would induce him to vote for the second reading of the bill. He had often expressed his opinion that in Ireland there never could be any sound and satisfactory system of registration until it was based upon a new footing. He could not help expressing his regret that the noble Lord who led the opposition to this bill should have stated that under no combination of circumstances would he give his assent to a rating under the Poor-law. He had hoped that however the details might be objected to, however they might think that the franchise was too low, all would be willing to support some plan for placing the elective franchise upon a sure and sound foundation. But however vast the improvement proposed, he was bound to say that it did not go to the root of the evil. The constituencies would continue to diminish from year to year. In Ireland there was a steady and rapid increase of prosperity—but there was an indisposition On the part of the landlords in that country to confer upon their tenants the means of
951950sStandard"The Irish registeries are improving though not rapidly, and Lord Stanley's bill would purify them altogether, and give the Conservatives at least 80 out of the 105 Members.'?Standard949948ll947946Sir W. Somerville
 wished to know whether the noble Lord meant to confirm the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that arms had got into the hands of improper persons?Mr. O'Connell
l1031llllll1030 said, if any answer was necessary to the charge of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, of undue influence having been exercised, he might refer to the speech of the right hon. Baronet of last night for an answer to that charge. From the best attention he was able to give to the arguments of the hon. Members opposite they seemed to him to ground their opposition to the bill on the plea that it was a subversion of the great principles of the Reform Bill. They appeared to think that the principle of that measure was the establishment of a franchise based upon a certain amount of property. Now, it appeared to him that they took too narrow a view of that measure, and that they were turning details into principles. His view of the Reform Act was, that it was passed for the purpose of remedying great evils that, then existed in the constituency of Ireland—that it was necessary to enlarge that constituency, and the great principle embodied in the measure, was that a certain proportion of population and property should be brought to bear on the elections for Members of Parliament. That he took to be the real principle; but as to the regulation of the amount of the property, that he considered merely a detail. With that view he should en-
l1031llllll1030Mr. Villiers Stuart
s.Conolley10381037(Cumberland) was happy to hear from the lips of hon. Gentlemen opposite, an observation which he feared had been very much forgotton of late—he alluded to the memorable lesson of Mr. Drummond, that property had its duties as well as its rights. In addressing the House upon the present occasion, and for, the first time, he did not enter into any matters of detail, but, as an English Member, he wished to state very shortly, but very strongly, the satisfaction he felt at the proposal of the noble Lord near him, and his belief, notwithstanding the assertion of the hon. Member who had first addressed the House that evening, that his noble Friend's bill was popular in the country. During the last Session, when the abuses of the present system were exposed, when the lies and the frauds were brought to view, the measure of the noble Lord opposite, met with a temporary popularity; but now, when the details of that bill were better understood, and when it was known that although the frauds might be remedied, the independent voter would have to undergo great
s.Conolley10381037Mr. Howard
10431042 would throw himself upon the indulgence of the House while he offered a few words in opposition to the bill of the noble Viscount the Secretary for Ireland. His opposition to the bill was grounded principally upon the fact, that under the pretence of its being a
10431042Mr. Cholmondely
l1036plus quam Punica fidesll10351034l10331032 said, that on rising to resist to the uttermost the bill now before the House, which professed to be a bill to define the franchise, and to amend the registration system in Ireland, but which embraced many furtive objects, he must take the liberty of making a very few observations. He objected to the irreconcileable nature of the measure of the Government with the name given to the bill, which, under the pretence of defining the franchise, annihilated the qualification, and that too in a manner to inflict upon Ireland evils of the most enormous magnitude. He had long been apprehensive of the consequences upon the Government of the recent proceedings in Ireland, and he was sorry to find, that his worst fears had been realized, and to see the noble Lord opposite, who had long and ably contended against the storm, so borne down, as not to be able to hold his ground further, and obliged to yield to his too powerful master. Entertaining the greatest respect for the noble Lord personally, he regretted to see him in his present position. He regretted it on the noble Lord's account, both as a man, and as a Member of Parliament. He could not imagine a human being subjected to a more degrading tyranny than that under which the noble Lord was placed. He
l1036plus quam Punica fidesll10351034l10331032Colonel Conolly
 thought, that when the question came on he should be able to show the House sufficient reason for proceeding with the second reading.Mr. Fox Maule
lll was anxious to state, that, agreeing in the necessity of defining the franchise in Ireland, feeling that there was a doubt, the evil of which went farther than the mere doubt itself, feeling also, that there must be a new definition of the right to vote, wishing to lean towards the extension of the franchise, not disagreeing to the propriety of taking the poor-law rating as a test, yet, that whilst agreeing in those things which might be thought the principle of the bill, he was anxious to state why he could not support the second reading. The principle of a bill was often to be learnt from the details, and he could not agree in a franchise fixed at the amount of 5lllMr. Lascelles
 said, that he could not allow the second reading of the bill of which the hon. Member had made mention, to pass without making opposition to it. If, however, the second reading were carried he would give no opposition to it in its next stage.Lord John Russell
1023 said, that he meant to propose Lord Keane's annuity bill as the first Order of the Day to-morrow, and then to take the bill for the equalization of the duties on East-India rum. He could not speak with certainty as to the other orders being proceeded with, for
1023Lord John Russell
 said, that Government had received notice of such a measure, but they had not as yet come to any decision in regard to it.Lord John Russell
1126"O passi graviora; dabit Deus his quoque finem."1125s.11241123ll1122"Nothing can add to the piercing severity of these words of Sir William Follett. We know little in England of partizan judges—of O'Connell judges—of men raised to the bench who had no other claims to that distinction, save only that they have for years been political Papists, and busy partisans, and subaltern agitators to Mr. Daniel O'Connell. But it is unhappily far otherwise in Ireland; and hence—and hence only—has there been witnessed the insurrection of a judicial minority against the law, as declared solemnly by ten judges of the land out of twelve."l1121ll11201119lll11181117: said Sir I am quite ready to meet the accusations and the warnings of the right hon. Gentleman. In order to do so it will be necessary for me to recur to that period to which the right hon. Baronet has alluded—that period of 1829—to show to this House, and to recal to the remembrance of this House, the circumstances under which what the right hon. Gentleman says I called a compact—and which I am ready to call a compact now—was made; and to declare to this House that I come here in fulfilment of that compact. To do this it is not necessary for me to do more than to recal to recollection a public and notorious fact, and to place myself upon this ground, that, if there was an engagement made with those who felt scruples and prejudices—scruples and prejudices which appear to me to have been unfounded—against the admission of the Roman Catholics to political power, it was right that that engagement should be kept—that if there was an engagement with the people of Ireland, it ought not to be wantonly violated, as the noble Lord has attempted. The circumstances were these:—for a long period the Catholic question had been matter of debate; men of high talent had taken part in that debate on the one side or on the other; but with respect to Ireland, owing to that strange conflict of opinion, there was no such thing as a Government. It was but the other day I read a statement made in the House of Lords by the noble Lord then Secretary of State, to the effect,
1126"O passi graviora; dabit Deus his quoque finem."1125s.11241123ll1122"Nothing can add to the piercing severity of these words of Sir William Follett. We know little in England of partizan judges—of O'Connell judges—of men raised to the bench who had no other claims to that distinction, save only that they have for years been political Papists, and busy partisans, and subaltern agitators to Mr. Daniel O'Connell. But it is unhappily far otherwise in Ireland; and hence—and hence only—has there been witnessed the insurrection of a judicial minority against the law, as declared solemnly by ten judges of the land out of twelve."l1121ll11201119lll11181117Lord John Russell
 said, that according to the rules of the House, the Orders of the Day for Wednesday were proceeded with in the regular order in which they stood: that on Mondays and Fridays the Government Orders had precedence, and that there was no precise rule for Thursdays.The Speaker
 said that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had given notice of his intention to proceed to-morrow first with the Customs Duties Bill and secondly with the County Courts Bill. Now, he had not the least objection to the noble Lord's proceeding with the first bill, but with regard to the County Courts Bill, he thought that it ought not to be proceeded with until the Local Courts Bill was before the House. Should it be proposed to proceed with that bill to-morrow, he should feel it his duty to move that it be read a second time that day four months.Sir E. Sugden
 said he must object to proceeding with the County Courts Bill until the Local Courts Bill should be before the House. Many Members had prepared themselves under the idea that the two bills were to be discussed together, and as they both formed part of one great measure he should certainly object to proceeding with the one without the other.Sir E. Sugden
pro forma. said, that, understanding the Orders of the Day had been called on, and that the noble Lord had chosen which of the Orders of the Day should have the priority, he (Mr. Kelly) would take the liberty of stating that it had been certainly his intention, in case the Order of the Day for the second reading of the bill for the Abolition of the Punishment of Death had been called on, to have moved the second reading of that bill, in the hope that it would suit the convenience of the House, and to allow that bill to be read a second time pro forma.Mr. Kelly
1072"And anger insignificantly fierce.""All the prettiness of feigned alarm,1071"A placeman, all tranquillity and smiles"—"A patriot bursting with heroic rage"—107010691068fortissimoa fortiori"The uniform usage," said Mr. Justice Crampton, "from King John's time down to Frost's case, decided but last year, was, that upon a reserved case the judgment of the majority was binding, The case of Frost was a remarkable one. A special commission bad been issued—the court was an independent one—from its decision a writ of error could not lie—a question was reserved for the decision of all the judges, and although die majority of all the judges below were of a different opinion from the majority of the assembled judges, yet they acted upon the decision adverse to their views. It was true that this was a crown case; but a crown case was not 1068fortissimoa fortiori1067bonâ fide1066Hear, hear!"The number of persons in Ireland out of work, and in distress, during thirty weeks of the year, is not less than 585,000, nor the number of persons depending upon these less than 1,800,000, making in the whole 2,385,000.""That in Great Britain the agricultural families constitute little more than a fourth, while in Ireland they constitute about two-thirds of the whole population; that there were in Great Britain, in 1831, 1,055,982 agricultural labourers; in Ireland, 1,131,715, although the cultivated land of Great Britain amounts to about 34,250,000 acres, and that of Ireland only to about 14,000,000. We thus find that there are in Ireland about five agricultural labourers for every two that there are for the same quantity of land in Great Britain, and that the earnings of the labourers come, on an average of the whole class, to from 2s. to 2s. 6d. a week, or thereabouts, for the year round."1065"I cannot exclude from my consideration of this case, that the motion of my hon. and learned Friend, if assented to, would be in direct contravention, both of the settlement which accompanied the Emancipation Act of 1829, and of the settlement made by the Reform Act of 1832."ll1064ll"The low scale of valuation that has been adopted by the Poor-law valuators, operates more strongly on tenements of small expense, than upon large holdings. Thus, in Fermoy union, where there was an opportunity of ascertaining this with accuracy, small holdings are frequently valued at sums not amounting to one-fourth, or even one-fifth, of their rent."10631062Hear, hear1061"A system of poor-laws, however, if established in Ireland, must not be expected to
1061"Such appear to be the inseparable concomitants of that transition which a considerable portion of the Irish peasantry are actually undergoing at present, and through which it is necessary for the general good that they shall all pass—a transition from the state of pauper tenants to that of independent labourers, maintained as the same class are in England by their daily labour. This change cannot be much longer delayed with safety. It is not possible to avoid it by any other alternative than that of permitting a state of society, pregnant with all the elements of disorder and confusion, to go on unchecked, until it forces the whole population down to the lowest depths of misery and degradation.""For some years," speaking of 1838, "the proprietors of land have endeavoured to counteract evils arising from the increase of a pauper and unemployed population, and to prevent its extension. Their eyes have long been opened to the mischief partly created, and in a great measure countenanced, by themselves; and they are quite willing to retrace their steps, and reduce their estates, if possible, to a condition more favourable to a judicious mode of cultivation, and to the regular and profitable occupation of the poor. Already considerable progress has been made towards the establishment of a better system of agriculture, and the altered and much-improved appearance of the country in many places is owing to the success which has attended those endeavours."1060"The proprietors themselves were active promoters of that system, and that from two obvious and intelligible motives—a desire to swell the amount of their rent-rolls, which were at first considerably increased by the operation of this principle; and a wish to possess themselves of political influence and power at elections. The local operation of the latter cause is manifest, and admits of distinct proofs in almost every populous district in Ireland; and its general effect may be inferred from the remarkable and accelerated increase of the population
1060"The division of the land into small farms, and their subdivision into portions continually decreasing in extent with each succeeding generation of claimants, until on some estates literally every rood of ground maintained, or rather was charged with the maintenance, of its man."105910581057lllbonâ fide said, that in rising to address the House at that protracted period of the debate, he was relieved, as well by the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, as by the whole tenor of the previous speeches, from the necessity of proving what must, by that time, be plain to hon. Gentlemen, on both sides of the House—that the real question then under discussion was one of the franchise and not of registration—and that their division, to be taken that night, would decide, not whether they would give a second reading to a bill having for its 1072"And anger insignificantly fierce.""All the prettiness of feigned alarm,1071"A placeman, all tranquillity and smiles"—"A patriot bursting with heroic rage"—107010691068fortissimoa fortiori"The uniform usage," said Mr. Justice Crampton, "from King John's time down to Frost's case, decided but last year, was, that upon a reserved case the judgment of the majority was binding, The case of Frost was a remarkable one. A special commission bad been issued—the court was an independent one—from its decision a writ of error could not lie—a question was reserved for the decision of all the judges, and although die majority of all the judges below were of a different opinion from the majority of the assembled judges, yet they acted upon the decision adverse to their views. It was true that this was a crown case; but a crown case was not 1068fortissimoa fortiori1067bonâ fide1066Hear, hear!"The number of persons in Ireland out of work, and in distress, during thirty weeks of the year, is not less than 585,000, nor the number of persons depending upon these less than 1,800,000, making in the whole 2,385,000.""That in Great Britain the agricultural families constitute little more than a fourth, while in Ireland they constitute about two-thirds of the whole population; that there were in Great Britain, in 1831, 1,055,982 agricultural labourers; in Ireland, 1,131,715, although the cultivated land of Great Britain amounts to about 34,250,000 acres, and that of Ireland only to about 14,000,000. We thus find that there are in Ireland about five agricultural labourers for every two that there are for the same quantity of land in Great Britain, and that the earnings of the labourers come, on an average of the whole class, to from 2s. to 2s. 6d. a week, or thereabouts, for the year round."1065"I cannot exclude from my consideration of this case, that the motion of my hon. and learned Friend, if assented to, would be in direct contravention, both of the settlement which accompanied the Emancipation Act of 1829, and of the settlement made by the Reform Act of 1832."ll1064ll"The low scale of valuation that has been adopted by the Poor-law valuators, operates more strongly on tenements of small expense, than upon large holdings. Thus, in Fermoy union, where there was an opportunity of ascertaining this with accuracy, small holdings are frequently valued at sums not amounting to one-fourth, or even one-fifth, of their rent."10631062Hear, hear1061"A system of poor-laws, however, if established in Ireland, must not be expected to
1061"Such appear to be the inseparable concomitants of that transition which a considerable portion of the Irish peasantry are actually undergoing at present, and through which it is necessary for the general good that they shall all pass—a transition from the state of pauper tenants to that of independent labourers, maintained as the same class are in England by their daily labour. This change cannot be much longer delayed with safety. It is not possible to avoid it by any other alternative than that of permitting a state of society, pregnant with all the elements of disorder and confusion, to go on unchecked, until it forces the whole population down to the lowest depths of misery and degradation.""For some years," speaking of 1838, "the proprietors of land have endeavoured to counteract evils arising from the increase of a pauper and unemployed population, and to prevent its extension. Their eyes have long been opened to the mischief partly created, and in a great measure countenanced, by themselves; and they are quite willing to retrace their steps, and reduce their estates, if possible, to a condition more favourable to a judicious mode of cultivation, and to the regular and profitable occupation of the poor. Already considerable progress has been made towards the establishment of a better system of agriculture, and the altered and much-improved appearance of the country in many places is owing to the success which has attended those endeavours."1060"The proprietors themselves were active promoters of that system, and that from two obvious and intelligible motives—a desire to swell the amount of their rent-rolls, which were at first considerably increased by the operation of this principle; and a wish to possess themselves of political influence and power at elections. The local operation of the latter cause is manifest, and admits of distinct proofs in almost every populous district in Ireland; and its general effect may be inferred from the remarkable and accelerated increase of the population
1060"The division of the land into small farms, and their subdivision into portions continually decreasing in extent with each succeeding generation of claimants, until on some estates literally every rood of ground maintained, or rather was charged with the maintenance, of its man."105910581057lllbonâ fideMr. Shaw
 said, that no formal communications had taken place.Mr. Labouchere
 said, that the subject had occupied the attention of the Government with the view to some legislative interference with regard to it; but in consulting with certain individuals whose authority he considered was of great weight, he found they were strongly of opinion that it was not desirable to legislate on the subject. The Trinity House had issued regulations regarding steamers and their lights. These regulations were enforced in the case of their own vessels, and were adopted by the Admiralty and Government steamers. These rules had also been circulated, and been generally adopted in the steam trade of the country. Under these circumstances the question was, whether it were desirable to give to these rules the validity of an enactment. As he had before said, this was not considered to be advisable by those who were the best judges in the matter. He believed the rules for sailing vessels, and for carriages and vehicles on high roads, all rested on custom alone, and not on enactment. At the same time he had no doubt that any court of law would visit with severe penalties any infringement of these rules arising from carelessness or neglect. He thought it desirable that foreign steamers, especially those which entered the waters of this country, should adopt the same rules as our own, but this could be accomplished better by general consent than by any particular enactment. He could only say that, after the best consideration which he had been able to give to the subject, he did not think it advisable to introduce any bill relating thereto.Mr. Labouchere
102910281027Vows made in pain, as violent as void.What feigned submission swore—how case recantHeight will recal high thoughts—how soon unsayHow soon10261025 said, that after the length to which the debate on this bill had already been protracted, and after the amount of local and of legal information which had been brought to bear upon its details, it would be most unpardonable in him, who was comparatively but little conversant with the subject, to trespass at any length upon the attention of the House. But there was a question which he heard constantly asked out of doors, and which it was fitting should be asked in that House till it obtained a distinct and definite answer from those to whom it was addressed; viz., how it happened that her Majesty's Ministers—how it happened that the very men who had procured the assent of Parliament to the Reform Bill, on the distinct understanding that the Reform Bill was to be a final measure, should be the very men to come down to that House with a proposition for remodelling the entire constituency of Ireland? how it happened that the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary at War, who had told them in 1831, that the Reform Bill was to be a final settlement, till large towns sprang up in the wilds of Galway, should tell them in 1841, that a measure for reducing the Irish qualification by one-half, was a matter so unimportant, that it was only fit to be considered as a question of detail. If they had been told, during the course of the last Session of Parliament, that at the commencement of the present Session her Majesty's Ministers would come down with such a proposition, and that not content with refusing to acquiesce in the principle of a bill for the removal of acknowledged abuses, they
102910281027Vows made in pain, as violent as void.What feigned submission swore—how case recantHeight will recal high thoughts—how soon unsayHow soon10261025Mr. Milnes Gaskell
 wished to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary of the Colonies in regard to a subject which had excited great sensation among the commercial classes. It was well known that the legislature of Jamaica had passed an act imposing an import duty of five per cent, on all goods imported into that colony. He feared that this would operate most injuriously to our commerce, and he wished to know whether the Colonial Act was likely to be confirmed by her Majesty's Government?Mr. E. Tennent
lllllllllll1052llll"The number of houses within the limits of the borough is about 8,022, of which 316 are of the annual value of 10ll1051llllllll1050llemployéesprimâ facie1049ll, in the very few observations which he had to offer to the House, would confine himself strictly to the question of the franchise proposed by this bill; and which, in reality, was the bill itself; for all the clauses and provisions contained in it have reference to the new franchise, and it alone; and when the single clause which establishes the 5lllllllllll1052llll"The number of houses within the limits of the borough is about 8,022, of which 316 are of the annual value of 10ll1051llllllll1050llemployéesprimâ facie1049llMr. Emerson Tennent
 begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland whether it were the intention of the Government to effect any change in the law with regard to the registration of arms in Ireland, as it was generally understood that arms had got into the hands of improper persons in various parts of that country?Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 had made the statement on the authority of magistrates.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
1096"We regret to state," said that journal, "that an inoffensive and respectable Roman Catholic inhabitant was set upon by some ruffians on last fair night in Darlington-street, Enniskillen, and, but for the opportune arrival of head constable Nolan and a party of the constabulary, would have suffered great bodily injury. They fled on the approach of the police, and escaped in the dark. Same night, in same street, an aged gentleman, also a Roman Catholic, with a child by the hand, was brutally knocked down, and his ear split in three places from the blow of a bludgeon."Fermanagh Reporter1095"About six of the others were bound over to keep the peace for two years.""After an investigation of more than three hours duration, the complainant's informations were taken against five of the persons charged, who were accordingly held to bail to take their trial at the ensuing quarter sessions. Their names are John Gowdy, Jeremiah Meany, Samuel Meany, John Meany, and James Dobbin."One man, named Reynolds, was taken up by the police in the course of the day with a pistol concealed in his pocket. Several other assaults were proved to have been committed, upon such Catholics as were foolish enough to leave their houses on that day."While the Orange mob were so employed, the complainant, a Catholic, who was out in that direction, advanced to the crowd, when he was instantly assailed with cries of 'To hell with the Pope!' and other such language, which was followed up by some of the mob striking him. He then left the field and went into town, followed all the way by the mob, who continued pelting him with stones and sods until he got into a house in the town."On finding that Mr. O'Connell had passed through on the previous Saturday, the crowd got an effigy made which they carried on a pole to a place called 'The Round Hill,' close to the road on the Newry side of the town; and hung up the effigy there. They then discharged their fire-arms at that, having been disappointed of the man himself."The circumstances of the case, as they came out in evidence, were as follows;—A large mob, of between 400 and 500 persons had collected in the town of Dromore, early on the 18th of January (the day on which Mr. O'Connell was expected to puss through, on his way to Belfast), many of them armed with lire-arms, [He (Mr. O'Connell) should like to know whether these arms were registered.") There were also posted on the walls placards of an insulting and inflammatory kind."James Marron, an inhabitant of Dromore, charged sixteen persons whom he had duly summoned, with riot and assault, committed on the 18th of January."Magistrates presiding—Rev. Elgie Boyd, D. Lindsay, and—. Dolling, Esqs."DROMORE PETTY SESSIONS—WEDNESDAY.1094Newry Examiner109310921091109010891088lllllll1087ll10861085108410831082s.s.s.s.1081s.s.s.10801079ll1078"In which time (August, 1G49), by the
107810771076107510741073: The solemn duty I have to perform will not allow me to enter into any discursive commentary upon the speech that has just been delivered by the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. I only ask of the House to recollect two allegations of his. He has stated to the House, that about one-half of the population of Ireland, or more than four millions were in a state of poverty approaching to destitution. He stated that as a fact, and he read documents, too, to prove its accuracy. He also indulged in a warm panegyric—nay, even an eloquent eulogium upon the Irish landlords! He said that they were kind, they were good, they were tender, they were most excellent landlords. I join, then, together, these two statements of his. There are four millions, more than one-half of the population, in a state of starvation, with good landlords. Recollect, these two facts have been stated by the right hon. Gentleman, and now, whether the two are consistent with each other, is a point that I refer to English gentlemen. Thus, then, we find both in what we have heard and in what we have seen to-night, fitting specimens of what the Irish landlords are
1096"We regret to state," said that journal, "that an inoffensive and respectable Roman Catholic inhabitant was set upon by some ruffians on last fair night in Darlington-street, Enniskillen, and, but for the opportune arrival of head constable Nolan and a party of the constabulary, would have suffered great bodily injury. They fled on the approach of the police, and escaped in the dark. Same night, in same street, an aged gentleman, also a Roman Catholic, with a child by the hand, was brutally knocked down, and his ear split in three places from the blow of a bludgeon."Fermanagh Reporter1095"About six of the others were bound over to keep the peace for two years.""After an investigation of more than three hours duration, the complainant's informations were taken against five of the persons charged, who were accordingly held to bail to take their trial at the ensuing quarter sessions. Their names are John Gowdy, Jeremiah Meany, Samuel Meany, John Meany, and James Dobbin."One man, named Reynolds, was taken up by the police in the course of the day with a pistol concealed in his pocket. Several other assaults were proved to have been committed, upon such Catholics as were foolish enough to leave their houses on that day."While the Orange mob were so employed, the complainant, a Catholic, who was out in that direction, advanced to the crowd, when he was instantly assailed with cries of 'To hell with the Pope!' and other such language, which was followed up by some of the mob striking him. He then left the field and went into town, followed all the way by the mob, who continued pelting him with stones and sods until he got into a house in the town."On finding that Mr. O'Connell had passed through on the previous Saturday, the crowd got an effigy made which they carried on a pole to a place called 'The Round Hill,' close to the road on the Newry side of the town; and hung up the effigy there. They then discharged their fire-arms at that, having been disappointed of the man himself."The circumstances of the case, as they came out in evidence, were as follows;—A large mob, of between 400 and 500 persons had collected in the town of Dromore, early on the 18th of January (the day on which Mr. O'Connell was expected to puss through, on his way to Belfast), many of them armed with lire-arms, [He (Mr. O'Connell) should like to know whether these arms were registered.") There were also posted on the walls placards of an insulting and inflammatory kind."James Marron, an inhabitant of Dromore, charged sixteen persons whom he had duly summoned, with riot and assault, committed on the 18th of January."Magistrates presiding—Rev. Elgie Boyd, D. Lindsay, and—. Dolling, Esqs."DROMORE PETTY SESSIONS—WEDNESDAY.1094Newry Examiner109310921091109010891088lllllll1087ll10861085108410831082s.s.s.s.1081s.s.s.10801079ll1078"In which time (August, 1G49), by the
107810771076107510741073Mr. O'Connell
10481047"I do not hesitate to say, that by the parsing of this bill, Ireland will have a constituency far beyond any thing which Scotland could boast, and certainly not much behind that of England."1046l10451044 after the great length to which this debate had already been carried, he did not feel it to be his duty to go far into the details of the mea-
10481047"I do not hesitate to say, that by the parsing of this bill, Ireland will have a constituency far beyond any thing which Scotland could boast, and certainly not much behind that of England."1046l10451044Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell
 had already arrived within a few words of the conclusion of his observations, when the right hon. Baronet interrupted him; he felt that that interruption rendered it necessary for him to complete the sentence he had begun.Mr. Gisborne
10411040 said, that many of the speeches which had been delivered in the course of that debate had taken a much too high view of the difference that existed between the two sides of the House, because those differences, however important they were in themselves, were still within a very narrow compass. In the first place, under the Irish system of registration,
10411040Mr. Gisborne
10561055"Believe me &c."llll1054"With regard to your inquiries relative to the valuation of the Limerick Union, I beg to acquaint you that I have been this day employed as chairman of the board of guardians, examining and comparing the rates to enable me to sign the warrants for their collection, and that, by comparing the rates made by the valuator on the several descriptions of property in the Union with what I consider the fair value of that property, if brought into the market, I have no hesitation in saying I am satisfied that, although there may be a few in-
llll1054"My Dear Sir,"Limerick 18 Feb., 1841. ll"And sounder casuists doubt than you or me.""Who can decide when doctors (or rather judges) disagree,1053 said, he likewise, felt it necessary to commence as so many previous speakers did by stating that verging so near a close as this protracted debate now does, analysed as even its details
10561055"Believe me &c."llll1054"With regard to your inquiries relative to the valuation of the Limerick Union, I beg to acquaint you that I have been this day employed as chairman of the board of guardians, examining and comparing the rates to enable me to sign the warrants for their collection, and that, by comparing the rates made by the valuator on the several descriptions of property in the Union with what I consider the fair value of that property, if brought into the market, I have no hesitation in saying I am satisfied that, although there may be a few in-
llll1054"My Dear Sir,"Limerick 18 Feb., 1841. ll"And sounder casuists doubt than you or me.""Who can decide when doctors (or rather judges) disagree,1053Mr. William Roche
1116"But the excitement of a new change; the passions again raised; the House of Commons again in the furnace to be melted in a new mould; the people again in the temper which burst out in flames at Nottingham and Bristol, would go far to shake the stability of property, and make law the servant of disorder. The happy consummation of a labouring class toiling little and earning much would be further than ever; the security to be enjoyed in Germany or Switzerland would attract capital, and diminish employment at home; the deluded might indeed wake from their dream at length, but too late for their peace.""If, after these declarations, any Member of Lord Grey's Cabinet, were to propose to begin the whole question anew, the obvious remark would be, 'You have either so egregiously deceived us that we cannot trust to your public engagements, or you have so blindly deceived yourselves that we cannot believe in the solidity of your new scheme.'"1115"To the practices which have been used to produce disaffection to the State, and mutual distrust and animosity between the two countries, are chiefly to be attributed the spirit of insubordination which, though for the present
1115"I have seen with feelings of deep regret and just indignation the continuance of attempts to excite the people of Ireland to demand the repeal of the legislative union."11141113ll1112"Small holdings and minute subdivisions of land prevail in Donegal to a greater extent than I have found in any other part of Ireland; and the subsequent growth of population has been there so great as to press hard upon the productive powers of the soil, and to depress the condition of the people to nearly the lowest point in the social scale—exposing them, under the not unfrequent contingency of an unfavourable season, or a partial failure of the potatoe crop, to the most dreadful privations. To improve the condition of such a people, would immediately increase the productive powers of the country, which is a point well deserving the attention of the great landowners, with whom it will mainly rest. But no material or lasting improvement can be effect so long as the present division of the land into small holdings is permitted. This practice, wherever it prevails, inevitably forces the whole population down to the lowest level of subsistence—to that point, where subdivision is arrested by the dread or by the actual occurrence of starvation."1111"Is not the common practice for attorneys to take farms for the purpose of manufacturing freeholders, and then to sell their interest, thus manufactured to the best bidder among the candidates?—Very common.""He and his brethren are driven by the landlord into the hustings as a salesman drives his flock into the market. The system is a sort of universal suffrage. Thus the beggary of the county elects, and the property of the county is out of the case. A county adventurer multiplies upon a waste or a moss a mob of freeholders, and thus becomes a very considerable gentleman in the county."s.1110ls.s.s.s.l1109ls."I will give an account of this system of making freeholders. Suppose a farm of 100 acres is to be let; it would be subdivided into twenty or twenty-five holdings; it would be let at a greater rent than the grazier could afford to pay. These persons would register a 40s.s.l1109ls.s.ll"I know if the matter were left to my judgment, 7lls.s.1108"There are such heart-rending scenes follow elections in Ireland, that, after every allowance for political feeling, it is hard to reconcile ourselves to such misery. There are actually complaints made to clergymen by men who are made to swear to a freehold which they really do not possess."llls.llll"Do you think any voter really independent would be disqualified by raising the vote to 10llls.llll1107s.s.1106bonâ fideMorpeth:s.ls.1105"I do not say, that the people of England are precluded from reconsidering the Reform Bill if they think fit; but I am not myself going to do so. I think that re-entering into the question of registration so soon would destroy the stability of our institutions. It is quite impossible for me, hating been one who brought forward the measure of reform, who feel bound by the directions then made not to take any part in these large measures of reconstruction, or to consent to the repeal of the Reform Act, without being guilty of what I think would be a breach of faith towards those with whom I was then acting. The people of England may place others in my situation, but they must not call upon me to do that which I not only consider unwise, but what I should not feel myself justified in proposing without a breach of faith and honour."1104110311021101ll1100109910981097 then rose and said: I certainly cannot perceive the justice of the compliment which the hon. and learned Gentleman has just paid to himself, that he spoke in the tone and temper worthy of the representative of the Irish people; for any tone and temper more unworthy of that people I never heard displayed in this House than by the hon. and learned Gentleman in the course of his speech. I do not complain of the high tone taken by the hon. and learned Member, but I do complain of the apparent delight with which he gloated upon the recital of past animosities between the two countries. But (addressing himself to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin) you have met with no sympathy; not because the House is indifferent to the welfare of Ireland—not because it underrates your abilities, or would wish to treat them with disdain or disregard—but because there are not ten men in this House who could bring themselves to respond to the efforts which you have been making to keep alive that past exacerbation of feeling which all must so much deplore. I ask you, what use it is to dwell upon the history of past contests and oppressions, as you call them, of seven centuries' date; what use in referring to times when, as you say, the head of a wolf was worth as much as that of a priest? But the hon. and learned Gentleman says, that the same spirit and the same system of Government and legislation, with regard to Ireland, continue to the present day. I ask the noble Lord opposite, who is the leader of this House, and I ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, do you believe that this is a correct representation? You threaten us also with the alienation of the Irish people in times of growing difficulties and danger from without. Again, I think that here you hold language unworthy of that people. I believe that you are libelling your countrymen when you insinuate that they would not join us in repelling the attacks either of France or America, if by any misfortune we should be involved in a quarrel with either. Sir, I have heard in the course of this debate a speech more generous, and I think more just, in regard to the feelings of the people of Ireland, from an Irish, from a Roman Catholic representative,
1116"But the excitement of a new change; the passions again raised; the House of Commons again in the furnace to be melted in a new mould; the people again in the temper which burst out in flames at Nottingham and Bristol, would go far to shake the stability of property, and make law the servant of disorder. The happy consummation of a labouring class toiling little and earning much would be further than ever; the security to be enjoyed in Germany or Switzerland would attract capital, and diminish employment at home; the deluded might indeed wake from their dream at length, but too late for their peace.""If, after these declarations, any Member of Lord Grey's Cabinet, were to propose to begin the whole question anew, the obvious remark would be, 'You have either so egregiously deceived us that we cannot trust to your public engagements, or you have so blindly deceived yourselves that we cannot believe in the solidity of your new scheme.'"1115"To the practices which have been used to produce disaffection to the State, and mutual distrust and animosity between the two countries, are chiefly to be attributed the spirit of insubordination which, though for the present
1115"I have seen with feelings of deep regret and just indignation the continuance of attempts to excite the people of Ireland to demand the repeal of the legislative union."11141113ll1112"Small holdings and minute subdivisions of land prevail in Donegal to a greater extent than I have found in any other part of Ireland; and the subsequent growth of population has been there so great as to press hard upon the productive powers of the soil, and to depress the condition of the people to nearly the lowest point in the social scale—exposing them, under the not unfrequent contingency of an unfavourable season, or a partial failure of the potatoe crop, to the most dreadful privations. To improve the condition of such a people, would immediately increase the productive powers of the country, which is a point well deserving the attention of the great landowners, with whom it will mainly rest. But no material or lasting improvement can be effect so long as the present division of the land into small holdings is permitted. This practice, wherever it prevails, inevitably forces the whole population down to the lowest level of subsistence—to that point, where subdivision is arrested by the dread or by the actual occurrence of starvation."1111"Is not the common practice for attorneys to take farms for the purpose of manufacturing freeholders, and then to sell their interest, thus manufactured to the best bidder among the candidates?—Very common.""He and his brethren are driven by the landlord into the hustings as a salesman drives his flock into the market. The system is a sort of universal suffrage. Thus the beggary of the county elects, and the property of the county is out of the case. A county adventurer multiplies upon a waste or a moss a mob of freeholders, and thus becomes a very considerable gentleman in the county."s.1110ls.s.s.s.l1109ls."I will give an account of this system of making freeholders. Suppose a farm of 100 acres is to be let; it would be subdivided into twenty or twenty-five holdings; it would be let at a greater rent than the grazier could afford to pay. These persons would register a 40s.s.l1109ls.s.ll"I know if the matter were left to my judgment, 7lls.s.1108"There are such heart-rending scenes follow elections in Ireland, that, after every allowance for political feeling, it is hard to reconcile ourselves to such misery. There are actually complaints made to clergymen by men who are made to swear to a freehold which they really do not possess."llls.llll"Do you think any voter really independent would be disqualified by raising the vote to 10llls.llll1107s.s.1106bonâ fideMorpeth:s.ls.1105"I do not say, that the people of England are precluded from reconsidering the Reform Bill if they think fit; but I am not myself going to do so. I think that re-entering into the question of registration so soon would destroy the stability of our institutions. It is quite impossible for me, hating been one who brought forward the measure of reform, who feel bound by the directions then made not to take any part in these large measures of reconstruction, or to consent to the repeal of the Reform Act, without being guilty of what I think would be a breach of faith towards those with whom I was then acting. The people of England may place others in my situation, but they must not call upon me to do that which I not only consider unwise, but what I should not feel myself justified in proposing without a breach of faith and honour."1104110311021101ll1100109910981097Sir R. Peel
: You mean the other bill?Sir Robert Peel
 thought the noble Lord had misunderstood his right hon. and learned Friend. He did not press the noble Lord to fix the exact precedence in which the orders should be taken, but he merely stated his opinion that, as there were two bills on the same subject, one of which was printed and the other was not, it would be better not to proceed with the discussion of the first bill until the second should be printed, so that the Members might have the whole subject before them ere they proceeded to debate it; and he accordingly requested the noble Lord to postpone the consideration of the one bill until the other should be printed. This was a request so reasonable in itself, that he felt convinced that when the discussion came on to-morrow the noble Lord would accede to it; and he thought it would be much better the noble Lord should at once say, that he would not proceed with the bill to-morrow.Sir Robert Peel
 said, there were some instances in which he had reason to believe that arms had got into the hands of improper persons.Viscount Morpeth
1022 believed, that there were powers which might be exercised by
1022Viscount Morpeth
 inquired whether any communications had taken place with foreign powers on the subject?Lord Sandon
1021, seeing his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade in his place, begged to call his attention to a report which, in consequence of recent events, had become one of great public interest. He was sure that the attention of his right hon. Friend must have been called to the melancholy occurrences that of late had happened more than once, and to the great loss of life that had taken place upon the high seas, in consequence of the absence of a distinct rule in regard to steamers when they met, as to which side each should take in passing. The House was no doubt aware that rules had existed for a great length of time with regard to sailing vessels, by which collisions of this kind had been avoided. He wished to ask whether the Government had any intention of calling the attention of the House to the subject, or whether
1021Viscount Sandon
 begged leave to suggest that the Government ought to propose a resolution suspending further proceedings in the numerous Small Debt Bills that were before; the House, as they were likely to be superseded by the County Courts Bill. It would save much trouble and expense to the parties concerned.1133The Earl of Lin-
1133
1135 said, that although he could not agree with all that the hon.
1135Captain Hamilton
1146 said, that it was not his
1146Dr. Lushington
 thought, that if this equalization of duty took place, the West-Indies were in justice entitled to the removal of certain restrictions under which, they laboured, such as the prohibitory duties on timber and provisions.Mr. Palmer
l could not say that the usual mode was the best possible way of rewarding public services. He thought it would be advisable to have a change, but as the grant of 2,000lLord Worsley
 said, the Report was still under the consideration of the Secretary for the Home Department.Mr. Fox Maule
 had no objection.Lord John Russell
 protested against the whole line of argument adopted in the present discussion. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) looked to his own especial interest, and not to that of the public. Because, if it was the interest of the public to, have the right hon. Gentleman's rum, it was also their interest to have it cheap. He considered that what was now proposed was a most useful step. The excise regulations were more stringent in the East Indies than in the West, and he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, that they should be put on an equal footing. He was told the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, meant to bring a motion before the House with respect to the subject of slavery; when that motion was brought forward it would be seen, that free labour was a far greater source of profit than slave labour. He found in the clause the words "British protection." Now, were not all those places to which the bill referred to be considered as dependencies of the British empire? Were they not all governed by officers of the British Crown, and why should the people there not have the benefit of their protection.Mr. Hawes
 objected to the grant. He thought if they had done wrong on one occasion it was no reason why they should continue to do so. He would never vote to tax future generations. He should vote for the amendment, because he could not do better.Mr. Muntz
1144 felt himself bound, as one of those who had the care of the public money, not to be too generous in giving it away. He hoped the Government would withdraw this clause for the present, for the purpose of seeing whether the East-India Company would adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. The course the Government had taken was neither justified by liberality nor economy, He should
1144Mr. Aglionby
1147 suggested that some clause
1147Mr. Goulburn
 denied his advocating the interest of the West Indies further than it coincided with the interest of the public generally.Mr. Goulburn
 deprecated the practice of printing evidence before private bill committees, except in special and particular cases. It was fraught with evil consequences.Mr. Goulburn
 opposed the motion, which, after a few words fromMr. Goulburn
 said, that he would endeavour to meet the views of the right hon. Gentlemen opposite.Mr. Labouchere
 did not think there was any necessity for the introduction of such provisions. The Customs were of that opinion, and he thought it would be better to leave all the regulations on the subject to the Indian Government. Everybody knew that rum was exported from England to the Continent, and that three-fourths of that was British spirit. Now, all he desired was, that that superintendence should be exercised over the manufacture of rum, which would effectually guard against those abuses which they professed to guard against.Mr. Labouchere
 hoped the House would confine itself to the question then before the House. He had introduced the bill as one affecting rum only, and he would think he was committing a breach of faith were he to agree to the suggestion of the hon. Member. He had the question of free intercourse as much at heart as the hon. Gentleman, but he thought the present was not the time to go into the large questions that would be opened up were he to consider the question of India spirits generally.Mr. Labouchere
 wished the House to understand that although it was intended to put rum, the produce of the sugarcane in the East Indies, upon the same footing as that produced in the West Indies, it was not intended to apply the principle to spirits generally. Upon clause 3, he proposed to add words, giving to the Governor-general the power of making regulations for the purpose of preventing frauds. He had considered the matter very attentively, and found it impossible to undertake to constitute a machinery for that purpose, at least until they had seen what regulations were adopted by the Governor-general, and how far they were successful.Mr. Labouchere
 hoped no words would be introduced into the bill, subjecting the produce of the sugar cane to any other restrictions than those on West India produce. He thought that any prescription as to the mode in which the Governor-general of India should carry these objects into effect would be injurious to the East India interests; and he thought this would be the effect of the words proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. All be (Mr. Warburton) wished was, that the restrictions on the produce of both countries should be precisely the same.Mr. Warburton
 begged to ask whether the Government intended to introduce any measure founded upon the Report made by the Commission of Inquiry into the state of Turnpike Trusts?Mr. Barneby
 moved for leave to bring in a bill to enable Municipal Councils to raise money by granting annuities, and to apply the same in payment of old debts.Mr. J. A. Smith
 quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman on that subject. He thought that every colony should be left to make its own regulations on these subjects. But he could not help regretting that the Government were higgling about the spirits to which the proposed equalization should be extended. Why not admit all spirits? He had hoped that a more liberal policy would be pursued, and that they would be prepared to take from India every article which they required for home consumption. It appeared to him a very insane restriction. The people of India were as much the subjects of her Majesty as we were, or those in the West Indies, and there ought to be no restriction on the intercourse or the free interchange of produce between all. The talk of East-India interests and West-India interests had been the bane of this country. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would introduce a clause opening the trade to all spirits made in India.Mr. Hume
 explained, that if he had known all the circumstances at the time he extolled Lord Keane, he would not have done so.Mr. Hume
11401139 said, the right hon. Baronet had put a construction upon what fell from him on a former occasion which could not be maintained, when he alluded to his comparison between Sir John Colborne and Lord Keane. The House was aware that at that time it was decided that Lord Keane should have no reward—that was perfectly well known. He spoke then from what was the current report. He had asked the right hon. Baronet the other evening, why this reward was conferred so long after the conferring the honour. No answer was given; but thereby hung a tale. It had been usual to reward officers connected with the East-India service—as in the case of the Marquess of Wellesley and the Marquess of Hastings—out of the revenues of India, and not out of the pockets of the people. When Ministers proposed to grant a pension to Lord Seaton, he (Mr. Hume) objected altogether to the proposed reward. He considered that his service did not entitle him to anything of the kind; that they were the most objectionable services that had ever been performed. He ought to have been brought to trial instead of receiving a reward. He allowed that the services of Lord Keane were more valuable than those of Lord Seaton, because he had served British interests in India. The Government, however, should have laid before the House the correspondence which had taken place between them and the East India House so that Parliament might be made acquainted with the negotiations on the subject. An hon. Gentleman opposite had said, that the East India Directors had expressed an opinion that it would be more to the honour of the country that Lord Keane should be paid out of the public revenue. He (Mr. Hume) did not, however, think so; because it was the East India Company that had principally benefited by Lord Keane's services. And, after all, had not those services been greatly exaggerated? It was well known that Lord Keane had attempted to take Ghuznee without battering guns, and if it had not been taken by surprise, the expedition would have been a failure. Besides, Colonel Denny was the person who had led the
11401139Mr. Hume
ll thought it would be of much use to the public to have the evidence in question printed, because it involved a saving, perhaps of 6,000llMr. Sheil
 said, their object was to introduce East India rum at the same duty as the rum of the West-Indies, but to have security that it should be the produce of the sugar cane. The question was, how could they obtain that object? It appeared to him that the means must be left with those who were most conversant with the country.Mr. Sheil
1138 said, that the people out of doors did not care how often the Crown exercised its undoubted privilege of making Peers, but they objected strongly to the practice of conferring it upon those who could not support the peerage without putting their hands into the pockets of the people. On these grounds he should support the amendment. He was not led away by what had been said by the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control. He had alluded to the services of Lord Keane. He (Mr. Wallace) did not object to Lord Keane, but he did object to his progeny; he did object to conferring this pension upon his sons. They had fought no battles for the people of England. If any Gentleman would get up and show him that these young gentlemen had fought any battles for the country, then he would reconsider the matter; but he would not consent to give the people's money to those who had done nothing for
1138Mr. Wallace
1134"Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam."l moved that all the words after "Lieutenant-general Lord John Keane," be left our. The object of his motion was, that the pension of 2,0001134"Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam."lMr. Ewart
 supported the vote. Those who objected to it did not consider the importance of the East India possessions to this country. He thought this reward was well merited, and he should, therefore vote in favour of it.Sir Charles Burrell
1148 thought they might meet all the objects proposed to be gained by the clause without adopt
1148The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed in all that had been said respecting the understanding that the duty on sugar being equalised, the duty should be also equalised on rum, being the produce of the sugar cane.Mr. Hogg
1143 was not surprised that the right hon. Baronets suggestion should have met with a favourable reception from the House. It was very easy, and very agreeable too, to be liberal with other peoples money, but that was a description of generosity to which the directors of the East India Company made no pretension. They admitted as freely as the right hon. Baronet the distinguished services of Lord Keane, and that he had well merited the peerage which had been bestowed upon him; but they did not admit that the pension for the due maintenance of that dignity should be paid from their resources. They were bound to administer with liberality, but at the same time with becoming frugality the revenues derived from the people of India, and he maintained that if they consented to pay this pension, they would be extracting from the pockets of the people of that country money, which they were not in any point of view bound to pay. He would be able to prove this both from principle and precedent. He did not consider that the honor of the peerage had been conferred on Lord Keane solely for the capture of Ghuznee. That noble Lord had rendered great and distinguished services to his country in Egypt, in the West Indies, in America, on the peninsula, and in every quarter of the globe, and the capture of Ghuznee was only the consummation of his military glory. The only case he recollected in which a peerage had been bestowed for services performed in India, was that of Lord Lake. There the services performed were peculiarly Indian, and their locality was strongly marked by the grant of the pension having been made retrospective and payable from the date of the battle at Delhi. That pension was granted by Parliament, and no one contended that it ought to have been paid from the resources of India. Was there any man, however, in this House, who would say that the capture of Guhznee and the campaign in Afghanistan were purely Indian? What,
1143Mr. Hogg
1142 said, in reference to the complaint of Major Denny and Colonel Thompson having been passed unnoticed, it did so happen that Lord Keane, in his despatches, did mention in express
1142Sir J. Hobhouse
1137lllll1136 could not say that either the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, or the hon. Member for Wigan. had done anything more than exercise their undoubted right in questioning the propriety of the vote, and taking the sense of the House upon it. With respect to the argument urged by his hon. Friend the Member for Wigan (Mr. Ewart), he must take the liberty of saying that a good deal of what he had addressed to the House was rather a complaint that more was not given, because the hon. Member seemed to say that if the pension were granted in perpetuity there would be something like common sense in it, seeing that the Peerage was granted in perpetuity. He had also understood his hon. Friend to say the amount was not sufficient. [Mr. Ewart, No, no.] What his hon. Friend said was, that it was either too much or not enough. Her Majesty's Government in proposing a grant of this nature could only be regulated by precedent as to the amount. If his hon Friend contended that nothing at all ought to be granted beyond the life of Lord Keane, he could then understand him; but if he said that the pension ought to be granted in perpetuity, because the Peerage
1137lllll1136Sir John Hobhouse
 said, on a former occasion the noble Lord had benefited from a Tithe Commutation Bill prepared by him (Sir R. Peel). In the year 1837, he brought in a bill for the introduction of County Courts. He did not mean to introduce that bill in opposition to the noble Lord's; but if there was no objection in point of form, he would move that the bill be printed, in order to see if any thing could be got from it.Sir R. Peel
1141l said, that he would give his support to a grant of 2,0001141lSir R. Peel
1149 moved, that the minutes of the evidence taken during the last Session of Parliament before the
1149Mr. Hutt
1156lll1155an ironical cheer from the Government Benches1154: I must confess that I share largely in the surprise which has been expressed by my hon. Friends around and behind me, at the proposition made by the noble Lord, and the course which it is intended to pursue on the part of the Government. Not that we do not think— for we have avowed and declared it—that the information on which the noble Lord intended to proceed with his bill was so meagre and so inconclusive as to be wholly insufficient for the foundation of a measure of this vast importance—not that we do not think that the information, so far as it went, in its meagreness itself, tended directly to negative the principle and the propositions of the bill of the noble Lord; but this is the astonishment I, at least, feel, that upon a subject of this immense importance, and while the noble Lord himself presses upon us the importance of giving it the greatest consideration, the greatest deliberation, and the greatest caution—at the commencement of the Session, and before any notice had been given from any quarter, her Majesty's Government should have ventured to submit to the con-
1156lll1155an ironical cheer from the Government Benches1154Lord Stanley
l should support the hon. Member for Kilkenny if he divided the committee. It was all very well to talk of the peace of Europe having been preserved by the expenditure of this sum of 161,000lLord Claude Hamilton
119611951194 said, that however willing he might be to give the Board of Admiralty credit for their tardy exertions, he could not agree with the hon. Member who moved the estimates, in thinking either that a justification of the naval policy of the Government, or a refutation of the exceptions which were taken to it, was to be found in the successful results of the recent operations on the coast of Syria. He denied that they had ever doubted that the navy, whenever it might be called into action, would do its duty. What they had doubted was whether the Government in its administration of the navy was doing its duty. They maintained that it was not. It would be in the recollection of the committee, that during the discussions on the state of the
119611951194Mr. Corry
 hoped the Government meant to take some measures for putting the privates and non-commissioned officers of marines on the same footing with the rest of her Majesty's troops. A British soldier who served for ten years in the West-Indies was allowed for it fifteen years in his pension, and when he came back, and spent ten years in England, he received his pension for twenty-five years. But ten years' service of a marine in the West-Indies only counted for ten years, and ten years at home for five years; so that, for the same length of service for which the soldier received twenty-five years' pension, the marine only received fifteen years' pension. A good drill-sergeant, who was kept at home, must serve forty years for a twenty years' pension. He did not think the marine officers had received promotion commensurate with their services in the late brilliant transactions in Syria. Seventy-six naval officers had been promoted, and only three officers of marines out of forty. If something were not done to remove the odious distinctions between the marines and the soldiers, he should take the sense of the House on the subject after Easter.Lord G. Lennox
 bore testimony to the admirable precision in gunnery evinced in the late transaction. He believed the science of gunnery was in a state of perfection, such as it had never reached before. He would not say a word in defence of the skill or valour of our naval forces, because they had never been attacked. But he was not satisfied with the manning of the navy. He did not think the Mediterranean fleet was manned as it ought to be, or that it could be fairly matched against a French fleet with war complements; for he had yet to learn that the fleet in the Mediterranean had war complements. He thought no ship of war ought to leave a British port unless perfectly manned, and competent to meet a ship of war of any other nation.Captain Berkeley
 hoped that the House would agree with him, that it was most unfair to put the marine upon the same footing as the sailor, who was not required to perform the same extent of duties. It was an undoubted fact that for the late affair of Syria, there were seventy six officers promoted, and only three marines. He thought this was very unfair dealing towards the latter, who should have been put upon the same footing as the officers. He would, however, give an opportunity to every Member of that House at some future period, to give his opinion upon this subject of the treatment of the marines, when it was his intention to bring the question before the House.Lord G. Lennox
 reported progress, and obtained leave to sit again.The Chairman
 said, the discussions on the navy had been of great benefit to the service. He trusted that now, when war was appearing on every side, the full war complements of the ships would be made up. He did not think the success at Acre a proof of the power of the fleet to meet an engagement, because they were at anchor, and had only one broadside to be attended to.Captain A'Court
 did not see how the sanctioning this vote committed hon. Gentlemen to the policy of Ministers.Lord F. Egerton
1199 thought that the subject adverted to by the hon. Member for Bristol (Captain Berkeley) was
1199Lord Francis Egerton
: What I stated was that there was a probability that an additional estimate might be required; but that it might happen, that no additional expenditure might be required. It was at that time a matter of doubt.Lord J. Russell
 would not say, that the course suggested by the right hon. Baronet might not have been proper, but Ministers had thought it more regular to bring the question before the House in a committee of supply, when the Government were prepared to give every explanation. He, and his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, admitted the principle that the right hon. Baronet had laid down. The right hon. Baronet on the other hand admitted that there might be circumstances which would justify a departure from that principle. That being the feeling on both sides, it did appear to him that the record of the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman and the explanation of the Government of the circumstances under which this departure from the rule had taken place, would be sufficient to prevent such a course being taken on any future occasion unless, as in the present instance, the circumstances should justify it.Lord J. Russell
1176lhear.ordonnances11751174l said, that the hon. Baronet had so mixed up several questions together as to render it difficult to grapple with his statements. He was not going to answer the hon. Gentleman with regard to those parts of the speech which related to the mode of keeping the accounts of the navy. His hon. Friend the Secretary for the Admiralty, had stated the grounds upon which he asked for the balance of 29,6941176lhear.ordonnances11751174lLord J. Russell
 moved the Order of the Day for going into Committee of Supply.Lord John Russell
 said, that he would answer the questions of the right hon. Gentleman as precisely as he could. The services on account of which Lieutenant M'Cormick had been recommended for a pension to the Lords of the Admiralty, were performed by him under the command of the superior colonial authorities, in the capture of the Caroline. That recommendation had been made to the Lords of the Admiralty, at the commencement of the last year. He thought it was in January that the decision was made to grant the pension. He had no objection to produce the Order before the House.Lord John Russell
1153l11521151 said, he was about to state, when the right hon. Gentleman interrupted him, the intentions of her Majesty's Government with respect to the bill of his noble Friend, the chief secretary for Ireland. He had thought, that that was a subject which required some further consideration, and he was not prepared on the night of the division, without that fur-
1153l11521151Lord John Russell
 was willing to vote any sum which might be necessary to make the navy efficient. In the late affair the fleet had done its duty. It had done all that was required of it. He could not help giving credit to the Admiralty for having been able to do without the terrible expedient of impressment. He believed that at no former time had so large a number of line-of-battle ships been afloat without recourse having been had to impressment, which was so revolting in itself, and so great an interference with the merchant service.Mr. A. Chapman
 said, this was another glaring instance of the utter inconsistency between the professions of her Majesty's present particularly economical Government and their practice. It was a mere farce to see hon. Gentlemen opposite, who on the hustings talked so largely about their care of the public purse, so utterly indifferent to the waste of the public money in the House.Colonel Sibthorp
 also expressed his opinion that the mode suggested was the most advisable.Mr. C. Wood
l said, that the question he understood to be before the House was a vote of 29,000lMr. C. Wood
 observed, that the day to which the accounts should be made up was prescribed by Act of Parliament, in the words "on or before the 30th of November." It was true, that a certain sum had been taken from the million granted in 1839 for the exigencies of the public service in Canada, and applied to the service on the lakes; but in the course of the ensuing spring the Secretary for the Colonies intimated that it would be necessary to increase the estimate for the maintenance of the men on the lakes, whereupon he stated in reply that he must either move a supplementary estimate, or come upon the million for an additional proportion. The Treasury said that they would not advance the sum, but that when the accounts were sent in they would repay to the naval department what it had actually expended. Hence it was, that this particular estimate bore the date of the 11th of May, 1840.Mr. C. Wood
12011200 said, that whether in or out of office, he had always protested against questions like this being raised and brought under discussion, which could not produce any effects excepting such as were likely to lead to discontent and in-
12011200Mr. C. Wood
 in reply to the last Speaker, said he did not mean to circumscribe any hon. Member's right to address the House upon a naval subject although he might be a civilian. At the same time he could not refrain from saying, that the practice, which but too frequently was followed within those walls, of denouncing the conduct of the Admiralty without hon. Members having the means of forming a practical opinion or having even had any nautical experience, must have a prejudicial effect upon the service generally, and possibly might produce insubordination aboard our vessels of war.Mr. C. Wood,
 said, that whereas there were eleven ships of the line in 1835, there were twenty in 1837. The increase of stores likewise had been gradual since the year 1835.Mr. C. Wood
llllllllll was anxious to take the opportunity which the presence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer afforded him, to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question with reference to an account some time since presented to this House, of the net produce of the Post-office for the last year. By a return presented of the net amount of Post-office revenue for the last year, it would appear, that the amount was 447,000llllllllllMr. Goulburn
 said, that all agreed that this was not a matter of trifling importance; he would therefore suggest that the vote should be withdrawn, and be proposed in an amended form. For instance, that there should be added to it some words explanatory of the extraordinary circumstances of the case, and declaring that it was not to be drawn into a precedent. It might also be stated, that the excess on the estimates of last year was occasioned by special circumstances, not known until Parliament had broken up. This he thought would be sufficient to guard against the repetition of the proceeding.Mr. Goulburn
1183 said, the present vote involved the conduct of the Government, and affected g most important principle, from which the House should not suffer a departure without the greatest necessity. When he looked to the two estimates of last year, and the supplementary estimate now before then), he did not see any justification
1183Mr. Goulburn
l resumed. All estimates are matters of probability. But, looking at this estimate, he perceived several items of expenditure, that were certain, that might have been foreseen, and the voting of which, in the last Session of Parliament, could not possibly have occasioned alarm or uneasiness in the minds of foreign powers; for instance, there was an item for the packet service of the West-India stations. There being in July, last year, a probability that an additional expenditure would be necessary beyond the vote which Parliament was then called upon to sanction, if not by the full amount of the 160,000lMr. Goulburn
 said, in answer to an observation which had fallen from the hon. Member for Halifax, he thought that this was a very proper subject to discuss in that House, and he considered that every country Gentleman in it had a perfect right to express his opinion upon the state of the navy, if he thought it necessary to do so. He was of opinion that the navy was not in as efficient a state as it might be.Mr. Plumptre
 objected to the proposed increase in the number of seamen. If 35,000 men had been sufficient for the purposes required of them last year, what extraordinary occasion was there looked for in the coming year for an additional naval force? He would move, as an amendment, that the proposed vole be reduced from 43,000 men to 35,651, the number last year agreed to; and unless he heard some very satisfactory explanation from some of her Majesty's Ministers on the subject, he should press his amendment to a division.Mr. Hume
 thought that the best way to preserve peace was to show a disposition to it; and that it would be wiser for England, under the circumstances to set an example of pacific intentions to other countries, by reducing rather than increasing her naval force.Mr. Hume
 wished to know from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Pembroke, whether the act he had introduced for the registry of seamen had realized his expectations.Mr. Hume
 thought, that no one who did not approve of the war in Syria could vote the present sum of money. The noble Lord said, that the irregular proceeding on the present occasion would not be drawn into a precedent, and that there would be a sufficient record of their proceedings to prevent this; but no notice of the matter would be placed on their journals; he should like, therefore, to know where this record of irregularity would be found. Would the noble Lord say, that the carrying on the war in Syria was essential to the preservation of the peace of Europe? He contended that if the noble Lord had not signed the convention of the 15th of July, the peace of Europe would have been where it was, and there would have been no interruption of our friendly relations with France. We had interfered unnecessarily, and when no British interests were involved. What he complained of was, that the war had been carried on without the sanction of Parliament, and if the House did its duty it would nut concur in this vote. If the subject had been fully debated last year, it might have been shown that, in the steps taken, no hostile intentions were entertained against France, and the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs might have entered upon the necessary explanations so as to have satisfied the people of France, and to have shown them that no insult or slight was intended to them. Instead, however, of doing this, he had fitted out every ship he could procure, and had attempted to stir up and excite a rebellion in Syria, in the most unconstitutional manner. He objected to paying any money for this war until they had discussed its policy, and until the documents had been laid on the Table explaining all the circumstances. If this was done and the expediency of the proceedings was shown, there would be no hesitation to vote the supplies, but at present, if he divided alone, he should take the sense of the House against the vote.Mr. Hume
 did not see how the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman altered the case. The question for the House to determine, in the first place, was, whether the Syrian policy was a just one; and he thought it better to postpone the vote altogether until this point was settled.Mr. Hume
 said, that he should divide the committee, as he had no other mode of marking his detestation of the policy of Ministers as to Syria.Mr. Hume
1160ll1159 said, it was his intention to have submitted some resolutions respecting the deficient state of the revenue, as compared with the expenditure; but he thought it would be better to hear what the Government had to say to warrant so large an increase as was now proposed in
1160ll1159Mr. Hume
11781177l was glad that the noble Lord admitted the extraordinary nature of the proceedings. The noble Lord considered that he was warranted by the peculiar circumstances in which the country was placed, in taking upon himself that responsibility. He differed entirely from the noble Lord on that point, and he would state to the House the grounds on which he did so. The noble Lord had stated, that by means of taking upon themselves this responsibility the Government had maintained the peace of Europe. He denied that altogether. He contended that they had disturbed the peace of Europe. Europe was in perfect peace at the time when the noble Lord entered into that convention of the 15th of July; there was not the least sign of a disturbance. The French had been increasing their fleet for many years, but the object of that was to maintain that position which was consistent with their station amongst the Powers of Europe. But what did the noble Lord say? The noble Lord said, referring to the Cabinet, they had maintained the peace of Europe at an expense of 160,00011781177lMr. Hume
1157 begged to move for the return of which he had given notice, and which he thought the more important, seeing that it was intended to move for a very large additional force, in the course of the evening. The hon. Member then moved for "An Address to her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to direct, that there be laid before this House copies or extracts of the correspondence between the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, and the Governments of France, Austria, Prussia, Russia, and Turkey, since 1838, respecting the Pacha of Egypt, and the inter-
1157Mr. Hume
dsllll1166llllllllllllllll1165lllllllll1164lllllllllll1163llllllllll1162ll1161lll rose to bring forward the navy estimates. Before stating those of this year he had to request the attention of the committee to the balance sheet of naval expenditure for the financial year which terminated on the 31st March, 1840, which showed an excess of expenditure beyond the sum voted amounting to 29,694dsllll1166llllllllllllllll1165lllllllll1164lllllllllll1163llllllllll1162ll1161lllMr. More O'Ferrall
llll1180lll1179ll believed that he could reply satisfactorily both to this question and to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford. The excess of 29,000llll1180lll1179llMr. M. O'Ferrall
1184 replied, that when the supplementary estimate was taken in July, last year, for 2,000 men, that amount of additional force was considered sufficient to enable the Government to carry out all the intentions of the treaty of July. The way the navy estimates were framed was, to take at the beginning of the year the whole number of ships, and calculate the number of men at full complement for each ship, although some of those ships might be fitting out in harbour. The deficiency of men in those ships in the early part of the year, generally makes up for excess at the close of the year, if such should occur. If in July Government had proposed to take a greater number of men, than was actually necessary, they would have given grounds for that excitement that subsequently had prevailed in France. He had stated, that the services on the coast of Syria had been performed by the force, that had been voted in July. But when so
1184Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 said, that from July to December, 1840, the number of apprentices employed in the merchant service was 28,506, and that the number now upon the registry was 25,230. Then, with regard to that part of the act which related to registered seamen, in 1835, when the act passed, the number of the ships of Great Britain was 25,511; the tonnage 2,783,000; and the number of men belonging to the merchant navy, 171,021. In 1839, the number of ships was raised to upwards of 27,000, the tonnage to 3,168,000, and the number of men to 191,283; so that, not only was the tonnage and the number of ships on the increase, but the number of men also, and in a still greater proportion.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
: The returns from which the account is to be made out have not yet been received.Mr. R. Gordon
1204 said, the Board of Admiralty were entitled to great credit for the exertions used in fitting out ships to rein-
1204Mr. Maunsell
12031202 said, that it gave him pleasure to find that the habit which had prevailed during the last Session of impugning the conduct of the Admiralty for placing the naval force of the country in an inefficient state of equipment had been disused on the present occasion. It had been a matter of astonishment to all persons cognizant in naval affairs, that so much should have been done by the British fleet on the coasts of Syria, with the means that had been granted to Admiral Sir Robert Stopford. That gallant officer himself had stated the same thing in his
12031202Sir C. Adam
llllpro tanto said, if the right hon. Gentleman had waited a little he would, in the course of a day or two, have had the information laid on the Table of the House which he was so anxious to obtain. The Member for Harwich had moved for returns which would show what was fairly to be taken as the amount of the revenue derived from the Post-office under the new system. He was perfectly correct in supposing, that the Exchequer returns included all the postage of official as well as private correspondence. Hon. Gentlemen seemed to be under the impression, that all they received, before the present system was introduced, was clear postage, exclusive of official correspondence. But that was not the case; before the new law was passed, there were numerous documents of an official character passed through the Post-office; and, so far as the Exchequer returns went, therefore, they were, llllpro tantoThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
1191 wished to remind the hon. Gentleman that he did not commit himself to any vote of approbation of the policy pursued towards Syria by sanctioning the present vote. With respect to the objection to the proceeding, he did not believe there was any doubt as to the principle, and that this case was an exception owing to peculiar circumstances, and that the rule was, that Parliament should be consulted on all occasions previous to the expenditure of the public money.
1191The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 quite concurred with the right hon. Gentleman as to the propriety of marking this as an extraordinary case. He should think it would be better to pass a separate act of Parliament for the purpose, a special Appropriation Act, authorising them to apply this supplemental sum for the expenses of the last year; and in the preamble of this act some such words as those suggested might be introduced.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1172ll1171ll1170l1169lllM. O'Ferrall1168l1167 regretted that the House bad not paid more attention to the statements of the right hon. Gentleman—because no more important subject could come under the consideration of the House and the country. The committee was called on, for the first time, to make good the deficiencies of former estimates, not of the year now passing only, but also that of the preceding year; and there were at the same time submitted to the consideration of the committee, estimates considerably exceeding in amount any that had been brought before the House for the last twenty years. The country must be considered, not as in a state of peace, but as if winding up the accounts of a state of war. He proposed to confine his observations before the committee to the vote now before it, and one of a precisely similar nature which followed it, with regard to a deficiency in former estimates. He was precluded from going into any general observations on the estimates for the present year, because that must form the subject of a calculation upon the amount of the naval force which might be required under the circumstances in which the country might be placed. He felt it impossible to enter upon this subject, in the absence of the Minister of the Crown, whose duty it was to furnish them with information. He must confess, that when he was called upon to vote 43,000 men for the naval service of the country, he felt some surprise that the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs was not present to offer an
1172ll1171ll1170l1169lllM. O'Ferrall1168l1167Sir George Clerk
primâ facieprimâ facie1173llllll would then ask, why the paper for which the hon. Secretary had himself moved on the 3rd of February, a return of the debt of the Navy, had not yet been laid before the House? He would frankly admit, that in former limes but little interest had been felt in that document, but it was now one of a most important character, and he hoped no time would be lost in laying it upon the Table. He did not know on what ground the House was called upon to make up this deficiency. From the accounts laid on the Table, it appeared, that on the 7th of January there was a sum of 1,537,516primâ facieprimâ facie1173llllllSir George Clerk
 did not object to this vote, but always expected the naval department to make out its estimates clearly, and, if possible, in the first instance.Sir G. Clerk
1198 said, it had been asserted that Admiral Stopford had been left without sufficient force, and that our coast had been left defenceless. But these assertions had been completely answered both in that House and elsewhere. It had been stated in the other House of Parliament, that after twenty-four years of peace, the naval officers of this country were not equal in efficiency to those of France, and that even if they were, there was not that affection and attachment towards the Government which would induce them, if called upon, to engage in action. He was confident that there was no officer who had any such feeling. The late events had clearly shown, that whenever they were called upon to serve their country, their deeds would be such as had ever distinguished the navy of England. He believed, that at no time was the navy in a more prosperous condition, or under better discipline. The attention which had been bestowed on the naval artillery had greatly increased its efficiency. He had himself differed from the Admiralty on many occasions as to minor details; but their general management he cordially approved. The possibility of an engagement with the French fleet had been spoken of,
1198Captain Pechell
 contended that the dockyards were fitly and properly supplied, but it was not good policy to keep a large quantity of stores on hand.Captain Pechell
 replied, that it had greatly exceeded his expectations. The main object he had in view was, to insure constant employment in the merchant service of a large number of apprentices. When the act was introduced, the number so employed was only about 5,000, which by that act was raised to 13,000; but, so far from that number being strictly adhered to, he believed it was, at present, upwards of 22,000. He could not say the exact number; but, perhaps, the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Admiralty, who had access to authentic documents, would.Sir J. Graham
1181 was bound to say, that the answer of the hon. Gentleman was
1181Sir J. Graham
lll said, it was desirable that they should keep the vote of 29,000lllSir J. Graham
 begged to delay the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) for a moment, while he took the liberty of asking him a question or two, in reference to the Navy Estimates that were about to be brought under discussion this evening. In the year 1839, his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, and his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford, asked the noble Lord whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to grant any pension to Lieutenant M'Cormick, of the royal navy, on account of his services in the seizure of the American steamer Caroline. At that time the noble Lord stated, that the Government had come to no resolution upon the subject. Now be found by the navy estimates, which were about to be referred to a committee of supply this night, that a pension had been granted to Lieutenant M'Cormick for wounds, as it was alleged, received in the service. He wished to ask the noble Lord, what particular service it was in which the wounds were received for which the pension was granted; what was the date of the Order in Council granting it, and whether the noble Lord had any objection to lay a copy of the Order on the Table of the House?Sir J. Graham
1182 wished to ask a question. In the course of the speech delivered by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, that noble Lord made a declaration which appeared to him of very great importance. The noble Lord said, that one of the reasons why an additional estimate was not taken to provide for the possible consequences of the misunderstanding with France on account of the Syrian question was, that if such an estimate had
1182Sir R. Peel
 thought this the best plan that could be adopted.Sir R. Peel
 looked upon the vote as quite irrespective of the policy of Ministers as to Syria. Whether the policy was right or wrong, the forces employed rausl be paid in the mean time.Sir R. Peel
"Circumstances have occurred during the recess which have induced me to direct an increase in my naval force greater than that provided for in the estimates; but this assumption of authority has been justified by the peculiar circumstances of the case, and I am confident will meet with your sanction."1189 observed that the noble Lord had avoided the question, not only as to the principle itself, but also as to the application of that principle. He (Sir R. Peel) could easily conceive that, last year, in the then peculiar state of our foreign relations, a vote of credit might have been open to the same objection that might have been urged against a distinct increase in the navy estimates. But what he had said was, that if the Government contemplated the probability of an increase, they ought rather to have proposed the specific increase they contemplated, stating the grounds on which they thought it might be necessary; or, if they did not wish to enter into detail, they might have taken a vote of credit, justified by the ne-
"Circumstances have occurred during the recess which have induced me to direct an increase in my naval force greater than that provided for in the estimates; but this assumption of authority has been justified by the peculiar circumstances of the case, and I am confident will meet with your sanction."1189Sir R. Peel
11861185: The question that here arose was, however this:—Supposing that it were deemed probable that, during the recess an increase of force, naval or military, would be required, according to all ordinary and constitutional principles it would be the duty of the Government to inform Parliament that such an emergency might be expected, and to take a discretionary vote to meet it. That might be done without any estimate by a vote of credit; under ordinary circumstances, that would be the proper course. But Ministers said, that there was danger of increasing the irritable feelings that prevailed in France, by taking a precaution that might have been, or might not have been, necessary. The noble Lord admitted, that when the supplementary vote of last year was taken, it was highly probable that an increased expenditure might be necessary, but he added that there was something peculiar in the circumstances of the present case that justified the Government in taking this responsibility upon themselves, rather than make a communication to Parliament that might possibly have increased the probability of a rupture with France. He would not say, there were no reasons last autumn to justify this departure from the usual and constitutional course, but he thought that the Crown should have taken some notice of the matter at the commencement of the present Session; and then, the subject having been brought before the House, means would have been taken to prevent the proceeding in this case being brought forward as a precedent on future occasions. In a despotic Government no such difficulty would have arisen, because such a Government would have had the power to take whatever precautions might be necessary. It was, no doubt, one of the inconveniencies of a
11861185Sir R. Peel
en flute said, that the plan formerly adopted of arming vessels en fluteSir T. Cochrane
 said, that although the naval force, of the country, last year, was sufficient for all the operations in Syria which the Government had undertaken, it did not follow that if other naval countries were found to be greatly increasing their naval forces, it would not be incumbent upon this country also at least to put her force upon an equal footing with those of surrounding nations. He was quite aware that there was no better or more necessary security which this country could have for the continuance of peace, than to put its navy on an equal footing with that of any other country which, under other circumstances, might be tempted by a momentary superiority, to take steps which, if unprovided for by this country, might prove highly inconvenient.Viscount Palmerston
11881187 said, that in the general constitutional doctrine laid down by the right hon. Gentleman on this subject, it was impossible for him not to concur. The question, however, was, whether this was not a case which should be made an exception to the general principle which had been laid down. He thought that it was, for the reasons stated by his noble Friend. He would ask what was the state of things at the time Parliament was prorogued? The treaty was known to have been signed, and great irritation had been excited—certainly on the most unfounded grounds— throughout the French nation. They felt highly irritated, and persuaded themselves that the alliance of the Four Powers had been entered into for a specific and particular purpose against France. They asserted most groundlessly that this was a renewal of the alliance of 1814 against France, and that it furnished an indication, on the part of the allies, of an intention to attack France. At the time of the prorogation of Parliament, a greatly increased armament had been made on the part of France, and as his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty had stated, the additional force proposed for the navy towards the end of the last Session was considered sufficient to carry out the treaty of July. Undoubtedly the Government might have come down to Parliament, as the right hon. Gentleman had suggested, and might have drawn the attention of the House to the circumstances which had arisen, and which had created angry feelings between France and the Four Powers, but the truth was, that Parliament separated some months previous to the irritation, and to the extensive armaments which had been carried on in that country, and when it was not possible to know to what extent this feeling of excitement would prevail. The right hon. Gentleman said, that at the end of the Session, although there might be no immedi-
11881187Viscount Palmerston
: If I understood the noble Lord rightly, he alluded to a recent declaration of a person who held a high rank in the French government at the time when those transactions took place. If the right hon. Gentleman asks me what is the present state of the relations of the two countries, I can have no hesitation in saying that I do not see anything connected with these matters, or likely to arise out of them, which, in my opinion, can in any way tend to interrupt the friendly and pacific relations between the two countries.Viscount Palmerston
1216llllllll12151214"It is further provided by the Act of George 2nd, cap. 23, sec. 39, that every sheriff depute, or his substitute, should reside in his county for four months in the course of the year."1213"That it should be lawful for the said sheriffs principal, or sheriffs substitute, not only to hold their own regular courts, but also to hold itinerant courts, at such times and places within their respective jurisdictions as they should judge to be expedient, or at such times and places as should be directed by his Majesty, his heirs, and successors, by warrant under his or their sign manual."12121211 rising to bring before the House the motion of which he had given notice, said he would endeavour to be as brief as he could, and he trusted he should make out such a case as would entitle him to a "committee to inquire into the nature and extent of the duties still incumbent on the holders of the now nearly sinecure office of sheriff principal, or chief stipendiary judge for each county
1216llllllll12151214"It is further provided by the Act of George 2nd, cap. 23, sec. 39, that every sheriff depute, or his substitute, should reside in his county for four months in the course of the year."1213"That it should be lawful for the said sheriffs principal, or sheriffs substitute, not only to hold their own regular courts, but also to hold itinerant courts, at such times and places within their respective jurisdictions as they should judge to be expedient, or at such times and places as should be directed by his Majesty, his heirs, and successors, by warrant under his or their sign manual."12121211Mr. Wallace in
1217 said, that he had listened with all due attention to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, in order to discover the grounds on which he demanded this inquiry; an inquiry into a system which, without referring to any evidence whatever, the hon. Gentleman had chosen to assume to be utterly unnecessary, namely, the system by which a most important class of public officers, the deputy sheriffs of Scotland, were appointed. The hon. Gentleman had himself bestowed on those officers great praise, but not more than was due to them; but he had, at the same time, declared that the system by which they were nominated and appointed was a degrading system. It was at least satisfactory to him, and he knew it would be so to the people of Scotland, as well as to that House, to know that in whatever manner that hon. Gentleman might choose to characterise the system of their appointment, he was obliged to confess that the sheriffs depute were a most useful class of officers, and that they discharged most onerous duties with honour and credit to themselves, and satisfaction to all. He confessed that, on looking at the terms of the motion, with the experience he had had of the manner in which the hon. Gentleman conducted his motions, he was not at all surprised at the tone and temper with which he had entered into the discussion of this subject; but he did not think it worth while to take any further notice of that time and temper. The hon. Member had used very strong language with reference to the sheriffs themselves, which he (the Lord Advocate) knew would be rebutted in Scotland. The hon. Member had said that his noble Friend had stated that he was willing to grant the committee of inquiry if the House should think it right; that might be so, but he thought the statements of the hon. Member himself afforded sufficient grounds for the House to withhold its assent to the proposed inquiry.
1217The Lord Advocate
1221; He said he had worded his motion in its present terms, because every word was true. He had not inquired into the expediency of affirming what was true; if the House would grant him a committee, he would prove, not only the things he had stated in his motion, but a great deal more. He would not beat about the bush to conceal facts. The returns showed that in the counties of Peebles and Bute, the sheriffs had only two and a half appeals between them in a year, and ought this to continue? As for the system being satisfactory, any one wishing to recommend himself to the con
1221Mr. Wallace replied
12361235"If any person should vote contrary to the wishes of the priest, if he attended any fair or market, strangers would fall upon him and give him a most unmerciful beating. Cases of this kind have occurred in Queen's County, Kerry, Carlow, Kildare, Tipperary, and Galway.—Fitzgerald. No man could vote contrary to the priest without danger to his person and property.—Messrs. Wilcox, Despard, and Finn. Such was the state of tyranny, that no Roman Catholic dare act independently.—Lord Kenmare. System of intimidation.—Messrs. Muller and Lalor. Those who voted against the Catholic party were denounced as traitors. The people would not deal with that man, nor associate with him. Freeholders in Carlow feared to be murdered, or have their houses burnt.1234"I think it essential that a better order of Catholic priests should be constituted.""That in the journey I subsequently took, I had full opportunity to form a comparison between the priests of the olden time and those educated at Maynooth, and with every disposition to deal fairly by them. I am convinced of the justice of the opinion I formerly expressed. I found the old foreign-educated priest a gentleman in deportment, and a man of high and generous feelings, but not what might be termed so good a Catholic as the priest educated at Maynooth. In the latter I found a vulgar-minded man, learned, perhaps, in theological matters, but a hot zealot, impregnated with a strong idea of his self-importance and his influence; and I have no doubt that the disorders that prevailed in Ireland have been increased by the Maynooth education of the Catholic priesthood. It is the Maynooth priest who is the agitating priest, and if a foreign-educated priest, who is a more liberal-minded man, less a zealot, and less a hater of Protestantism than the other, held a Roman Catholic cure, it is generally the case that an assistant is appointed, red hot from Maynooth, and the old priest is virtually superseded. In no country in Europe, not even in Spain, is the spirit of Popery so Anti-Protestant as in Ireland.""I can say nothing as to the priesthood of Ireland—I am not acquainted with them—but they do not appear to me to be the same description of persons as they formerly were."1233"The priests who were educated in France, were old men when I became a man, and I found that they entertained a natural abhor,
1233"We don't inculcate these doctrines, we merely make the study of the books containing them a part of the education of the students?"Secunda Secundœ1232ipso facto,"He who owes anything to a heretic by means of purchase, promise, exchange, pledge, deposit, loan, or any other contract, is, ipso facto,salvo juris superioris"Does an apostate prince lose dominion over his subjects?—We must not obey apostate princes. We absolve those who are bound to excommunicated persons by fealty and the sacrament of an oath. Apostates from the faith are excommunicated, as also heretics.—Maldonatus. Who hath not known the Calvinist and Lutherans, who does not see that they are heretics, who have revived almost every ancient heresy?—Truly there never can be a heretic, if they are not heretics. Oaths must always be taken salvo juris superiorisSecunda Secundœ,1231"We do not hesitate to declare to your Majesty that the canonical laws which are sanctioned by the ancient constitution of the country are incompatible with the projected constitution, which would give in Belgium equal favour and protection to all religions. The council of Trent, all whose resolutions were published in these provinces, and have thence the effect of ecclesiastical law, commanded the bishops to see to the execution of them, The canonical laws always rejected schism and heresy from the bosom of the Church; we are bound incessantly to preserve the people intrusted to our care from the doctrines which are in opposition to the doctrines of the Catholic Church. If your Majesty, by virtue of a fundamental law, protected in these provinces the public profession and spreading of these doctrines, the progress of which we are bound to oppose with all the care and energy which the Catholic Church expects from our office, we should be in formal opposition to the laws of the State, to the measures which your Majesty might adopt to maintain them among us, and, in spite of all our endeavours to maintain union and peace, the public tranquillity might still be disturbed."1230"Such a law, in place of being necessary or useful, would overturn the foundations of society, and instead of benefitting the entire community would entrench on all its dearest rights and liberties."1229"The Catholic hierarchy of Ireland was acknowledged to be at this day in complete and unqualified dependence on a foreign authority—that there was no other Catholic Church in Europe in the same position, and that he regretted, that the policy of Britain had been the cause of this anomalous position."12281227"A Bill for establishing a College for the better education of persons professing the Roman Catholic Religion, and intended for the Clerical Ministry thereof."1226122512241223 in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice relative to the College of Maynooth, confessed that he approached the question with great anxiety, and some degree of pain, not because the subject was undeserving the consideration of the House, but because he had observed that in the debates which had previously taken place on this subject a good deal of conflicting religious feeling was mixed up; and hon. Members on the other side had conceived that an attack was levelled against their conscientious
12361235"If any person should vote contrary to the wishes of the priest, if he attended any fair or market, strangers would fall upon him and give him a most unmerciful beating. Cases of this kind have occurred in Queen's County, Kerry, Carlow, Kildare, Tipperary, and Galway.—Fitzgerald. No man could vote contrary to the priest without danger to his person and property.—Messrs. Wilcox, Despard, and Finn. Such was the state of tyranny, that no Roman Catholic dare act independently.—Lord Kenmare. System of intimidation.—Messrs. Muller and Lalor. Those who voted against the Catholic party were denounced as traitors. The people would not deal with that man, nor associate with him. Freeholders in Carlow feared to be murdered, or have their houses burnt.1234"I think it essential that a better order of Catholic priests should be constituted.""That in the journey I subsequently took, I had full opportunity to form a comparison between the priests of the olden time and those educated at Maynooth, and with every disposition to deal fairly by them. I am convinced of the justice of the opinion I formerly expressed. I found the old foreign-educated priest a gentleman in deportment, and a man of high and generous feelings, but not what might be termed so good a Catholic as the priest educated at Maynooth. In the latter I found a vulgar-minded man, learned, perhaps, in theological matters, but a hot zealot, impregnated with a strong idea of his self-importance and his influence; and I have no doubt that the disorders that prevailed in Ireland have been increased by the Maynooth education of the Catholic priesthood. It is the Maynooth priest who is the agitating priest, and if a foreign-educated priest, who is a more liberal-minded man, less a zealot, and less a hater of Protestantism than the other, held a Roman Catholic cure, it is generally the case that an assistant is appointed, red hot from Maynooth, and the old priest is virtually superseded. In no country in Europe, not even in Spain, is the spirit of Popery so Anti-Protestant as in Ireland.""I can say nothing as to the priesthood of Ireland—I am not acquainted with them—but they do not appear to me to be the same description of persons as they formerly were."1233"The priests who were educated in France, were old men when I became a man, and I found that they entertained a natural abhor,
1233"We don't inculcate these doctrines, we merely make the study of the books containing them a part of the education of the students?"Secunda Secundœ1232ipso facto,"He who owes anything to a heretic by means of purchase, promise, exchange, pledge, deposit, loan, or any other contract, is, ipso facto,salvo juris superioris"Does an apostate prince lose dominion over his subjects?—We must not obey apostate princes. We absolve those who are bound to excommunicated persons by fealty and the sacrament of an oath. Apostates from the faith are excommunicated, as also heretics.—Maldonatus. Who hath not known the Calvinist and Lutherans, who does not see that they are heretics, who have revived almost every ancient heresy?—Truly there never can be a heretic, if they are not heretics. Oaths must always be taken salvo juris superiorisSecunda Secundœ,1231"We do not hesitate to declare to your Majesty that the canonical laws which are sanctioned by the ancient constitution of the country are incompatible with the projected constitution, which would give in Belgium equal favour and protection to all religions. The council of Trent, all whose resolutions were published in these provinces, and have thence the effect of ecclesiastical law, commanded the bishops to see to the execution of them, The canonical laws always rejected schism and heresy from the bosom of the Church; we are bound incessantly to preserve the people intrusted to our care from the doctrines which are in opposition to the doctrines of the Catholic Church. If your Majesty, by virtue of a fundamental law, protected in these provinces the public profession and spreading of these doctrines, the progress of which we are bound to oppose with all the care and energy which the Catholic Church expects from our office, we should be in formal opposition to the laws of the State, to the measures which your Majesty might adopt to maintain them among us, and, in spite of all our endeavours to maintain union and peace, the public tranquillity might still be disturbed."1230"Such a law, in place of being necessary or useful, would overturn the foundations of society, and instead of benefitting the entire community would entrench on all its dearest rights and liberties."1229"The Catholic hierarchy of Ireland was acknowledged to be at this day in complete and unqualified dependence on a foreign authority—that there was no other Catholic Church in Europe in the same position, and that he regretted, that the policy of Britain had been the cause of this anomalous position."12281227"A Bill for establishing a College for the better education of persons professing the Roman Catholic Religion, and intended for the Clerical Ministry thereof."1226122512241223Mr. Colquhoun
12511250 observed, that there were two expressions in the speech of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, with respect to which he was anxious to make a few observations. The hon. Member alluded to the double interpretation which he asserted Catholics put upon the term "allegiance." Now any Catholic felt that his allegiance to his Sovereign was totally different to what was called the spiritual allegiance to the Church. The latter only referred to the spiritual authority of the Church, and had nothing whatever to do with temporal matters. The difference and distinction between the temporal allegiance and spiritual allegiance, as it had been termed, was as complete as possible. The Catholics had repudiated over and over again, as fully as the Legislature required it, the notion that theirs was a divided allegiance on their part, and that they did not acknowledge their allegiance to the Sovereign of this realm as their Protestant fellow-subjects. The hon. Member might refer to a number of old orders, for the purpose of supporting his allegation, but he had thought that the question had been set at rest to the satisfaction of all reasonable minds. When the subject was alluded to some years ago, Mr. Pitt referred a number of questions, involving the point, to several of the most learned Universities and other bodies in various parts of Europe, and they one and all repudiated the doctrines of not keeping faith with Heretics, or that they could bear a divided allegiance to their Sovereign. He had thought that such prejudices against their fellow-countrymen had been buried in oblivion; but as the hon. Gentleman had thought proper to bring forward these topics, he had felt called upon to repudiate and disown them. The hon. Gentleman also stated that the Catholics reproached and denounced those who differed with them as heretics and schismatics. He should
12511250Mr. Langdale
 said that if he had no other reasons for resisting this motion, he should have found sufficient in the wording because he could not adopt the motion itself, and repudiate the terms. That motion had gone forth to the country, and if he assented to the appointment of the committee, he would be agreeing to the objectionable words. As to the small number of cases before the sheriffs, hon. Members did not know the labour which the sheriffs principal had in reviewing the decision of their deputes, and their exertions could not be rightly measured by the number of cases. To appoint a committee would be to sanction the opinion that there was something wrong to be enquired into. If there were a glaring wrong it must have come before the public, and needed no committee to find it out: and, if the wrong did exist, his hon. Friend should at once introduce a bill showing what that wrong was, and how he would remedy it: the House would then be able to form an opinion upon the matter, but the process now proposed would rather do injury than good.Mr. Fox Maule
1249 did not for a moment doubt that many of the Catholic priests in Ireland were upright men, and discharged their duties conscientiously; but this was not the topic then under discussion. As the noble Lord did not intend to oppose the introduction of the bill, it was unnecessary for him to make many observations; but he must observe that neither the noble Lord nor the hon. Gentleman who spoke last had replied to the greater portion of the eloquent speech of his hon. Friend. They had been satisfied with quoting many extracts from books which had nothing to do with the subject under debate. The hon. Member for Kerry said he was anxious for the introduction of this bill, that he might examine it. He also wished for its introduction, but after they had been told the other evening by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies
1249Mr. Cumming Bruce
12531252 would state why he should have voted for the motion if it had been opposed, and why he thought the bill should be brought in. He had no doubt, that the hon. Gentleman who last spoke, had spoken most truly, so far as regarded himself and a very large body of the Roman Catholics of this country, no less than of a large body of Irish Catholics. Upon this account, the hon. Gentleman and those who agreed with him, should feel with those on that side of the House, if they were not more anxious that the statements which had been made in the House that night and out of it during the last five or six years should be investigated—for if the alleged facts were not true, the friends of the college of Maynooth and of the Roman Catholic clergy should be the first to challenge inquiry, and refute the accusations which had been made, not by innuendo, but in the most open and direct manner. He should be most happy if these charges should be refuted. There were none so interested in having those facts cleared up as the respectable and loyal priesthood of Ireland, and those respectable and loyal men who felt like the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House. These charges, how-
12531252Mr. Litton
1272l1271réchauffée felt it to be his duty as a Roman Catholic, and the representative of a Roman Catholic constituency, to deny in the most solemn manner that his church professed or entertained the abominable and atrocious doctrines attributed to her by hon. Gentlemen opposite—such as not feeling it necessary to keep faith with heretics, or taking oaths from which they might be absolved by other means than those acknowledged by persons of a different persuasion. But those doctrines had been over and over again denied by eminent Catholic divines, in defending their church from the various calumnies which were heaped upon her. Hon. Gentlemen opposite, must, therefore, have known that they were falsely accusing that church, or, if they did not, they ought to have made themselves acquainted with the real facts of the case before they had the audacity to attribute such doctrines to men who were in every respect their equals He was convinced, that such speeches as that of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock would do more to repeal the union than could be effected by the exertions of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; for they would convince the people of Ireland that there still existed, even amongst the enlightened portion of this country, a spirit of religious bigotry and intolerance so strong as to have made its way into the House of Commons, and which he had hoped had been laid at rest by the bill of 1829. The speech of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, was, in fact, nothing more than a 1272l1271réchaufféeMr. W. Barron
ll1218 observed, that it was no recommendation in his eyes that the system was one hundred years old; on the con
ll1218Mr. Hume
1270l.l126912681267however absolutely made,Secunda Secunda1266"What may be just cause of dispensation from vows?—Several causes are set forth in answer: amongst others, the utility of the Church, the spiritual utility of the person who vows or swears, any doubt of the validity of an oath; and any other sort of case which may be generally reduced to piety, spiritual utility, or necessity.""There exists in the Church a power of dispensing with oaths."Moral Theology,"Are vassals and servants and others freed from any private obligation due to a heretic, and from keeping faith with him?—Yes; all are so by the clear disposal of the law."1265Salvo jure superioris,No, no,"Where does the general of the Franciscans live?—I think at Rome. Where does the general of the Dominicans live?—At Home, I believe. Where does the general of the Augustinians live?—I think at Rome. Where does the general of the Jesuits live?—I think at Rome?"d·,d.;d.;d.divine,1264"How great must be the quantity of the thing stolen, in order to constitute the theft a
d·,d.;d.;d.divine,1264the mortal sin.Moral Theology,12631262 said, that, as it was not intended to resist the motion of his hon. Friend for leave to bring in his bill, he would not have troubled the House with any observations, had it not been for the extraordinary address of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. The hon. and learned Gentleman had shifted the ground from the question before the House by an unwarrantable personal attack upon his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilmarnock. He would only say, his hon. Friend's character was well known to the Members of that House, and stood not in need of his humble testimony. There was no man in the country whose moral and religious character would bear a stricter scrutiny. His hon. Friend had confirmed his statements by quotations from certain books used in the course of education at Maynooth. The facts were as his hon. Friend had stated, and he would prove them to be so before he sat down, and give the hon. and learned Member for Dublin page and chapter. The hon. and learned Member had attributed to his hon. Friend what had never been said by him. His hon. Friend did not state that Mr. Emmett had been examined before the House of Lords, nor did he make any quotation from any evidence given by that individual before their Lordships' House; but he would repeat and i prove what his hon. Friend had said. Mr. Emmett's statement was to be found in a work published by him in New York, in 1807; for Mr. Emmett, being a rebel, found it convenient to leave Ireland. He bad been a member of the Roman Catholic committee, a convention which, in 1793, sat in Dublin. What Mr. T. A. Emmett stated in his book, was, "that the Education Committee (which had been appointed by the Roman Catholic committee or convention) had formed a plan for the united education of Roman Catholics and Protestants, to be dependent on the people for support, and to be under
1270l.l126912681267however absolutely made,Secunda Secunda1266"What may be just cause of dispensation from vows?—Several causes are set forth in answer: amongst others, the utility of the Church, the spiritual utility of the person who vows or swears, any doubt of the validity of an oath; and any other sort of case which may be generally reduced to piety, spiritual utility, or necessity.""There exists in the Church a power of dispensing with oaths."Moral Theology,"Are vassals and servants and others freed from any private obligation due to a heretic, and from keeping faith with him?—Yes; all are so by the clear disposal of the law."1265Salvo jure superioris,No, no,"Where does the general of the Franciscans live?—I think at Rome. Where does the general of the Dominicans live?—At Home, I believe. Where does the general of the Augustinians live?—I think at Rome. Where does the general of the Jesuits live?—I think at Rome?"d·,d.;d.;d.divine,1264"How great must be the quantity of the thing stolen, in order to constitute the theft a
d·,d.;d.;d.divine,1264the mortal sin.Moral Theology,12631262Mr. Sergeant Jackson
12611260125912581257125612551254 would commence what he had to say, by stating, in the most distinct and emphatic manner, that he implicitly believed in all that was taught at Maynooth; he would not for a moment shrink from making this avowal, in its completest extent, and he was only checked by his respect for the Mouse from expressing most emphatically his contempt for those aspersions upon that college which had been so shamelessly uttered by several hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House. It was said, that the charges brought that night against Maynooth had already been frequently made in that House; he had been longer in the House than the hon. Gentleman who made this statement, and he could tell the hon. Gentleman, that at least never had any charge against Maynooth been brought forward in so indecent a manner. Never had any charge against Maynooth assumed
12611260125912581257125612551254Mr. O'Connell
1248"One way there seems to be of explaining this, and only one. Might not the archives of the Propaganda possibly supply the key.""It was soon found that the Temperance Association was capable of being turned into a powerful engine. It enabled agitators to parade the people in vast masses. It gave a bond of union, and a badge quite as efficacious as an oath, in the temperance medal, which, it is now understood, will be a security not only against the torment of another world, but in the coming massacre, to distinguish Papists from Protestants."12471246"No people were ever more formed than the Irish for religion, for obedience, for respect to the ministers of God, for belief in mysteries; and therefore none more fit to be duped and ruled over by Popery. It would be desirable to know what communications are now kept up between Ireland, Rome, Palermo, St. Acheul, and other important stations of Popery, and especially of Jesuitism; what visits are paid to Rome by the Irish bishops, and members of Jesuit establishments; what sums of money transmitted either backwards or forwards. We see a move now made for the establishment of an exclusive Roman Catholic Bank, for the avowed purpose of facilitating these transactions. It is certain that some sums enter into Ireland from abroad; and there is also a remarkable mystery attending the disappearance of money in the hands of the priests. Some few have been known to hoard; but latterly hardly any discoveries have been made of this kind, or of property-left to their families. When the large amount of their incomes is ascertained, the immense revenues raised by the Temperance and other similar movements, and the economical mode in which they live as single men, it will, we think, be a matter of no little wonder where their accumulations disappear. We should also beg leave to ask, what changes have recently taken place in the Romish priesthood in the Colonies—Newfoundland, for instance, Australia, Van Diemen's Land, the Cape of Cood Hope, Demerara, the West Indies, and especially India? Will the directors of the
1246Quarterly Review1245l1244 did not wish to introduce any topics of a personal nature into the discussion, but he would remind the House that, after all that had been said on the subject, and after all the petitions which had been presented, and the discussions which had been got up out of doors, there was little for any one to respond to, as Gentlemen opposite had not dwelt upon general principles. The hon. Gentleman who brought forward the motion, took care to avoid dealing with the provisions of the bill which he proposed to introduce, and all that he could gather from his speech was, that he wished to take away the royal patronage from the College of Maynooth, and to prevent the Lord Chancellor Plunkett, the Lord Chief Justice Bushe, the Chief Justice Doherty, and the Lord Chief Baron, from acting in any way as
1248"One way there seems to be of explaining this, and only one. Might not the archives of the Propaganda possibly supply the key.""It was soon found that the Temperance Association was capable of being turned into a powerful engine. It enabled agitators to parade the people in vast masses. It gave a bond of union, and a badge quite as efficacious as an oath, in the temperance medal, which, it is now understood, will be a security not only against the torment of another world, but in the coming massacre, to distinguish Papists from Protestants."12471246"No people were ever more formed than the Irish for religion, for obedience, for respect to the ministers of God, for belief in mysteries; and therefore none more fit to be duped and ruled over by Popery. It would be desirable to know what communications are now kept up between Ireland, Rome, Palermo, St. Acheul, and other important stations of Popery, and especially of Jesuitism; what visits are paid to Rome by the Irish bishops, and members of Jesuit establishments; what sums of money transmitted either backwards or forwards. We see a move now made for the establishment of an exclusive Roman Catholic Bank, for the avowed purpose of facilitating these transactions. It is certain that some sums enter into Ireland from abroad; and there is also a remarkable mystery attending the disappearance of money in the hands of the priests. Some few have been known to hoard; but latterly hardly any discoveries have been made of this kind, or of property-left to their families. When the large amount of their incomes is ascertained, the immense revenues raised by the Temperance and other similar movements, and the economical mode in which they live as single men, it will, we think, be a matter of no little wonder where their accumulations disappear. We should also beg leave to ask, what changes have recently taken place in the Romish priesthood in the Colonies—Newfoundland, for instance, Australia, Van Diemen's Land, the Cape of Cood Hope, Demerara, the West Indies, and especially India? Will the directors of the
1246Quarterly Review1245l1244Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell
l, though he should vote with the hon. Member for Greenock, could not concur in the sweeping censure he had pronounced on the judges constituting the courts of appeal in Scotland. He found fault with the system, not with the individuals. If the thirty judges were reduced to six or seven, supposing the system itself to be good, it would be sufficient. By a return last year laid upon, the Table of the House, it appeared that in five of the southern counties, where each sheriff received 700lMr. R. Steuart
 moved, that a select committee be appointed to inquire into the nature and extent of the duties still incumbent on the holders of the office of sheriff principal, or chief stipendiary judge for each county in Scotland, and also to inquire into the nature and effects of the system under which the above class of stipendiary judges nominate and appoint stipendiary deputy judges.Mr. Wallace
1219 said, that before such a tribunal his hon. Friend could hardly hope for success in his motion. When anything like the abolition of sinecures, patronage, and offices came before the House, the unanimity of both the great parties against anything like inquiry was truly wonderful. He was not surprised at the cheers with which what was said by the Lord Advocate had been received by the other side of the House; no doubt hon. Gentlemen opposite thought the tenure of office by the Lord Advocate might be short, and they were in hopes if they succeeded to that and
1219Mr. Gillon
 remarked that the difficulty the Lord Advocate had had to contend with was, that the hon. Member for Greenock had made out no case requiring an answer. The present system gave universal satisfaction, as he could bear witness, from his own experience as a country Gentleman in Scotland. He complained of the terms in which the motion was couched, because they were calculated to produce an unfounded prejudice through, out Scotland against the administration of justice.Sir G. Clerk
1273 said, that the College of Maynooth was originally instituted for the purpose of affording a liberal education to Roman Catholics, but it had sig-
1273Sir R. Bateson
1243 replied, that, whatever was the character of the works in question, it ought to be taken from themselves, direct, and not second-hand. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin, was in the habit of complaining that the tenets and opinions
1243Sir R. Inglis
hear, hearCheersinbyChurch of England Quarterly Magazine said, that though the noble Lord had abstained from a direct allusion to the University which he represented, yet the noble Lord had referred to it indirectly, and had grossly and grievously misrepresented it. The noble Lord had attacked the University of Oxford, not on the authority of any work published by the University, but on the authority of a periodical work, avowedly (according to his own statement) the work of an opponent. The noble Lord had quoted the hear, hearCheersinbyChurch of England Quarterly MagazineSir R. Inglis
1220 said, that, so far as he had been enabled to form an opinion, he had thought that the system of local administration of justice in Scotland was generally acceptable to the people, and that, upon the whole, it was as free from error as any system was likely to be. He did not mean to say, that there might not
1220Sir Robert Peel
 said, he did not quote the book as if it implied that it referred to the opinions of the University of Oxford, but as showing the tendency of the opinions of men intrusted with the duties of education at Oxford.Viscount Morpeth
1242l12411240"The objections to Romanism in these tracts are, on the one hand, so mild, and the passages which prominently notice the imposing nature of its services are so bold and unqualified on the other, that it is impossible to divest our minds of the suspicion, that the writers are covertly advocating the introduction of Popery into the Church. The proselytising attempts of this confederacy, which is increasing all over the kingdom, and subverting every fundamental principle of the Reformation-—which insolently arrogates to itself a power that belongs to no private individuals, and appeals to writers whose weak judgment and easy credence show them to be no authorities for the innovations daringly proposed to be made upon our liturgical system, have been tolerated by the head of our church in a manner as surprising as it is culpable; and would, doubtless, be permitted to
1240Church of England Quarterly Review123912381237 said, if the question before the House could possibly be whether leave should be given to bring in the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, instead of the bill, abounding as that speech did in criminatory matter, and being, as it was, highly vituperative against the clergy and the religious opinions and tenets of the people, who formed a large majority of the third part of these kingdoms, he, for one, should not have any scruple in calling upon the House not to receive it. The hon. Member was candid in his declaration of the intentions with which he had brought forward this motion. He proposed to open the field, and leave it free for those Members who had hitherto felt themselves shackled by the existing Acts of Parliament, in giving their votes against the grant proposed to the House, from time to time, for the support of the College of Maynooth. The hon. Member had said, that he had felt himself precluded from voting against that annual grant, in consequence of the existence of these acts; and in this he had cast some reproach on those less tender consciences who had not felt themselves so shackled by those acts that were still on the statute books, and by the important sanction so given to that grant. He did not see the exact distinction the hon. Member wished to draw between the act of 1800 and that of 1795; for the hon. Member had referred to the act of 1800, as if it broke in and trenched upon the compact that had been created and entered upon between the Roman Catholic body in Ireland and the State. Mr. Pitt, no doubt, was a party to the introduction and construction of the act of 1795; but he had yet to learn, that he was not in office in the year 1800, and that he did not cordially accept the amended act for
1242l12411240"The objections to Romanism in these tracts are, on the one hand, so mild, and the passages which prominently notice the imposing nature of its services are so bold and unqualified on the other, that it is impossible to divest our minds of the suspicion, that the writers are covertly advocating the introduction of Popery into the Church. The proselytising attempts of this confederacy, which is increasing all over the kingdom, and subverting every fundamental principle of the Reformation-—which insolently arrogates to itself a power that belongs to no private individuals, and appeals to writers whose weak judgment and easy credence show them to be no authorities for the innovations daringly proposed to be made upon our liturgical system, have been tolerated by the head of our church in a manner as surprising as it is culpable; and would, doubtless, be permitted to
1240Church of England Quarterly Review123912381237Viscount Morpeth
12831282ssll.1281"To Thomas Wheeler, Esq., solicitor, Manchester.""GEORGE HATFIELD."I remain, dear Sir, yours truly,l.ssDear Sir—In respect to your inquiry as to the case in Chancery, of 'Sheriff v. Coates and Glendinning,' I beg to refer you to the report of that case in 1 Russell and Mylne, 159, when it was heard before the Lord Chancellor Lyndhurst, and as the solicitor for the defendants, I attended the argument, I think, only the first day, when it was adjourned for three days, and I was obliged to return home. It had previously been heard before the Vice-Chancellor, who continued the injunction, and the Lord Chancellor directed an issue. My clients were wearied out by these heavy proceedings, and paid a sum of money to put an end to litigation on so worthless a subject, though I had a very strong opinion, that I could establish by clear evidence, that the pattern was not an original invention. I think there were five separate bills for injunctions for the alleged piracy of as many patterns of very worthless and fugitive designs, as Sir Charles Wetherell very truly described them to be. The Lord Chancellor called them very ugly, and I think my witnesses stated, that they were not worth 20l.ssManchester, 21st March, 1840.1280"Do you think it is a just state of the law, that parties cannot resort to law on account of the extreme difficulties which lie in the way of obtaining justice? (The answer was), "I think it is most unjust, and a great reproach to the Legislature." (He was asked), "Do you think it an expedient course for this committee to recommend that causes should be restricted to local courts in cases arising out of the law of copyright respecting printing calicoes?" (He replied), "I think, with great deference to the committee, that it is their duty when conferring a right on parties to ascertain whether the tribunal existing was adapted to protect that right.""Why do you say two years?" (he answered), "Because it was about two years, according to the present state of proceedings in Chancery, after a cause was set down to be heard before it could be brought on for a hearing; then upon the hearing of the cause, reference was made to the master to take an account. That might be much contested in the master's office, or it might be twelve or eighteen months before the account could be taken. When the account had been taken, then the cause was to be set down to be heard again, and it might be a year or a year and a half, before it could be heard a second time. All this was independent of any proceedings that might be taken in case the parties should be dissatisfied with the manner in which the account in the master's office had been taken; for if exceptions were taken, that would delay the ultimate period in which the party claiming the pattern could obtain redress."1279"Novelty was the grand attraction, that it would at all times command a preference of sale, though not always of price.""I do not know that I ever knew any of my patterns copied. I have seen none, but have heard of one or two."1278"Should you say that one of these is a copy of the other?" (His answer was), "They are both taken from the same designs: but I think it hardly a fair question to require me to give an opinion upon, because I know, if the two were put together, one person may give an opinion one way, and another person another way.""Should you say that one of these is a copy of the other?" (His answer was), "I should say that, under certain circumstances, it was, and under other circumstances it was not."1277sddss12761275 had been a member on the committee to inquire into the subject of copyright in designs, and had paid the greatest possible attention to the proceedings of that committee. The present law affecting that subject had been in existence for a period exceeding fifty years. There was no branch of manufacture in this country that had been more prosperous, or that had advanced more rapidly than the cotton manufacture; nor was there perhaps a single branch of manufacture which afforded greater profits or advantages to the capitalist. There was not one branch of our manufactures in which larger fortunes were made, or in which greater success attended the application of capital. He thought that before so great a change was proposed, it should be shown that it had now declined in prosperity. When the manufacture was in its infancy, there was a protection of two months extended to the copyright. An application was made for an extension of the term, and the Parliament extended the period to three months. As a proof of the extraordinary progress which had been made by this branch of our manufactures, he would state that the products in 1800 amounted to 32,800,000 yards; in 1814, to 124,600,000 yards; and in 1830, to 347,400,000 yards. Up to the last mentioned period the exact quantity produced could be ascertained by the duty, which was then levied upon the calicoes. The trade still progressed as rapidly as at any former period. The smallest estimate gave 420,000,000 yards or 3,000,000 of pieces as the present production of the trade. As so large an amount of capital was invested in this trade, the evidence which had been given before the commit-
12831282ssll.1281"To Thomas Wheeler, Esq., solicitor, Manchester.""GEORGE HATFIELD."I remain, dear Sir, yours truly,l.ssDear Sir—In respect to your inquiry as to the case in Chancery, of 'Sheriff v. Coates and Glendinning,' I beg to refer you to the report of that case in 1 Russell and Mylne, 159, when it was heard before the Lord Chancellor Lyndhurst, and as the solicitor for the defendants, I attended the argument, I think, only the first day, when it was adjourned for three days, and I was obliged to return home. It had previously been heard before the Vice-Chancellor, who continued the injunction, and the Lord Chancellor directed an issue. My clients were wearied out by these heavy proceedings, and paid a sum of money to put an end to litigation on so worthless a subject, though I had a very strong opinion, that I could establish by clear evidence, that the pattern was not an original invention. I think there were five separate bills for injunctions for the alleged piracy of as many patterns of very worthless and fugitive designs, as Sir Charles Wetherell very truly described them to be. The Lord Chancellor called them very ugly, and I think my witnesses stated, that they were not worth 20l.ssManchester, 21st March, 1840.1280"Do you think it is a just state of the law, that parties cannot resort to law on account of the extreme difficulties which lie in the way of obtaining justice? (The answer was), "I think it is most unjust, and a great reproach to the Legislature." (He was asked), "Do you think it an expedient course for this committee to recommend that causes should be restricted to local courts in cases arising out of the law of copyright respecting printing calicoes?" (He replied), "I think, with great deference to the committee, that it is their duty when conferring a right on parties to ascertain whether the tribunal existing was adapted to protect that right.""Why do you say two years?" (he answered), "Because it was about two years, according to the present state of proceedings in Chancery, after a cause was set down to be heard before it could be brought on for a hearing; then upon the hearing of the cause, reference was made to the master to take an account. That might be much contested in the master's office, or it might be twelve or eighteen months before the account could be taken. When the account had been taken, then the cause was to be set down to be heard again, and it might be a year or a year and a half, before it could be heard a second time. All this was independent of any proceedings that might be taken in case the parties should be dissatisfied with the manner in which the account in the master's office had been taken; for if exceptions were taken, that would delay the ultimate period in which the party claiming the pattern could obtain redress."1279"Novelty was the grand attraction, that it would at all times command a preference of sale, though not always of price.""I do not know that I ever knew any of my patterns copied. I have seen none, but have heard of one or two."1278"Should you say that one of these is a copy of the other?" (His answer was), "They are both taken from the same designs: but I think it hardly a fair question to require me to give an opinion upon, because I know, if the two were put together, one person may give an opinion one way, and another person another way.""Should you say that one of these is a copy of the other?" (His answer was), "I should say that, under certain circumstances, it was, and under other circumstances it was not."1277sddss12761275Mr. Williams
pari passusl.l.ldsl.1299 regretted that the Government had thought proper to oppose this bill, which, in his opinion, contained many admirable provisions. The act now in operation had been passed without that consideration which such a measure ought to have received, it having been passed at a period of the Session when those hon. Members who were most conversant with county business were absent on other business. In many places where the act had been adopted the rates had been increased one-third. This increase was more particularly apparent in the counties of Gloucester and Wilts; in the former of which
pari passusl.l.ldsl.1299Mr. Miles
 said, he objected not only to the provisions of the present bill, but to the delay which it would cause in the adoption of a more efficient and better measure. The powers proposed to be given to the magistrates in petty sessions were highly objectionable.Mr. Rice
 supported the bill, because it was founded on principles which had worked extremely well for several years in the county which he had the honour to represent. The House ought to have an opportunity of considering the bill in committee, where any suggestions for its amendment might be taken into consideration.Mr. T. Egerton
 considered the act now in operation a most unconstitutional measure, and wished the House would allow the present bill, which would in some measure improve it, to be considered in committee.General Johnson
1298 said, the hon. Gentleman who had made this motion would under stand that the opposition which he should now give was that which, but for the arrangement that had been entered into, would have been offered at the second reading of the bill. He gave the hon. Member full credit for the motives with which he had brought this bill forward. He was aware, that it was with no desire to throw difficulties in the way of Government, which he in general supported, but that he thought he was conferring a great benefit on the country generally, and more especially upon that locality in which he resided. But with all respect for the hon. Member, he must say, that he was mistaken in his views. The subject had already been legislated upon, as he believed, effectively. In 1839,a measure was brought in, and passed, for improving the constabulary force of the country. And in 1840 another bill was introduced, under the auspices of the Government, which, after much consideration, was passed into a law. By this latter bill a very considerable improvement was effected in the old system, as it existed previous to the act of 1839, and it also improved the act of 1839. The hon. Member's bill provided for the appointment of special constables. But this was already provided for by the act of 1840, which permitted the appointment of special constables for
1298Mr. F. Maule
l.l, in reply to the hon. Member, stated, that the amount of debt to which the courts would be allowed to adjudicate would not exceed 20l.lMr. F. Maule
 moved, that provision should be made out of the consolidated fund of the United Kingdom to meet any deficiency that might arise in the funds applicable to the payment of expenses of County Courts, to be created by a bill in the present Session of Parliament.Mr. F. Maule
 in moving that the House go into a committee of the whole House, stated that the object of the resolution which he was about to propose in connection with the County Courts Bill, was to provide against a contingency which might by possibility arise. The resolution was necessary in order to enable the Government to pay the salaries to the judges of these courts, if there should happen to be a deficiency of fees for that purpose. It was not apprehended that there would be any occasion to act upon this clause, because it was hoped that there would be more than ample funds to discharge their demands.Mr. F. Maule
 said, that not anticipating, after the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, (Mr. Sheil) and of the right hon. Baronet near him (Sir R. Peel) that there would be any opposition to the second reading of this bill, he would not detain the House by entering into any details, which would be better considered in Committee. He had only one observation to make. The hon. Gentleman, the Member for Manchester, said that he believed the manufacturers of Scotland and of Ireland were generally favourable to this measure, but of the county of Lancaster the hon. Member spoke in such a manner as to leave the House under the impression that the manufacturers of Lancashire was unanimous in opposition to this bill. He was perfectly certain that the hon. Gentleman did not mean to convey that impression, because he believed that the case in the county which he had the honour to represent stood thus—that a majority in numbers as well as in the quantity of manufactures were ranged in support of the measure, not in all its details, but they agreed to the principle of making the copyright an effectual protection for some enlarged time or other, which all admitted did not exist under the present law.Lord Francis Egerton
 said, he had always heard a great deal said by Whigs, as to the expectation that no money would be wanting to pay salaries; but he thought the House should know from what resources they were to draw these monies. He liked to see what was in the purse, before he assented to a proposition of expenditure of any kind. He hoped the hon. Member for Kilkenny would practise a little of his favourite doctrine now.Colonel Sibthorp
 supported the bill, and hoped it would be carried in committee, because it gave a just and legitimate influence to the magistracy of the country.Mr. E. Turner
 objected to the bill going into committee, because he saw no reason whatever for the introduction of such a measure.Mr. Ayshford Sanford
 said, that finding it would be inconvenient to discuss this bill that evening, he would, with the permission of the House, move the second reading, and if that motion should be acceded to, he would then name a day for going into committee, when the discussion on the principle of the bill might take place.Mr. F. Kelly
 was surprised to hear from the hon. Member for Manchester, that the protection was useless to the inventors, whereas the fact was, that the most enterprising manufacturers in the country owed all their wealth to the protection, such as it was, that the present law afforded to them. He would support the bill, because he thought it was both just and prudent for the Legislature to give that degree of perfection which would induce ingenious men to devote their time to the invention of designs.Mr. Muntz
12931292, in supporting the second reading of the present bill, must be understood that he was merely expressing an opinion that the present period of copyright for designs should be in some degree extended. It was impossible to consider the evidence taken before the committee of last year, or the statements of persons connected with the trade, without coming to the conclusion that great injustice was done to those who were possessed of a valuable copyright, and which was not fair towards those who had paid for the designs at a great expense; but that it also inflicted a a great practical injury to the manufacturers of this country, because it rendered it impossible for us to give encouragement to the property of a class of men whose interest was inseparably connected with the manufactures of this coun-
12931292Mr. Labouchere
1290 would vote for the second reading of the bill, because he agreed with the right hon. Baronet in the reasonableness of the end proposed—namely, to give reward to the inventor, and, at the same time, to protect the manufacturer. When they came to consider the details of that bill, two great difficulties would arise. One had been already pointed out, namely, the great litigation which it would cause. By not proposing a cheap mode of trying the issue they lost the object for which the patent was granted, for the wealthy manufacturer
1290Mr. Warburton
 would not occupy the time of the House by discussing the principle of the bill on this occasion. He would be happy to avail himself of the offer of the Vice-president of the Board of Trade, and to make, with the right hon. Gentlemen's assistance, the provisions of the measure as perfect and comprehensive as possible.Mr. E. Tennent
pro formâ said, that the amendments suggested by the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, would require much consideration, and he should, therefore, move the committal of the bill pro formâMr. E. Tennent
 had been appealed to, and he could assure the hon. Member that the decision was come to by a majority of six to three.Mr. E. Tennent
 rose to move the second reading of the Copyright of Designs Bill. Having reason to believe that the opinion of the Government was in favour of some measure being passed, having for its object the extension of the present term of copyright for designs, he should do no more than move that the bill which he had had the honour to introduce be now read a second time.Mr. Emerson Tennent
12951294 was sorry to hear in the speech of the right hon. Member such language as Government protecting commerce or encouraging trade, because he thought that every reasonable man, looking at the evils which had been produced by protection, and knowing that it in ail cases meant the support of the few at the expense of the many, would be at a loss to find the ground on which the right hon. Gentleman had come to his present conclusion. Why, he would ask, were the people of England inferior to the French in works of design? It was natural that it should be so, for their people were used from their infancy to the study of pictures and statues, while our population were refused admission into Westminster Abbey or the Royal Academy without putting their hand into their pocket. The poor could not do this, and the consequence was they were shut out from all chance of improving their taste. Should we, then, complain of our inferiority in producing designs for those fabrics when we shut out from all means of improving their taste the middling as well as the lower classes of the community. He would state one fact to the House, in order to show how little attention had been paid to this subject. In the committee which sat for the purpose of investigating this question he had asked a witness how many designers there were in the town of Coventry, and he replied but one. We were looking, then, for a remedy to a wrong quarter. Every time it had been attempted to foster manufactures by protection that attempt failed more or less. The system of protection, or monopoly, never was attended with any successful result. He particularly remembered one instance which struck him as remarkable. An Act of Parliament had been passed to
12951294Mr. Hume
1301 said, the hon. and gallant Member pretended a good deal about economy, but did not mean quite so much. He was ready to practise it whenever he could do so with justice; but at present there was no difficulty, for there was no money to be raised now; but they were
1301Mr. Hume
 wished to set the hon. Member right as to the decision of the committee, in favour of the extension of copyright. The resolution was carried not by a majority of one but of seven to one.Mr. Godson
12851284 had been on the committee upon this subject, and it appeared to him that the difficulty attending the measure would be almost immeasurable, so far ns the calico trade was concerned. He made this observation as to the calico trade, because he was free to confess that as to other trades—for example, the paper-hanging trade—he thought there would be less embarrassment. In the latter case the value of the copyright would be greater; for the sale of paper was slower, and consequently the sale of the pattern was of longer duration. It was only in design that France surpassed us in paper-staining; and if we could improve design by an extension of copyright, he, for one, had no doubt that it would not be long before French paper would be excluded from this country. Another consideration with regard to copyright in paper-staining was, that there appeared to be no difference of opinion in the evidence upon that branch of the subject; before the committee no person interested in the trade came forward to give evidence against the extension of copyright in paper-staining. He could not say, that this was the case with respect to the calico trade, for with respect to the extension of the copyright in that trade, certainly very considerable differences existed. The Scotch printers seemed to be almost unanimous in their opinion as to the propriety of extending the copyright. There were 67 printers in Scotland; of these he believed 64 were originally in favour of extension, and he had heard that now the entire body of Scotch printers were in its favour. He believed also that the printing trade in Ireland were chiefly in favour of an extended copyright, and that the two principal manufacturers, Mr. Duffy and Mr. Henry, whose patterns were generally used, were very anxious for such a measure. But in Manchester the difference of opinion amounted to an excitement, and both the hon. Members for that place were opposed to an extension. One of them had made a speech upon the subject, which he thought had made a deep impression. And was it wonderful, under the circumstances, that those who had nothing but the public good at heart, and could not participate in the
12851284Mr. Sheil
1287dsfac similes1286 thought that upon the whole, the proposed bill would be productive of a greater amount of mischief than of benefit. He came to that conclusion upon general grounds, and from a firm conviction that protection and restriction were mischievous to the community at large, and were rarely advantageous to the individuals who were fenced in by them. Of a hundred inventions in the cotton trae, there were not half a dozen original. The fact was that the law held out a protection which it could not give. The protection given to those who had taken out patents for mechanical inventions was this:—"if you have a good thing keep it yourself, make a good and a cheap article, and you will establish a sale for it.'' That conduct would get the, manufacturer a price which no protection of the law could give him. The extension of copyright sought to be established by the bill of the hon. Member for Belfast, would be productive of mischief to the calico trade at large, and particularly to the trade of that place which he had the honour to represent (Manchester). Here he would observe that four-fifths of the manufacturers in Manchester and its neighbourhood were opposed to an extension of the copyright, and four-fifths, if not five-sixths, of the whole of the calico in the country was printed in that district. Under the present short copyright of three months a good article was produced with despatch, at a moderate price, the copyist, as the Vice-president of the Board of Trade observed, waiting for the expiration of the three months, before he issued his
1287dsfac similes1286Mr. Greg
 explained that he had not said that four-fifths of the manufacturers resident in Lancashire were opposed to the measure; he believed that they were pretty evenly divided in opinion, but that upon the whole a majority were averse to any alteration.Mr. Greg
 believed no one would deny that the old constabulary force was quite inefficient, and that the new rural police had conferred great benefits on the districts where it had been introduced. He thought the adoption of the present bill would lead to great confusion, and prevent the carrying out of the general act, which had not yet been sufficiently tried to justify the House in interfering with its operation. It would be most unwise to hold out this bill to the country, as a dissuasion from adopting the provisions of the Constabulary Bill.Mr. Gisborne
1297 moved, that the House resolve itself into committee on the constabulary bill. In the present unsatisfactory state of the law respecting the constabulary force in the rural districts, notwithstanding the legislation of last Session and that which preceeded it, he had been induced to bring forward this bill, and he would now state the general objects which it had in view to the House. His first proposition was, to take away from the magistrates at petty sessions all power of determining any scale of allowances of any sort, and also to take from them the power of making appointments, and to refer these two points solely to the magistrates assembled at quarter sessions. It was to be observed, that it was not his wish that the number of constables
1297Mr. T. L. Hodges
 supported the bill, on the ground that it carried out many desirable points, applicable to various counties, which the former act did not comprehend.Mr. Bruges
No, no said, he believed, that in the committee the principle of extending copyright was agreed to by only a majority of one. [No, noMr. Ewart
 believed, that the real principle was decided by the casting vote of the Chairman. He was opposed lo the bill, because he feared that if it became the law of the land they would shut themselves out from being the great suppliers of the world. He was of opinion, with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that superiority of design was not to be procured from the adoption of a system of copyright, but that such an object was to be looked for rather from the improved taste of the people, and also from the superior taste of the producer, which would be the result of the altered opinion of the community. He confessed, that he had the greatest scepticism on the subject of protection. He thought, that the designs, however ingeniously constructed, would be copied as ingeniously, and, at the same time, with so much difference as to prevent their falling within the provision of the law. The whole question, he thought, should be taken into consideration, and the House should not confine its attention to any particular part of the inquiry. With regard to the question of the extent of the copyright, he must say, that after due deliberation he had decided in favour of the shorter term; and he could not alter the opinion which he had formed, unless very good reasons were given to induce him to do so. He admitted, that much praise was due to the hon. Member for Belfast for the manner in which he had brought the subject before the House, but he could not vote for his bill in its present shape.Mr. Ewart
bonâ fide12891288 believed, that the committee of the last Session, which had inquired into this subject, had been appointed at his own suggestion. He had attended that committee certainly with no prepossession in favour of an extension of the term of copyright, for he had feared that any change might be injurious to our manufactures, which were decidedly in a state of prosperity, and of increasing prosperity; and if his opinions had undergone any change, it was in consequence of the evidence given before that committee. It was not the question now whether there should be any copyright or not. The law had decided, that there should be given a protection for three months, but, in point of fact, that protection had been found to be inefficient, and if it were right to give a protection at all, it was evidently right that protection should be such as would produce some solid advantage to the parties. On account of the shortness of the duration of the privilege, and the delay and expense of defending it, the three months' protection was merely nominal. He did not deny that there were conflicting opinions, which it would be well to regard, when they came to weigh the ex-
bonâ fide12891288Sir Robert Peel
 said, that he should not bring on his motion respecting Texas till after Easter. A copy of the treaty between this country and Texas not having been laid on the Table, he wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether he were prepared to state that any provision was made by the treaty to meet this case, namely, the Texian government did not permit any free person of colour to reside in Texas. That was one of the articles of the constitution of Texas. As the noble Lord was entering into a treaty with Texas, he wished the noble Lord to state, whether any provision had been made to have that law mitigated, so that British free subjects of colour might be permitted to reside in that country.Mr. O'Connell
l.l.l.l.l1353 wished to draw the attention of the House to the observation made by his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Milnes), and which should be set right,
l.l.l.l.l1353Lord Stanley
1356"That the governor be authorised to take immediate measures to remove the troops of the Queen of Great Britain, now quartered on the territory called, disputed, by the British Government, but by the treaty of 1783, by the resolutions of both houses of Congress, passed in 1838, and by repeated resolves of the Legislature of Maine, clearly and unequivocally a part of the rightful soil of this state. Resolved, that the resources of this state be, and they hereby are, placed at the disposal of the governor, and the specific sum of 400,000 dollars be and the same is hereby appropriated out of any money in the treasury for the purpose of carrying the said resolution into effect."1355 took the opportunity of adverting to the state of the relations between Great Britain and the United States. Two circumstances were alleged in the public papers which seemed to him to deserve notice. The first was, that a true bill had been found against Colonel M'Leod, on a charge of murder and arson, in the course of the discharge of his duties under instructions from the Canadian authorities;—the second circumstance was,
1356"That the governor be authorised to take immediate measures to remove the troops of the Queen of Great Britain, now quartered on the territory called, disputed, by the British Government, but by the treaty of 1783, by the resolutions of both houses of Congress, passed in 1838, and by repeated resolves of the Legislature of Maine, clearly and unequivocally a part of the rightful soil of this state. Resolved, that the resources of this state be, and they hereby are, placed at the disposal of the governor, and the specific sum of 400,000 dollars be and the same is hereby appropriated out of any money in the treasury for the purpose of carrying the said resolution into effect."1355Mr. S. O'Brien
 Evans said, that it was most inconvenient for hon. Members to state in that House what the Government might have decided, as to a particular line of defence in any part of our possessions, in case of any future war.Sir De Lacy
cheers1392 said, the question the noble Lord had put to him was one that would come more properly on Monday next, when he hoped to have an opportunity of moving the Ordnance Estimates, and when he would explain fully the state of preparation in which the Ordnance Department is for supplying the British army with percussion arms. The noble Lord has spoken of the badness of the present arms. Some regiments having already been supplied with percussion arms, he hoped it was not to these arms, that the noble Lord referred, when he speaks of one-fourth of them not going off. The reports received from those regiments had
cheers1392Sir H. Vivian
 Evans regretted the tone used by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, although he had no doubt that it arose from the great zeal he felt in the cause of the army. He did not think it consistent with the state of the case that this question should be argued as if it was a grievance upon the army. He believed it was indispensable to the efficiency of the army that more relief should be afforded; but he could not help thinking it inexpedient to use a lone of language year after year which was likely to produce a certain degree of feeling among the troops abroad that they were unfairly treated. He had no doubt that the Government was extremely anxious to afford a remedy for the evils that existed.Sir De Lacy
140714061405 said, it was with great regret he had heard this question brought under the consideration of the House. It was with still greater regret that he had heard what had fallen from the noble Lord who had so lately held a high and important office connected with the military branch of the service (Lord Howick), it was always, in his opinion, very objectionable to bring questions having reference to the discipline of the army into discussion in the House of Commons, it certainly was not the way to improve that discipline, and it might be highly detrimental to it. He well knew, from the manner in which the public press had taken up the subject of Lord Cardigan's conduct, what was the degree of odium to which any one exposed himself who ventured to say one word in Lord Cardigan's defence; this consideration, however, would not deter him from expressing his honest, and his unbiassed opinion. When last year the subject of the academy at Woolwich was discussed, and charges were brought against him (Sir H. Vivian), into the defence of which be had entered, his right hon. and gallant Friend opposite, (Sir H. Hardinge) paid him the compliment of saying he might have rested on his character, and that it was unnecessary he should have gone into the explanation he had given— he would now then rest upon his character, and he hoped he might express an opinion in defence of Lord Hill and Lord Cardigan, without being subject to the suspicion that he would encourage or uphold oppressive conduct from a superior to an inferior officer. He had served in the army nearly half a century, he never had brought an officer to a court-martial, and in the discharge of his duty he never had the misfortune to quarrel either with a superior or an inferior officer; he therefore ventured to
140714061405Sir H. Vivian
 begged to put a question to the Master-general of the Ordnance. He alluded to what he considered to be of vast importance to the efficiency of the army, namely, the issue of percussion firelocks to the troops. He understood that it was intended to furnish troops on their return from abroad with percussion firelocks. Now, if these firelocks added to the efficiency of the army, it was important that troops on foreign stations should be rendered equally efficient. He could say of the old firelocks, that one quarter, if not one-half of them, were totally and perfectly useless. With respect to desertions, he could state that the number of desertions abroad was nothing like what it was at home. In his own regiment, at St. John's, there had been but one desertion in the quarter ending January last.Lord A. Lennox
: None whatever.Lord Dalmeny
 assured the hon. Gentleman, that the vote was not in consequence of any anticipated disturbance, or to put down any internal disturbances that might arise in Canada, but for the more easy transport of troops already there, and with regard to Lake Ontario, he thought that if there should unfortunately be, what he had no reason to suppose, any disturbance of the friendly relations subsisting between this country and the United States, he should not be prepared to say, that we ought not to have a force on the lake.Lord J. Russell
13521351 submitted that the hon. Gentleman had made no case for an interruption of the proceedings in the present bill. He had no hesitation in admitting that there had been a correspondence between the President of the Board of Control and the directors of the East India Company, and that his right hon. Friend had asked a question of the company. The result of the correspondence was, that the directors stated, it was not usual for the East India Company, in cases of this kind, to confer grants of pensions; that they could not grant any such rewards beyond the period to which their charter extended; and that it was not their intention to move on the subject. His right hon. Friend had not urged the directors to do anything; all that he had done was, to inquire into their intention. The House had heard from an hon. Member of that House, who was also a member of the Court of Directors, his reasons for the opinion that the East India Company ought not to be called upon to grant this reward in the case of Lord Keane. That hon. Member had said truly, that the East India Company, or
13521351Lord J. Russell
138213811380l.13791378 remarked, that the objections made to the estimates by the hon. Member for Kilkenny and the right hon. Gentleman were very different. The hon. Member for Kilkenny complained of a very great increase of force as compared with that of 1830; while the right hon. Gentleman complained of the present estimate as too small, and urged a considerable addition. As the matter now stood, he (the noble Lord) did not agree with either objection; and while he admitted, that a very considerable increase of force had taken place, he did not think there was a necessity of increasing the army still more. The hon. Member for Kilkenny said we had made a very large increase since 1830, and he asked what was the reason of this? Now, without entering into any defence of the foreign policy of this country, or of the policy of the Government towards Canada, he thought that the circumstances connected with our foreign policy and the insurrection in Canada were a sufficient justification of that increase. The hon. Member for Kilkenny reasoned in rather an unfair way, and decided the question for himself in a some, what too arbitrary and severe a tone. He threw the blame of everything all at once upon the Government. He said, when they came forward for an increase of the forces in Canada, that it was their fault, because they did not choose to yield to the demands of those who were disaffected to the Crown. When a force was required to move towards the American frontier, he said, again, it was the fault of the Ministers. When our position, with regard to France, was spoken of, again the hon. Member said, it was their fault that the former friendly feelings between the two countries
138213811380l.13791378Lord J. Russell
1400 had only a word to say in addition to what had been so well said by his right hon. Friend. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had said, that a court of inquiry ought to have been instituted; but the complaints of each individual in the regiment had been brought before Lord Hill, who had looked at them with the greatest care and attention, and given his decision on each of them separately. His (Lord J. Russell's) opinion was, that Lord Hill had acted with the most perfect impartiality, and that he had decided justly. He could not believe that there was any ground for the assertion that Lord Hill would have acted differently to another, or to an inferior officer.
1400Lord John Russell
1408 said, that this question had been forced on the attention of the House by the loudly expressed resentment of the whole press of England, and there had been a general expectation that when Parliament met, the conduct both of Lord Cardigan and the Commander-in-Chief would be brought under its notice. He regretted that the subject had not come before the House in a more regular way. It might be true, as the House had been told by the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman below him, in whom he placed perfect confidence, that there were no means of arraigning Lord Cardigan. Was the House then to assume, was it to go forth to the public, that the conduct of a commanding officer who drove from the service or from his regiment officer after officer, men who had served with distinction for periods far longer than he himself had done, at the sacrifice of their reputation and fortune, was to escape without castigation or censure, and that no protection was to be thrown over the unfortunate victims of his oppression? He did not
1408Mr. Hawes
 pointed out, that the Lieutenant-governor of Greenwich Hospital, being an officer on half-pay, could not receive his half-pay at the same time as the salary of his office. The case was expressly provided for by act of Parliament which forbade the receipt of pay and salary at the same time. Sir C. Walker was an officer on full pay, which might account for the distinction in his case.Mr. C. Wood
 said, that the system which had been adopted had been found to produce the best effects in relation to the carriage of letters. The expenses were now entirely paid by the amount of postage charged.Mr. C. Wood
 said, that the change took place from the policy described by the right hon. Gentleman two or three years ago, during the time of the insurrection in Canada, and it was necessary, not for the purpose of asserting our naval supremacy, but for transporting troops. Steam-boats were, therefore, used on the Lakes Ontario and Erie, without intending any change in the general policy of entrusting the defence of the colony to the military, but as an auxiliary to that force. Hon. Members would recollect an irruption into Canada at the upper part of Lake Erie; the troops were at the junction of the two lakes, and there was difficulty in obtaining transports for them, because there were no steam-boats, except those belonging to the Americans, and they were so much engaged in the ordinary traffic, that the hire of a steamer for a year and a half or two years exceeded the original cost of the vessel.Mr. C. Wood
l.l.l. referred to an item of 193,000l.l.l.Mr. Goulburn
 thought, that it was important that the naval and military services should be assimilated. Sir Charles Walker, the Lieutenant-governor of Chelsea Hospital, received his military pay as well as the emoluments of his office, and he saw no reason why the same rule should not be adopted in reference to Sir James Gordon, the Lieutenant-governor of Greenwich Hospital.Sir H. Hardinge
1377137613751374 had listened to the very characteristic speech of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and was not at all surprised at the opinions which he had expressed. It might be assumed that n increased force had become necessary in consequence of the peculiar state of our foreign relations at the present time; but this was not the question which they had to consider. He regretted as much as the hon. Member for Kilkenny the increase of the public expenditure since the Duke of Wellington was in office in 1830, and since the government of his right hon. Friend in
1377137613751374Sir Henry Hardinge
14101409 had not expected that this subject would be brought forward, and he very much regretted that it had been so suddenly introduced; but, as it had been brought forward, he must say he entirely concurred with what had been so ably and manfully stated by the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary at War, and the Master of the Ordnance. He would not enter into the details of the conduct of Lord Cardigan, and indeed the onus of explanation had been thrown rather upon Lord Hill than on that officer. He had no personal connexion or friendship with Lord
14101409Sir H. Hardinge
 was not aware that his tone was of the description stated by the hon. and gallant Member. On all occasions, and upon every subject, he thought he was quite as prudent as the gallant Officer. He recollected circumstances connected with the military authorities in which the gallant Officer had not been characterized by prudence of tone.Sir H. Hardinge
 would be very unwilling to give his consent to any measure which would occasion delay in the progress of the bill, at the same time he was anxious that the point referred to by the right hon. Baronet should be fully discussed, though he must say, that considering the very ample information already before the House upon the subject, and the additional information which he had this very day laid upon the Table of the House, it was with a very great deal of unwillingness that he listened to a proposal for any further delay. If, however, he could be satisfied, that it was possible to refer the bill to a committee for really considering the point mentioned by the right hon. Baronet, and not for the purpose of delay, he should be sorry to throw any obstacle in the way of such a course. He would consider the whole subject between this and Monday, and he should then be prepared to state what course he would adopt.Mr. Labouchere
 said, it was not his intention to bring on the subject that night, but he should hope to be able to do so that day week. He could not, however, positively mention the day now.Mr. Labouchere
"To leave out from the word 'be' to the end of the question, in order to add the words 'postponed, until the correspondence which has taken place between the President of the Board of Control and the Court of Directors of the East India Company, or with the secret Committee of that Court, respecting the services of, and the granting an annuity to, Lord Keane, be laid before this House, in order that the House may be in possession of the reasons why the Court of Directors refused to grant any annuity to Lord Keane from the funds of the East India Company; and the reasons which determined her Majesty's Ministers to recommend the proposed annuity to be paid out of the consolidated fund."lll1350l1349l said, that before the report was brought up, he wished to make some observations which, he hoped would induce the House to postpone any further proceedings with the bill. The bill had inserted in it a grant of 2,000"To leave out from the word 'be' to the end of the question, in order to add the words 'postponed, until the correspondence which has taken place between the President of the Board of Control and the Court of Directors of the East India Company, or with the secret Committee of that Court, respecting the services of, and the granting an annuity to, Lord Keane, be laid before this House, in order that the House may be in possession of the reasons why the Court of Directors refused to grant any annuity to Lord Keane from the funds of the East India Company; and the reasons which determined her Majesty's Ministers to recommend the proposed annuity to be paid out of the consolidated fund."lll1350l1349lMr. Hume
 hoped before long to see the Post-office so conducted as that it would not be looked upon as a source of revenue.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.1360l. wished it to be understood by the House and the country, that we were now called upon to vote 1,282,536l.l.l.1360l.Mr. Hume
 had thought, that peace had been restored in Canada, and that now, when the union had been declared, they would not have heard of a vote which had not been asked in former years.Mr. Hume
 hoped that the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, would be able to state something that would remove any prejudice that might be created by the speech of the hon. Member for Limerick. He was satisfied that there was nothing in the present transactions to call for immediate interference, They did not know that anything had taken place in these provinces except what was authorised by the municipal law, and it was too soon for the hon. Member to appeal to war till he had seen whether these transactions had been in accordance with the law of the country in which they had taken place.Mr. Hume
 enquired whether any portion of the stores, cannon and ball, landed in Syria had been supplied from the naval stores.Mr. Hume
1394 said that there was a very easy mode of affording relief to the troops abroad, They bad in all 92,000 troops,
1394Mr. Hume
l said he saw a sum of 500lMr. Hume
13961395 said, that he could not help taking that opportunity of saying that he was surprised that no officer in the House had thought it necessary to bring before the House the conduct of Lord Hill, the Commander-in chief, with respect to the 11th Dragoons. The whole country, from one end to the other, had been looking with, anxiety to the notice which Government would take of the matter—a matter which had created scandal all over the country. The public press had done its duty in impressing on Government the necessity of taking into consideration the conduct of the Commander-in-chief—conduct which, had been characterised by all fair and impartial men as most improper and not to be tolerated. It was as much for the
13961395Mr. Hume
ultimatum1373l.l.l.l.1372 supposed that it might afford some satisfaction to the right hon. Gentleman to be informed that he did not intend to trouble the Committee at any length, or to divide against the present estimates. As the House appeared determined to keep up a war establishment in time of peace, he would only protest against the, system. He would beg the House merely to observe what a rapid increase had been made in our military establishments during the last few years. He could not help looking to the conduct of the Government since 1830. In the year 1822 the whole of our military and naval forces, including the ordinance, amounted to 100,039; in 1830, the same
ultimatum1373l.l.l.l.1372Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether there was any intention on the part of the Government to adopt any new system of telegraph between London and Portsmouth. A new plan had been suggested, by which communication might be kept up day or night, with the greatest precision and rapidity.Mr. Hume
 must deny blaming the Government for not dismissing Lord Cardigan. He had expressed no opinion that that officer should have been dismissed without a court-martial. He would ask, however, whether there was no other alternative that could have been adopted, save dismissal by a court-martial? Was there no such thing as a court of inquiry? If a court of inquiry had been adopted, that course would have given satisfaction to the public, as such court would have established the truth of the charges made against Lord Cardigan, or have afforded proof that they were without foundation. He only wished the matter fairly explained; for, though the noble Lord might be a political opponent of the Government, he was one of the aristocracy, who, the people believed, was to be shielded, whether innocent or guilty. He agreed that the press had been violent in some cases, but its suggestions, he thought, ought to have been attended to. Had it been the case of a subaltern, and not of Lord Cardigan, an inquiry would have been instituted. His complaint therefore was, that the Government had not recommended an inquiry.Mr. Hume
 said, that after the measure had proceeded so far, no good end could be answered by delaying it farther, as it appeared the House had no power of compelling the East India Company to act in the matter. He hoped, however, that her Majesty's Ministers would remember how severely this grant had been contested, and would hereafter be cautious how they came down with recommendations of similar grants in the present state of the finances of the country. The question was, whether in the present state of the finances of this country, and after the very severe revision to which the pension list was subjected, a little while ago, (which revision he opposed, and which was surely very unnecessary if it led to no other result than this), her Majesty's Ministers should come down to this House and propose a grant of the public money to a person who was successful in one campaign, of the very same amount that was given to Lord Nelson. If her Majesty's Ministers did this, then he would say, that the principles of economy professed by them were not carried out in their practice. He believed that the present Lord Nelson was the last who would receive that pension, and that on his death his family would be left with the great and glorious name of their renowned ancestor, unaccompanied by a grant of public money.Mr. Milnes
 replied, that no change was intended in the policy described by the right hon. Gentleman. The steamers were not armed steamers, but they were provided with the view of more easily transporting the troops on the lakes.Mr. More O'Ferrall
 said, that the subject had been under consideration, but as yet no positive decision had been arrived at upon it.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
"That a number of land forces, not exceeding 92,051 (exclusive of the men employed in the territorial possessions of the East India Company), commissioned and non-commissioned officers included, be maintained for the service of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, from the 1st of April 1841, to the 31st of March, 1842."l.l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.1371l.l.l.l.l.l.dl.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1370l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1369l.l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1368ll.l1367l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1366d.ddsdl.ll.l.l.1365l.l.l.l.l.1364l.l.l.l.l.ll1363l.l.l.l.l.1362l.ll.l. in rising to bring under the notice of the Committee, the army estimates for the ensuing year, said, that the estimates at the commencement of last year, amounted to 6,163,000"That a number of land forces, not exceeding 92,051 (exclusive of the men employed in the territorial possessions of the East India Company), commissioned and non-commissioned officers included, be maintained for the service of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, from the 1st of April 1841, to the 31st of March, 1842."l.l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.1371l.l.l.l.l.l.dl.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1370l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1369l.l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1368ll.l1367l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1366d.ddsdl.ll.l.l.1365l.l.l.l.l.1364l.l.l.l.l.ll1363l.l.l.l.l.1362l.ll.l.Mr. Macaulay,
1391 wished to say a few words on the subject of the remarks which had been just addressed to the House, because he should be sorry to yield to his noble Friend in anxiety to see the British army relieved from what was admitted to be a severe pressure. He must remind his noble Friend, that the imputation, as he must call it, which his noble Friend had thrown out against the Government for not having redeemed the pledge made through his (Lord Howick's) mouth, was not altogether well founded. Subsequent to the time at which that promise had been given, his noble Friend had himself proposed an additional force of 5,000 men, and for that additional force two reasons were given. One was, the disturbed state of the country at the time, and the other the necessity of granting some relief to the troops employed in the colonies. Happily these disturbances existed no longer, and if they were only to look at the internal condition of the country, we hoped and trusted they might spare the 5,000 men, which had been then added to the army. That additional force would have acted as a relief to the troops abroad, and have redeemed the pledge, but for other circumstances which made the Government think it wise to increase the force abroad. In the general principle which had been laid down he fully concurred. But the hon. Member for Kilkenny, seemed, in what he addressed to the House, to forget that the amount of force in England must be determined by the wants of the whole empire. The amount of force in Jamaica need not be more than was necessary for the defence of Jamaica. The force in the Mauritius need not be more than was sufficient for the defence of the Mauritius, but unless the position of the whole army was to be worse than that of convicts—worse than that of men transported for fourteen years
1391Mr. Macaulay
139913981397: I certainly did not expect that a topic of such violent irritation would have been brought forward, under such circumstances, and that I should not have been enabled to give it that full consideration which would have enabled me to avoid in its discussion hurting the feelings of any one, or adding to the excitement which has been already too great. I shall state in the most direct manner, yet without the most remote intention of wounding the feelings of any hon. Gentleman, what are the general principles which guided her Majesty's Government in this matter, and which I firmly believe, notwithstanding any temporary irritation, will ultimately be held to be sound and just. In the first place, I shall appeal to the hon. Member for Kilkenny himself, whether it be in his power to suggest or imagine any dishonourable motive which could have prompted the conduct of the Government on this occasion. Who is Lord Cardigan? Is he their political friend—is he a supporter of their's? I know that the hon. Gentleman and some others have sometimes brought charges against the Government of cowardice; but in this case he certainly cannot urge such a charge, when they acted in the face of the whole press—of the general cry of the whole country? Could Lord Cardigan go to a theatre that he was not insulted? Could he take his place in a railway train without having a hiss raised against him? Was there ever a case in which a man was more violently and intemperately assailed? Without wishing to assert that Lord Cardigan is faultless (on that point I do not give an opinion)—if he had been Hare the accomplice of Burke, or any other
139913981397Mr. Macaulay
 said it was advanced to the paymasters and placed in the military chest for the purpose of paying the interest of three-and-a-half per cent, on deposits.Mr. Macaulay
 said he would be very happy to lay on the Table a statement of the number of libraries that had been formed, as well as copies of the rules under which they were established.Mr. Macaulay
1393 wished to add a word. During the last year a measure had been adopted by the War-office, with the consent of the military authorities, which,
1393Mr. Macaulay
 said, that it was one thing to be armed before it was necessary, and another to be armed at the proper time; and, for himself, he did not see the necessity now of anticipating hostilities. He thought and believed that the mass of the people of the United Slates were in favour of peace; the majority of the people there, knew too well the general interests of the world, to wish to see peace disturbed by any unhappy collision with this country. When we were unopposed to any enemy, we should not be too anxious to vaunt of our power. He trusted that the present unhappy causes for discord would pass off without any ill consequences; and he felt that if they did, it would not only be in accordance with the wishes, but with the interests of both countries.Mr. Ewart
 said, that the gallant Officer had stated, that we had already a large number of frigates, and he did not differ from him that they should be ultimately increased; but what he had ever held was, that so long, as we had so large a number of small seventy-fours, the frigates were not so much needed, because he maintained that even sixty-gun frigates were not equal to seventy-four gun ships. So long as we had these line-of-battle ships we were not inferior, because the great use of large frigates was, that, sailing better than others, they could come up to the rear of the enemy's fleet and bring them to battle, and if the seventy-four-gun ships could do this they were better than frigates. With respect to armed steamers, the steam-fleet had been much increased, and the Admiralty would go on year by year building as many as they ought to do consistently with economy and with reference to the power of other states. They had launched seven this year, six or seven more were on the stocks, and they were entering into a contract for engines for six or seven more large steamers. The gallant officer and the House might therefore rest assured that the subject would not be neglected by the Admiralty.Sir C. Adam
 said, that it should be remarked that the seventy-four-gun ships were much more efficient now than formerly, because they carried thirty-two-pounders on all their decks.Sir C. Adam
 answered in the negative. It was not usual for the Lieutenant-governor of Greenwich Hospital to receive half-pay, and he knew no reason for altering the present state of things. The office was one of emolument, and although there was no doubt that the addition of half-pay might be agreeable, he did not at present feel that any reason existed for any new arrangement.Sir C. Adam
 said, that the report of the commission had been acted upon, and he saw no reason for any alteration being made in an arrangement so recently made.Sir C. Adam
 said that the right hon. Gentleman was entirely mistaken. He did not say a word about the right hon. Gentleman's interference in this matter. He merely said that he believed the right hon. Gentleman was actuated by zeal and good motives; but he did object to the tone in which he addressed the House, and he had a right to object to it, because he conceived it not calculated to increase good feeling in the army. He might have been in error, but he thought the right hon. Gentleman had taken up the matter with a degree of warmth which was not at all called for. As to his (Sir De L. Evans') want of prudence, he believed that no one more frequently indulged in unguarded language than the right hon. Gentleman, but he had not the slightest intention of rebuking the right hon. Gentleman; he merely expressed a sincere wish that the tone adopted in the course of the debate might not produce unpleasant feelings in the army.Sir De Lacy Evans
 knew no subject more disagreeable to a military man, than such a one as the present, and in alluding to it, he was far more inclined to appeal to the clemency of the authorities in behalf of any faults that might have been committed, than to press hardly on an officer who, whether he were guilty of the improprieties attributed to him or not, had certainly been harshly dealt with by the press. The noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, explained his opinion upon this subject in a clear and unexceptionable manner, and, without offering an opinion one way or the other, with respect to the differences which arose between Lord Cardigan, and the officers under his command, he concurred with the noble Lord in thinking, that as far as regarded Lord Hill, and as regarded Lord Cardigan, it would be to the service of both that the matter should not be allowed to rest where it did.Sir D. L. Evans
 wished to know whether the Lieutenant-governor of Greenwich Hospital was in the receipt of his half-pay, as well as of the amount of the salary to which he was entitled.Captain Pechell
l.l1361 begged to suggest, that the case of the pay of admirals' secretaries was worthy of some attention. They were selected from among the pursers in the navy, and before the naval commission their salary had amounted to
l.l1361Captain Pechell
 said, that first the Admiralty were blamed for not launching so many line-of-battle ships, and now they were blamed for not building more steamers; both these causes could not be correct. The fact was, that at the conclusion of the last war we were left with a legacy of forty sail-of-the-line, which were then called, and still deserved the name of, the Forty Thieves, and the gallant Gentleman should know that we could not launch other ships till we had worn out these. As to steamers, the minister of marine in France had made it a matter of complaint to the chambers that the French steamers, when compared with the English, were not at all equal to them. With respect tn the Gorgon, the Stromboli, the Phœnix, and the Vesuvius, there were none equal to them known abroad. If any gallant Gentleman said, that we were deficient in steamers, it would appear that he had not looked at one of the despatches from Acre, or heard of the eminent services performed by the steamers in transporting troops, and on other services, and did not know that Admiral Stopford had thought one steamer and one frigate sufficient to be left to take care of Sidon.Captain Pechell
 considered, that the opinions of the hon. Member for Kilkenny were founded upon principles that were entirely fallacious. The great object of the expedition under the command of Lord Keane, was to put an end to the intrigues which were carried on by Russia in central Asia. Since the act of 1833, the East Indies had been thrown open to British enterprise and British capital, and to the emigration of British-born subjects; and he thought, that those who were engaged in improving the resources of that great and important part of our dominions, should be protected from the designs and intrigues of any foreign power. He should support the grant proposed.Sir H. Verney
l wished for some explanation as to one item in this vote. When he had the honour to preside at the Admiralty this country was fortunately at peace, and the best relations subsisted between us and the United States; and at that time it was determined, after great deliberation, to abandon all attempt to dispute the superiority on the lakes of Canada. But he saw by the present vote, that there was a sum of 20,000lSir James Graham
 said, that the opinion of the best authorities, when he was at the Admiralty, was, that in case of war, the defence of Upper Canada must rest rather on the affections of the people, and on the military, than on our naval forces.Sir J. Graham
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, on what day he thought it probable that the bill for the regulation of railways (the report on which stood for consideration to-night) would really be brought again under discussion?Sir Robert Peel
 would not countenance any step that had for its object the impeding of the progress of the bill. He should be opposed to any unnecessary delay, and if he saw any tendency in the proposal he had been requested to make, on behalf of those interested in railways, to delay the measure, he would withdraw from all participation in the matter.Sir Robert Peel
1348 observed, that the bill was one of very great importance, as it proposed to give extended powers to the Board of Trade, for the regulation of railways. Strong apprehensions were entertained by many persons who were largely interested in railroads respecting the extent of those powers. He himself was very desirous that the bill should be passed into a law with all convenient speed, consistently with that caution and deliberation which the public interests required. A petition had been intrusted to him from parties who were apprehensive, that the powers proposed to be conferred on the Board of Trade, particularly by the 11th clause of the bill, would injuriously affect their interests. They were opposed to that clause on two grounds—first, because the powers to be given to the commissioners were vague and indefinite, and next, that they had a tendency to divide the responsibility between the directors of the railway companies and the Board of Trade. He was afraid, that if the bill should be read a second time, and then be referred to a select committee at some distant day, it would greatly impede its progress, he had, therefore, been requested to ask the right hon. Gentleman to consider, whether it were not possible to appoint, in the interval between the second reading, the bill being committed generally, and without causing any delay, a select committee, to whom the single question involved in the 11th clause might be referred, in order that they might consider whether it were possible to give some certain definition of the powers to be vested in the Board of Trade. This would afford the parties whose interests he now represented an opportunity to state their case, and to explain the grounds of their apprehensions as to the extensive nature of the powers which the bill, as it at present stood, would confer on the commissioners. The appointment of such a committee for such a purpose would preclude any protracted delay in the proceedings, while at the same time it would be permitting those parties, who upon the whole had invested upwards of sixty millions sterling in railways, to state their case, and to hear the case on the other side.
1348Sir Robert Peel
1387138613851384l1383 said, he for one was prepared to give a cordial sanction to the proposition now made as to the military force of this country; giving it, that was to say, in the firm conviction and reliance that the demand now made by the executive government did not exceed the exigencies of the case. At the same time, he should be exceedingly sorry to see any increase of the military force of this country which could afford a pretext, or any rational ground, for foreign powers to
1387138613851384l1383Sir R. Peel
 differed from the gallant Admiral as to the efficiency of small line-of-battle ships instead of frigates.Sir T. Cochrane
1357 would recommend the Admiralty to make an addition to the number of large frigates. We had now sixteen frigates of fifty guns, of which ten were razées, whilst the neighbouring
1357Sir Thomas Cochrane
13901389Henry Hardinge,1388 regretted that he had not been present to hear the opening speech of his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War. He cordially concurred in the sentiments which had been just expressed by the right hon. Baronet. Like him, he was most anxious for the preservation of peace; and he believed that, if the present tranquillity was disturbed, the aggressors would be guilty of unexampled wickedness and folly. He hoped the interests of commerce, by binding nations together, would avert the dangers which seem to threaten, and he trusted that Parliament would endeavour to strengthen those ties, and multiply those interests. But, unhappily, if war should arise, he had no doubt that internal dissensions and differences of opinion on domestic questions would be entirely forgotten in the general desire to maintain the honour and character of this country. He should only allude further to a topic which had been discussed at some length, namely, the severity of the service at the present time, which, under the existing military arrangements, was imposed on the infantry of the British army. He had no hesitation in stating his opinion that that pressure was more than ought to be imposed on those gallant men. He had no doubt his noble Friend the Secretary of Slate, was right in saying that no murmuring or complaint was to be heard from the officers or soldiers of the British army. The high character, zeal, and devotion, which they had ever shown, would prevent any such thing. But the absence of complaint, if there was real ground for it, had, so far from making him less anxious to remove the cause, increased, if possible, his desire to prevent any undue pressure on those who so devotedly bear it. In the year 1838 he (Lord Howick) did, with
13901389Henry Hardinge,1388Viscount Howick
 begged to ask the Secretary of War if he would lay on the Table an account of the progress in forming barrack libraries.Viscount Howick
 said he thought the amount of interest did not afford a sufficient inducement to the soldiers to make deposits.Viscount Howick
 could not help remarking, if any proof were wanted of the expediency of an inquiry, the very strongest proof had been furnished by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. An inquiry would have brought the facts which the right hon. Gentleman had stated to light. As the hon. Member for Lambeth seemed to suppose that there would have been some irregularity in appointing a court of inquiry to examine into the conduct of Lord Cardigan, he would just say, that there would have been nothing whatever contrary to precedents in such a course. He thought it a very great error that such an inquiry had not been ordered.Viscount Howick
1404140314021401 was sorry that this extremely painful subject had been brought forward on this occasion; but, as it had, he could not avoid saying that the answer of his noble Friend to the statement of the hon. Member near him was not altogether satisfactory. When he said so, he by no means wished to censure the conduct of Lord Hill; he was certain that in a matter of this importance Lord Hill would consult the Government, and he therefore held the Government responsible for the proceedings which had been adopted. So far from assuming that Lord Cardigan had necessarily been to blame, he was most anxious to believe that he had not only discharged his duty conscientiously but also discreetly, but he must say that the facts which had been laid before the public were sufficient to call for an inquiry in order to prove that such was the case. He concurred with the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary-at-War, that it would have been highly improper to have placed Lord Cardigan on half-pay, or to have dismissed him by the exercise of the prerogative of the Crown without some previous enquiry. After the court-martial on Major Watkin, Lord Cardigan had been so placed on half-pay, and in adopting that course he thought, as he had already on a former occasion stated in the House, that a great error had been committed. At that time he thought an
1404140314021401Viscount Howick
 said, that the treaty to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded, had not yet been concluded, and all that he could now state was generally this—that the treaty applied only to the commercial relations between the two countries, and did not go into any other matter.Viscount Palmerston
12 said, he felt it to be his duty to resist the motion by a direct negative. He could assure hon. Members that when such a bill as the present—one that was so objectionable—was introduced, it ought to be marked in every way that was possible by the disapprobation of the House. He felt that he had a duty to perform, and whether it was pleasing or displeasing to hon. Members, he would perform it. He should say, that the reward was disproportionate to the service. Creating a Peer, and rendering it necessary to support the rank of a Peer by a pecuniary grant, was a measure highly improper, particularly in the present state of our finances. The amount voted in the present instance would maintain one hundred poor families for fifty years to come. Under these circumstances, he must say that the present bill ought not to meet with the support of the House. He hoped that
12Mr. Hume
14 said, that as the Queen bad conferred honours, and as the House had attached pecuniary rewards to those honours, on a gallant officer who had conquered a province for the sake of protecting an empire threatened with danger from hostile intrigues without; it ought not to be forgetful of the ease of another gallant officer who had successfully defended another province from treachery within, and from treacherous allies without. That gallant officer had not as yet received any mark of respect, regard, or sympathy from his fellow-countrymen. With these feelings to the province, and to the gallant individual who had protected it, he could not but take this opportunity of expressing thus publicly a feeling, which he knew was shared by many, and which he hoped most of all was shared by her Majesty's Ministers, because, if it was shared by them, he should not have done injury to the object which he wished to promote, by not bringing it forward on an earlier opportunity. That object was to obtain some mark of
14Sir R. H. Inglis
 called the attention of the House to one of the estimates not yet voted, he meant the estimate for the volunteer corps; and he knew that it was impossible to move for an increase. The cast td which he wished to direct the attention of Ministers was that of the county of Essex, where there was no local yeomanry force, although the population was 317,000, whilst Hertfordshire, with not half the population, had six corps. It could be said, as an excuse for not appointing yeomanry in Essex, that it was in the neighbourhood of London, and that it was possible to send the household troops because that reason would apply equally to Middlesex itself, and in that county there were two troops in the neighbourhood of Uxbridge. He would content himself now with calling the attention of the House and of her Majesty's Ministers to the subject, and at a more convenient time be would take the sense of the House upon the propriety of an increase, unless he should find, that Government were disposed to apply a remedy.Mr. Bramston
15 said, that as the subject came more immediately under the control of the department in which he had the honour to hold office, than in that of his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, whose duty was limited more especially to the matter of accounts, he thought it right to answer as shortly as he could the complaint which had been made. In 1838, the yeomanry generally in this country consisted of a large force, and it seemed expedient to the Government, with a view to economy, that this force should be in some respects reduced. The hon. Gentleman seemed to insinuate that the reduction had been made more from partiality than from
15Mr. Fox Maule
16 begged leave to refresh the recollection of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman had stated, that there were no complaints of partiality when the reductions were made. He would beg to call to the hon. Gentleman's remembrance, that cases were stated at the time—whether justly or unjustly he did not mean to say—in which partiality was imputed; and the hon. Gentleman might, perhaps, remember, that a comparison, or rather a contrast, was made between the services
16Mr. Goulburn
 recollection certainly was, that complaints as to this reduction had been made at the time on the ground that this corps would be of use for the Ordnance stores, but, on referring to the Ordnance Department, they held, that it would be quite unnecessary to keep up the corps for that alleged purpose, and it was on that reference to the Ordnance, that it had been thought right not to retain the services of this corps. There were at the time certainly complaints of partiality in making the reduction, but these complaints were not confined to one side of the House, for he believed, that there were more complaints from his own Friends than from Gentlemen opposite. With regard to the county of Hertford, the corps were under a noble Lord connected with that county. Yet, after all the reduction that had been so much complained of, there were 3,000 or 4,000 more yeomanry now kept up than at the time when the Duke of Wellington was in office; and he said, that it must be a great satisfaction to the House, as it was to the Government, that there had been no extraordinary charge during the last year on account of any yeomanry having been called out.Lord John Russell's
 said, that application had been made to the Ordnance to know whether it was necessary to keep up this corps, for the protection of the Ordnance stores, and the reply was, that it was not necessary.Sir Hussey Vivian
17 had heard, that there was a correspondence in which it was said to be desirable and necessary to keep up this corps for the protection of
17Sir Henry Hardinge
 was not aware of any such correspondence, and must observe, that there were always workmen ready for the defence of the works on an emergency.Sir Hussey Vivian
24**"The handsome pensions to which chaplains become entitled must not be forgotten, nor the enormous expense of building and repairing churches, &c, the Kirk and St. Peter's, for example."7210,684Total, Rs.
7210,684Total, Rs.472,779Add expense of Kirk
472,779Add expense of Kirk311Rs. 7,904Monthly expense of Church of England in Calcutta
311Rs. 7,904Monthly expense of Church of England in Calcutta9101,062
9101,062910162Establishment
910162Establishment00900St. Peter's Fort salary
00900St. Peter's Fort salary051,156
051,15654405Establishment
54405Establishment012750St. James's salary.
012750St. James's salary.6115,685
6115,6855152,085Total, Rs.
5152,085Total, Rs.515485Establishments
515485Establishments001,600Mission Church salaries
001,600Mission Church salaries1123,599Total, Rs.
1123,599Total, Rs.87972Establishment
87972Establishment352,627Cathedral, salary of two chaplains
352,627Cathedral, salary of two chaplains
7210,684Total, Rs.
7210,684Total, Rs.472,779Add expense of Kirk
472,779Add expense of Kirk311Rs. 7,904Monthly expense of Church of England in Calcutta
311Rs. 7,904Monthly expense of Church of England in Calcutta9101,062
9101,062910162Establishment
910162Establishment00900St. Peter's Fort salary
00900St. Peter's Fort salary051,156
051,15654405Establishment
54405Establishment012750St. James's salary.
012750St. James's salary.6115,685
6115,6855152,085Total, Rs.
5152,085Total, Rs.515485Establishments
515485Establishments001,600Mission Church salaries
001,600Mission Church salaries1123,599Total, Rs.
1123,599Total, Rs.87972Establishment
87972Establishment352,627Cathedral, salary of two chaplains
352,627Cathedral, salary of two chaplains472,77945853Ground-rent
472,77945853Ground-rent021,926St. Andrew's Kirk, salaries of two Ministers
021,926St. Andrew's Kirk, salaries of two Ministers411Rs. 23,046*Expence to Government monthly*
411Rs. 23,046*Expence to Government monthly*323,484Establishments
323,484Establishments19Rs. 19,552Church of England salaries.
19Rs. 19,552Church of England salaries.
472,77945853Ground-rent
472,77945853Ground-rent021,926St. Andrew's Kirk, salaries of two Ministers
021,926St. Andrew's Kirk, salaries of two Ministers411Rs. 23,046*Expence to Government monthly*
411Rs. 23,046*Expence to Government monthly*323,484Establishments
323,484Establishments19Rs. 19,552Church of England salaries.
19Rs. 19,552Church of England salaries.23"I have already mentioned the extent of provision made by Government for the spiritual wants of the majority of its European soldiers, before the passing of the New Charter Act. From the remarks which fell from the President of the Board of Control, during the discussion of that measure, Catholics were naturally led to expect that some suitable provision would be made for their religious necessities. This reasonable expectation has hitherto been grievously disappointed; for, with the exception of an occasional donation of the paltry sum of 500 rupees, towards the erection or repair of a chapel, nothing, absolutely nothing, has yet been done in redemption of Sir C Grant's (now Lord Glenelg's) pledge. Much importance cannot, I think, be justly attached to these parsimonious donations, which do not, in their aggregate amount, much, if at all, exceed two thousand rupees, when it is borne in mind that the poor Irish soldiers have to contribute from their slender resources nearly as many thousands as the Government give hundreds; and also that Protestant chaplains and places of worship are provided entirely at the public cost. Catholic soldiers, with the exception already mentioned, continue solely dependent on the nearest Catholic missionary for spiritual aid. The station of Hazareebaugh may, probably, be deemed an exception, inasmuch as the missionary there has, I believe, no charge but the soldiers. He, however, receives only fifty rupees from government, and his expenses beyond that trifle are, I presume, defrayed by the voluntary contributions of the poor soldiers." …. "With reference to the above observations regarding the Government expenditure on account of the Church of England and Scotch kirk establishments, I beg to annex the following items of information, which I have obtained from sources which leave no possible doubt of their accuracy. You will observe, that with the exception of the bishop, the clergy under the Bengal presidency only are included. I have no immediate means of ascertaining the payments made on account of those under the"The late commander-in-chief peremptorily refused to lay before Government a petition for British pastors from the Catholics of her Majesty's Thirteenth; but did they, for that reason, exhibit any back wardness at the storming of Ghuzni? That they were not indifferent as to the practice of their religion, may, I think, be safely inferred from the fact of their having contributed, from their scanty means, about 6,000 rupees towards the erection of a chapel at Kurnaul. They were fully aware that in Afghanistan they would find no chapel nor priest to succour them, in sickness or death, with the helps and consolations of their religion, while they beheld the tender care with which their Protestant comrades had been provided with a chaplain. Nevertheless, on they went without a murmur."22"This claim, however, though deemed reasonable by the Marquess of Hastings, was vehemently opposed by Sir H. Fane, who even refused to forward to Government a petition
22"All the commanders-in-chief, from the Marquess of Hastings down to Sir H. Fane, were favourably disposed to the claim of the Catholics in the array, to be provided by Government with British chaplains."21201918 did not mean to detain the House with any discussion as to the yeomanry corps, yet be could not but regret, that almost the last vote of these estimates should be proposed without the attention of the House having been more decidedly down to the conduct of the Horse Guards with reference to the Earl of Cardigan, and to the conduct of that person towards his regiment. He believed the public opinion was excited to such an extent, that be was convinced if one of the officers bad not written a letter which had put him without the pale of their sympathies, the House would have been compelled to enter into an inquiry as to the conduct of the Horse Guards. Still he felt bound to make some observations, because, when the conduct of Lord Cardigan had been impeached upon the court-martial of Major Wathen, who was found to be entitled to a most honourable acquittal, and when Lord Cardigan was also condemned with out any chance or opportunity of entering upon a defence, he (Mr. O'Connell) had commented upon the proceedings as deserving all reprobation. But the conduct of the court-martial upon Captain Reynolds was infinitely more to be condemned. They had the decision of what the sentence was to be within their own breast; they had sedulously excluded from consideration every ingredient that should ester into the judgment, and cause the heaviest sentence to be commuted; they had not considered the provocation which he had received before he had violated the commands of his superior officer. The nature of the sentence ought to have depended upon the provocation. If the disobedience were without any provocation no sentence could be too severe, but if, on the other hand, so strong a case of provocation could have been made out, the lightest possible censure was the utmost punishment that ought to be apportioned. He
24**"The handsome pensions to which chaplains become entitled must not be forgotten, nor the enormous expense of building and repairing churches, &c, the Kirk and St. Peter's, for example."7210,684Total, Rs.
7210,684Total, Rs.472,779Add expense of Kirk
472,779Add expense of Kirk311Rs. 7,904Monthly expense of Church of England in Calcutta
311Rs. 7,904Monthly expense of Church of England in Calcutta9101,062
9101,062910162Establishment
910162Establishment00900St. Peter's Fort salary
00900St. Peter's Fort salary051,156
051,15654405Establishment
54405Establishment012750St. James's salary.
012750St. James's salary.6115,685
6115,6855152,085Total, Rs.
5152,085Total, Rs.515485Establishments
515485Establishments001,600Mission Church salaries
001,600Mission Church salaries1123,599Total, Rs.
1123,599Total, Rs.87972Establishment
87972Establishment352,627Cathedral, salary of two chaplains
352,627Cathedral, salary of two chaplains
7210,684Total, Rs.
7210,684Total, Rs.472,779Add expense of Kirk
472,779Add expense of Kirk311Rs. 7,904Monthly expense of Church of England in Calcutta
311Rs. 7,904Monthly expense of Church of England in Calcutta9101,062
9101,062910162Establishment
910162Establishment00900St. Peter's Fort salary
00900St. Peter's Fort salary051,156
051,15654405Establishment
54405Establishment012750St. James's salary.
012750St. James's salary.6115,685
6115,6855152,085Total, Rs.
5152,085Total, Rs.515485Establishments
515485Establishments001,600Mission Church salaries
001,600Mission Church salaries1123,599Total, Rs.
1123,599Total, Rs.87972Establishment
87972Establishment352,627Cathedral, salary of two chaplains
352,627Cathedral, salary of two chaplains472,77945853Ground-rent
472,77945853Ground-rent021,926St. Andrew's Kirk, salaries of two Ministers
021,926St. Andrew's Kirk, salaries of two Ministers411Rs. 23,046*Expence to Government monthly*
411Rs. 23,046*Expence to Government monthly*323,484Establishments
323,484Establishments19Rs. 19,552Church of England salaries.
19Rs. 19,552Church of England salaries.
472,77945853Ground-rent
472,77945853Ground-rent021,926St. Andrew's Kirk, salaries of two Ministers
021,926St. Andrew's Kirk, salaries of two Ministers411Rs. 23,046*Expence to Government monthly*
411Rs. 23,046*Expence to Government monthly*323,484Establishments
323,484Establishments19Rs. 19,552Church of England salaries.
19Rs. 19,552Church of England salaries.23"I have already mentioned the extent of provision made by Government for the spiritual wants of the majority of its European soldiers, before the passing of the New Charter Act. From the remarks which fell from the President of the Board of Control, during the discussion of that measure, Catholics were naturally led to expect that some suitable provision would be made for their religious necessities. This reasonable expectation has hitherto been grievously disappointed; for, with the exception of an occasional donation of the paltry sum of 500 rupees, towards the erection or repair of a chapel, nothing, absolutely nothing, has yet been done in redemption of Sir C Grant's (now Lord Glenelg's) pledge. Much importance cannot, I think, be justly attached to these parsimonious donations, which do not, in their aggregate amount, much, if at all, exceed two thousand rupees, when it is borne in mind that the poor Irish soldiers have to contribute from their slender resources nearly as many thousands as the Government give hundreds; and also that Protestant chaplains and places of worship are provided entirely at the public cost. Catholic soldiers, with the exception already mentioned, continue solely dependent on the nearest Catholic missionary for spiritual aid. The station of Hazareebaugh may, probably, be deemed an exception, inasmuch as the missionary there has, I believe, no charge but the soldiers. He, however, receives only fifty rupees from government, and his expenses beyond that trifle are, I presume, defrayed by the voluntary contributions of the poor soldiers." …. "With reference to the above observations regarding the Government expenditure on account of the Church of England and Scotch kirk establishments, I beg to annex the following items of information, which I have obtained from sources which leave no possible doubt of their accuracy. You will observe, that with the exception of the bishop, the clergy under the Bengal presidency only are included. I have no immediate means of ascertaining the payments made on account of those under the"The late commander-in-chief peremptorily refused to lay before Government a petition for British pastors from the Catholics of her Majesty's Thirteenth; but did they, for that reason, exhibit any back wardness at the storming of Ghuzni? That they were not indifferent as to the practice of their religion, may, I think, be safely inferred from the fact of their having contributed, from their scanty means, about 6,000 rupees towards the erection of a chapel at Kurnaul. They were fully aware that in Afghanistan they would find no chapel nor priest to succour them, in sickness or death, with the helps and consolations of their religion, while they beheld the tender care with which their Protestant comrades had been provided with a chaplain. Nevertheless, on they went without a murmur."22"This claim, however, though deemed reasonable by the Marquess of Hastings, was vehemently opposed by Sir H. Fane, who even refused to forward to Government a petition
22"All the commanders-in-chief, from the Marquess of Hastings down to Sir H. Fane, were favourably disposed to the claim of the Catholics in the array, to be provided by Government with British chaplains."21201918Mr. O'Connell
 inquired whether incorporations under local acts were to be exempted.Mr. Ormsby Gore
 begged to observe, before the committee divided, that the same statement as that which had been recently make by the right hon. the Secretary at War, with regard to his determination to make representations to the Indian Government as to the condition of Roman Catholic soldiers in respect of their religious exercises, had before been made by Lord Glenelg. The complaint now made was of the disappointment of the hopes and expectations which that statement raised. He trusted, that the right hon. Gentleman would make a very strong representation to the court of directors.Mr. O'Connell
l."That a sum not exceeding 119,631l.l.l.l.l.l.4039l.l.l.l.38ll.lll.l.l.l.l.37llll.l36l, in rising to bring forward the Ordnance Estimates, said, that it would have afforded him sincere pleasure, as it would, he was sure, have gratified the Committee, if, like his right hon. Friend, the Secretary at War, he had been able to state, that there was a diminution in the estimates for the expenses of the Ordnance department for the present year, as compared with those of the last year. He regretted, however, to state, that the exigencies of the service required a very considerable increase, amounting, upon the whole, to 186,903l."That a sum not exceeding 119,631l.l.l.l.l.l.4039l.l.l.l.38ll.lll.l.l.l.l.37llll.l36lSir H. Vivian
 replied that the matter was then under consideration.Sir Hussey Vivian
 replied, that a number of plans had been submitted to him for the erection or enlargement of barracks in other places in South Wales; but he did not intend to make any proposition on the subject until it became absolutely necessary to do so. He had received communications from officers stationed in South Wales, who told him, that although it was found necessary for the present to distribute the troops in a number of places in that district, yet, that they, generally speaking, were comfortably quartered.Sir H. Vivian
42 had made inquiries on the subject of the commanding officer of the district. It appeared that last year the roof of the barracks in question was in a bad state, and the officer to whom he had alluded had received instructions to have it repaired. He had entered in to a contract for this purpose, with a person who, it turned out, was not competent to complete it. The repairs, therefore, had not yet been finished. On this subject he bad sent down one of the best officers connected with his department, namely, Captain Pasley, who reported that a new roof was necessary for these barracks, and that the expense would not be very great. With respect to the continuance of the barracks at Hythe, he had no hesitation in saying that they were absolutely necessary in case of war. If, therefore, the
42Sir H. Vivian
emeute denied that the Board of Ordnance or the Home Office acted upon the principle of having barracks built in a place whenever an emeuteSir Hussey Vivan
 was sure that the hon. Member for Finsbury would be most unwilling to use any expression inconsistent with what was due to another Member. He had no doubt, therefore, that the hon. Member would see the propriety of withdrawing the word "impertinent," which must have been used in the haste and warmth of debate. The hon. Gentleman, the Under Secretary of State, had said, that his reply was not intended to be heard by the House.The Chairman
 thought there had been a good deal of warmth about nothing at all. The expression "impertinent" was too strong a one to be allowed to pass by the House. He did not think that the hon. Member for Finsbury could desire to persist in it.Colonel T. Wood
 replied in the negative.Mr. F. Maule
: The hon. Member would see the clause when it was printed.Mr. Fox Maule
pro formâ said, the hon. Gentlemen refused what, he believed, had never before been refused to an individual, much less to a Member of the Government—namely, the right to move that a bill be committed pro formâMr. Fox Maule
 said, the answer was one made in, perhaps, an unusual mode. He had answered from his seat without addressing the House, and meant it as from one Friend to another sitting at the same side of the House. The hon. Gentleman had chosen to consider it as an answer in his place. If the hon. Gentleman pressed his motion he should oppose it.Mr. Fox Maule
 asked if the Gilbert unions were to be exempted.Mr. W. Duncombe
 wished to know whether the troops in India were to be armed with the percussion guns.Colonel Thomas
T. Duncombepro formâ said, it was a very usual coarse for a Member, and particularly an official Member, bringing forward a bill, to take that bill through committee T. Duncombepro formâLord John Russell
57565554"In 1840: acquitted, thirty-eight; convicted, eighteen; all commuted—fifteen to transportation for life, three to fifteen years' transportation. Proportion convicted, nearly one in three.""In 1839: acquitted, sixty; convicted, seventeen; all commuted—fifteen to transportation for life, one for ten years, one imprisoned one year. Proportion convicted, one in four and a half."In 1838: acquitted, thirty-two; convicted, seven; six of whom were transported for life, one imprisoned one year. Proportion convicted, one in five and a half."In 1837: acquitted, sixty-seven; convicted, six, all transported for life. Proportion convicted, one in twelve."In 1836: acquitted forty-six; convicted, nine; 1 executed, eight transported for life. Proportion confided, one in six; and a slight decrease in the minor offence.53"In 1835: acquitted, fifty-two; convicted, four, all commuted to transportation for life. Proportion convicted, one in fourteen; but the numbers convicted of the minor offence—the assault with intent to ravish—were increased one-fourth."In 1834 there were fifty-five prisoners acquitted; there were eight convicted, the total number tried being sixty-three; four of the eight convicted were executed, and four transported for life. The proportion convicted was one in eight.525150per incuriam4948 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the criminal law. An hon. Member whom he saw on the opposite side of the House had introduced a bill in the last Session of Parliament, and also in the present, for the important purpose of abolishing capital punishments. It was for the House to consider whether they would go further than the extent to which they had hitherto gone, in the mitigation of capital punishment, and if so, to what extent they would go. The hon. Gentleman stated last year that it was his opinion—and he (Lord John Russell) hoped he did not misrepresent it—that capital punishment might be abolished altogether. That was not the measure which the hon. Gentleman proposed to the House but he proposed a measure for abolishing capital punishment excepting in the cases of treason and murder. The principle on which the hon. Gentleman went was a very clear and distinct one. He proposed to abolish it by two steps; first, by the bill which he had already brought in; and secondly, by some measure which should abolish it altogether. He was not persuaded that it was necessary, or rather he was not persuaded that it was expedient, to abolish capital punishment altogether, because he thought there were certain offences for which it was necessary to retain it. At the same time, in forming an opinion on the subject, they must look to the changes which had been already made in the criminal law. They must see how far those changes had already operated well, and they must see whether public opinion would go along with them in the mainten-
57565554"In 1840: acquitted, thirty-eight; convicted, eighteen; all commuted—fifteen to transportation for life, three to fifteen years' transportation. Proportion convicted, nearly one in three.""In 1839: acquitted, sixty; convicted, seventeen; all commuted—fifteen to transportation for life, one for ten years, one imprisoned one year. Proportion convicted, one in four and a half."In 1838: acquitted, thirty-two; convicted, seven; six of whom were transported for life, one imprisoned one year. Proportion convicted, one in five and a half."In 1837: acquitted, sixty-seven; convicted, six, all transported for life. Proportion convicted, one in twelve."In 1836: acquitted forty-six; convicted, nine; 1 executed, eight transported for life. Proportion confided, one in six; and a slight decrease in the minor offence.53"In 1835: acquitted, fifty-two; convicted, four, all commuted to transportation for life. Proportion convicted, one in fourteen; but the numbers convicted of the minor offence—the assault with intent to ravish—were increased one-fourth."In 1834 there were fifty-five prisoners acquitted; there were eight convicted, the total number tried being sixty-three; four of the eight convicted were executed, and four transported for life. The proportion convicted was one in eight.525150per incuriam4948Lord J. Russell
 had stated generally the amendments he meant to introduce, but had said nothing with regard to that part of the bill, and he had no amendment to propose in it.Lord J. Russell
 replied, that he meant to include the Gilbert unions.Lord J. Russell
 replied, that it would prevent the extension of it to that union.Lord J. Russell
 added, that as to local acts he meant to reserve to the commissioners the powers they now possessed, but to exempt districts included in local acts from additional powers. As to the first part of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury, that was fair matter for discussion and consideration; but with regard to medical provision for the poor, the boards of guardians had introduced some alterations and improvements, and it was better to leave the matter as it was than to make any special enactment on the subject.Lord John Russell
 answered that he did not.Lord. J. Russell
29 said, that it was not very regular for the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, to answer arguments on that evening, which had been used in a former debate; but he could not regret that the hon. and gallant Member had, afforded him an opportunity of setting him right as to a misapprehension which he appeared to entertain, of what had on a former evening fallen from him. The hon. and gallant Member appeared to suppose that he had said that the clamour which had been raised in reference to this fact, was to be attributed to the circumstance of the commander of the 11th Hussars being a Peer. Undoubtedly the Earl of Cardigan was a Peer of the realm, and was a man of high rank; and he admitted to the hon. and gallant Member, that the fact of the Lieutenant-colonel of a regiment being a man of high rank was rather in his favour than otherwise, and that he was more likely, on that account, to conciliate the officers under his command. But what he had said, was, that disputes having arisen between such a noble individual and his officers, it was much more likely that any complaints which were made should be pushed before the public, and that public attention should be drawn to them, than if he were of inferior standing in society. In the case of a person of inferior rank in society, matters upon which disputes had arisen would have been referred, as in this case, to the Commander-in-Chief, and he would have declared his opinion upon them, and there it would have rested; but it was his opinion that, in consequence of the rank which the Earl of Cardigan held, there had been a great deal more made of the matter than there would have been in any ordinary case. He did not wish to enter into the details of the case; but if he were asked what were the merits of this question, he should say that they consisted of matters extremely frivolous in themselves, and he did not believe that if the same occurrences had happened with respect to any other officer, there would have been the same degree of public attention and excitement created. The hon. Member for Bridport, had urged that there ought to be a solemn court of inquiry upon this subject. It was the opinion of the Commander-in-Chief that these dissensions might be better composed by his stating his sentiments fairly and solemnly upon this subject, and he had sent the Adju-
29Lord John Russell
pro formâ10pro forma said, that it was Ins intention to re-commit the Poor-law Amendment Bill pro formâ10pro formaLord John Russell
 asked, whether the protection to be given was to dale from the registration, or the publication of the design?Mr. Hindley
6261605958 said, he should do great injustice to the noble Lord, and equal violence to his own feelings, if he hesitated for one moment to express his gratification at the statement which the noble Lord had just made, of his sentiments with respect to the present state of the criminal law; and if he were compelled to gay, that he had heard that statement with sentiments not unmingled with regret and disappointment, he did so with reluctance, and it was with great regret that he made the admission. Still he had experienced very great satisfaction on learning what the views of the Government were upon this important topic. The noble Lord, in adverting to his bill for abolishing the punishment of death, had said, that it went a great deal too far, and that he called upon the Legislature, not to do more than experience had shown they could do consistently with safety. But when the noble Lord declared his disapproval of it, and called upon the House to refuse its assent to it, because he, and others who thought as he did, looked ultimately to the entire abolition of the punishment of death, he must beg leave to say, that the noble Lord had taken an unworthy and imperfect view of a very imperfect question. It certainly was true, as the noble Lord had said, that he and others who thought as be did, looked to the abolition of the punishment of death as to one of the greatest benefits the legislature could confer upon the community, and he believed that posterity would look back on the punishment of death with the same feelings of horror that the present generation looked back upon the practice of torture. Nor let it be forgotten that in those
6261605958Mr. F. Kelly
63 agreed in much of what had fallen from the noble Lord; indeed he might say that he concurred in all the principles the noble Lord had laid down as applicable to the administration of criminal justice generally; but he thought that both the returns and the reasoning upon which the noble Lord relied, were in some degree fallacious as regarded the crime of rape. He admitted the general rule in criminal jurisprudence lo be, that punishment should be certain and moderate; and that the proportion of convictions to prosecutions was generally a safe criterion by which to test it. In rape, however, he considered that it was otherwise, and that the policy of the law and real justice required that the convictions should be few in comparison with the charges brought, but that when there was a clear conviction, free from the possibility of a rational doubt, that then the punishment, should be extreme; in ordinary cases—such as robbery or attempt to murder—the prosecutor was influenced by no interested motive; he made the accusation under the sincere impression of the guilt of the accused party—while in rape, the charge was frequently made to hide the shame of the party preferring it—to force a marriage—or to indulge a revengeful feeling towards the person charged. In all such cases justice lay in an acquittal; but if the accused was really guilty, then whether you regarded the moral guilt of the offence—the heinous crime of the offender—or the injury done to the sufferer—an injury worse than death itself to an innocent and virtuous woman—no punishment which the law awarded for any crime could be disproportionate to that. When the doubt of the jury arose from a feeling that the punishment was more than commensurate with the offence, there the penalty should be mitigated—but where the doubt was sincere, from the difficulty of proof, as in case of rape, where the accusation was easily made, and extremely difficulty to rebut, be would not remove a single obstacle to the conviction; but if it was obtained under circumstances that left no room for doubt in the minds of either judge or jury, then he would not abate one jet from the just severity of the punishment. The returns to which the noble Lord had referred, might be accounted for by a real diminu-
63Mr. Shaw
34 said, that the expression he had really used was, that the differences in the regiment partook of the nature of a cabal among a few of the officers—a statement he was quite justified in making, because the same expression had been used by the Horse Guards. So far from his being in a position to state that all the officers in the regiment were in a state of cabal, the fact was, that, with the exception of three or four, there did not exist any difference or misunderstanding between the officers and their commander. No doubt circumstances might have occurred which were magnified into undue importance. He did not mean to eater into a justification of Lord Cardigan, but he must say, he thought that he had been treated with undeserved severity, and that his conduct had not merited that severe censure which it bad met. It was admitted, that the regiment which the noble Lord commanded was organised and conducted
34Sir Henry Hardinge
 desired to add that he could state, upon his own observation, that the officers and men of the regiment were in the best state of discipline.Sir H. Hardinge
9 said, that since he had last addressed the House, he had consulted parties more immediately interested, and understood from them that they meant to confine their evidence within such limits as led him to hope that the inquiry would not prevent the passing of the bill in the present Session—a point upon which he was particularly anxious. Such being the case, he was willing to concede what was desired, and would this night
9Mr. Labouchere
 thought there was great inconsistency in the statements made relative lo the present condition of the regiment commanded by Lord Cardigan. The right hon. the Secretary at War had spoken of that corps as being in a high state of inefficiency, whilst on the other side of the House an hon. and gallant General (Sir H. Hardinge) had stated that a cabal existed among the officers of that regiment. That was, in his opinion, the most unfortunate expression that could have fallen from any gallant Officer in that House. He never heard it stated that any cabal existed in that regiment. Though he had not the honour of being acquainted with Captain Reynolds—better known as "black-bottle" Captain Reynolds—yet he believed that Gentleman would be the last to form any cabal against his commanding officer. He was sorry to hear such an expression from the hon. and gallant General opposite.Colonel Salwey
 thought that there were facts enough before the House to leave room for great regret that the inquiry into the conduct of the Earl of Cardigan had stopped where it did, and that no further inquiry was to take place. What was it that appeared on the face of the documents Which were before the public? That Lord Hill wrote a letter which was to be communicated to the officers of Lord Cardigan's regiment, in which it was stated that the regiment was in that condition that was not fit for domestic purposes, nor to be trusted in the field. So the regiment was to be in the state in which it was described to be, and yet no inquiry was to be made into the causes which had produced the existing state of things. What had passed the other night in the debate upon this subject? The right hon. the Master-general of the Ordnance, had stated that there was that, though not in the matter, yet in the manner of the commanding officer which had led to the results which had taken place. What had been stated with regard to the officers? An hon. and gallant Officer opposite had said that there was a cabal Amongst them against Lord Cardigan. So there was to be that in the manner of Lord Cardigan so offensive as to produce these results, and there was to be a cabal amongst the officers against that noble Lord, and Vet no inquiry was to take place, although they were told that the regiment, in consequence of these circumstances, was unfit for domestic or for active service. He considered these matters not as reflecting upon Lord Cardigan or upon the officers of his regiment, but as reflecting on the Commander-in-Chief of the army, and unless the inquiry which was suggested was to take place, nothing could put a stop to the continuance of a state of things highly detrimental to the service.Mr. Warburton
 said, that in compliance with a suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, the Vice President of the Board of Trade, he intended to comprise all the legislation on this subject into one bill. He should therefore move, before going into committee, an instruction to the committee to that effect.Mr. E. Tennent
 said, the protection was to date from the registration.M. E. Tennent
 said, he rose, as he had done for ten years, to oppose this vote. His reason for objecting to the yeomanry cavalry was, that they had never come in contact with their fellow citizens, without engendering those unpleasant feelings which did not pass away with the hour. The same amount would very nearly establish three regiments of the line, which, in the present rapid state of travelling, would do much more service, and give much more satisfaction. He should divide the committee.Mr. Hume
 observed, that as the House was determined to keep up a large standing army, it was certainly desirable that they should have an efficient artillery. It was desirable that this branch of the service should be placed on the best possible footing, and also, that the arms that should be given to the troops should be as good as possible. On this ground, he, for one, should not object to the proposal of the right hon. and gallant Officer for arming the troops with guns with percussion locks. He had no doubt but that the right hon. and gallant Officer made every possible inquiry, and examined the subject fully before he adopted these new arms. He was not at all surprised at the increased expenditure for ordnance stores, when he recollected the recent proceedings on the coast of Syria, where such large quantities of them had been uselessly thrown away. He should not trouble the House to divide on these estimates, but he protested against the large scale of our military establishments.Mr. Hume
43dsl.ll.l. expressed a hope that the charge of admission to the jewel-room, in the Tower, would be reduced. The principle had been tried with respect to the armouries, and had been attended with the greatest success, and he now trusted that the charge would be reduced still further. He found, from a document, which he had in his possession, that in the year 1837, when the charge of admission to the armouries in the Tower was three shillings, 10,500 visited them, and the sum received was 1,03043dsl.ll.l.Mr. Hume
 regretted to find, that whenever any local or temporary disturbances look place, a demand was made in that House for the erection of large barracks. This was the case a few years ago with respect to Lancashire, and it was now to be acted upon in South Wales. If this was the principle that was to be acted upon, there would be no end to the expenditure. The truth was, that in case of disturbances, the Government would avail itself of the facilities of communication afforded by the railways. He did not mean to object to any particular vote, but he rose to protest against the system of studding the country with barracks.Mr. Hume
 wished to put a question to the right hon. Judge Advocate General. He begged to ask whether, at the courtmartial held upon Captain Reynolds, evidence was not tendered of a long series of insults alleged to have been offered by Lord Cardigan, to show the degree of provocation given by the Earl of Cardigan to his officers, and whether it was not usual on such occasions to note down the evidence tendered, in order that, when the subject should be brought before a higher tribunal, it might become the subject of; further inquiry? Officers were men, and were not to put up with insults without possessing the means of redress. It was because there was a refusal of all redress to them that he had said on a former occasion that he blamed Lord Hill more than the Earl of Cardigan. But he blamed the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War also, for he thought that it was his duty to see that justice was done, not only to Lord Cardigan, but to every individual, On the face of the proceedings he thought that there appeared to have been a gross act of injustice committed, and he thought that Lord Hill should retire from the office of Commander-in-Chief, being unfit to perform its duties. He had long entertained this opinion on other grounds, and he candidly stated that it was his opinion, without meaning any offence to Lord Hill, that that noble Lord should never have remained one hour at the head of the army after Earl Grey assumed the Government, But quitting this part of the case, he could not sit down without saying, that he thought that an inquiry aught to take place, and that, notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, public opinion was not to be set at defiance.Mr. Hume
 said, that there were many Roman Catholic soldiers in Lancashire and the Highlands who were quite as badly off in respect of their religious worship as those in India.Mr. P. Howard
"A bill to amend an act passed in the twelfth year of the reign of King George the Third, for the better securing and preserving her Majesty's dockyards, magazines, ships, ammunition, and stores.""A bill to amend an act of the ninth year of the reign of King George the Fourth, for consolidating and amending the statutes in England relative to offences against the person."65"A bill to abolish the punishment of death for certain offences of embezzlement and
65 thought that nothing but the dread of death would be sufficient to deter some men from crime, and if it was expedient to remove the punishment of death from outrages committed by one man, still it would be manifestly unjust to expose a female to be attacked by more than one, when no spirit or strength would enable her to resist the assault upon her honour. If the penalty of death were removed from burglary when murder was not committed, that was certainly an inducement to the parties not to proceed to murder; but here the House was about to remove the safeguard of female honour, and he must solemnly protest against such a proceeding, because if they deprived a female of her honour, what, in the name of HEAVEN, did they leave her."A bill to amend an act passed in the twelfth year of the reign of King George the Third, for the better securing and preserving her Majesty's dockyards, magazines, ships, ammunition, and stores.""A bill to amend an act of the ninth year of the reign of King George the Fourth, for consolidating and amending the statutes in England relative to offences against the person."65"A bill to abolish the punishment of death for certain offences of embezzlement and
65Mr. Philip Howard
47 said, as it was proposed to amend the law of copyright, with regard to linen, cotton, and wool, respecting which there were no less than five acts of Parliament, it had appeared to him that it would be much wiser to consolidate these acts, so as to bring the law of the subject within a small compass. He understood it was intended to extend the copyright of paperstaining to three years. With regard to metals, the copyright in designs extended at present to three years, but the copyright
47Mr. Sheil
 thought that point would be better discussed in committee.Mr. Sheil
 said, that after the explanation of the hon. Gentleman, the Tinder Secretary of State, he withdrew it, of course.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, his question had been put publicly, and he therefore considered the answer public. He would not press his motion.Mr. T. Duncombe
46 said, the noble Lord might explain as much or as little as he pleased, but he ought not to misrepresent him. He had not asked for every iota of the amendments, bat for a particular
46Mr. T. Duncombe
45 thought he was called on to explain after what had fallen from the hon. Gentlemen. It might be unusual for an individual to object to a Member altering his bill as he liked, but it was much more unusual dud uncourteous
45Mr. T. Duncombe
: This point was a matter of deep interest, and unless he received a satisfactory explanation upon it, he should move that the chairman do leave the chair. The hon. Member concluded with moving that the chairman do report progress.Mr. Duncombe
44 had on a former evening stated to the House, that he thought the recommendation of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, that the duration of the commission should be reduced to five years, and that the poor should not be thrown into those places behind the workhouse called workhouse churchyards, but should be buried in the parish churchyards, or, to use a more expressive term, in the poor churchyards, would be adopted by the Government in their amendments to the bill. He hoped also, that the Gilbert corporations would be excepted, and that the noble Lord would think twice before he attacked the local acts of the metropolis. Now, they had been often told, that the Poor-law commissioners had exercised the greatest discretion in the performance of their duties; but he did not think much discretion had been evinced in uniting the large parish of Kensington with that of Chelsea. Having done that, they afterwards got in Paddington, for the purpose of trying the Poor-law system. And what was the consequence? The greatest possible confusion was produced, and now there was a local act before the House for the purpose of dividing Kensington from Chelsea; or, as it were, to divorce
44Mr. T. Duncombe
 begged to know whether the noble Lord intended to reduce the size of any of the unions?Mr. Grimsditch
 asked what steps had been taken respecting the repair of the barracks at Hythe; and also whether it was at all necessary to keep up the barracks there?Mr. Hodges
l. rose to propose a vote of 82,266l.Mr. Macaulay
3231 said, that he would appeal to the House whether he had said that public opinion should be set at defiance. He had used no such words. But he had said, and he always should
3231Mr. Macaulay
11 also expressed his satisfaction that the noble Lord had abandoned his first plan; as far as they went, he approved of the amendments, but he hoped the noble Lord would go one step farther, and would adopt the suggestion he had thrown out of dividing the present measure into two bills; one to continue the commission for five years, and the other, apart from the commission, to regulate the working of the Poor-law, so that people might feel satisfied that it was not intended to make the commission perpetual. What the people most earnestly desired was, that the law should be so constructed as at the end, at all events, of five years to work itself without the assistance of the Poor-law commissioners. The commission at present was made the excuse for every species of abuse. He would also remind the noble Lord that he had received several deputations from medical practitioners respecting that department of the Poor-law Act; but the noble Lord had not intimated his intention to introduce any change in that respect. Several proposals had been submitted to the noble Lord with reference to clauses of great importance, and he trusted that the interests of the poor, as regarded the medical depart-
11Mr. Wakley
64coram populo had some years ago been anxious to direct the attention of the Government to this subject, and, therefore, he saw it taken up by his hon. and learned Friend opposite, who was so competent to the task, with much pleasure. With regard to the destruction of property in dockyards, consisting of naval stores, he did not think that juries would in general draw that fine distinction between the property of the Crown and that of private individuals which the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies required. If it was proposed to make offences of this description subject to capital punishments, he could not avoid thinking that jurors would feel some repugnance at subjecting men to them, and would, therefore, be most likely to acquit the prisoners. He objected to the power of committing punishment now vested in the Secretary of State, because he thought that all such powers ought to be exercised 64coram populoMr. Ewart
l. said, that he observed in this vote a charge of 10,000l.Sir A. Dalrymple
 said, that having an intimate acquaintance with the neighbourhood of Brighton, in which the 11th hussars were quartered, he could slate, upon his own observation, that the men of that corps were as well-conducted men as toy he had ever seen in Brighton.Sir A. Dalrymple
 concurred, with the opinions of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw), and begged to congratulate his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Kelly) on the perseverance which he had shown, during the last and present Session, in bringing this important matter before the House and the country.Sir C. Douglas
2726 said, that he had the honour to be personally acquainted with several members of the court-martial, and undoubtedly he knew no men in whose honour he should place more reliance; but when he said this, he could not but express his regret that where a court was called for the examination of the conduct of a captain, so many of its members should be persons of the rank of commanding officers. The right hon. Judge Advocate-general had stated his opinion, and he did not question it with regard to the finding of the court, but although it was highly inconvenient that courts-martial should be prevented from expressing their opinion in many cases, yet this court-martial did assert an abstract principle, which it was difficult to carry out, which was, that no provocation at all could excuse disobedience to orders. He did not think that it would do to
2726Sir De Lacy Evans
25 would not enter at large into the questions which had been broached by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, but he rose for the purpose of saying a few words in reference to what had fallen from that hon. Gentleman, in allusion to the subject of the court-martial on Captain Reynolds. The hon. and learned Gentleman, in the observations which he had made, seemed to imply that the court-martial had excluded altogether the evidence which was proposed to be called before them upon the subject of circumstances which had occurred before the matter which was the subject of their immediate consideration. He thought it due to the members of that court to say, that was not the case, because they admitted evidence of the immediate provocation which Captain Rey-
25Sir George Grey
 asked whether the Gilbert unions were exempted from the operation of the act?Captain Pechell
 had heard, with great satisfaction, that the noble Lord intended to limit the existence of the commission to five years instead of extending it to ten years. The noble Lord had left the matter a little doubtful in what he had said respecting buildings for the education of idiots and infant-poor. The expense was not to be incurred if one-fifth of the guardians objected. Did the noble Lord mean that if the proposed structure were for three unions, and one-fifth of the guardians of any one of the unions objected, that in that case the plan was not to be carried into effect?Sir R. Peel
 referred to the suggestion he had made to the right hon. President of the Board of Trade on Friday last, whether it might not be expedient to appoint a Select Committee, to take into consideration the discretionary power proposed to be given by the bill upon the Table respecting Railways, and the exercise of that power by the Board of Trade. The right hon. Gentleman had undertaken to consider the matter, and to give an answer this day.Sir R. Peel
33 rose only because the hon. Member for Kilkenny had admitted that he entertained a strong prepossession against Lord Hill. It appeared from what the hon. Member said, that with him the original grievance was, that Lord Hill should have been continued in the command of the army on the accession of Earl Grey to office. These two admissions of the hon. Member unfortunately did lead to the inference that it was highly probable that the hon. Member's prepossession against Lord Hill had exercised some sway over his judgment with regard to the case of Lord Cardigan. He did not consider that the Government could have acted otherwise than they had done with regard to Lord Cardigan. It would certainly have been unwise to have placed him on half-pay. They had been informed that, according to the custom of the service, there was not sufficient in the case to justify a court-martial, still less was there ground for a court of inquiry. Indeed, he thought it a matter for grave consideration whether, under any circumstances, a course of inquiry should be instituted. He considered the Commander-in-Chief a much better authority, as to that matter, than the House of Commons. Where matters so vague as the manners, or looks, or casual expressions, of an individual, were to form the subject of inquiry, a satisfactory result was not likely to be come to, and he thought a wise discretion had been exercised in letting the case be decided by a man holding the station of Commander-in-Chief, whose public services entitled him to the highest respect, and whose private character exempted him from any suspicion of partiality. He was bound also in justice to say, that he could not see what motive the executive government could have to protect Lord Cardigan. He was not connected with them by political ties: on the contrary, it was quite evident that some temporary popularity was to be gained by making a sacrifice of Lord Cardigan. He did not think that
33Sir R. Peel
 felt bound in justice to this gentleman, who was personally known to him, from his having performed the duties of surveyor of taxes in the neighbourhood with which he was more particularly connected, to say that he thought he had not been quite fairly dealt with. He could vouch for the respectability of his character, and, from the arduous nature of the duties which he had performed, he thought that he was entitled to some further consideration.Mr. A. Stanford
83 rose
83Mr. Miles
 was at all times unwilling to depart from the rules laid down for the regulation of private business, as it would lead to a recurrence of the evils from which they had already suffered. If they did, Gentlemen would come down to the House, and carry such measures, from the mere force of local interests. No departure from their rules ought to be suffered, unless a case were fully made out. He should act on the present occasion as he had during the last Session, on the occasion of the Welsh Railway Bills. He should not advise the House to consider the question then, but to devolve that duty upon the committee for private business, where the statements and counter-statements of the opponents and supporters of the bill could be more fully considered than they could be in the House. He could not consent to the appointment of a Select Committee. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving, as an amendment, that all the petitions that had been presented, with reference to the Severn Navigation Bill, be referred to the Select Committee on Private Business. In moving this amendment, the right hon. Gentleman hoped that the committee would not recommend any departure from the regular course, unless a very special case was made out.Mr. Labouchere
 agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that it was proper for the House to adhere to the rules it had laid down, but he thought there were special circumstances in the present case. He considered that the bill ought to be referred to a committee of a more general character than that to which private bills were generally referred.Lord G. Somerset
 thought the bill ought to be referred to a committee, constituted of Members who had no interest in the districts through which the river runs.Mr. Hope
 said, it appeared to him that the object of his hon. Friend was solely to obtain an impartial hearing, and he trusted that the motion would be concurred in by the House.Mr. Craven Berkeley
74, in reply, said, that
74Mr. Ormsby Gore
 did not see why leave of absence to barristers going circuit should pass as matters of course. He did not recognize any particular right of barristers to be exempted from their attendance at that House more than other hon. Members, who were obliged to give up their private business for that purpose. There were election committees to be ballotted for; why should legal Gentlemen be exempted from attendance more than others.Mr. Pattison
 said, that from the earliest period the House had recognized the advantage of allowing banisters to enter as Members and to go out on circuit. He thought the precedent ought to be followed.Mr. Goulburn
 would not assent to the principle of allowing barristers to be exempt from the business of the House in this way. If they had any valid claim, let them be exempt altogether.Mr. Mildmay
 said, that no objection had been made to the motion for leave of absence for Lord Clements.Mr. Greene
 said, that Lord Clements was not a lawyer, but was going to attend his county as a grand juror.Mr. Wrightson
 observed, that when the bill regulating election committees was in progress it was clearly understood that barristers were not to be exempted.An hon. Member
 admitted that fact, but at the same time no objection was made to their being allowed to go circuit.Mr. Goulburn
 observed, that the very first motion for leave of absence for a barrister after the new bill passed was for his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general.Mr. Kelly
76 said, that that was a par
76Sir G. Grey
 thought, that if lawyers found their duties as Members of that House onerous, they were not obliged to retain their seats. If there was a pressure of business in the House requiring the attendance of Members, he did not see why lawyers should be exempted more than others, for in such cases they ought to take their fair share of the duties of Members. In former times lawyers scarcely ever attended election ballots. They did not answer to their names, and the matter passed over because a sufficient number of other Members was easily found. If lawyers were allowed to go circuit in the early part of the Session, there was no reason why they might not attend at another time. In the present Session leave had been given to some barristers, arid, that being the case, he thought it would be invidious to refuse the leave in this instance. However, in the beginning of a new Session, when there might be a press of election business, he thought that barristers might be called on to take their fair share of duty.Sir R. Peel
 thought that the nature of the "urgent private business" should be stated before the House assented to the motion.Lord Howick
 was of the same opinion, and would not consent to the motion if such statement were not made.Mr. Pringle
77 said, that he happened to be in the same panel as the hon. Member, and it certainly would be very convenient to him to have his attendance put off from the 25th, but though he should have to go down to the country, it was his intention to be back in time for attending at the call of the panel on which his name stood. As the hon. Member's (Mr. W. O. Stanley's) name was in the panel which stood for so early a day, he thought that the nature of the urgent private business should be stated to the House by the hon. Member who made the motion, for urgent private business might be anything or nothing. The hon. Member ought to state in his place that he knew the business
77Lord Stanley
 said, that as there seemed an objection on the part of the House, he would not persevere in his motion.Colonel Paget
 hoped that his hon. Friend would not withdraw his motion, Of course, the House would act on the same principle in all other cases.Mr. E. J. Stanley
 wished that the objection had been stated earlier in the Session.Lord Eliot
 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, since the commencement of the present session, any Government agent had been employed to make arrangements at Dartmouth, with a view to the conduct I of the West India mail service in that port, and whether it was intended that the expense consequent upon the adaptation of that port to the service in question, or to be incurred in the conduct of the service, should be borne by the Royal Mail Steam Company or by the public?Mr. Fresh-field
 supported the motion. The ground that had been taken by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, was quite different to that taken by his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, last year. The present surveyors of taxes had been placed upon the same footing that they wished Mr. Reeves to be placed upon; and he trusted, therefore, that his right hon. Friend would reconsider the case, and accede to the motion.Lord Teignmouth
82 would detain the Mouse for
82Mr. Kelly
80l.l.79l.l.l.l.l.l.78, in moving to refer the petition of Thomas Reeves (presented on the 4th February) to a Select Committee said, that in the year 1835 Mr. Reeves had retired after twenty-two years' service as a surveyor of taxes, and it was a matter of importance to know what pension he was entitled to. He would state, and he had no doubt he would be corroborated by the gentlemen connected with the Treasury, that there was nothing against the character of Mr. Reeves to disqualify him for the allowance he was entitled to under any Act of Par-
80l.l.79l.l.l.l.l.l.78Mr. Kelly
81l.l.l.l. said, that the Government acted in this case according to what had invariably been the practice of the Treasury; and, in support of this statement, read extracts from a correspondence which took place between the Board of Taxes and the Treasury in July, 1812. In that correspondence the Board of Taxes stated, that a surveyor's salary amounted to 9081l.l.l.l.Mr. John Parker
l.l.l. said, that he had some years since strongly condemned the vexatious system of emoluments, by which the officers were enabled to raise their salaries from 100l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 had three times given the same explanation which had now been afforded by his hon. Friend (Mr. Parker). No doubt he might have construed the case differently if he had chosen, but the Treasury had the power to lay down general rules and to act upon them, without any distinct reference to what might be deemed the strict legal position of the case, and although certain emoluments of office were given, it was not therefore, that they were not to pursue that course which they deemed fit upon consideration of the nature of those emoluments. No deduction had been made from the salary of these officers with a view to the granting of pensions, and therefore no pensions had in any case been given.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that on the 15th of January a Treasury minute had been passed deciding the point which had been so long pending, and the authorities of the Post-office had been directed to state what measures would be necessary to carry that decision into effect. On the 4th of February the Post-office recommended that an officer should be sent down into Cornwall to make the necessary inquiries. On the 5th their recommendation was approved of by the Treasury, and an officer was sent down accordingly. As to the payment, that part of the expense which was defrayed by the Government at Falmouth would be defrayed in future by the Government at Dartmouth.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said he would take that opportunity of vindicating himself from the charge made against him last night in his absence, and he was surprised that any Gentleman could make such a charge. It was stated last night that he had set a bad example, in shrinking from the execution of his duty. But the Fact was, that he last Session claimed an exemption from attendance in Parliament, on the ground that he had to conduct an important Government prosecution in a remote county. The right hon. Member for Tamworth concurred with him that he was perfectly justified in asking for leave of absence under those circumstances. As soon as the trial was over he returned to town, and attended constantly in the House for the remainder of the Session.The Attorney-General
 asked whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had not been in the House when a conversation took place on the subject of the postage of petitions, whether he could inform the House what was the state of the law respecting the postage of petitions? Was it the case that petitions weighing more than six ounces were chargeable with postage?Mr. East-hope
 should not have risen to take part in the debate had it not been for the speech they had heard from his (the Opposition) side of the House, and, above all, coming from the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. He did not present himself to the notice of the House as a specimen of a Conservative Member, although the hoc. Baronet on a former evening had held him up in a tableau of respectability with the hon. Member for Finsbury and the hon. Member for Kilkenny; but he was determined that one Member on his side of the House, at all events, should be found to protest against the intolerant speech and spirit displayed by the hon. Baronet. The hon. Baronet had not made a Jewish speech perhaps, but, in good truth, it was anything but a Christianlike speech. He regretted to say this much, bat he knew, in giving utterance to these sentiments, that he spoke the opinions likewise of a considerable majority of his own (the Conservative) side of the House. He should, most undoubtedly, oppose the amendment of the hon. Baronet.Mr. C. Hamilton
101 said, it did not follow that because the hon. Member who introduced the bill put upon the back of it the name of another hon. Member, that that hon. Member was bound by all the provisions of the bill. His objections were principally to the clause which proposed
101Mr. Warburton
 hoped the hon. Member for Bridport would not insist upon dividing the House on the second reading of the bill. He thought, looking at the slate of the law with respect to coroners, the House was much indebted to the hon. Member who had introduced the measure. With respect to what had been stated as to Coroners' Courts being open ones, he thought there was great room for argument upon both sides; but his opinion was, that a large discretion should always be given to coroners to clear their Courts, or not, as justice required it.Mr. Fox Maule
 thought depositions ought to be taken before coroners as they were in courts of law. He hoped the House would let the bill go into committee.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, that whilst he agreed with the hon. Gentleman that a bill ought to be passed to prevent fraud in the election of coroners, he could never agree to any measure which would narrow the suffrage. He dissented entirely from that part of the bill. He trusted, however, that his hon. Friend would not divide the House upon the second reading, but lei the bill go into committee, on the understanding that he would then oppose what he considered as objectionable. If the hon. Gentleman who moved the bill would leave the suffrage on the same footing as it had hitherto rested, he would support the measure.Mr. Hume
 would not, after the appeal of the hon. Under-secretary for the Home Department, divide the House.Mr. Warburton
102 would give the bill his hearty support, because the system at present in force was very expensive, particularly in Yorkshire, where each coroner, although he was to act for only a district,
102Sir G. Strickland
s103 would support the second reading of the bill as several of its provisions were very good, but he must decidedly object to the magistrates having anything to do with the election of the coroner—the coroner had often to sit in judgment on the conduct of the magistrates, and he must decidedly oppose giving them any more power over the coroner—they had too much already. Upon principle, and generally, the coroner's court ought to be an open court, but cases might arise, when, if the coroner had not the power to lake evidence in secret the ends of justice might be, and he had no doubt had been, defeated. It was said, that the murderer of Mr. West-wood was in the room where the inquest was hold, and afterwards escaped to America. In such a case, where no suspicion attached to any individual, it would be very injurious to the public interests, if the coroner had not the power of closing his court. With regard to the clauses relating to the franchise, the constituency in Middlesex and Surrey would be enlarged by them, and would not be so open to fraudulent practices. The registration would have a great effect in doing away with such practices. The constituency under the bill in West Middlesex alone, would amount to 25,000, whereas at present, in the whole county, they did not amount to 14,000. He objected to any change being made in the coroner's districts by the magistrates, without his consent. The districts in Middlesex, had been settled years ago, and his colleague and himself never interfered with each other. The coroner was one of the hardest worked and worst paid officers in the county. The gallant colonel was anxious to have the depositions taken at length. Now, as the enquiry was as to whether a person had died a violent or a natural death, many questions were asked which afterwards turned out to have no connection with the subject, and which would give great pain, if they were published He was glad his hon.
s103Mr. Wakley
 said, that he highly approved of the bill, but he must request the attention of those who had charge of it to look to one proviso. The bill went so far as to allow parties to peak as witnesses for themselves. You could not allow the defendant to prove his own case. He thought that the landlord ought not to be allowed to give evidence in favour of the tenant in a case in which a verdict for the latter would be beneficial to the former; and that in other cases the evidence of parties interested in the issue of a trial should not be received in favour of that side with which their own interests were identified. He hoped that Gentlemen who had charge of the bill would look to that proviso. If it were properly framed, he would support the bill; but otherwise it would be his duty to oppose it.The Attorney-General
 had no difficulty in saying, that Lord Denman acted in accordance with the laws of England, and was perfectly justified in giving the caution which he did to Sir James Anderson, as he (the Attorney-general) who conducted the prosecution, had informed their Lordships in his opening address, that the witness was liable to indictment as an accessory before the fact.The Attorney General
ll said, that, during the last eighteen months, a large sum,500,000llCaptain Boldero
989796959493 said, I am glad that my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford has, by his speech this night, reduced the question to what I really conceive it to be—a question of religious liberality or of religious intolerance in England. My hon. Friend has stated in different parts of his speech, and particularly towards the conclusion of it, that we must consider our religion of be true, and the religion of the Jews to be false; and he therefore deduces, as a legitimate consequence from that proposition, that the Jews are incapable of filling municipal offices. Now I beg to state to the House, that I do not think that those who formerly opposed the admission of persons to corporate offices who did not belong to the Church of England, in the first place the Protestant Dissenters, and afterwards the Roman Catholics, have ever been willing to put the question on such a ground as this. They have always endeavoured when arguing questions affecting the religious opinions of men, to delay measures of legislation, and they did delay, first the admission of Protestant Dissenters, and then of Roman Catholics into the municipal corporations of the country; they were always anxious, and always endeavoured to place the question upon some issue in which the State was concerned. With regard to the Protestant Dissenters, the argument of Sherlock upon this question (which my hon. Friend would no doubt recognise), goes
989796959493Lord John Russell
 would attend to the suggestion of the Attorney-general.Mr. Hawes
 said, there was one defect in the law of evidence which he wished to see altered in this bill. The judges were in the habit of telling witnesses that they must not criminate themselves. Now, every man ought to tell the truth, even if it were against himself, and the object of the trial was to get at the whole truth.Mr. Hume
 then said, that lest his observations respecting the judges giving caution to witnesses should not be understood by the Attorney-general, he would refer to a particular case in point—the trial of Lord Cardigan in the House of Lords, where the judge who presided officiously interfered, and desired a witness not to answer any question which might tend to criminate himself.Mr. Hume
 also had the misfortune to differ from his hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford, on this occasion. He thought, however, that the question had been entered into more largely than it required. A stranger might have supposed that it was intended, by the bill, to admit gentlemen of the Jewish persuasion to seats in Parliament, instead of merely to the offices of aldermen and common council. He wished to guard himself against the belief that he would at once confer on Jews a right of holding seats in that House, but, with that reservation, he could not feel any possible objection to the vote for the present bill.Mr. Milnes
8685 said, the hon. Member
8685Mr. Law Hodges
 deprecated the introduction of theology into that House on discussing a question which might be grounded upon reasoning alone. The hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford had adverted to the amalgamation of the Dutch families that accompanied William 3rd, with the inhabitants of this country, but did the legislature draw the same persecuting line of demarcation between the Bentincks, the Keppels, and the Vansittarts, and the English people, as that which was drawn between the Christians of this country and the persecuted Jews? The argument of the hon. Baronet was not tenable. The House, he was glad to perceive, did not consider the hon. Baronet's arguments worth answering, and were alike impatient of his logic and his theology.Mr. Ewart
 said, that under the law before the Penny-postage came into operation, all petitions under six ounces in weight were exempted from postage; and the law on the subject is still unchanged. The practice of the Post-office was not to receive petitions of very great bulk; but petitions of a fair and reasonable size were carried, and, if charged with postage, the money was again returned. If the Postmasters were now under any misapprehension on the matter, he would take care to set them right.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
principiis obsta92Anglia Judaica,Hear,919089nation88Laughter.87 said, that when he last addressed the House on the subject of this bill, he had called it a bill to enable David Salomons, Esq. to fill the office of alder-
principiis obsta92Anglia Judaica,Hear,919089nation88Laughter.87Sir R. Inglis
 entirely concurred with what fell from the right hon. and learned Gentleman—and hoped, for the satisfaction of his feelings, his (the Attorney-General's) name would be placed upon the first committee.Sir R. Peel
 said, he would take the present opportunity of redeeming the pledge he had given on a former evening—that within a sufficient time of the period for which his bill for registration of voters in Ireland stood fixed, he would state to the House the course which he intended to pursue respecting it. He had given the matter the fullest consideration in every point of view, and, as his only object was to proceed with the bill in that way which he thought most likely to conduce to its becoming the law of the land, and looking at the small majority by which the House had affirmed the principle of the bill of his noble Friend the Secretary for Ireland, he would now, with leave of the House, move, that the order of the day for which his bill now stood be discharged, for the purpose of fixing it for the 28th of April, in the full understanding and confidence that the Government would adhere to its declared intention of proceeding to the full discussion of its own bill on the 23d of April, for which they had fixed it.Lord Stanley
a laughl129 regretted that notwithstanding the expression which had been given last year of a desire to assist institutions of this kind, so little had been done. The advantageous results likely to proceed from the carrying out of these plans was distinctly proved by the fact that although a school of design had been within these three months established in Spitalfields, it was already attended by a
a laughl129Mr. W. Williams
 agreed that these institutions must mainly depend for their funds upon local subscriptions; but the objects for which Government could do good by affording assistance were the establishment of a normal school for teachers, the publication of elementary works, and forming a good collection of works of art of all kinds that could be adapted to designs.Mr. Labouchere
123122l121 observed that certainly he would not yield to the hon. Gentleman in his sense of the deep importance of the subject then before the House, nor in his opinion that it was the duty of the Legislature and of the Government to employ every means in their power to spread a knowledge of art, as well for the improvement of the general taste of the people as to contribute to the stability and the progress of our manufactures. Upon every ground, moral, political, and commercial, he knew of no duty that was more incumbent on the House and on the country; but at the same time he entertained the strongest objections to the motion of the hon. Gentleman on account of the terms in which it was worded. He thought that this was a question which deserved to stand on its own merits, without any comparison between the sums that were given to one class or to another. The House might be right or wrong in voting any sums in support of the universities and of a system of education for the higher classes; but that was a subject also to be discussed and decided upon its own merits. He did, therefore, decidedly object to the motion of the hon. Gentleman as it stood, and he hoped that, after the statement which he was about to make, the hon. Gentleman would see that his object would be fully accomplished by leaving the subject in the hands of the Government, rather than by any address to the Crown, which by raising vague and general expectations in many different parts of the country, would, perhaps, paralyze individual exertions. He hoped that he should be able to prove to the hon. Gentleman that her Majesty's Ministers were willing to provide every means in their power for the encouragement of these institutions throughout the country, and especially in the seats of our manufactures; and he trusted that the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied with this expression on the part of the Government. He admited, that, with respect to the schools of art, this country presented a most disadvantageous and discreditable contrast with other countries. When he considered the long and strenuous exertions of the neighbouring power of France, when he considered the exertions which had been made with so much ability and zeal by the Government which, in all that relates to its internal administration, was far in advance of the other
123122l121Mr. Labouchere
 trusted that his hon. Friend would not ask the House to depart from the usual course adopted in cases of this kind. Unless some very special reasons were assigned for a departure from the usual course, he (Mr. Labouchere) would think it his duty to oppose any attempt at such a proceeding.Mr. Labouchere
 said, that the statements of the hon. Member opposite must satisfy the House that the Committee of Selection had done all that they could do. To those Members who were present yesterday he need not say, that he had heard with regret the decision which the House came to, as he considered it was likely to break down those rules which the House had previously made. He could not but think that the course taken by the Committee of Selection had rescued the House from a situation of great perplexity. He concurred with the arguments of the hon. Gentleman, and would support his motion. He thought the House was greatly indebted to the Committee of Selection for the course they had adopted.Mr. Labouchere
113 rose to move "That the evidence taken before the committee on petitions for private bills relative to the Stafford and Rugby Railway Bill, be laid on the Table of the House, and printed." He begged the attention of the House while he stated the facts of the case very shortly. Two years ago a railway was projected to pass from Stone to Rugby, and the ten per cent, deposit required by the standing orders was made. The Session having closed without the bill having passed, the deposit was taken from the Exchequer, and lodged in a bank at Manchester. During 1840 that deposit remained untouched. In the beginning of 1841 a new proposition was made: it was, to make the railway from Stafford to Rugby, a petition for which was now before the House. When this plan was first agitated a meeting was held of the old and new proprietors, an agreement was come to, and a deed prepared and executed. The ten per cent, paid into the bank of Manchester was to be the fund out of which the ten per cent, of the new company was to be subscribed. All the shareholders of the old company who did not think proper to join the new one were to receive back, after the accounts were audited, the ten per cent, they had deposited, deducting the payment of expenses. But all the shareholders of the old companies who became shareholders of the new were liable at a future period to the directors of the old company who had advanced the sum necessary for the current expenses of the undertaking. They were liable personally to pay back their proportion of these expenses, amounting to something more than fifty per cent, on the amount of the deposit. The provisional directors of the old company having made that arrangement, gave the shareholders who joined the new company a draft for the full amount of their shares, and they paid their drafts into the bank of Manchester, on behalf of the new company. Now, although the standing orders said, that a deposit of ten per cent, was to be paid, and that three-fourths of the subscribers should have paid their shares on such deposits, yet they did not lay down any rule that the shareholders should not borrow the money for so doing. Under these circumstances he thought it exceedingly desirable, in order that the House might understand the working of the standing
113Mr. Warburton
 would, for the present, withdraw the motion, but said that he should bring it forward at another time in a different form.Mr. Warburton
133ll132 could assure the right hon. Baronet, if he alluded to hon. Gentlemen around him, that they had not been backward in this respect. With regard to the present motion, he begged to add his request to that of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, that the hon. Member for Falkirk would withdraw it, because he thought that it would not be well to have it rejected, and that after the ex-
133ll132Mr. Hume
 having been a member of that committee, was anxious to offer a few observations to the House. The only ground on which he thought it unnecessary to print the evidence was, that the hon. Gentleman had stated the facts so fully and clearly that the printing of the evidence would add very little to their information.Mr. R. Palmer,
Your committee wish further respectfully to submit to the House, that, even were they invested with the necessary powers for conducting an enquiry, they cannot but entertain great doubt whether it would be expedient to charge them with such a duty, inasmuch as they fear that previous enquiry into the circumstances of a bill, involving the necessity of hearing the parties, and coming to a decision between them, might have a tendency to diminish the confidence reposed in their impartial selection of the Members to serve on the committee on the Bill."Your committee having been appointed, not for the purpose of enquiry, but for the discharge of simple duties specified in the standing orders, are not invested by the House with the power of sending for persons, papers, and records. Having therefore no means of calling for evidence, and no documents having been referred to them on the subject of the Severn Navigation Bill, your committee would submit to the House, that they are not in a position to form a judgment on the question referred to them.111That the above instruction appears necessarily to imply the exercise of a discretion, on
111"The committee of selection having, in obedience to the direction of the House, taken into consideration their Order of the 9th inst. "That it be an instruction to the Committee of Selection, if they see fit, to refer the Severn Navigation Bill to a select committee," beg to report the difficulties they have experienced in endeavouring to carry into effect what they understand to be the intention of the House. wished to call the attention of the House to the report presented yesterday by the committee of selection. It would be remembered that the day before yesterday it had been moved and carried that it be an instruction to the committee of selection to consider whether the rule usually adopted in ordinary cases of private bills, of referring such bills to a select committee chosen from names in the Speaker's list of Gentlemen connected with the particular counties to which such bill referred, together with certain other gentlemen connected with such localities, should be adopted in the case of the Severn Navigation Bill, or whether in the committee on that bill it would be better entirely to omit all those whose names appeared in the Speaker's list, to have it composed of gentlemen entirely unconnected with the localities to which the bill related. The committee in consequence of that instruction had met yesterday, and had agreed to a report, to which he now wished to direct the attention of the House. The report stated,
Your committee wish further respectfully to submit to the House, that, even were they invested with the necessary powers for conducting an enquiry, they cannot but entertain great doubt whether it would be expedient to charge them with such a duty, inasmuch as they fear that previous enquiry into the circumstances of a bill, involving the necessity of hearing the parties, and coming to a decision between them, might have a tendency to diminish the confidence reposed in their impartial selection of the Members to serve on the committee on the Bill."Your committee having been appointed, not for the purpose of enquiry, but for the discharge of simple duties specified in the standing orders, are not invested by the House with the power of sending for persons, papers, and records. Having therefore no means of calling for evidence, and no documents having been referred to them on the subject of the Severn Navigation Bill, your committee would submit to the House, that they are not in a position to form a judgment on the question referred to them.111That the above instruction appears necessarily to imply the exercise of a discretion, on
111"The committee of selection having, in obedience to the direction of the House, taken into consideration their Order of the 9th inst. "That it be an instruction to the Committee of Selection, if they see fit, to refer the Severn Navigation Bill to a select committee," beg to report the difficulties they have experienced in endeavouring to carry into effect what they understand to be the intention of the House.Mr. Estcourt
 suggested, that the words "minutes and proceedings" be inserted in the original motion.Mr. Greene
131ll130l said, that after the hon. Member for Coventry had called for so large a sum as 1,000131ll130lMr. Wakley
128 said, he was sure that a great majority of the country would be willing to adopt the advice offered by the right hon. Baronet; and he thought that the moral views contained in his speech would be justly appreciated. It gave him great satisfaction to find the tone now used by the Government of this country, for his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny, his hon. Friend the Member for Hull, and the right hon. Baronet op-
128Mr. Ewart
134 replied, he could not regret that he had brought this subject under the discussion of the House, because that discussion, he was convinced, would produce universal satisfaction throughout the country. With reference to the observations which had been made upon the subject of the form of his motion, he must say that he had not worded it with a view to drawing any invidious comparison, but to justify himself, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if he had agreed to his proposition, for disposing of a portion of the funds in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman in the manner which he proposed. He could not close this discussion without declaring the unbounded satisfaction with which he had listened to the speech of the right hon. Baronet; and he was sure that the sentiments which he had expressed would tend to raise his long-established and deserved reputation even higher than it already stood. In general, he must say, that the motion had been looked at in a too circumscribed view, for it was not a motion only for the establishment of schools of design; his object was, the rational improvement of the working classes in general. He had heard with great satisfaction from the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, that the mere consideration of money would have nothing to do with the final determination of this question. Following the advice of his hon. Friends he should withdraw his
134Mr. Gillon
llllllldsldsll"That this House will upon Wednesday, the 17th day of March, resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider of the following address to her Majesty, that is to say, that a humble address be presented to her Majesty, slating that there were voted by estimates for the year 1840–41, the following sums:—For the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, 2,000llllllldsldsll119llllll"In the session of 1838–39, the income amounted to 220llllll"The subscribers will perhaps remember, that some years ago the fees for the different classes were reduced from five shillings to two shillings and sixpence, with the exception of those for drawing and modelling. Though this occasioned an increase in the number of pupils, it diminished the income arising from the fees. The Directors have, therefore, resolved again to raise the fees."118lllllll117**"But if you can explain to these persons the reason why they are to do this or the other acts necessary to the right management of the machine, is it not proper, to do so? Is not this right conduct on your part towards them? Is not this to treat them as rational beings, possessing powers which enable them to reason from causes to effects, and from effects to causes? Is not this a becoming homage to that intellectual nature, which, in them as well as in you, is the noblest product of infinite power in this lower world?117**"We often hear knowledge and education recommended, that its possessors may have a chance of succeeding better in their worldly career, of rising in the world. This is one of the most common inducements held out to incite to its acquisition, and is generally illustrated by the instance of some individual, who by the aid of superior knowledge, has risen to a high state from very small beginnings; but this is not the proper motive; besides, if all were educated which should be on a par, there would be no advantage, no distinction, except that of natural talent; though all, however, cannot be raised to wealth and dignity, all may by knowledge extend their sources of personal pleasure, and thus make themselves wiser, happier, and better in whatever condition they may be.""It is not during the hours of labour, but during those of recreation, that idle and pernicious habits are acquired, and to occupy our leisure hours in a rational and improving manner, is the surest mode of preventing the growth of those noxious weeds that overrun every waste and uncultivated mind. It is universally felt, that the pursuits of literature and science tend eminently to refine and civilize—to raise the standard of mind—elevate above grovelling pursuits, and impart dignity of character and self-respect."116"Though the number who avail themselves of the privileges thus held out to them is small, yet it is extremely satisfactory to know, that of those who do, most are now in situations very different from what they originally were, and which they acknowledge to be owing in a great degree, to the valuable instructions they received by attendance at the School. Of these, James Hope, formerly a joiner, is now resident engineer at the Bolton and Leigh Railway; John Hislop, also a joiner, is now a teacher in the grammar school, Burntisland; and Thomas Charles, formerly a cabinetmaker, now holds a responsible situation in an architect's office."115"The Principles of Natural Philosophy and of Chemistry, together with Architectural and Mechanical Drawing, and Modelling in Clay, as the standard subjects of instruction in that Institution. For the illustration of the lectures and lessons on these several subjects, an extensive collection of apparatus, models, casts, &c, has been made; and a library, consisting of works of science, theoretical, and as applied to the arts, to the amount of several thousand volumes, has been formed for the use of the students. Nearly 8,000 persons have enjoyed the benefit of this instruction." rose to bring forward his motion on the subject of making grants of public money to Mechanics' Institutes in various parts of the empire. He had to request the indulgence of the House while he endeavoured to direct its attention to a matter which he considered of great importance to a very large body of the people. Every discussion of the question must ultimately tend to beneficial results; and if on the present occasion he failed in his motion, from the reluctance of Government, or from any other cause, he had the satisfaction of reflecting that it had at least been brought under the consideration of Parliament. His great object was to promote mental improvement by the instruction of the labouring portion of the population; to accomplish this end was a paramount duty on the part of every government, and a duty which could not be much longer neglected. His attention had been called to the subject last Session by an application from the School of Arts of Edinburgh, praying assistance from the public purse; and here he wished to correct a misapprehension that by schools of art he meant schools of design: no doubt schools of design were included in the mere general terms of schools of art, but he referred to what were ordinarily called Mechanics' Institutes. A large part of the working population of the city of Edinburgh had been instructed, as was stated in the memorial of the council of the School of Arts, in algebra, mathematics, and a variety of useful knowledge. But he would read from that memorial a passage on the subject. The hon. Member read the following extract from a paper entitled the case of the Edinburgh School of Arts.
llllllldsldsll"That this House will upon Wednesday, the 17th day of March, resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider of the following address to her Majesty, that is to say, that a humble address be presented to her Majesty, slating that there were voted by estimates for the year 1840–41, the following sums:—For the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, 2,000llllllldsldsll119llllll"In the session of 1838–39, the income amounted to 220llllll"The subscribers will perhaps remember, that some years ago the fees for the different classes were reduced from five shillings to two shillings and sixpence, with the exception of those for drawing and modelling. Though this occasioned an increase in the number of pupils, it diminished the income arising from the fees. The Directors have, therefore, resolved again to raise the fees."118lllllll117**"But if you can explain to these persons the reason why they are to do this or the other acts necessary to the right management of the machine, is it not proper, to do so? Is not this right conduct on your part towards them? Is not this to treat them as rational beings, possessing powers which enable them to reason from causes to effects, and from effects to causes? Is not this a becoming homage to that intellectual nature, which, in them as well as in you, is the noblest product of infinite power in this lower world?117**"We often hear knowledge and education recommended, that its possessors may have a chance of succeeding better in their worldly career, of rising in the world. This is one of the most common inducements held out to incite to its acquisition, and is generally illustrated by the instance of some individual, who by the aid of superior knowledge, has risen to a high state from very small beginnings; but this is not the proper motive; besides, if all were educated which should be on a par, there would be no advantage, no distinction, except that of natural talent; though all, however, cannot be raised to wealth and dignity, all may by knowledge extend their sources of personal pleasure, and thus make themselves wiser, happier, and better in whatever condition they may be.""It is not during the hours of labour, but during those of recreation, that idle and pernicious habits are acquired, and to occupy our leisure hours in a rational and improving manner, is the surest mode of preventing the growth of those noxious weeds that overrun every waste and uncultivated mind. It is universally felt, that the pursuits of literature and science tend eminently to refine and civilize—to raise the standard of mind—elevate above grovelling pursuits, and impart dignity of character and self-respect."116"Though the number who avail themselves of the privileges thus held out to them is small, yet it is extremely satisfactory to know, that of those who do, most are now in situations very different from what they originally were, and which they acknowledge to be owing in a great degree, to the valuable instructions they received by attendance at the School. Of these, James Hope, formerly a joiner, is now resident engineer at the Bolton and Leigh Railway; John Hislop, also a joiner, is now a teacher in the grammar school, Burntisland; and Thomas Charles, formerly a cabinetmaker, now holds a responsible situation in an architect's office."115"The Principles of Natural Philosophy and of Chemistry, together with Architectural and Mechanical Drawing, and Modelling in Clay, as the standard subjects of instruction in that Institution. For the illustration of the lectures and lessons on these several subjects, an extensive collection of apparatus, models, casts, &c, has been made; and a library, consisting of works of science, theoretical, and as applied to the arts, to the amount of several thousand volumes, has been formed for the use of the students. Nearly 8,000 persons have enjoyed the benefit of this instruction."Mr. Gillon
137"If all the West-India islands were swallowed up in the ocean, and British Guiana yet remained, it is sufficient of itself to supply the wants of the mother country with colonial produce."136"I am convinced that under proper regulations, as to sexes and location, the natives of India might safely be introduced here to the great amelioration of their own condition, and the undoubted benefit of the province, which only requires labourers to make it a second India.""Having made these observations, I have to add, that I have no indisposition to allow the attempt to be made to recruit extensively the population of Guiana. I will state, in a separate despatch, the modifications I think necessary in an ordinance, to replace that which Lord Normanby advised her Majesty to disallow. Freedom of labour is the general principle, and restriction should be the exception. But in whatever degree I might be disposed to yield to the representations of the merchants and proprietors, whether in this country or in the colonies, I must enjoin upon you to bear in mind, that the happiness of the inhabitants of the colony you are appointed to govern is the chief object. Encourage religious instruction, let them partake of the blessings of Christianity, preserve order and internal peace." (signed) JOHN RUSSELL.(signed) NORMANBY."With regard to the introduction of labourers from India, more than enough has already passed to render her Majesty's Government decidedly hostile to every such project; and the laws now in force in the different presidencies would effectually prevent the execution of this part of the scheme. We are not less opposed to the plan of recruiting the negro population of the West Indies from Africa. Finally, I do not perceive that any provision is made to secure to the emigrants on their arrival a proper reception, or to determine in what manner they shall be settled amongst the different candidates for their services. For all these reasons, I have thought it my duty humbly to advise the Queen to disallow this ordinance, and I have received her Majesty's commands to acquaint you that it is disallowed accordingly have, &c.October 29,1839.135: In rising on this occasion it is not my intention to dwell long on the subject or to enter into any lengthened details on what is well known. I have no interest whatever in this question, and if her Majesty's Government will take it up I will most readily give way, and certainly something ought to be done. The subject is one of great importance both to our colonies and to the mother country, and it ought to be brought to a final settlement. Either it is desirable to have labourers admitted into our foreign possessions, or it is not; if the former, let us take steps accordingly, if not advisable, let us proclaim that such is the ease. How can you propound any legislative enactments except by a committee? Let the proprietors of land in our colonies know their fate, and if they are to perish, let them perish in the face of day. In the present day, with a reformed Parliament, and a population out of doors quite equal in talent and information to any individuals in this House, how can you legislate on any important question but by the sanction and support of public opinion? How can this be obtained but by collecting all the information which can he produced before a committee of the House who can make their report, attach the evidence to it, and by that means lay it before the country? One is therefore at a loss to perceive why the Government should negative this proposition of mine, which I understand they will do this night. However, not frightened at this threat, I will at once come to the point, and show to the House why there is a necessity to have a committee on the subject. Nothing can prove this more than the discordant sentiments which are entertained on the subject, not only by the Secretaries for the colonies, by the local governors in India, but even by every third person that may be met who entertains a different sentiment from his neighbour on the importance of this question. I will just show the House the various sentiments which have been pronounced on this important question. The late Secretary for the Colonies writes a dispatch to Governor Light, governor
137"If all the West-India islands were swallowed up in the ocean, and British Guiana yet remained, it is sufficient of itself to supply the wants of the mother country with colonial produce."136"I am convinced that under proper regulations, as to sexes and location, the natives of India might safely be introduced here to the great amelioration of their own condition, and the undoubted benefit of the province, which only requires labourers to make it a second India.""Having made these observations, I have to add, that I have no indisposition to allow the attempt to be made to recruit extensively the population of Guiana. I will state, in a separate despatch, the modifications I think necessary in an ordinance, to replace that which Lord Normanby advised her Majesty to disallow. Freedom of labour is the general principle, and restriction should be the exception. But in whatever degree I might be disposed to yield to the representations of the merchants and proprietors, whether in this country or in the colonies, I must enjoin upon you to bear in mind, that the happiness of the inhabitants of the colony you are appointed to govern is the chief object. Encourage religious instruction, let them partake of the blessings of Christianity, preserve order and internal peace." (signed) JOHN RUSSELL.(signed) NORMANBY."With regard to the introduction of labourers from India, more than enough has already passed to render her Majesty's Government decidedly hostile to every such project; and the laws now in force in the different presidencies would effectually prevent the execution of this part of the scheme. We are not less opposed to the plan of recruiting the negro population of the West Indies from Africa. Finally, I do not perceive that any provision is made to secure to the emigrants on their arrival a proper reception, or to determine in what manner they shall be settled amongst the different candidates for their services. For all these reasons, I have thought it my duty humbly to advise the Queen to disallow this ordinance, and I have received her Majesty's commands to acquaint you that it is disallowed accordingly have, &c.October 29,1839.135Mr. Mackinnon
 said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down intended to remind him of what he had said at some future time. He would beg to recall to his attention that which he had said, because he thought that there would be no mischief in his doing so. He had said, that the greatest effects were to be produced by independent local exertions. With regard to another subject to which the hon. Member had alluded, he would beg to suggest that those who were fond of alluding, in terms of reproach, to a measure which had been adopted by that House, before they attempted to put their hands into the public purse, had much better supply those immediate wants, of the inattention to which they complained, by means of their own voluntary contributions.Sir R. Peel
127126125124"I have had occasion to know, that (whether the same kind of institutions succeed as Well elsewhere or not, or are as well managed) the School of Arts of Edinburgh has been of the greatest use in aiding numbers of most meritorious mechanics in obtaining a practical knowledge of branches of science essentially useful for the prosecution of their trades, and also in forming habits of useful reading, productive of the very best effects on the character of the young men and others attending the school. The etsablished clergyman of the parish in which its present building is situated, is the president and an active manager of the institution, and several of the most steady practical tradesmen in Edinburgh take the charge of it, assisted by several other individuals of a different station in life. I have the most unlimited confidence in the prudence of its management, in the principles of those who take charge of it, and in their
124: I cannot refuse compliance with an application which has been made to me, to bear my testimony to the utility of the particular institution referred to by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gillon), the School of Arts in Edinburgh. My correspondent claims my support upon the ground that twenty years ago I was myself a subscriber to the institution, and that it has answered the purposes which I wished, by subscribing to it, to promote. I will read an extract from the letter which have received, and I will not do the Mouse the injustice to believe, that because this subject has none of the excitement of party discussions, it will turn from it with impatience or indifference.127126125124"I have had occasion to know, that (whether the same kind of institutions succeed as Well elsewhere or not, or are as well managed) the School of Arts of Edinburgh has been of the greatest use in aiding numbers of most meritorious mechanics in obtaining a practical knowledge of branches of science essentially useful for the prosecution of their trades, and also in forming habits of useful reading, productive of the very best effects on the character of the young men and others attending the school. The etsablished clergyman of the parish in which its present building is situated, is the president and an active manager of the institution, and several of the most steady practical tradesmen in Edinburgh take the charge of it, assisted by several other individuals of a different station in life. I have the most unlimited confidence in the prudence of its management, in the principles of those who take charge of it, and in their
124Sir Robert Peel
 on the opposition benches was understood to ask whether the firman alluded to, had received the sanction of the British Government?An Hon. Member
 on the opposition benches: Am I to understand that the noble Viscount has received no despatches from the British ambassador on the subject?An Hon. Member
165sssss164s163seriatim.162dad valorem161slad valoremsdsad valorem1606100011Pitch Pine and other Lumber (one inch thick) the 1,000 feet
6100011Pitch Pine and other Lumber (one inch thick) the 1,000 feet620350Wood Hoops, the 1,000
620350Wood Hoops, the 1,0006120White
6120White0700150RedOak staves and Headings the 1,000
0700150RedOak staves and Headings the 1,0000140——above 12 ditto
0140——above 12 ditto630070Shingles, the 1,000, of 12 inches
630070Shingles, the 1,000, of 12 inches0400120Beef and Pork, salted, the cwt.
0400120Beef and Pork, salted, the cwt.020050Wheat Flour (except into Canada which is free), the barrel
020050Wheat Flour (except into Canada which is free), the barreld.s.£d.s.£
d.s.£d.s.£Proposed Specific Duties.Present Specific Duties.ARTICLES.
Proposed Specific Duties.Present Specific Duties.ARTICLES.
6100011Pitch Pine and other Lumber (one inch thick) the 1,000 feet
6100011Pitch Pine and other Lumber (one inch thick) the 1,000 feet620350Wood Hoops, the 1,000
620350Wood Hoops, the 1,0006120White
6120White0700150RedOak staves and Headings the 1,000
0700150RedOak staves and Headings the 1,0000140——above 12 ditto
0140——above 12 ditto630070Shingles, the 1,000, of 12 inches
630070Shingles, the 1,000, of 12 inches0400120Beef and Pork, salted, the cwt.
0400120Beef and Pork, salted, the cwt.020050Wheat Flour (except into Canada which is free), the barrel
020050Wheat Flour (except into Canada which is free), the barreld.s.£d.s.£
d.s.£d.s.£Proposed Specific Duties.Present Specific Duties.ARTICLES.
Proposed Specific Duties.Present Specific Duties.ARTICLES.ad valorem.159ad valorem.ad valorem15800£15Goods, wares, and merchandise, not otherwise charged with duty and not declared free of duty by the 3d and 4th Will.
00£15Goods, wares, and merchandise, not otherwise charged with duty and not declared free of duty by the 3d and 4th Will.Together with any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of or imported upon from the United Kingdom or other British possessions.00£20Glass and cotton manufactures, soap, refused sugar, sugar candy, and manufactured tobacco, &c.
Together with any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of or imported upon from the United Kingdom or other British possessions.00£20Glass and cotton manufactures, soap, refused sugar, sugar candy, and manufactured tobacco, &c.00£1000£30Clocks, watches, leather, and linen manufactures, musical instruments, wires of all kinds, and books, and payers, silks, &c.
00£1000£30Clocks, watches, leather, and linen manufactures, musical instruments, wires of all kinds, and books, and payers, silks, &c.Proposed ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.Present ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.ARTICLES.
Proposed ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.Present ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.ARTICLES.
00£15Goods, wares, and merchandise, not otherwise charged with duty and not declared free of duty by the 3d and 4th Will.
00£15Goods, wares, and merchandise, not otherwise charged with duty and not declared free of duty by the 3d and 4th Will.Together with any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of or imported upon from the United Kingdom or other British possessions.00£20Glass and cotton manufactures, soap, refused sugar, sugar candy, and manufactured tobacco, &c.
Together with any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of or imported upon from the United Kingdom or other British possessions.00£20Glass and cotton manufactures, soap, refused sugar, sugar candy, and manufactured tobacco, &c.00£1000£30Clocks, watches, leather, and linen manufactures, musical instruments, wires of all kinds, and books, and payers, silks, &c.
00£1000£30Clocks, watches, leather, and linen manufactures, musical instruments, wires of all kinds, and books, and payers, silks, &c.Proposed ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.Present ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.ARTICLES.
Proposed ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.Present ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.ARTICLES.157ad valoremad valorem,ad valoremad valorem.ad valoremad valorem156£188,000Making a total expense of
£188,000Making a total expense of10,000For the erection of houses of correction
10,000For the erection of houses of correction30,000For the erection of a penitentiary
30,000For the erection of a penitentiary6,000Curates, extra
6,000Curates, extra8,000Clergy, extra
8,000Clergy, extra50,000Judicial system
50,000Judicial system£84,000Immigration
£84,000ImmigrationADDITIONAL EXPENSES UNDER NEW LAWS.
ADDITIONAL EXPENSES UNDER NEW LAWS.
£188,000Making a total expense of
£188,000Making a total expense of10,000For the erection of houses of correction
10,000For the erection of houses of correction30,000For the erection of a penitentiary
30,000For the erection of a penitentiary6,000Curates, extra
6,000Curates, extra8,000Clergy, extra
8,000Clergy, extra50,000Judicial system
50,000Judicial system£84,000Immigration
£84,000ImmigrationADDITIONAL EXPENSES UNDER NEW LAWS.
ADDITIONAL EXPENSES UNDER NEW LAWS.155ad valorem.ad valoremad valoremad valorem154ad valoremad valorem153152151"I am prepared to open the commerce of our colonies to all friendly states, upon the same principle (though of course with some difference in the detail of its modifications) upon which they are at liberty to trade with Jersey or with Ireland. With the exception of some articles, which it will be necessary to prohibit, such as fire-arms and munitions of war generally, and sugar, rum, &c., in the sugar colonies, I propose to admit a free intercourse between all our colonies and other countries, either in British ships or in ships of those countries, allowing the latter to import all articles the growth, produce, or manufacture of the country to which the ship belongs, and to export from such colonies all articles whatever of their growth, produce, or manufacture, either to the country from which such ship came, or to any other part of the world, the United Kingdom and all its dependencies excepted. All intercourse between the mother-country and the colonies, whether direct or circuitous, and all intercourse of the colonies with each other, will be considered as a coasting trade, to be reserved entirely and absolutely to ourselves. By this arrangement the foundation of our navigation laws will be preserved, whilst the colonies will enjoy a free trade with foreign countries, without breaking in upon the great principle of those laws in respect to foreign trade—that the cargo must be the produce of the country to which the ship belongs, leaving the national character of the ship to be determined by the rules which apply in like cases in this country. The importation of foreign goods into the colonies I propose should be made subject to moderate duties, but such as may be found sufficient for the fair protection of our own productions of a like nature."150"That protection can, in this instance, be afforded to them in no other way than by imposing a moderate duty upon the importation into the West Indies of those foreign articles, such as grain, flour, and lumber, which are equally the production of our own dominions. I shall not now trouble the committee by going into details further than to state that the duties should be so moderately calculated and so justly apportioned, as not to deprive the people of the United States of their fair proportion of this necessary supply, or seriously to enhance the price to the consumer."149, pursuant to notice, rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to that system of duties, which had been established under the authority of the imperial Parliament, in the western portion of the dominions of her Majesty. He should likewise have some observations to make on the manner in which the trade of those colonies had been conducted. Although the subject was not of a nature to excite party feeling, and although it would necessarily oblige him to enter into many dry details, yet he was satisfied that he need not solicit the attention of the House to a subject of such vast importance, involving the interests, not only of the colonies, but of the whole empire. He also relied upon that indulgence which the House was generally pleased to extend to one who, in the discharge of an official duty, was compelled to address them at some length on a question of this nature. He would not detain the committee by entering at
165sssss164s163seriatim.162dad valorem161slad valoremsdsad valorem1606100011Pitch Pine and other Lumber (one inch thick) the 1,000 feet
6100011Pitch Pine and other Lumber (one inch thick) the 1,000 feet620350Wood Hoops, the 1,000
620350Wood Hoops, the 1,0006120White
6120White0700150RedOak staves and Headings the 1,000
0700150RedOak staves and Headings the 1,0000140——above 12 ditto
0140——above 12 ditto630070Shingles, the 1,000, of 12 inches
630070Shingles, the 1,000, of 12 inches0400120Beef and Pork, salted, the cwt.
0400120Beef and Pork, salted, the cwt.020050Wheat Flour (except into Canada which is free), the barrel
020050Wheat Flour (except into Canada which is free), the barreld.s.£d.s.£
d.s.£d.s.£Proposed Specific Duties.Present Specific Duties.ARTICLES.
Proposed Specific Duties.Present Specific Duties.ARTICLES.
6100011Pitch Pine and other Lumber (one inch thick) the 1,000 feet
6100011Pitch Pine and other Lumber (one inch thick) the 1,000 feet620350Wood Hoops, the 1,000
620350Wood Hoops, the 1,0006120White
6120White0700150RedOak staves and Headings the 1,000
0700150RedOak staves and Headings the 1,0000140——above 12 ditto
0140——above 12 ditto630070Shingles, the 1,000, of 12 inches
630070Shingles, the 1,000, of 12 inches0400120Beef and Pork, salted, the cwt.
0400120Beef and Pork, salted, the cwt.020050Wheat Flour (except into Canada which is free), the barrel
020050Wheat Flour (except into Canada which is free), the barreld.s.£d.s.£
d.s.£d.s.£Proposed Specific Duties.Present Specific Duties.ARTICLES.
Proposed Specific Duties.Present Specific Duties.ARTICLES.ad valorem.159ad valorem.ad valorem15800£15Goods, wares, and merchandise, not otherwise charged with duty and not declared free of duty by the 3d and 4th Will.
00£15Goods, wares, and merchandise, not otherwise charged with duty and not declared free of duty by the 3d and 4th Will.Together with any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of or imported upon from the United Kingdom or other British possessions.00£20Glass and cotton manufactures, soap, refused sugar, sugar candy, and manufactured tobacco, &c.
Together with any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of or imported upon from the United Kingdom or other British possessions.00£20Glass and cotton manufactures, soap, refused sugar, sugar candy, and manufactured tobacco, &c.00£1000£30Clocks, watches, leather, and linen manufactures, musical instruments, wires of all kinds, and books, and payers, silks, &c.
00£1000£30Clocks, watches, leather, and linen manufactures, musical instruments, wires of all kinds, and books, and payers, silks, &c.Proposed ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.Present ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.ARTICLES.
Proposed ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.Present ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.ARTICLES.
00£15Goods, wares, and merchandise, not otherwise charged with duty and not declared free of duty by the 3d and 4th Will.
00£15Goods, wares, and merchandise, not otherwise charged with duty and not declared free of duty by the 3d and 4th Will.Together with any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of or imported upon from the United Kingdom or other British possessions.00£20Glass and cotton manufactures, soap, refused sugar, sugar candy, and manufactured tobacco, &c.
Together with any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of or imported upon from the United Kingdom or other British possessions.00£20Glass and cotton manufactures, soap, refused sugar, sugar candy, and manufactured tobacco, &c.00£1000£30Clocks, watches, leather, and linen manufactures, musical instruments, wires of all kinds, and books, and payers, silks, &c.
00£1000£30Clocks, watches, leather, and linen manufactures, musical instruments, wires of all kinds, and books, and payers, silks, &c.Proposed ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.Present ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.ARTICLES.
Proposed ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.Present ad valorem Duties for every £100 of the Value.ARTICLES.157ad valoremad valorem,ad valoremad valorem.ad valoremad valorem156£188,000Making a total expense of
£188,000Making a total expense of10,000For the erection of houses of correction
10,000For the erection of houses of correction30,000For the erection of a penitentiary
30,000For the erection of a penitentiary6,000Curates, extra
6,000Curates, extra8,000Clergy, extra
8,000Clergy, extra50,000Judicial system
50,000Judicial system£84,000Immigration
£84,000ImmigrationADDITIONAL EXPENSES UNDER NEW LAWS.
ADDITIONAL EXPENSES UNDER NEW LAWS.
£188,000Making a total expense of
£188,000Making a total expense of10,000For the erection of houses of correction
10,000For the erection of houses of correction30,000For the erection of a penitentiary
30,000For the erection of a penitentiary6,000Curates, extra
6,000Curates, extra8,000Clergy, extra
8,000Clergy, extra50,000Judicial system
50,000Judicial system£84,000Immigration
£84,000ImmigrationADDITIONAL EXPENSES UNDER NEW LAWS.
ADDITIONAL EXPENSES UNDER NEW LAWS.155ad valorem.ad valoremad valoremad valorem154ad valoremad valorem153152151"I am prepared to open the commerce of our colonies to all friendly states, upon the same principle (though of course with some difference in the detail of its modifications) upon which they are at liberty to trade with Jersey or with Ireland. With the exception of some articles, which it will be necessary to prohibit, such as fire-arms and munitions of war generally, and sugar, rum, &c., in the sugar colonies, I propose to admit a free intercourse between all our colonies and other countries, either in British ships or in ships of those countries, allowing the latter to import all articles the growth, produce, or manufacture of the country to which the ship belongs, and to export from such colonies all articles whatever of their growth, produce, or manufacture, either to the country from which such ship came, or to any other part of the world, the United Kingdom and all its dependencies excepted. All intercourse between the mother-country and the colonies, whether direct or circuitous, and all intercourse of the colonies with each other, will be considered as a coasting trade, to be reserved entirely and absolutely to ourselves. By this arrangement the foundation of our navigation laws will be preserved, whilst the colonies will enjoy a free trade with foreign countries, without breaking in upon the great principle of those laws in respect to foreign trade—that the cargo must be the produce of the country to which the ship belongs, leaving the national character of the ship to be determined by the rules which apply in like cases in this country. The importation of foreign goods into the colonies I propose should be made subject to moderate duties, but such as may be found sufficient for the fair protection of our own productions of a like nature."150"That protection can, in this instance, be afforded to them in no other way than by imposing a moderate duty upon the importation into the West Indies of those foreign articles, such as grain, flour, and lumber, which are equally the production of our own dominions. I shall not now trouble the committee by going into details further than to state that the duties should be so moderately calculated and so justly apportioned, as not to deprive the people of the United States of their fair proportion of this necessary supply, or seriously to enhance the price to the consumer."149Mr. Labouchere
 said, that no one could doubt that this question was one of the greatest importance. The propositions of tile right hon. Gentleman, if they were were adopted, would, in effect, carry out to its full extent the system of free trade, and would withdraw every possible protection from British interests. Since the year 1825, the House had had plenty of opportunity to prove the effect of the measures of Mr. Huskisson, but he had no hesitation in saying that their results had been most disastrous. He conceived that, before these proposals were acceded to, the whole subject should he submitted to the strictest inquiry before a select committee of the House, or such a committee as might fairly state to the public the result in every case from which this protection was withdrawn. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that a petition had been presented from British North America in reference to this subject, but he did hot farther describe what it was or from whom it came, and the House knew that ant petition which fostered or supported free trade would have the protection of the noble Lord who was now at the head of the Government in those colonies. He agreed that every interest which was unprotected should be untaxed; but that was the very principle upon which he held that the people of this country, who performed all the services Which the state required, should be deemed entitled to protection. He hoped that a select committee would inquire into this subject, and that they would recommend that the colonies of Great Britain should receive the same protection as a child would receive from its parent.Mr. George Palmer
ad valorem166 thought that such a committee ought not to be appointed, because its labours would be almost interminable. He believed that every year more and more tended to develops the profoundness of the wisdom of the measures advocated by Mr. Huskisson, add he felt that a system of colonial reform having been
ad valorem166Mr. Ewart
 would not have said a word upon the present occasion, had it not been for the remarks which fell front the right hon. Gentleman respecting the Reciprocity Acts. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that the ship-owners were now convinced that those treaties had not been injurious to the shipping interests; but if he had consulted the shipowners, he would have come to a very different conclusion. He (Mr. White), as the representative of the fourth port in the kingdom, could State that the ship-owners of that port were by no means satisfied with those treaties, especially as regarded Sweden, Norway, Russia, and the other Baltic Powers. Our trade had decreased in that part of the world, and if it had not greatly increased elsewhere, it would now have been greatly distressed. The British could not, owing to the timber duties, build their ships so cheaply, nor with our present Corn-laws, could they victual them so cheaply as the foreigners, and therefore they could not compete with foreigners.Mr. A. White
170 could not vote for the first amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman referring to the regulations made by the Governor-general. After five years' experience, he could not see that any practical inconvenience had arisen. With respect to the second, he should give a very different vote. The right hon. Gentleman said that, in Custom-house language, rum meant spirits distilled from sugar cane, and from the sugar cane alone; but in that he was mistaken. It was quite erroneous to make a distinction between the sugar made from the date and that made from the sugar cane. He would say that no evidence was more contrary to the facts than that given by Mr. Goucher, and that not only a fine spirit, but a spirit in great quantity, was obtained from the date tree. Nothing could be more slovenly than the manner in which the proceedings before the committee of last year were conducted; and it was quite clear that the witnesses who stood forward to enlighten the committee were inadequately acquainted with the subject to which the inquiry related. He agreed that the right hon. Gentleman was right in the alteration which he proposed to make with respect to the discriminating duties in Canada; and, after the statement which the right hon. Gentleman had made, it was difficult to understand how be could hesitate applying to spirits the
170Mr. Gladstone
177l176175174173 did not rise to oppose the bill, and he thought, that after the opinions expressed for so many years in favour of its principle, it was not to be expected that any opposition would be given to the second reading of a measure having such a title and such a preamble. Nevertheless, he thought it due to the Government to explain the views which he entertained of many of the provisions, and some of the most important clauses. He would give a short history of the proceedings taken on this subject, so that the House would see it was only consistent with the honour of Parliament that some such measure as the one under consideration should be passed. In 1823 a report on the subject was laid on the Table of the House, and in the same year, in consequence of a motion of Lord Althorp, a bill was introduced, but only read a first time. In the following year the bill was brought in, read a first and second time, and passed, but was lost in the House of Lords. In the succeeding year the noble Lord brought in a similar bill, giving compensation to those who were supposed to have vested rights or interests in the abuses of the system. A committee was was then appointed to ascertain who were the parties entitled to compensation, and he believed nothing more was done. In 1826, no report being made, no step was taken on the subject: but in 1827, his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel), after concluding his labours in consolidating and improving a large portion of the criminal law, brought forward a bill founded on the general principle contained in Lord Althorp's report. The bill was laid on the Table and read a first time, but he believed was not further proceeded with. In the next year the same measure was re-introduced and read a first and second time, but a commission having been appointed to ascertain the practice of the superior courts, his right hon. Friend expected that the labours of that commission would enable compensation to be given, so as to prevent an accumulation of compensation at a future period, and the bill made no further progress. In 1829 the noble Lord, who was afterwards Lord Chancellor under
177l176175174173Sir F. Pollock
l179l178 could not help thinking that his hon. and learned Friend had taken a most extraordinary course on the present occasion. He first of all blamed him and other Members of the Government for having allowed year after year to pass without bringing forward this measure, and then turned suddenly round and said, "You are bringing forward this measure not at all with a view to the public good, but in order to extend the patronage of the Crown." With regard to the delay which, it had been alleged, had taken place, he would appeal to the nation whether since 1835 the Government had not exerted itself to the utmost to improve the laws and amend the institutions of the country? His hon. and learned Friend had never once adverted to the Municipal Bill. He ought not to have forgotten the bill with respect to the execution of wills, a bill which bad been applauded by all the rest of the profession, although it had met the disapprobation of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Ripon. The present bill was introduced in 1839; it was then referred to a select committee composed of Members taken from both sides of the House. The right hon. Baronet, the
l179l178The Attorney-General
bonbon189s188ds187ss186llll185Attorney-General:184in terrorem183182181180"hear" and laughter. disclaimed any party feeling on his own part, but he did recollect many measures connected with the administration of justice which were made party questions. Such occasions were, indeed, considered the most favourable for party contention, and, therefore, he was the more astonished at hearing the surprise expressed by the Attorney-general at what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Huntingdon, who had shown no party feeling on the subject—[bonbon189s188ds187ss186llll185Attorney-General:184in terrorem183182181180"hear" and laughter.Sir E. Sugden
191190E. Sugden: said, at that hour of the night it was not his intention to enter at length into the subject of the bill before the House, and more especially when he heard bath the hon. and learned Gentlemen who had spoken upon it declare their approbation of its principle. But whilst they made this announcement they took the utmost pains to overthrow that principle by every word they had spoken; and it struck him that they gave their approbation to the principle of this measure rather from a feeling that they date not oppose it than from any real partiality in its favour. It was conceded, however, as a principle recognised by both sides, that redress should be brought home to the door of the poor man by a system which he should continue to designate—notwithstanding the ridicule of the right hon. Gentleman—as one of speedy and effective justice. [Sir 191190E. Sugden:Mr. Fox Maule
 said, that the kind feeling of the Government towards the poor was well evinced by their Poor-law Amendment Bill.Colonel Sibthorp
192 said, that when the hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite attacked the bill in the spirit displayed by them that night, he was led to suppose that the whole weight of their influence would be brought to bear against passing such a measure at all. With all the objections they had started, he could not perceive they proposed anything better. The principle of the bill had been before the House for twenty-five years, and all that the hon. and learned Gentlemen had done had been to object to the details of the present measure, and that without being prepared to substitute anything in their place. All they seemed able to say was, that the Government was grasping at an enormous amount of patronage. But when they said that they forgot there were 700 commissioners scattered about the country, to administer the law, and he really was astonished to find that "the head and front of the offending" of the bill was, in the estimation of those hon. Gentlemen, the
192Mr. Hawes
193 said, that at that late hour, he would observe upon but one point of the bill before the House, and even that he was only induced to do, because he was himself personally connected with the administration of a system of local jurisdiction in Ireland, similar to that which the present measure proposed to establish in this country. What struck him forcibly, and the more so in constrast with the Irish civil bill jurisdiction, was the want of a provision in the bill for securing uniformity and certainty of decision, in matters of law. The bill required no qualification for the judges of the county courts, except that they should be either barristers, special pleaders, or attorneys of any or no standing—whereas in Ireland they must be barristers of at least six years' standing. Here they were to be debarred from practice; but in Ireland they were generally barristers in good practice, thus having their judicial decisions subject to the opinions of the pro-
193Mr. Shaw
 inquired whether this bill was to interfere with the stannary courts of Cornwall.Mr. E. Vivian
 said, it was not.Mr. F. Maule
: I wish to put a question to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs. It has reference to a document received subsequently to the last advices from Egypt, which has appeared in the ordinary channels of information. It is an extract from a hatti scheriff issued by the Sultan, conveying to Mehemet Ali and his descendants the pachalic of Egypt. Perhaps the noble Lord will be good enough to inform the House whether the version of the document which has been published be correct; and if so, whether it have received the sanction of her Majesty's Government, and of the three other Powers, and whether it is proposed to adhere to the provisions of it.Lord Francis Egerton
148 asked the hon. and learned Member for Ipswich, whether he intended to proceed
148Lord John Russell
 then consented to withdraw his first amendment, but said that he was determined to take the sense of the committee on his second by proposing some other words which would accomplish equally the object he had in view. There was now little difference between them, as the East and West India rum produced from sugar was to be admitted on the same terms. With this understanding he should suggest other words than those which he had proposed when they came to the 21st line of the clause.Mr. Hawes
168 rose to propose an amendment. The former bill did not require the Queen in Council to approve the regulations, and the effect requiring the alteration of those, would be to bring about a delay, of which he complained. That delay was, until the Queen in Council here, could approve of regulations that were made in India. Again, the rum to be imported was the produce of sugar. From whatever the sugar was obtained, where it was in a state of sugar, it would produce rum, and that rum would come into this country at the lower rate of duty. Now, the bill made a distinction between sugar produced from the sugar-cane, and sugar produced from any thing else. In the West Indies it was not produced from anything but the sugar-cane, but in the East Indies it was produced from two things, the sugar-cane and the date, and it would be impossible to decide from which the sugar was made. If no rum, the product of any other sugar than that of the cane, were to be admitted under this bill, it would shut out a great quantity of the rum of the East Indies. It would throw great difficulty in the way of the manufacture of rum, and also of sugar, in the East. In the first bill introduced on this subject by his right hon. Friend, there was no such distinction as in this; and he believed that the distinctive words were introduced at the suggestion of West India merchants, without giving to those who were connected with the East Indies an opportunity of pointing out the unfair effect which would be thereby produced upon their interests. He would move his amendments, and take the sense of the House upon them; and if they were rejected, he would, at another stage, take the sense of the House upon the whole bill. He concluded by moving—That, in the third clause, all the words after the word "operation," in the second line, down to the word "nor," in the seventh line, be omitted:—After the words "sugar-cane," in the eleventh line, to insert these words, "all other substances from which sugar is made, and allowed to
168Mr. Hawes
 was glad to take this opportunity of stating, that it was not his intention to go into committee on his bill until after Easter. He had been induced to come to this decision principally by the introduction of several bills on the same subject by the noble Lord. He took it for granted, that all those bills would be printed, and probably read a second time, but that they would not be committed until his bill had advanced to that stage. He hoped that these questions would ere long be finally settled by the House. He apprehended that he must take some Wednesday after Easter, unless the noble Lord were disposed to grant him an evening when Government business was usually transacted. The hon. and learned Member concluded by moving for certain unopposed returns of persons indicted, convicted, and punished in 1837, 1838, 1839, and 1840. They were ordered to be laid before the House.Mr. Kelly
 expressed a wish, that the explanation of the commissioners should be laid upon the Table.Colonel Dawson Damer
 begged to be informed, what had been the result of the inquiries of the noble Secretary for Ireland respecting the building of a workhouse in a Poor-law Union in Queen's County? He observed in the newspapers a letter from Mr. M'Donald to Dr. Jacob, chief medical attendant of the County Hospital and Lunatic Asylum, who for his activity and intelligence had been chosen one of the Poor-law guardians at Maryborough. That letter threatened, that if Dr. Jacob continued to act as Poor-law guardian, the Lord-lieutenant would deem it proper to appoint another gentleman to the situation of medical attendant at the Lunatic Asylum. This seemed a very arbitrary measure, and he (Colonel Dawson Damer) wished to be informed if the letter were authentic?Colonel Dawson Damer
 said, it could not be fairly urged as a reproach upon the West India interests, that they were represented in that House. Had it been shown that they took any unfair advantage, there might have been some grounds for the hon. Gentleman's remark, but there was certainly none such taken. The whole point of the hon. Member's objections as they related to rum distilled from dates was out of the question, for there was no such thing, as appeared from the evidence given before the committee. The whole question before the committee was the propriety of giving to the produce of the sugar-cane in both the Indies the same protection; and upon that principle, and upon that principle alone, the bill was framed.Mr. Goulburn
 wished to know if the committee were to stop at this stage, of the proceeding, or whether the re-consideration which the right hon. Gentleman proposed, was only to apply to one particular point?Mr. Goulburn
 replied, that he sought delay only as to one point, and said his wish was, that they should go through the clauses of the bill, reserving the discussion to which he referred for the next stage.Mr. Labouchere
 said, what he wished was, that all spirit produced from sugar, in our colonies, should be let in on an equal footing; but what he desired to guard against was the introduction of spirit produced from rice or any other article. On the whole, however, he was anxious to reconsider the matter, and, therefore, he should postpone this subject until the next stage of the bill, when he would state precisely the course he meant to pursue. His object was to promote the cultivation of sugar, but while he allowed spirits distilled from sugar to be admitted on an equal footing, he meant that the admission of spirits generally should not be permitted. If the spirit distilled from the date tree could not be discriminated from that produced from sugar, there could be no reason for excluding the former; but if, on the other hand, it could, then it was his intention to adhere to the original principle of the bill. With respect to the first amendment of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Lambeth, he begged to say, that he must give to it his decided negative.Mr. Labouchere
169 felt the House would acquit him of any intention of taking it by surprise, in his introduction of these alterations. The hon. Gentleman was wrong in supposing that the regulations made by the Governor-general in India would necessarily be void until confirmed by the Queen in Council. The regulations having been made by the Governor-general in India, the Custom-house would be bound by them, and it would not be necessary for the Queen in Council to confirm them, nor for any delay to take place. Whatever was objectionable on this principle was in the original bill. With regard to the exclusion of rum made from dates, as the information upon which he had founded the bill was taken from the evidence given before the committee, and as hardly any mention was made of the word "date," he found much excuse for himself in neglecting it in the bill. As to the rum made from dates, no man but believed it was very bad. But the hon. Gentleman said, let it be ever so bad it ought to be brought hither. The bill, however, was brought in as a sugar and rum bill, and not at all as a spirits bill. Sugar might be made of many things; of sweet potatoes, of beet root, of rice, and of many other things; and if he were told that spirits the produce of dates should be admitted, he should not know how to draw the distinction between spirits distilled from dates, and those made from other things. Unless he heard some stronger arguments than those urged by the hon. Gentleman, he did not feel dis-
169Mr. Labouchere
 hoped his hon. Friend would withdraw his amendment, as he could introduce the words he wished inserted in another part of the clause. The hon. Member contended that there was abundance of evidence before them to show that excellent rum was produced from the date-tree, and that it should be admitted on the same terms as the article produced from the sugar-cane.Mr. Warburton
 complained that there was no provision in the bill to prevent slave labour being employed in the production of rum in the East-Indies.Mr. John O'Connell
: The firman does not, if I am correctly informed, adhere to lineal descent. May I ask the noble Lord if he knows what is the intention of the Porte on the question?Mr. Ewart
: It was understood formally that the pachalic of Egypt was to descend by hereditary succession, according to usage, and without being subject to the arbitrary nomination of the Sultan. Is the noble Lord aware what advice was given by the four Powers upon that point?Mr. Ewart
dss171 said, that much exaggeration prevailed as to the insufficiency of the supply of sugar from the West-Indies, and in proof of this he had
dss171Sir Alexander Grant
 said, that the right hon. Gentleman argued erroneously, when he said that he would admit sugar made from dates, but not rum made from dates, because it was not made from dates at all, but from the refuse of the sugar. The sugar was the joint produce of the sugar cane and the date, and being a mixture altogether inevitable, it would exclude any conscientious man from making the declaration required by the Excise Laws. What was wanted was, that the refuse should not be thrown away, whether it came from the sugar cane or the date. The principle should be, that the sugar from the East and West Indies should be imported equally. Sugar extracted from dates was a very recent introduction, and that accounted for the little mention made of it before the committee, but it was now very extensively used.Mr. Hogg
 thought it would be somewhat extraordinary to introduce provisions having refence to slavery in a Rum Duty Bill. As soon as the result of the commission which had sat in India on the subject of slavery was known, and he had reason to expect their report by the next mail, it would be quite time enough to enter upon the discussion of that important topic. At present all he should say was, that if hon. Gentlemen conceived that slavery as it had existed in the West-Indies was now to be found in the East-Indies, they were labouring under a mistake.Sir J. C Hobhouse
143, seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs in his place, would take that opportunity of presenting a petition to which he would beg to call the noble Lord's attention, as he wished to put a question to him respecting its prayer. The petition was from the vicar and clergy of the parish of Sheffield. The petition related to the condition of Christians in the Levant. The House was aware that for a long period the Emperor of Russia was regarded as, and in fact was, the protector of the Christians of the Greek church residing in the Levant. In the same way, as was also well known, France had claimed the right of protecting the Christians of the church of Rome resident in Syria. Under those circumstances he would urge that the Sovereign of England should be regarded as the protector of Protestantism in that country. Considering, as he should always consider, that Protestantism was the brightest jewel in the British Crown, he felt that as Russia protected the Greek Christians, and France those of the church of Rome, Protestants in Syria should be considered under the special care and protection of the Sovereign of England. The petitioners, indeed, did not pray for this; but he did urge that such steps should be taken by our Government as would place the Christians in Syria—he alluded more particularly to Protestants—in at least no Worse condition than they were before the late events in that quarter. He was aware, and he spoke in the hearing of some noble and hon. Friends who had still more recently visited those regions, that before those events the Christians did enjoy protection in the exercise of
143Sir R. H. Inglis
145: This is certainly a subject of great importance, and out of which serious questions may arise. It was understood that an engagement was entered into with Mehemet Ali, that the hereditary pachalic of Egypt should be
145Sir Robert Peel
 had received a statement from the Poor-law commissioners, explanatory of their conduct on the question of the site of the workhouse referred to by the hon. and gallant Member, which he should be happy either to show to the hon. and gallant Member, or to lay upon the Table of the House. As to the question whether the letter addressed to Dr. Jacob by Mr. M'Donald, and published in the newspapers, were or were not a correct copy, he could only say that he believed that it was a correct copy.Viscount Morpeth
 intimated that he would present it.Lord Morpeth
: I mean to say, that the representatives of the four Powers at Constantinople, have been constantly in communication with the Porte regarding every step in these negotiations. If I am asked whether the hatti scheriff in the shape in which it was issued, was communicated to the British ambassador before it was so issued, my answer is, that I cannot tell.Viscount Palmerston
bonâ fide147: I am not aware that there was any remonstrance on the subject. But I really must put it to the House whether this is a fit course of proceeding. I am called upon to give explanations before any official communications have been made, and while discussions are still pending. It is calling Upon a British
bonâ fide147Viscount Palmerston
: The advice given by the four Powers did not go into any minute details, but it was, that the Sultan should grant the hereditary succession to the pachalic in a direct line; each succeeding Pacha was to receive his investiture from the Sultan, and the pachalic was not therefore to descend as an independent sovereignty.Viscount Palmerston
 had not distinctly heard the question of his hon. Friend.Viscount Palmerston
bonâ fidebonâ fide: As the questions are put to me I answer them, and the right hon. Baronet must not complain if I do not reply to questions not distinctly propounded. I now understand him to ask whether the four Powers do or do not approve of that particular condition of the firman which reserves to the Sultan the right of selecting one or other of the descendants of Mehemet Ali, who is to succeed him in the pachalic? I am sure the right hon. Baronet will see that it is impossible for me to say what the four Powers may or may not do on that point. We understand by a private, and not an official, account from Alexandria, that the Turkish commissioner who carried the firman to Egypt, did, on the 23d or 24th of February, transmit a representation on the point to Constantinople. What the Sultan may determine—whether on his own authority he will modify the provisions of the firman, or whether before he modifies them he will ask advice of the allies it is impossible for me to say beforehand. The intention of the four Powers in advising the Sultan undoubtedly was, that he should grant the bonâ fidebonâ fideViscount Palmerston
: I have received an official copy from the Turkish ambassador of the firman sent to Mehemet Ali, conferring upon him the government of Egypt in hereditary succession, that is to say, upon him and his descendants, on certain conditions. I have not compared it with the document which has appeared in the public journals, and I am therefore not able to say whether the latter is a correct version, but I dare say it is—indeed I have no doubt of it. This instrument has been issued by the Sultan on his own authority, and it was only yesterday communicated to her Majesty's Government. Until some question shall arise thereupon on which the four Powers may be consulted, I apprehend it is a matter between the Sultan and his subject Mehemet Ali.Viscount Palmerston
: No despatches containing a copy of the hatti scheriff.Viscount Palmerston
: The Porte, as I observed, has issued this firman on its own authority; what the precise communications were between the Porte and the representatives of the four Powers at Constantinople, I really cannot with accuracy State.Viscount Palmerston
144 could assure the House and the hon. Baronet that the matters to which the petitioners referred had not escaped the attention of her Majesty's Government; they were too interesting on every account to have been neglected. Without stating the particular steps that had been taken, he was happy to be able to inform the House that a course had been adopted in order to urge the Porte to do what the petitioners so earnestly recommended, namely, that the Christians in Syria should not only not be in a worse position than before the late changes, but, if possible, that their condition should be improved as regarded the exercise of their religion. As to what was called the right of protection, he might observe that the protection of the Greek religion by the Emperor of Russia arose out of distinct treaties with the Porte: every body was probably aware of the circumstances under which these treaties had been signed, and they stood on peculiar grounds. The sort of acknowledged right of the French Government to intercede for Roman Catholics was of very ancient date, and arose out
144Viscount Palmerston
146: Am I to understand the noble Viscount to say, that he has no knowledge whether the hatti scheriff was
146Lord Sandon
: Do I understand that the discretion the Sultan now appears to reserve to himself, was made known to the British ambassador before the hatti scheriff was issued? If it were made known, then, I ask if it is remarked upon in the despatches or other communications to the noble Lord. In short, was it made the subject of remonstrance by the ambassador of Great Britain?Lord Sandon
 said, that almost all the statements which had appeared in the public journals were incorrect; there was no intention on the part of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, to exclude the public from any portion of the Park to which they had hitherto had access. There was no intension to shut it up for planting, or to erect entrance-lodges, and close it at night. The works going on at present were solely for the purpose of draining, and of sowing the Park with grass seeds; and, of course, till these seeds sprung up, it would be necessary to have some temporary fences.Mr. Edward J. Stanley
260259l."And whereas, it is in and by the said Act provided, that in case the commissioners should be unable to raise, by the issue of colonial revenue securities, the whole of the sum of 200,000l."Provided always, that the amount advanced from the said emigration fund, in aid of the revenues of the colony, together with the debt which may have been due to the said emigration fund at the commencement of any year, shall not at the close of any such year exceed one-third of the amount which may have accrued to the said emigration fund in the course of such year."258s.s.s.257s.l.s.s.l.l.,l.s.l.l.l.l.256255"He perceives also that, as the proposed charter is framed, the whole active legislative power over the colony is to be taken from the Crown, and is to be placed in the hands of commissioners, not (except in the first instance) selected by the Crown—not removable, except for positive misconduct or neglect—not responsible either to the colonists or the Government at home for the measures which they may propose, and not personally interested in the success of the undertaking which they are to conduct. On the other hand, the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, who will be unable to carry into effect any measure whatever, however essential he may consider it to the welfare of the colony, will still have the task of checking and controlling the proceedings of this new legislative body, and will therefore be subject to the responsibility of the failure of the experiment, without being able to
255254l.l.253l. said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down had correctly stated that, in the committee which had been appointed to inquire into the original causes of the present situation of South Australia, although considerable difficulty might exist as to the propriety of the advance of money, there was very little doubt upon one point—namely, that whatever steps it was deemed advisable should be taken, ought to be made known, and the intentions of Parliament ascertained with the least possible delay. The noble Lord, in the observations which he had made, had dwelt, he thought, with undue weight upon the opinion of the committee, because, before the time at which that committee was appointed, he had fell, and he had expressed his opinion, that the subject was one which was not properly referred to the consideration of a committee, but that the responsibility of providing for the immediate relief of the financial embarrassments of the colony, and in bringing forward a plan for the alteration of the system on which the colonial government was carried on, rested with the Government. And on this point so strongly did the committee feel, that although their report proposed to recognise the advance of money, in the terms which were specified in their resolution, yet the resolution, as it was eventually completed, was one which placed the whole responsibility of this proceeding in the hands of the Government; and that resolution was carried, not only by no large majority, but actually by the casting vote of the chairman alone, who was a member of the Government, two other members of the Government, who were in the committee, voting in favour of the same recommendation. There was something more also in the proceedings of the committee worthy of note, with reference to the share of the responsibility which the Government seemed disposed to take upon itself. The noble Lord said that he entertained great doubts himself whether he should agree to the recommendation of the committee, that the sum of 56,000260259l."And whereas, it is in and by the said Act provided, that in case the commissioners should be unable to raise, by the issue of colonial revenue securities, the whole of the sum of 200,000l."Provided always, that the amount advanced from the said emigration fund, in aid of the revenues of the colony, together with the debt which may have been due to the said emigration fund at the commencement of any year, shall not at the close of any such year exceed one-third of the amount which may have accrued to the said emigration fund in the course of such year."258s.s.s.257s.l.s.s.l.l.,l.s.l.l.l.l.256255"He perceives also that, as the proposed charter is framed, the whole active legislative power over the colony is to be taken from the Crown, and is to be placed in the hands of commissioners, not (except in the first instance) selected by the Crown—not removable, except for positive misconduct or neglect—not responsible either to the colonists or the Government at home for the measures which they may propose, and not personally interested in the success of the undertaking which they are to conduct. On the other hand, the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, who will be unable to carry into effect any measure whatever, however essential he may consider it to the welfare of the colony, will still have the task of checking and controlling the proceedings of this new legislative body, and will therefore be subject to the responsibility of the failure of the experiment, without being able to
255254l.l.253l.Lord Stanley
269"Experience has proved that the plan upon which the colony of South Australia was established was essentially erroneous. The expedients which were devised, for the purpose of divesting the Government of pecuniary responsibility, have had a practical effect directly op-
269l.268267 said, it had been charged against the Government that the transfer of the administration of this colony from the body who had held it for four years to those who had since exercised the power of management had been an injudicious act; and the hon. Member for Hull, had in particular stated that from the moment the new commissioners were appointed the affairs of the colony began to decline. The House would, however, recollect what the duties were which the new commissioners had to perform. They had to look into the affairs of the last commission, and while doing so, it was but right that the further progress of the existing system should be stayed—a progress that was in fact not towards prosperity, as had been stated by the hon. Member, but towards bankruptcy. With regard to the bills that had been referred to as an evidence of the mal-administration of the new commission, the House would remember that they had been drawn previously to the appointment of that commission, and therefore that it was utterly impossible that the present commission could be fairly held responsible for them. The noble Lord opposite had proposed delay. He would beg the House to remember that the reason why this report had been made thus early was to obviate any unnecessary delay in the settlement of these pecuniary difficulties, and that, therefore, they ought not now to report progress, but to discuss the subject and settle it at once. He could not now understand the noble Lords' present pro-
269"Experience has proved that the plan upon which the colony of South Australia was established was essentially erroneous. The expedients which were devised, for the purpose of divesting the Government of pecuniary responsibility, have had a practical effect directly op-
269l.268267Mr. V. Smith
276—proposing to the committee that any delay as to the carrying out the intention of the Government would be mischievous—a proposition in which I am still more strengthened now, and in
276Lord Stanley
 said, that the House had two questions to consider. The one was whether any alteration as to the government of this colony should be made; and the other was, whether this loan should be guaranteed under the existing circumstances. In his opinion some further statements on the subject should be made by the Government before they proceeded to come to any decision on either point.Mr. Hope
285l., only rose to answer the question of the hon. Gentleman with respect to the department over which he presided. It was true that the expense of the ordnance department had risen within the last four years, but he had explained the reasons at length the other night. For instance, on the estimate for one article, namely small arms, the increase was 130,000285l.,Sir H. Vivian
 said, that as he did not object to the principle of the bill, he would not oppose the motion to have it read al second time. However, be entertained very great objections to many of the details, and particularly to the constitution of the proposed Court of Review. It was proposed that the new court should be composed of three barristers to be appointed by the Speaker of that House. Now, he did not think that the right hon. Gentleman could have sufficient knowledge of the qualifications of Scotch barristers to enable him to make those appointments. Besides this, he entertained several other objections to the bill; but as they were not objections of principle he would not oppose the second reading.Sir W. Rae
287 felt obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for the attention be had paid the subject. He was glad that the right hon. Gentleman had no objection to the establishment of one Court of Review, as it was highly desirable to have a
287The Lord Advocate
 opposed the bill as unconstitutional and tyrannical. He, for one, would never consent to allow a surveyor to come into his ground and survey it at the command of others, who, perhaps, themselves did not possess an acre of land. The machinery of the bill also was most expensive and absurd. The hon. and gallant Member moved that the bill be read a second time that day six months.Colonel Sibthorp
 seconded the amendment. He should not, however, have so much objection to the bill if the county of Gloucester were exempted from its operation. The existing Court of Sewers, in the county of Gloucester, was altogether unobjectionable.Mr. G. Berkeley
 also opposed the bill. The powers granted by it were monstrous; and, even if the county with which he was connected were not included in its operation, he should still oppose it, as being a most unjust and oppressive measure.Mr. Darby
 said, that the bill might be useful if its operation were confined to lands that had never been drained, but at present the powers granted by the bill were far too extensive, and might be converted into engines of great mischief and injury. Unless the bill was greatly amended he should oppose it.Mr. W. Miles
288 said, that many of the principles of this bill had been adopted by the noble Lord below him in the bill which he had introduced with respect to Ireland. He would, however, admit that this measure was not necessary in Lincolnshire, although he was convinced that it would be productive of the greatest benefit in many other counties of England. In a great many places the Court of Sewers was found so clumsy a machine as to be
288Mr. Handley
 said, he had not seen the petition, but he understood that there was an objection to its being printed. He suggested the postponement of the motion.Mr. Greene
 said, he could not consent to postpone the motion, as he had given notice that, on Thursday next, he would call the attention of the House to the subject.Mr. Alston
l.l.284l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.,283 said, that pursuant, to his notice, he wished to draw the attention
l.l.284l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.,283Captain Boldero
 seconded the motion. It was not necessary for him to dilate on the merits of the great man for whom the monument was to be erected. He believed that a proposal to pay a public testimonial to him who had been justly called "the Great Wizard of the North," would meet with the approbation of all c ses.Mr. F. Maule
281280 said, as a Member of the committee to the proceedings of which so much reference had been made, he felt himself called upon to make a few obsertions. He concurred with the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire in the opinion, that it was the duty of the Go-
281280Lord Eliot
"That if it be in the contemplation of her Majesty's Government to propose to Parliament any measures for the relief of their embarrassments, any uncertainty or delay respecting such measures cannot but tend seriously to aggravate the existing difficulties."275 felt surprised at the opposition of the noble Lord opposite as to the general course of proceeding on this subject. He thought that there would have been little or no doubt as to its being proper that the subject should originate in committee up stairs, and that the Government should state their whole view of the subject to the committee. His hon. Friend the Under-Secretary for the Colonies stated correctly that there were two considerations in this matter; first, the relief of the persons who had advanced money on these bills on the faith of an act of Parliament; and secondly, that the colony should be placed under the control of the Crown. This also was the general view of the committee up stairs, and also that there should be as little delay as possible in making provision for the first of these objects. He was informed also that the noble Lord opposite had complained in that committee very much that any delay should take place; and he found also, by the report of the committee on the Table of the House, that the noble
"That if it be in the contemplation of her Majesty's Government to propose to Parliament any measures for the relief of their embarrassments, any uncertainty or delay respecting such measures cannot but tend seriously to aggravate the existing difficulties."275Lord John Russell
261 said, that he had originally brought forward this question, and had referred it to a committee because he thought that the committee would be able to form an opinion upon the subject of a loan being made when that question was brought forward, and also as to the future government of the colony. He was in hopes that the proposition which he had now made would have been acceded to, and the report of the committee deprecating above all things any delay in the determination of the question to be decided, he had considered it to be his duty to bring forward that measure which he considered necessary immediately. The measure, which he was
261Lord John Russell
252251l.l.,250l.,l.249248247246l.l.,l.l.l.245l.244l.,"That it is the opinion of this committee, that her Majesty be authorized, by an act of the present Session of Parliament, to guarantee a loan, not exceeding 210,000l., rose to move the resolution of which he had given notice,
252251l.l.,250l.,l.249248247246l.l.,l.l.l.245l.244l.,"That it is the opinion of this committee, that her Majesty be authorized, by an act of the present Session of Parliament, to guarantee a loan, not exceeding 210,000l.,Lord John Russell
 was glad that the right hon. Gentleman went so far, but he thought there ought to be no difference whatever between East and West India produce.Mr. Hawes
282 said, that another vessel ought not to be allowed to leave this coun-
282Mr. Divett
279bona fidel.278 said, that he was one of many Gentlemen who supported the original plan for the formation of the colony of South Australia. At the same time, he had not, at that time, nor ever had, one shilling interest, in a pecuniary sense, in the matter; but he had given his cordial support to the plan, and to the bill for carrying it out, because he thought that the colony was about to be founded on a wise principle; and he would wait the result of the present inquiry before he
279bona fidel.278Mr. Grote
 would not oppose the amendment. He thought the principle of the measure fairly applied to the produce of the date-tree.Mr. Goulburn
286bonà fide proposed some verbal amendments in the preamble, to meet the suggestion made by the hon. and learned Member for Ripon. He had, also, an amendment of a more material character to propose. Judging by the evidence before the East India Committee, he had been led to believe that East India sugar was the 286bonà fideMr. Labouchere
 was understood to say, that with reference to the report which he had drawn up on this subject, and which had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Hull, he had endeavoured to make it a fair and honest report, and he had in the first instance laid it for consideration before the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It certainly might contain some technicalities, but he believed he had not made any substantial errors.Mr. John Parker
 said, that several paragraphs had lately appeared in the public journals, as to the intention of the Commissioners of the Woods and Forests to plant the Green Park, and to encroach considerably on the privileges which the public now enjoyed there; he wished, therefore, to ask the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Treasury, whether there was any just foundation for any or all of those paragraphs.Mr. Wakley
99£170,262
99£170,2620090,000l.l.Supposed amount at the present rate of expenditure, 140,000l.l.
0090,000l.l.Supposed amount at the present rate of expenditure, 140,000l.l.0065,000Supposed amount to this date, if the Resident Commissioner has received the interdict sent out by the Commissioner
0065,000Supposed amount to this date, if the Resident Commissioner has received the interdict sent out by the Commissioner9915,262Total of Bills drawn from the Colony, and refused acceptance June 30, 1841.
9915,262Total of Bills drawn from the Colony, and refused acceptance June 30, 1841.d.d.s.s.£.
d.d.s.s.£.
99£170,262
99£170,2620090,000l.l.Supposed amount at the present rate of expenditure, 140,000l.l.
0090,000l.l.Supposed amount at the present rate of expenditure, 140,000l.l.0065,000Supposed amount to this date, if the Resident Commissioner has received the interdict sent out by the Commissioner
0065,000Supposed amount to this date, if the Resident Commissioner has received the interdict sent out by the Commissioner9915,262Total of Bills drawn from the Colony, and refused acceptance June 30, 1841.
9915,262Total of Bills drawn from the Colony, and refused acceptance June 30, 1841.d.d.s.s.£.
d.d.s.s.£.266d.s.l.265l.*l.**l.l.l.,264: I have listened to the speech of the Member for Hull, which, in fact, throws more blame on the conduct of the noble Lord at the head of the
99£170,262
99£170,2620090,000l.l.Supposed amount at the present rate of expenditure, 140,000l.l.
0090,000l.l.Supposed amount at the present rate of expenditure, 140,000l.l.0065,000Supposed amount to this date, if the Resident Commissioner has received the interdict sent out by the Commissioner
0065,000Supposed amount to this date, if the Resident Commissioner has received the interdict sent out by the Commissioner9915,262Total of Bills drawn from the Colony, and refused acceptance June 30, 1841.
9915,262Total of Bills drawn from the Colony, and refused acceptance June 30, 1841.d.d.s.s.£.
d.d.s.s.£.
99£170,262
99£170,2620090,000l.l.Supposed amount at the present rate of expenditure, 140,000l.l.
0090,000l.l.Supposed amount at the present rate of expenditure, 140,000l.l.0065,000Supposed amount to this date, if the Resident Commissioner has received the interdict sent out by the Commissioner
0065,000Supposed amount to this date, if the Resident Commissioner has received the interdict sent out by the Commissioner9915,262Total of Bills drawn from the Colony, and refused acceptance June 30, 1841.
9915,262Total of Bills drawn from the Colony, and refused acceptance June 30, 1841.d.d.s.s.£.
d.d.s.s.£.266d.s.l.265l.*l.**l.l.l.,264Mr. Mackinnon
 said, that the real object was to meet the difficulties under which the colonists laboured; and the committee must remember that there were many bills in actual existence, the non payment of which might produce serious inconvenience. Sufficient money might be raised to meet the pressing exigency relating to them, while the rest might be a subject of future consideration.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.,277 could not help saying, that the noble Lord had adopted a very unfair mode of proceeding, in asserting that it was the intention of the Government, in its present proceeding, to remove the responsibility from itself, and throw it on the committee. There never was a charge more unjust, nor was there ever an occasion on which the Government less wished to remove the responsibility from itself, and place it elsewhere than in the present case. Twice, while Parliament was not sitting, application was made to the Government, to pledge itself to make advances for the relief of these embarrassments. On both these occasions, instead of saying that this was a case in which the Government would not proceed to take any step, or express any opinion, without the sanction of Parliament, it was clearly understood by the parties, that the Government sanctioned the proposition, and were prepared to give a pledge to make these advances. If, then, this was the course adopted when Parliament was not sitting, when his noble Friend readily undertook this responsibility, surely he would not shrink from asking Parliament to agree to sanction the course which he had pursued. Because
l.,277The Chancellor of the Exchequer
274"Had the settlement been planted in the most economical manner, had the loans been raised under the guarantee of Government, and had the country been laid out and prepared for the reception of the emigrants previous to their arrival, the discovery that in so large a portion of the province the lands were unavailable must have abated our confidence in the success of the self-supporting principle as applied within the present limits of South Australia. But when, on the contrary, the peculiar disadvantages we have attempted to describe are taken into account, the danger appears the more imminent that the expenses of the colony may ultimately fall upon the mother country. It is, in order to guard against this otherwise probable contingency, that we would throw out the idea of enlarging the boundaries of the province."273"All those districts of the province which lie north and west of the heads of the gulphs have been found, as far as hitherto explored, to consist of sterile and unavailable tracts, and it is only on the Peninsula, bounded by St Vincent, Lake Alexandria, and the Murray, that any considerable extent of fertile land has, been discovered. It cannot be disguised that some uncertainty must exist as to whether a territory thus limited can be made to provide the means of defraying the expense of its local administration.""Mr. Fisher was succeeded by Mr. Gillies, who appears to have been also most irregular, but from the original connexion of this latter gentleman with the promoters of the colony, and certain alleged services rendered by him in its formation, there was a great indisposition on the part of the Governor (Colonel Gawler) to remove him, which indisposition seems fully to have been felt by the commissioners at home."Hutt:"Mr. Fisher, the First Colonial Treasurer, unfortunately set the example of these irregular preceedings; and at length, upon an inquiry being instituted, was removed under circumstances of such grave suspicion, that had he possessed any property, legal measures would have been adopted to recover the sums for which he had rendered no account."272"In retiring from the important trust so long confided to us, we may be allowed to congratulate ourselves upon having established by practical proof the important fact, that the expense of planting new colonies and of conveying to them the unemployed labour of the parent state may be defrayed by means of the value which the act of planting confers upon the wild lands of an unreclaimed country.""The unexampled prosperity of South Australia has excited an envious spirit of hostility in persons interested in promoting emigration to the neighbouring settlements, and the grossest misrepresentations have been perseveringly circulated respecting the soil and the climate. We therefore deem it necessary, in justification of ourselves, and with a view to the further progress of the colony which we have established, to refer in this, our concluding report, to the authentic information which we have from time to time received respecting the agricultural and pastoral capabilities of the province, upon the faith of which we have proceeded in directing the tide of emigration and capital to its shores."271l.l.l.l.l.l."From those accounts it appears, that the expenditure of the colony for the last quarter of the year 1839 had exceeded 34,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.270l. wished that some course should be taken which at the same time would provide for the exigency of the public service as regarded the present, and would give assurance that proper steps would be taken to prevent an improper expenditure for the future. He would appeal to the House, whether the proposition of his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) was unwise? His noble Friend said, that it was evident, from the documents on the Table, that it was the duty of the House when it consented, on the part of the public, to grant a loan, to meet the present difficulties, to take care that it had some security as to the future government of the colony; he requested, therefore, that before they proceeded further the noble Lord should bring in a bill to provide for the future government of South Australia. If the noble Lord would bring forward such a bill within eight or ten days from the present time, neither his noble Friend nor himself would object to the course proposed, but they requested, before the committee proceeded further, that the intentions of the Government should be distinctly notified. Was the noble Lord quite sure, that a loan of 210,000274"Had the settlement been planted in the most economical manner, had the loans been raised under the guarantee of Government, and had the country been laid out and prepared for the reception of the emigrants previous to their arrival, the discovery that in so large a portion of the province the lands were unavailable must have abated our confidence in the success of the self-supporting principle as applied within the present limits of South Australia. But when, on the contrary, the peculiar disadvantages we have attempted to describe are taken into account, the danger appears the more imminent that the expenses of the colony may ultimately fall upon the mother country. It is, in order to guard against this otherwise probable contingency, that we would throw out the idea of enlarging the boundaries of the province."273"All those districts of the province which lie north and west of the heads of the gulphs have been found, as far as hitherto explored, to consist of sterile and unavailable tracts, and it is only on the Peninsula, bounded by St Vincent, Lake Alexandria, and the Murray, that any considerable extent of fertile land has, been discovered. It cannot be disguised that some uncertainty must exist as to whether a territory thus limited can be made to provide the means of defraying the expense of its local administration.""Mr. Fisher was succeeded by Mr. Gillies, who appears to have been also most irregular, but from the original connexion of this latter gentleman with the promoters of the colony, and certain alleged services rendered by him in its formation, there was a great indisposition on the part of the Governor (Colonel Gawler) to remove him, which indisposition seems fully to have been felt by the commissioners at home."Hutt:"Mr. Fisher, the First Colonial Treasurer, unfortunately set the example of these irregular preceedings; and at length, upon an inquiry being instituted, was removed under circumstances of such grave suspicion, that had he possessed any property, legal measures would have been adopted to recover the sums for which he had rendered no account."272"In retiring from the important trust so long confided to us, we may be allowed to congratulate ourselves upon having established by practical proof the important fact, that the expense of planting new colonies and of conveying to them the unemployed labour of the parent state may be defrayed by means of the value which the act of planting confers upon the wild lands of an unreclaimed country.""The unexampled prosperity of South Australia has excited an envious spirit of hostility in persons interested in promoting emigration to the neighbouring settlements, and the grossest misrepresentations have been perseveringly circulated respecting the soil and the climate. We therefore deem it necessary, in justification of ourselves, and with a view to the further progress of the colony which we have established, to refer in this, our concluding report, to the authentic information which we have from time to time received respecting the agricultural and pastoral capabilities of the province, upon the faith of which we have proceeded in directing the tide of emigration and capital to its shores."271l.l.l.l.l.l."From those accounts it appears, that the expenditure of the colony for the last quarter of the year 1839 had exceeded 34,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.270l.Sir Robert Peel
 thought that the noble Lord had given no answer which tended to remove the difficulty suggested. It was desired to be known whether the noble Lord meant, if the resolution were agreed to, that upon the guarantee of Parliament the loan might immediately be raised?Sir Robert Peel
263 rose, not to oppose the views of the noble Lord who had moved this resolution, but in consequence of the attack that had been made on the colony, and on the views of those who were engaged in its establishment. A more un-rounded statement he had never heard, even from that noble Lord. The noble Lord had spoken of the extravagance with which the finances of the colony had been administered, for the purpose of giving it a fictitious appearance of prosperity; but
263Mr. Hutt
l., then rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for the erection, at Edinburgh, of a monument to the late Sir Walter Scott. A proper site for the intended monument could not be obtained without an Act of Parliament, as two public acts stood in the way. The subscribers were anxious to have a public bill, and to have it pass through the House as a public measure, and it was for that reason that his notice stood in the list of public business for that evening. He was sure that it was unnecessary for him to say a single word in support of his motion, as there could be but one feeling in that House in respect to Sir Walter Scott, whose great talents had been universally admitted, and who had done so much to illustrate the manners and improve the morals of his country. He might, however, mention that the subscription was deficient to the extent of about 2,000l.,Sir W. Rae
Stanley262 said, that it appeared to him that whatever arrangement might be adopted with regard to the future management of the colony, whether the colony succeeded or failed, at all events those bills which had been circulated under the authority of an Act of Parliament must be paid. If they were to be paid, they had it on the report of the committee, that it was of the utmost importance that they should be settled without delay; and it was to be observed, that if they should be
Stanley262Viscount Howick
 rose to move, that certain clauses be added to the bill, the object of which was, to enable the Company to take possession of lands for the purpose of making repairs. The accidents which occurred rendered it quite necessary that such powers should be given. One instance had occurred, in which, if the landowner had refused permission, the railway must have been stopped. It was not refused by him; but other landowners had prevented the Company from coming upon their lands to make repairs. He had no intention, by taking this course, to infringe upon the Standing Orders of the House.Mr. Blake
 after the opposition which he had met with from both sides of the House, would withdraw his proposed clauses.Mr. Blake,
 presumed his hon. Friend would allow the previous question to be carried, leaving his resolution on record; but he hoped he would not now lose sight of his original object. It seemed doubtful, from what had been said, whether concessions that would be considered satisfactory would be made by Denmark, though his hon. Friend had only insisted upon the obligations of a treaty being fulfilled; but be joined with the hon. Member for Durham in urging upon his hon. Friend to persevere until he should obtain the total abolition of these obnoxious dues. They were, in these days, a scandalous interruption to the commerce of the world; and not only England, but every state trafficking with the Baltic complained alike of them, and were, in fact, watching the move against them being made in this country. They were, in truth, imposed with no more justice than if this country at any time chose to levy tolls on the trade in the British Channel. The same plea might be urged, and the same injury to foreigners inflicted. The country was obliged to his hon. Friend for bringing the subject forward, and he thought the House encouraged him to persevere.Mr. Villiers
309 said, that it seemed to him doubtful whether the House should acquiesce in the motion of the lion. Member for Leicester, because this was a case in which the printing or not printing of the petition had not come under the consideration of the committee, to whom in ordinary cases the question of printing petitions was referred. It was not the case of a petition which had been presented within a short time. It had been presented to the House on the 2nd February, and within a few days, therefore, of the commencement of the Session, by reason of which the attention of the committee would almost certainly have been directed to it; and it was to be observed, that to
309Lord Stanley
 concurred in the propriety of the limitation to Members of that House, because, having been invested with the unlimited power of printing, they ought to use it with the utmost caution.The Attorney-general
 hoped the House would now be nearly unanimous in ordering the petition to be printed. No doubt the hon. Member for Leicester had not strictly followed the order pf the House, as he ought, at the time of presenting the petition, to have stated when he meant to bring the subject before the House. He had now stated, however, that the motion would relate to the personal grievance of the petitioner, and he, therefore, did not see, what farther objection there could be to the printing of the petition.The Attorney-general
: Did the hon. Member object to the circulation, of the petition being limited to Members of that House?Lord Stanley
 thought, that if the effect of the clause would be to adjudicate in favour of one party, and against the other, that was a sufficient reason against the granting of the clause. The Directors of the Southampton Railway were to have a power of taking 500 yards along the whole line of railway, without taking immediate possession of it, but always keeping- the powers thus vested in them hanging over the heads of the landed proprietors. So monstrous a power as that, in whatever shape it might be brought before the House, was, he thought, certain of being negatived.Lord G. Somerset
 thought, that the hon. Member for Hull was entitled to the thanks of the shipping interest for bringing forward this motion to the attention of the House, but as the noble Lord had staled that negotiations were in progress for the purpose of having the duties put upon a proper footing, he thought, that it would be better for his hon. Friend to withdraw his motion, and accede to the proposition which had been thrown out.Mr. A. White
 said, that having acted in the committee, he concurred entirely in the opinion that had been expressed by his hon. Friend. He felt that a vast improvement had lately taken place in the manner in which unopposed bills were conducted, but, at the same time, he thought, on the present question, they were treating the Railway Company with some harshness. The clause which was now before the House, was one which was absolutely necessary for the purpose of enabling the Company to keep up the repair of the road. Without that power, it was quite clear, that the road must either be at the mercy of the landowners, or fall to decay. If they had come with the proper notice, there would be no difficulty, he apprehended, in passing the bill. It had been mentioned on the other side of the House, that that was an unheard-of clause. Now he believed, that the clause was introduced into every bill relative to the subject passed within the last one or two years. It was a clause which was established as a model clause, as he understood, and it appeared to him to be a clause essential to the maintenance of railways, and different in no degree from that attached to bills relating to turnpike roads. The reason of the promoters of the bill coming before the House, at that stage, was simply on account of the formation of a new read. He thought that it was rather hard that the Company should now be opposed, because parties said, they were taken by surprise. They came to the House with a clause arising out of circumstances which they could not foresee, which occurred since the first bill was printed—circumstances which involved them in law suits, and might involve them in great difficulty; even between the present time and next year, when they could come anew before the House, the Company might be essentially injured, and the public greatly inconvenienced. Under these circumstances, he was inclined to press the House to agree to the clause.Mr. B. Wood
 said, his hon. Friend had put the question upon an intelligible ground, when he said, that if the petition related to personal grievance it would be printed as a matter of course. Now, if being in prison, for the non-payment of church-rates was not a grievance, he did not know what could be held to be one. The fact was, that this petition was general, but the grievance was personal. There seemed to be some objection still entertained by the noble Viscount (Viscount Howick), but he thought the grounds of that objection were now very much narrowed.Mr. Baines
 said, that the petition having been presented so long ago as the 2d of February, he thought it probable that it would have been referred to the committee on public petitions.Mr. Goulburn
304 thought, that the right hon. Baronet had entirely misunderstood the statement of the noble lord, if he was under an impression that he had not expressed an opinion that these duties, as they now existed, were a heavy burden upon the country, and that it was the duty of the Government to urge on the government of Denmark with as little delay as possible the justice and propriety of putting them upon a proper footing. When the noble Lord had alluded to the circumstance of there having been no actual decrease of trade, he had done so for the purpose of correcting an inaccuracy in the statement of the hon. Member for Hull, and not at all meaning to say, that on that account it was less the duty of the Government to press this case on the attention of the Government of Denmark. The right hon. Baronet had said, that when there was no redress afforded on a matter so long standing, they should go out of that course which was allowed to be the most desirable. There would be much weight in the argument of the right hon. Baronet if it were the fact that the application made to the Government of Denmark had been neglected and refused; but, in justice to that Government, it was fair that he should remind the House, that only lately, indeed for the first time last year, had any such application been made. He did not think, that the present Government, or that which preceded it, was to be blamed for the present state of things. The noble Lord had stated, that negotiations were now going on between the English and the Danish governments, and that Denmark had met those negotiations by avowing at once that it was necessary that these dues should be thoroughly revised with as little delay as possible; and there was every
304Mr. Labouchere
310 said, it was absolutely necessary that the House should act upon some general principle, unless a particular instance requiring an exception arose. With regard to the present petition, as it had been said, that there might be something objectionable in it, he felt bound to say, that having read it through, he found that it was impossible that any petition could be more properly worded, or less objectionable on that score to be printed, should the House think fit on other grounds to do so. The difficulty he felt, however, was this—that it was the rule of the House that no petition should be printed unless it had immediate reference to some motion which some hon. Member intended to found upon it; and he would, therefore, be very much disposed to determine his vote according to the answer which the hon. Member for Leicester might give to the question, whether or not he meant to confine his motion on Thursday to the particular grievance complained of by the petitioner, or whether he meant to enter into the other general questions which were referred to at the commencement of the petition. Here was a petition, in which the petitioner stated, that he was in prison, suffering from the existing state of the law. If the motion of his hon. Friend contemplated the release of the petitioner from prison, then he certainly thought that the petition ought to be printed; but if the motion of the hon. Member was in-
310Mr. Labouchere
 hoped that the House would accede to the motion of his hon. Friend, because he thought that the case was strictly within the rule which had been laid down with regard to the printing of petitions. The rule was, that a petition might be printed when, within a reasonable time of its presentation, the petition itself was to be the subject of a motion, and, therefore, first of all, the proposition of his hon. Friend came within the rule which was prescribed. But even supposing that it was not so, exceptions might be made in cases where the individual petitioning was actually in prison. But there was a third ground, also, upon which he should support the motion. By the regulations which had been made, the House had already so narrowed the opportunities which any hon. Member of the House had of hearing a debate on the merits of a petition, compared with the old practice which prevailed, that he should be exceedingly jealous of restraining any further the already circumscribed right which existed upon this subject. He, therefore, hoped, that the petition would be allowed to be printed, and laid on the Table of the House before the day on which the motion of his hon. Friend was fixed to come on.Mr. Warburton
 would also resist the clauses. In his experience upon Railway Committees, he could state, that similar propositions had been frequently made, but, in every case, they had been resisted; and he believed such power had never been allowed in any railway bill.Mr. W. Patten
 said, it was the rule of the committee never to print petitions from individuals unless they complained of personal injury; but had the hon. Member for Leicester stated to the committee what His wishes and intentions were, he did not think there would have been any objection to the printing of the petition.Mr. Brotherton
305 was happy to hear that the subject had already fallen under the consideration of the Government; it was a matter of material importance to those individuals whom he had the honour to represent, and he sincerely trusted, that measures would be taken by which the entire abrogation of the duties would be secured. He had been surprised to hear it stated, that the subject had been recently for the first time brought under the notice of the Government, because undoubtedly in 1836 it was a matter of discussion in the public newspapers, and some correspondence had beeen published, amongst which were some letters written by the noble Lord, who was now
305Mr. Pease
 thought some power ought to be given to the railway proprietors, to make repairs in cases of accident, but, at the same time, he could not say, that he entirely approved of these clauses. It should not, however, be supposed, that because they wished to prevent an attempt being made to obtain powers of an objectionable nature, they also wished to restrain the enterprise of the country.Mr. Pease
293 said, he was glad this matter was brought before the House. He was satisfied that the original evil of this proposition lay in the form in which the notices in the country newspapers were worded. The words were so comprehensive, that they would include almost anything. Persons interested could not be sufficiently apprised of clauses sought to be introduced in this manner. The bill as it stood before the House, was a bill to raise an additional capital. He thought the House should take into consideration the propriety of improving the form of notice. It should be reduced to a Standing Order, that the notices should be more distinct, if such a step was decided upon, the House could then order the petition to be referred to the committee on Standing Orders, it should stand on the same
293Mr. Bernal
 brought up the Report of the committee on the South Western Railway Bill.Mr. Bernal
 should feel it his duty to object to the introduction of these clauses, because, when the bill was originally introduced, no notice was given that such powers would be sought for. These clauses departed very materially from the bill of which notice had been given, and on behalf of the department to which he had the honour to belong, he should feel it his duty to resist them. He believed that an attempt had been made in committee to introduce clauses of a similar nature, but they had been objected to; and surely it was not upon bringing up the report of the bill, at a time when the parties had no notice whatever, that such clauses should be introduced.Mr. Sheil
 wished to express his great objection to the introduction of such clauses as that now before the House. It had been attempted on former occasions, but the House had rejected them. When the bill was printed, and proposed in the first instance, it did not contain these objectionable clauses, and he believed parties in the vicinity of railways, were not aware of the intention to introduce them. He could not allow the opportunity to pass, without congratulating the House upon the appointment of his hon. Friend, as Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means. They owed it to the vigilance of his hon. Friend, that this subject had been brought under the consideration of the House. He was sure that it was satisfactory to the public that it was so brought to light, and that attempts were resisted to introduce measures in committee, of which the public had not received ample notice. It was now known, that such attempts would be vigilantly watched, and that his hon. Friend would bring them before the House, and give the House an opportunity of examining them, and of rejecting them if deemed objectionable.Mr. Estcourt
311 said, the right hon. President of the Board of Trade had said, that as the rule had been laid down it ought to be adhered to. On that very, ground he maintained that this petition ought to be printed. The rule of the 9th February, 1839, was, that all petitions on which hon. Members wished to found motions should be printed, the hon. Members giving notice of their motions. That was the rule; and it had never been questioned until, in the early part of the Session, the noble Lord opposite had very properly called the attention of the House to the subject, and had suggested that the petitions so printed should be confined to the use of Members themselves, in case they should contain libels or matter that would be disagreeable to individuals. On that pro-
311Mr. T. Duncombe
 understood, that the objection to printing petitions from individuals was, that, under the character of petitions, they were often in the habit of presenting certain pamphlets of their own; and that, therefore, unless the individual complained of some grievance to himself, the rule was not to print the petition except under the circumstances that had been specified. He confessed, he thought the present was a case in which the petition ought to be printed, but at the same time it depended entirely upon the answer which the hon. Member for Leicester might give to the question that had been put to him by his right hon. Friend. He did not see what mystery there was to prevent the hon. Member from making this statement. If the hon. Member intended to confine himself to the individual grievance, and not to enter into the general question of Church-rates, he did not see what objection there could be to the printing of the petition.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not think the question which had been put to the hon. Member for Leicester by his right hon. Friend was an unreasonable one, and he could not help thinking, that their means of coming to a decision would be very much increased if the hon. Member would answer it. If the construction to be put upon the rule of that House with regard to the printing petitions was to be that which had been put on it by the hon. Member for Finsbury, he could not but think, that the rule would be utterly valueless, and that the sooner it was rescinded the better. If the hon. Member for Leicester would state, that he really did mean to found a motion on the petition—if he would state, that he did not mean to bring on the general question of church-rates, but merely to attempt to redress the grievances of the individual petition—then he would at once vote for printing the petition.Sir George Grey
312 did not think the rule that had been just laid down by the right hon.
312Mr. Ward
308 had thought that there could be no possible objection to the printing of the petition under the circumstance of his having given notice that he intended on Thursday to make it the subject of a motion in the House. He begged to state that there was nothing contained in the petition that could reasonably raise the doubts and objections which had been referred to by the noble Lord. He had not imagined that he should be usefully employing the time of the House in stating the grounds on which he thought that it was desirable that this petition should be printed. In the first place, it was impossible, upon a careful perusal of the petition, to say, that there was any objection to it of the class that had been suggested, it was a mere statement of the circumstances of the case, which had led to the confinement of the petitioner. It stated the time during which he had been confined, and the reasons which had led him to suffer this imprisonment rather than comply with the demand made upon him; and it then went on to pray that the House would adopt such measures as to them should seem meet to procure his release. It was to be remarked, that this was a case similar in its nature to those in which the House had, on two former occasions, pronounced an opinion that the cause, from which the individuals who had petitioned were imprisoned, should be removed. It was a case in which, by a resolution of the House, it had been declared that such a process of the ecclesiastical courts ought not to be put in force. If he understood the object of the noble Lord rightly, it was to prevent the printing of the petition, which it was desired should be printed in order that the subject might be brought before the
308Mr. Easthope
 would have no objection. As he understood the hon. Member to have no objection to having the petition printed with the votes for the use of Members only, he hoped that the House would agree to the printing of the petition with the votes.Mr. Easthope
306 begged to move that the petition of William Baines now a prisoner in the county gaol of Leicester for non-payment of Church-rates
306Mr. Easthope
 said, that it was his intention to submit a motion to the House on Thursday next upon the subject of the petition, and he thought that it should be in the hands of hon. Members, in order that they might be aware of its contents.Mr. Easthope
 did notMr. Easthope
315 had already stated, and stated in perfect good faith, that he did intend on Thursday to submit a motion to the House, grounded on this petition; and he now stated, with equal sincerity, that he had no intention to enter on, but a determination to abstain from the discussion of the general question of Church-rates. This led him to remark upon what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite, that he ought, when he presented that petition to have stated to the House, that it was in his contemplation to give an early notice of some measure on the subject. When he presented that petition, he had it in contemplation to give an early notice for some measure connected with the general subject of Church-rates, which would also have included the consideration of the grievance complained of in this petition. Since he had given notice of that motion, however, it had been urged upon him by the parties connected with the general question to delay that motion till a more advanced period of the Session. At the same time that he acceded to this request, he felt that he ought not to delay bringing under the notice of the House the specific grievance of this petitioner, with a view to assisting in obtaining his release from prison. His object, therefore, on Thursday would be to submit a motion to the House to further that purpose, and not for the purpose of engaging them in a full and general discussion on the question of Church-rates. With regard to his motion for the priming of the petition, he avowed, that having a motion on the orders to take that petition into consideration, he did feel it a matter of course that as the committee on printing had not printed the petition, it ought to be printed, in order that hon. Members might have recourse to it in the discussion which would arise upon it on that day. Indeed, he could not help thinking, that had he entered into a discussion on that petition on Thursday next, without having previously moved that it be printed, in order that it might be in the hands of every individual Member, it would have been matter of just complaint against him that the petition was not sufficiently known, and that, therefore,
315Mr. Easthope
314313 said, it should be borne in mind, that since the rule was adopted that had been referred to by the hon. Gentleman, a committee had been appointed to consider the question of the whole privileges of that House, particularly with reference to the printing of papers. That committee, of which, if he was not mistaken, the hon. Members for Leicester and Bridport were Members, considering the injustice that might be done by printing libels on private character, and the embarrassments in which the House had been involved in consequence of the general practice, came almost unanimously to a resolution, recommending that all such papers should be referred to the commit-
314313Sir R. Peel
303302 said, that if there were any real intention to bring the subject to a satisfactory conclusion, the hon. Member for Hull could have no difficulty in withdrawing his motion. But the noble
303302Sir R. Peel
"That, in the opinion of this House, the tariff of Sound dues now levied at Elsineur is not a tariff which the king of Denmark is entitled to maintain; and that the Sound dues require such a revision as will facilitate the commercial relations of this country with the Baltic ports."300l.299"The Sound dues shall be paid according to the tariff of 1645, or as Denmark shall agree with the most favoured nations. With respect to the goods not enumerated in the tariff, Prussian subjects shall not pay more than one per cent., as is the case with the most favoured nations."298297296295 having presented a petition, numerously signed by the merchants and ship-owners of the port of Hull, complaining of the duties levied by the Danish government upon ships passing Elsineur, proceeded to address the House to the following effect:—I am about to bring under the notice of this House the question of the Sound dues. I mean the nature and amount of the taxes which are now levied by the King of Denmark, on British commerce and navigation passing between the Cattegat and the Baltic Sea. The grievance which I come forward to complain of, is, as far as I am informed, wholly new to this House, at least on no former occasion have the Sound dues or their abuses occupied the attention of Parliament. Let no one, however, suppose, on that account, that the evils to which I wish to call your attention are of an ordinary character either to the manufactures, mercantile and shipping interests, or to the general welfare of the country. The real cause of that silence which has so long prevailed in Parliament respecting the Sound dues is, that it belongs to a class of subjects which, unless they can be made matters for party warfare, are never very favorite topics of discussion. Indeed, I must say, with respect to questions of trade generally—and the evidence taken in the course of the last Session on the import duties is a pretty convincing proof of the fact-—that questions of trade generally have not hitherto met with an adequate attention, either from the Legislature or the Govern-
"That, in the opinion of this House, the tariff of Sound dues now levied at Elsineur is not a tariff which the king of Denmark is entitled to maintain; and that the Sound dues require such a revision as will facilitate the commercial relations of this country with the Baltic ports."300l.299"The Sound dues shall be paid according to the tariff of 1645, or as Denmark shall agree with the most favoured nations. With respect to the goods not enumerated in the tariff, Prussian subjects shall not pay more than one per cent., as is the case with the most favoured nations."298297296295Mr. Hutt
 replied. He had reason to be gratified with the explanation which had been given by the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and that the satisfaction which he felt was in no degree diminished by the guarantee given by the right hon. Baronet opposite, that he believed the question was one which was worthy the consideration of the House. He adopted the opinion of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, that these duties should be altogether abolished. The prospect which now presented itself to him was most agreeable to him, and he had no hesitation, after the manifestation of opinion on the part of the House, to allow his motion to be negatived, and the previous question carried.Mr. Hutt
307 thought, that the hon. Member had not made out a sufficient case to entitle him to call upon the House to print this petition. It would be in the recollection of the House, that the committee of which he had had the honour to be chairman, and which was appointed for the purpose of considering the general subject of printing petitions, had made strong representations to the House that petitions should not be printed with the votes, unless in those cases where the subject was not only brought under consideration, or where the matter was of pressing and urgent importance. The hon. Member for Leicester said, that this petition had not been ordered to be printed, and for anything that had been stated, it might be inferred that the committee on public petitions were not aware that this petition had been brought forward, for if they had been aware of it, there was no reason to doubt that they would have ordered it to be printed; or, if they had not done so, that they had taken that course on the ground that it contained something improper, in the shape of some reflection on the private character of individuals. He did not mean to say, that this was the case, but he said, that it was not impossible that that was the motive by which the committee had been actuated. It appeared to him, therefore, that the hon. Member had not shown that there was anything so urgent in the case as to justify a departure from the rule which had been established. It must be obvious, from the number of similar notices which were placed upon the paper, that if they did not set their faces against the adoption of the course
307Viscount Howick
 would not offer any further opposition, but, at the same time, he felt bound to say, that the hon. Member for Leicester would have done better had he made, in the first instance, that communication to the committee which they had the authority of the hon. Member for Salford for assuming would have led to the petition being printed.Viscount Howick
301 said, that his hon. Friend need make no excuse to the House for drawing the attention of the House or of the country to this question, because it was a subject of great interest, and nothing could be more fitting or dispassionate than the mode in which the hon. Gentleman had introduced it. He was not going to dispute any of the propositions put forth by his hon. Friend. He could do no better than say, that his hon. Friend's statement, as to the Sound dues, was almost the case of the British Government against the government of Denmark. It was far from his intention to weaken any of the positions which the hon. Gentleman had sought to establish. He could assure the House, that this subject was not now for the first time brought under the consideration of the Government. Indeed, the ground on which he should request his hon. Friend, as a matter of discretion, either to withdraw his motion, or not to resist the motion of the previous question, was, that the subject which had for some time past occupied the serious attention of Government, and that they were at this moment in negotiation with the government of Denmark upon the matter, and that consequently any expression of opinion on the part of the House, such as was then proposed, would be an unfitting and an inexpedient interposition of Parliament in a negotiation pending between the British crown and the crown of Denmark; and more especially when he considered the disparity of strength of the two countries, he conceived that the interference of Parliament would be not only inexpedient, but that it would have the appearance of being somewhat ungracious. Government did some time ago make a communication to the government of Denmark on this point, through the Minister at Copenhagen. The result of this communication had been, that the Danish minister in this country, who was then away on leave of absence, had returned specially for the purpose of carrying on a negotiation upon the subject and he felt it due to the go-
301Viscount Palmerston
 understood that the College of Surgeons were preparing a measure on the subject, and if the hon. Member postponed his bill for a little, he might be able to improve it very materially.Mr. M'Lean
 was understood to refer to the Report of Sir Frederick Smith, and to say that there was nothing in it that directly affected the bill. But whatever was in it, he would give notice of a motion which should bring it under the full consideration of the committee. He thought the House would see no reason for delaying the second reading of the bill, and he should therefore oppose the motion of the hon. Gentleman.Lord Francis Egerton
318 did not rise for the purpose of expressing any opinion on the merits of this bill, but, on the contrary, he did not consider this to be a cage on which the situation in which he stood called upon him to express an opinion, He thought it was a subject on which every Member of the House could give an opinion, and he should therefore act in accordance with his general rule, namely, to abstain from all interference with the private business of the House, except some principle was involved which he thought called for his interference. The only reason, therefore, for his rising was to ask the House to allow him to make an observation on account of an allusion that had been made to the Report of Sir Frederick Smith. That Report was upon the Table of the House, but was not printed, He had asked Sir Frederick Smith yesterday what was the nature of his observations on this particular railway. Sir Frederick Smith assured him they were entirely of an incidental nature, and did not go at all into detail; consequently he felt bound to state, that he thought the House would be satisfied there was no reason to delay the consideration of that bill on account of the Report of Sir F. Smith. Whether it was advisable that the bill should be read a second time
318Mr. Labouchere
 wished to state the reasons why he should vote against the second reading of the bill. He had voted two years ago in favour of the original bill, but it was. then in a different situation. It was then an extension bill. But the bill which the House had passed was abandoned—and therefore the whole thing now stood in a different position. It was then an extension bill, but now there was no other place to extend it to, and therefore, though he voted for the former measure, he was consistent in opposing the present. The bill was only brought in for the purpose of standing in the way of any great measure which might come before the House in the course of a few years. The object was merely to pre-occupy the ground. The promoters of the bill never intended to carry the project into execution. They desired to exclude any mare direct communication with the central and manufacturing districts than was afforded by the Grand Junction Railway. They wanted to perpetuate the monopoly of that line. He therefore thought himself bound to oppose the bill, and if it were not withdrawn he should more that it be read a second time this day six months.Mr. Wilbraham
Cries of "Question."bonâ fide319 was surprised to hear the statement of his hon. Friend, that the only intention of the projectors was to preoccupy the ground against any other railway. On the contrary, he could assure the House that his hon. Friend had formed a very erroneous estimate of the character and motives of the Gentleman who had promoted this bill. He held in his hand a petition from a large number of the most respectable inhabitants of Manchester in favour of the measure, and he could assure the House, that the districts which weald be affected by it were almost unanimous in its favour, and that it would undoubtedly be completed if the House gave it the sanction proposed in the present bill. No bill had ever been more thoroughly sifted in committee than this. The estimates which were laid before the committee in 1839 had never been questioned, and they were as moderate as any ever known. The levels were of the most favourable kind, and the whole line was calculated greatly to improve the communication between the central counties and Liverpool, and the
Cries of "Question."bonâ fide319Mr. Mark Philips
322l.321"That the committee, after an inquiry unusually protracted, had come to a resolution in favour of the bill, and in case the late period of the Session at which their labours had terminated, would render the parties unable to submit a bill to the other House of Parliament, they advised the House that every facility should be afforded to the promoters of the bill in a future Session, that the rules of the House permitted."320 supposed that any Gentleman who called "Question," would vote for the motion that the bill be referred to a committee. He supposed they agreed with him, that the House was not the fittest arena for the discussion, and that its merits could best be ascertained above stairs. He had a duty on this occasion to perform to his constituents, who had intrusted him with a petition, signed by 700 of the most respectable inhabitants of Tamworth, in favour of the bill. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchere) that a person in that right hon. Gentleman's position in that House ought not to interfere with a private measure, unless it involved some public principle. Although he was only a private individual, yet from his long connexion with office, it might be supposed that he possessed some influence with a part of the House, and he therefore abstained on the same principle as the right hon. Gentleman from interfering in private measures. But the interest which his constituents felt in this bill obliged him, as their representative, to state his reason for giving it his support, assuring hon. Gentlemen at the same time that he had never attempted to influence the vote of any individual upon the subject. The proposed railway had several recommendations. In the first place it would connect the two important termini, London and Liverpool, with the inland counties, by a communication nine and-a-half miles shorter between Manchester and Liverpool, and thirty-nine and-a-half miles shorter in the line with London, the gradients on the new line were much more favourable than on the old line, and of course it was a competing line as regarded so much of the London and Birmingham line, and so much of the Grand Junction line as extended from Rugby on the one hand and Stafford on the other. It professed to make a new line along the valley of the
322l.321"That the committee, after an inquiry unusually protracted, had come to a resolution in favour of the bill, and in case the late period of the Session at which their labours had terminated, would render the parties unable to submit a bill to the other House of Parliament, they advised the House that every facility should be afforded to the promoters of the bill in a future Session, that the rules of the House permitted."320Sir Robert Peel
325l.,324l.l.,l.323l.l. said, that whatever might be the decision to which the House might come, he hoped that they would not be led away by that argument to their own impatience which his right hon. Friend had addressed to them, because, although it might be very convenient for Gentlemen who were tired of a discussion, to say that it was not a subject fit for their consideration, there was no place where it could be so well considered as in that House. At the same time time, although questions might often be very conveniently considered in committee, yet such a plan was often attended with great expense and other disadvantages. If the House had a reasonable doubt whether there was sufficient ground for considering the matter in committee, they ought not to consult their own convenience, and subject parties to unnecessary expense and unnecessary waste of time. If he did not mistake, his right hon. Friend had lately stated to the House that the parties interested in this railway had already lost a sum of 9,000325l.,324l.l.,l.323l.l.Lord Stanley
 withdrew his amendment.Mr. Gisborne
 begged to say that he was incorrect in stating that he had had no communication with any person on the subject, as he now recollected having spoken to a gentleman respecting it.Lord Stanley
 would offer the motion every opposition in his power. It might be proper that the House should alter its rules for the regulation of private business, but so long as these rules existed, they ought to be strictly adhered to. There were many practical difficulties which would arise, if the present motion was acceded to. There were other Gentlemen connected with the adjacent counties who had very naturally and properly given notice of similar motions, and which, if the present was acceded to, they could not refuse. On these grounds he should certainly oppose the motion.Mr. Labouchere
 said his constituents were deeply interested in the Bill, and he had voted for the second reading. He was, however, perfectly satisfied with the jurisdiction to which it had been referred. If the House thought it proper to add any other Member to the Committee, he should feel it his duty to move to add his own name.Mr. H. Berkeley
 said, the county of Gloucester was also deeply interested in the fate of the bill, and if the House found that its rules were bad, and worked injustice, the sooner they departed from them the better. It was a complete farce to refer such a bill to the Worcester list—every body knew how they would vote. He thought many more gentleman ought to be added to the committee. He would, therefore, cordially support the motion of the noble Lord,Mr. G. Berkeley
 said, the bill had been very properly referred to the Worcester List, because all the works contemplated by the bill were in Worcestershire.Mr. Winnington
 opposed the motion. He thought the county of Monmouth had no such interest in the undertaking as should induce the House to contravene the Standing Orders in behalf of its Members.Mr. Easthope
 said, the hon. Member for Worcester had admitted, that there was partiality in the Worcester Members with respect to this bill, because he said there would be eighteen against, and twelve for, the bill. Such an admission was an argument why the other interest should be represented, They did not desire to obtain a preponderating interest, in point of numbers. A great deal had been said about the practice of the House. That was the first Session, and the first case of any importance, in which the Standing Orders had come into question. On former occasions, it was usual to have all the Members upon the committee who might be supposed to be interested.Mr. Hope
 proposed the Members for Birmingham, because he believed that that neighbourhood was interested, and he thought it fair that they should be appointed.Sir Eardley Wilmot
 said, the hon. Member for Worcestershire had assumed that the interest of Monmouthshire was adverse to the bill. The county of Monmouth was to contribute very largely to the formation of these works, and should, therefore, have a voice in the arrangements with respect to them. If the county of Worcester would have the goodness to pay for the works, they would then be allowed to monopolise the whole matter. All he wished was to have a committee, which should fairly discuss the merits of the question.Lord G. Somerset
 contended, that a bill like the present, for regulating the navigation of the whole course of a large river, could not be considered in the light of a strictly Local Bill.Mr. C. Wynn
329 thought the House ought to adhere to the Standing Orders. To the Members connected with the locality immediately affected by the bill, there had been added a sufficient number of Members unconnected with it, to secure impartiality. If additional Members for places interested in the bill were put upon the committee; then a corresponding number of important Members should also be added. If the Standing Orders were
329Mr. Warburton
333332 said, that very few bills had had so much circulation, previous to their introduction to the House, and publicity, as this. He did not see that any valid reasons had been urged for the postponement of the bill. He should compress whatever he had to say on the subject into as small a compass as possible. He was prepared to show that the plan he adopted was not a capricious one, taken up suddenly and without deliberation; but that it was a plan supported by some of the most distinguished medical men now living—supported not only by men who had given evidence on the committee, but by others who by their publications, and by the public proceedings of their own particular bodies, sanctioned, to a greater or Jess extent, the measure which he now proposed. The House were aware, that in 1834, a committee sat on the subject of medical education. On the evidence given before that committee he had founded the greater portion—the main principlts—of this measure. The profession, in the evidence given before that committee, had complained of a total want of uniformity—that there was no uniformity in the education of medical students—that there was no body to which they could look up, and that the medical profession generally had no confidence in the existing bodies—that the College of Physicians had employed their powers, not for the benefit of the profession, but for their exclusive advantage. The great body of licentiates were excluded from all the privileges of the institution. The College of Surgeons might be considered a voluntary body, conferring diplomas, but without the power of giving legislative protection to its members—neither obtaining the confidence, nor conferring advantages upon the profession
333332Mr. Hawes
 rose to express a hope, that the hon. Member would not now proceed to move the second reading of the Medical Profession Bill. He had in his hand a letter from the governor of the Apothecaries Company of Dublin, stating that the bill materially affected their body, that they had not yet had an opportunity of petitioning against it, and hoping the House would not proceed with it at present.Mr. Shaw
 thought that it was very remarkable that the hon. Member for Lambeth, in moving the second reading of his bill, had said little or nothing respecting the general enactments in it. The bill, as it stood, only affected the medical men connected with public institutions, and did not touch the great body of the profession. The enactments in the body of the bill did not agree with the preamble, and were altogether inconsistent with it. If a person did not intend to practice in connection with any public institution, he need sot bare any certificate under this bill.Mr. Darby
 hoped the hon. Member would go on with the bill to-night, if he meant it to be read a second time at all.Mr. Wakley
 seconded the motion. Whoever looked at the state of the medical profession must see that it was in a state of disorder, and that it required the amendment that would be supplied by the present bill.Mr. Ewart
331 said, that the bill had been so rapidly pushed forward, that
331Sir De Lacy Evans
 really hoped the hon. Member would not proceed with his bill, because it appeared to meet with very general opposition. The army and nary surgeons were against it, and every party complained that they were unacquainted with its provisions.Sir Thomas Troubridge
346 regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not expressed himself more distinctly on this most important subject. The question was whether our harbours were to be repaired by public expense or by local exertions. If an idea got abroad that every case of shipwreck was to be a ground for a grant of public money for repairing our harbours, from that moment all individual exertion would cease. A few years ago there had been a great contest, in a Committee of the House, whether certain harbours required the assistance of the public purse, but it was at last decided that they had no sufficient claim, though a similar claim on
346Sir George Strickland
355: I rise to give a direct negative to the motion of the hon. Member for Hertford. In doing so I beg to be understood as offering no opinion and passing no judgment upon the merits of the petition he advocates; my opposition is upon general grounds, and the full persuasion that the carrying such a motion is extremely injurious to the best interests of the naval and military service. Sir, long before I had the honour of a seat in this House, I observed with great regret the frequent attempts made to wrest from the Government of the day the executive power, and transfer it to this branch of the Legislature. Sir, such appeals, if successful, from officers or men of the army and navy, inflict a severe blow upon the discipline and efficiency of both services; they encourage those who ought to look up to the heads of their respective departments with trust and confidence in the idea that they are deficient either in skill or integrity, and that their complaints are not likely to receive a patient, an intelligent, or honest hearing anywhere but before a committee of this House. Sir, what reason is there to doubt that the Board of Admiralty would not do full justice to petitions, or what object could they have in withholding from him that redress to which he might be entitled? Sir I have no particular predilection for the present Board of Admiralty; I am opposed both to their principles and measures; but Sir, I will not do them the injustice, and I should ill acquit myself as a Member of Parliament, or as one belonging to the naval profession, if I did so, of allowing it to be supposed they could be guilty of preventing the course of justice between any individual under them and themselves. Then, Sir, under what pretence can the hon. Member for Hertford be induced to bring forward a motion for the purpose of submitting to a committee of this House a petition referring to matters that have gone by above thirty years? The petitioner was tried by the proper military tribunal, and if he had any fault to find with the sentence passed, upon him, surely that was the period to bring it forward, and not at this distance of time. Will the hon. Member allow me to ask, what course would he propose to himself in the event of obtaining his committee? for let me tell him, he must not he satisfied with the simple production of
355Sir Thomas Cochrane
357356 felt great pain in being obliged to speak at all on the present occasion, and regretted much that the hon. Member had thought proper to bring forward the case. He lamented the position of an old officer who had, no doubt, done great service to his country, and he regretted to be obliged to enter into the details of the court-martial, in order to show that the Board of Admiralty at the time could not have done otherwise than it did. Captain Laroche had been commander of the Uranie, off Cherbourg, in May and
357356Sir Charles Adam
359358 expressed his surprise at the manner in which the gallant Officer, the Member for Ipswich, had met this question by volunteering the old official practice of the Lords of the Admiralty of the year 1837. He (Captain Pechell), could not conceive a more disagreeable or painful duty than that of being compelled to censure a brother officer; and he concluded, that nothing but a stern and rigid sense of duty could have tempted the; hon. Member to exercise his privilege in so summary a manner, without even giving the official authorities in the House an opportunity of explaining the course which they intended to pursue on this occasion. The hon. Member was one of those, who, in the late debate on naval affairs, complained of the insufficient manner in which our ships were manned, and of the inferiority of the weight of metal with which they were furnished, as compared to those in the navy of France; but be was unwilling in the case of Captain Laroche, to take into consideration the; circumstances under which that officer was placed when in command of the Uranie during the blockade of the port of Cherbourg, and this was a most important feature in the case as the enemy's ships were far superior in force to those which confined them within the limits of the port. In those days, hon. Members did not take into calculation the number of guns or men which the frigates of the enemy might
359358Captain Pechell
 in reply, observed, that several officers had been dismised the service for offences of a very serious character, and yet were restored after a much shorter interval than had elapsed since the trial of Captain Laroche.Mr. Alston,
 begged, in giving his vote, to say, that he must not be understood to compromise himself upon the subject of Church-rates, while giving a vote in opposition to a motion made in favour of a person who had set himself against the law of the land.Mr. Elliott
 said he must oppose the motion, as it would be impossible to give the information required as related to the members of the different bars of England, Ireland, or Scotland; a return as to the other particulars existed up to the year 1832.Lord J. Russell
ll373372371370369368 said, that the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this motion having given notice of a motion, that the petition of Mr. Baines should be taken into consideration, he was not at all aware, till he heard it read from the Chair, what was the nature of the motion which the hon. Gentleman had proposed to conclude with; and he must say that, considering no notice had been given of its
ll373372371370369368Lord J. Russell
383382381380 said, that undoubtedly, it was exceedingly difficult to offer any observations upon the question now before the House, without taking the course, which the hon. Member for Leicester had been reminded of having taken, and mixing it up with the general question of Church-rates. It was extremely difficult; and while he wished on the one hand to keep closely to the case of Mr. Baines, on the other hand, he1 was aware that he might not, in the course of his observations, confine himself strictly to that question, apart from the subject of Church-rates. In noticing the remark of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Dr. Nicholl) he would say that, if he wished any arguments to furnish him with grounds to support the allegation of the petition, the the petitioner had been treated with harshness and injustice, he would wish no other grounds than the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman—because be considered that the party here suffering, however mistaken he might be,—and without raising the question of conscientious scruples, and how far these scruples were to be respected by the State, raised by the noble Lord,—he must say, when he saw a conscientious man in gaol for doing that which he believed to be his duty, the very steps taken in proceeding against him were sufficient to convince him that the petitioner had been treated with harshness. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that, if his bill of last year had been passed into a law, Mr. Baines would not be in prison; but, by that measure, had it been law, his goods would have been seized. Now a seizure of his goods would have been as much a violence to him, as a conscientious man, as the incarceration of his person. Undoubtedly, the hon. and learned Gentleman's measure might have mitigated the law and lessened the steps taken for the vindication of the supremacy of the law, ant) certainly, whatever he did in that direction, he (Mr. Hawes) should be found and happy to support him. But when he referred to his efforts, he would reply that the ecclesiastical commission,
383382381380Mr. Hawes
" It is evident there is no harbour at the present moment between Sheerness and Selsey Bill which can he considered an available harbour of refuge at all times of tide, or which possesses the capability of being rendered efficient for that purpose by any improvement or alteration that can be made." thought the House must see that the question which had been stated by the two hon. Gentlemen who raised the discussion was very different from that which had been discussed. The question argued was that the country ought in some way or other to provide harbours of refuge on different parts of the coast. The committee moved for was to inquire into that which had already been inquired into. The Commissioners had distinctly expressed an opinion upon the subject, and the best answer to local interests was that they had given a decided opinion against any existing harbour. In their report they stated,
" It is evident there is no harbour at the present moment between Sheerness and Selsey Bill which can he considered an available harbour of refuge at all times of tide, or which possesses the capability of being rendered efficient for that purpose by any improvement or alteration that can be made."Mr. C. Wood
 would be prepared to show, if they went into committee, that the expense would not be one-fourth the amount estimated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Rice
"A select committee on the state of the harbours on the south-eastern coast, to whom the report of the commission of 1840 shall be referred.""This sum is certainly a considerable one, but when we reflect that the object is to ensure the facilities of our commercial intercourse, to assist the progressive increase of our mercantile and naval services, and consequently place the power and the prosperity of the country on a wide and Arm basis, undoubtedly it will be foreseen that these sacrifices will create sources of ample compensation."l339ll338 said, that it might be in the recollection of hon. Members that two years ago a commission had been appointed to examine the harbours on the south-eastern coast, in consequence of an address which he bad had the honour to move in that House. After a survey of the coast the commissioners made their report in May, 1840, since which no steps had been taken in the matter. He assured hon. Gentlemen that in now moving for the appointment of a committee to consider that report, he wished, as far as possible, to divest himself of every consideration of a local nature, and to view the question, as he hoped the House, and ultimately the Government, would do, as one of great national importance materially affecting the honour and the security of this empire. When he first urged an inquiry, he was told that his proposal was too limited, and that it ought to be extended to other ports on the coast of this country; but he recollected very well that, in answer to this objection, it was stated by a gallant Officer, then Member for Devonport, that it was desirable to limit the inquiry, not because there was no necessity for the survey of other ports, but because in the narrow sea of the British channel, in consequence of the application of steam navigation, this country was most assailable. He would not, in support of his own views, quote any opinions, because a consideration of all the opinions was the object for which he sought the appointment of a committee. Every friend of humanity and of civilization must hope that peace would be long preserved, but he could not forget that the present French government, to which we were greatly indebted for the preservation of peace, had declared that a defensive policy, for the purpose of preventing foreign aggression, was the best means of preserving peace. Such was the distinct avowal pf M. Guizot, who said that "what we do,
"A select committee on the state of the harbours on the south-eastern coast, to whom the report of the commission of 1840 shall be referred.""This sum is certainly a considerable one, but when we reflect that the object is to ensure the facilities of our commercial intercourse, to assist the progressive increase of our mercantile and naval services, and consequently place the power and the prosperity of the country on a wide and Arm basis, undoubtedly it will be foreseen that these sacrifices will create sources of ample compensation."l339ll338Mr. E. R. Rice
 thought the report of the commissioners, which he held in his hand, fully justified the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Dover. The commissioners reported, that Ramsgate harbour was the best on the south-eastern coast, although they said it had no natural advantages. It had no backwater, nor was it protected from any wind but a land-wind. It offered no protection from winds from the sea. Yet that was the only harbour for the protection of the shipping on that coast. It was acknowledged to be wholly inadequate, yet the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer refused a committee. He refused a committee—was he prepared to say, that the Government would act upon the report of the commissioners? He acknowledged that harbours were necessary—would he say, that the Government would construct them? If he was not prepared to say so, why refuse inquiry? Could the hon. Member put his hand upon the report, and show anything in it so practical, that that it could be carried into execution within half a century? And if not, the commissioners were at a loss to known on what grounds they should report. He thought there could be no stronger reason for assenting to the motion.Mr. Darby
habeas corpusde contumace capiendo378377"Such then, being the law of the land, it follows, as a necessary consequence, that the repair of the fabric of the church is a duty which the parishioners are compellable to perform—not a mere voluntary act which they may perform or decline at their own discretion; that the law is imperative upon them absolutely, that they do repair the church, not binding on them in a qualified limited manner only, that they may repair or not, as they think fit; and that where it so happens that the fabric of the church stands in need of repair, the only question upon which the parishioners, when convened together to make a rate, can by law deliberate and determine, is not whether they will repair the church or not (for upon that point they are concluded by the law), but how and in what manner the common law obligation so binding them, may be best and most effectually, and at the same time most conveniently, performed and carried into effect. The parishioners have no more power to throw off the burden of the repair of the church, than that of the repair of bridges and highways, the compelling of the performance of the latter obligation belonging exclusively to the temporal courts, whilst that of the former has been exercised usually, though perhaps not necessarily exclusively, by the spiritual courts from time immemorial.""And we are all of opinion, that the obligation by which the parishioners, that is, the actual residents within, or the occupiers of lands or tenements in every parish, are bound to repair the body of the parish church whenever necessary; and to provide all things essential to the performance of Divine Service therein, is an obligation imposed on them by the common law of the land.376 did not concur in the opinion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Oxford, that this was an impost laid on by any fixed or definite statute, but it was one authorised and enforced by the common law of the land. It was an obligation imposed from time immemorial, and in saying this, he was supported by the authority of the Exchequer Chamber, in the Braintree Church-rate case. That bench, composed of eight of the most learned judges who ever graced any seat
habeas corpusde contumace capiendo378377"Such then, being the law of the land, it follows, as a necessary consequence, that the repair of the fabric of the church is a duty which the parishioners are compellable to perform—not a mere voluntary act which they may perform or decline at their own discretion; that the law is imperative upon them absolutely, that they do repair the church, not binding on them in a qualified limited manner only, that they may repair or not, as they think fit; and that where it so happens that the fabric of the church stands in need of repair, the only question upon which the parishioners, when convened together to make a rate, can by law deliberate and determine, is not whether they will repair the church or not (for upon that point they are concluded by the law), but how and in what manner the common law obligation so binding them, may be best and most effectually, and at the same time most conveniently, performed and carried into effect. The parishioners have no more power to throw off the burden of the repair of the church, than that of the repair of bridges and highways, the compelling of the performance of the latter obligation belonging exclusively to the temporal courts, whilst that of the former has been exercised usually, though perhaps not necessarily exclusively, by the spiritual courts from time immemorial.""And we are all of opinion, that the obligation by which the parishioners, that is, the actual residents within, or the occupiers of lands or tenements in every parish, are bound to repair the body of the parish church whenever necessary; and to provide all things essential to the performance of Divine Service therein, is an obligation imposed on them by the common law of the land.376Dr. Nicholl
360, in rising to move for certain returns, observed, that there was a feeling amongst the members of the Irish bar that they had not been fairly treated in reference to the judicial and other appointments which had been made in the colonies; of the appointments which had been made
360Mr. J. O'Connell
 thought his hon. Friend the Member for Dover was perfectly justified in the course he had adopted. He would have been perfectly willing to have left the matter in the hands of the Government, if it had been stated that they intended doing anything; but having heard no such statement, he must support the motion.Mr. Plumptre
341"That this meeting is decidedly of opinion that the appointment of a committee in the House of Commons to investigate into the condition of the present harbours on the southeastern coast, and to report to the House whether any, and which of them, can be made available as places of shelter for merchant vessels in case of distress from weather, or from enemies cruising in time of war: and also to inquire and report whether it may be expedient to construct harbours of moderate capa-
341340 begged leave to second the motion, which he did with the greatest cordiality, because he considered that the general interests of the country were materially involved in this question. It was no party question, and he trusted that it would be considered by both sides of the House in a spirit of fairness, and that it would receive that attention which its importance demanded. It was very seldom that he trespassed upon the House, and he WQUM endeavour to do so now for as short a time as it was possible for him to state the substance of the case. In.seconding this motion it was not necessary that he should go through the details which had been stated by his hon. Friend that night, and which he had also stated two years ago on the motion for the appointment by the Crown of the commissioners. Still he must say that the same reasons which existed two years ago for the appointment of
341"That this meeting is decidedly of opinion that the appointment of a committee in the House of Commons to investigate into the condition of the present harbours on the southeastern coast, and to report to the House whether any, and which of them, can be made available as places of shelter for merchant vessels in case of distress from weather, or from enemies cruising in time of war: and also to inquire and report whether it may be expedient to construct harbours of moderate capa-
341340Mr. Planta
344 said, in answer to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that having been requested by several engineers to present the petition on the subject, and not having an opportunity of so doing, he must say a few words in answer to the right hon. Gentleman in alluding to these petitions. The right hon. Gentleman said, he was against a committee because the mover and seconder had only given general statements, and made no particular case, and if a committee was granted the weak parts of the coast might be mentioned, which might be injurious to the country. Now, in answer, he (Mr. Mackinnon) would observe, that no necessity existed for giving instructions to the committee to inquire into the defenceless parts of our coasts that might be left to the commission, but if some particular case was required, he would state as follows. On the coast of Sussex, and he believed also on the coast of Kent, there was a constant flow of shingle on the beach from west to east. Every one who had attended to the subject knew, that there were two sorts of harbours artificially made for vessels; one was the back water harbour, made by the water flowing in, which water was enclosed in an interior basin, and at the ebb was let out, and by
344Mr. Mackinnon
343342 could assure the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that no apology was necessary from him for calling the attention of the House to a subject of so great importance as the present, whether as regarded local interests, or the commercial interests and prosperity of the country. He felt, however, that the right hon. Gentleman, as well as the hon. Member who had preceded him, had left one part of the subject to which they referred very unsatisfactory before the House, because, although they had dwelt upon the general question, they had advanced very few arguments why a committee should be appointed to take the matter into consideration. If the hon. Member for Dover had come forward with a resolution which embodied the propositions which he desired should be adopted by the House, his motion might have been entitled to some consideration; but he had placed no statement before the House from which his exact ultimate views might be collected. With regard to the proposition which he had made, that a committee should be appointed, he confessed that he thought that that was a motion which ought not to be complied with. A commission had last year been appointed to
343342The Chancellor of the Exchequer
345 said, he could only approve of that part of the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer which acknowledged the importance of the subject as regarded the maritime interests of the country, and that the objections raised by the right hon. Gentleman were by means sufficient to deter the hon. Member for Dover from persevering in the course he had commenced. Much information would be brought before a committee which had been kept back from the report. The civil engineer, who had been attached to the commission, would be called on to give additional evidence on points which required further investigation as to the expense and construction of the deep water harbours on the southern coast. Since the report of the commission had been laid on the table, the coasts of Sussex and Kent had been visited by the most furious storms, attended by the most disastrous loss of life and property; and it could be shown before a committee, that all three shipwrecks took place on the coast to the westward of Beechy Head, owing to the difficulty of
345Captain Pechell
 begged to vindicate the people of Leicester from the imputation of partaking of the spirit in which the opposition to Church-rates was carried on. He felt himself entitled on the part of the great proportion of the people of Leicester to repudiate the assertion.Mr. Halford
390 said, that be had not spoken of the entire town of Leicester,
390Mr. Easthope
389 said, that the country would be likely to imagine, from the manner in which Mr. Baines, and those who, like him, had resisted the payment of Church-rates, and suffered for that resistance, had been designated by the House, that those who supported the resolution were exerting themselves in behalf of a capricious individual who alleged that he had conscientious scruples, and, therefore, demanded to be excused from obedience to the law. Now, he asked was that a fair statement of the case? Mr. Baines acted in strict pursuance of the spirit of a resolution agreed to by that House, a resolution which the House had pronounced in a similar case, and which resolution asserted, in effect, that the punishment to which Mr. Baines was subjected was undue, unmerited, and improper. Mr. Baines had not violently, captiously, or riotously infringed the law; on the contrary, he had yielded obedience to the law. He was at that moment suffering one of the severest penalties of the law, and he came to that House to tell them that he was suffering such penalty, and to appeal to their justice and consideration, and to ask whether it was a proper penalty for that which, although the law pronounced to be an offence, he had a right to consider not opposed to the expressed sense of that House. He further told the House that he had acted under the impulse of conscience. He was not a capricious, captious, disobedient individual, but he was a conscientious—a really conscientious man. He had not resisted a claim as a mere question of money, but he questioned the principle on which the money was demanded, and so he (Mr. Easthope) ventured to tell that House, backed by the avowal of 30,000 persons, in one form or another—the majority of Mr. Baines's neighbours. Now, he (Mr. Easthope)would ask whether, in a British House of Commons, the conduct of Mr.
389Mr. Easthope
ll"That it appears by the petition of William Baines, a Protestant Dissenter, that he has been confined in the county gaol of Leicester since the 13th day of November last, for the non-payment of 2ll367366"He agreed with the noble Lord in think-
366365"As to the general question of the state of the law, he was not one of those who wished the present system to be continued. He wished very much they had some substitute by which the sums now collected for the repairs of the Church could be raised in a less objectionable and onerous manner."364" He thought that those persons who, from a conscientious feeling, sought to make the laws respected by enforcing the punishment of imprisonment against those who violated the laws, did no good whatever in the way of maintaining a respect for the law when they acted not in accordance with the general feeling of the community."363362"Your petitioner respectfully submits to your honourable House, that injustice has marked every step of these proceedings against him. That it is unjust to make a demand upon your petitioner for the support of a form of worship which his conscience repudiates. That it is unjust, when your petitioner has good ground for believing that demand to be bad in law to send him for his remedy to an ecclesiastical court, and call upon him to recognise the authority of the dignitaries of a church of which he is not a member; and to seek at an enormous expense the decision of a question involving your petitioner's rights at the hands of parties interested in giving judgment against him. That it is unjust that your petitioner should, for no valid reason and without his consent, be cited before the Arches Court of Canterbury instead of before the Court of the bishop of the diocese in which he
362"That your petitioner immediately applied to the Court of Queen's Bench for a rule nisi, on the grounds that the evidence given in the Court of Arches had been clandestinely taken, and that your petitioner ought to have been cited before the court of the bishop of the diocese: that the court granted the rule applied for by your petitioner, in consequence of which proceedings against your petitioner were stayed; that the case having been heard on the 27th of April, 1840, judgment was subsequently given against your petitioner, and the rule nisi discharged. That your petitioner was arrested on the 13th of November last, by the sheriff's officer, was taken from his family and business, and has now been for eleven weeks a prisoner in the county gaol of Leicester,"The petitioner went me to say,l361"That, on the 17th of May, 1838, the inhabitants of the said parish laid a church-rate of sixpence in the pound; payment of which rate, amounting to two pounds five shillings, was demanded of your petitioner, on the 13th of August, 1838, and was by him refused.
l361 said that when, on a former night, he moved that the petition of Mr. Baines should be printed, he stated that it was not his intention, in bringing it under the consideration of the House, to go into the general question of the abolition of church-rates, but, as much as he possibly could do so, to confine himself to the grievance complained of by the petitioner. He was aware, and he was sure the House would be aware, that it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to state the case of William Baines, who was now immured in prison for the non-payment of church-rates, without making some reference to that question; but he would redeem the engagement which he had made with the House, and keep as closely to the case of William Baines, and abstain from going into the general question as much as possible. This petitioner stated, that he was an inhabitant of St. Martin's, in the borough of Leicester, and
ll"That it appears by the petition of William Baines, a Protestant Dissenter, that he has been confined in the county gaol of Leicester since the 13th day of November last, for the non-payment of 2ll367366"He agreed with the noble Lord in think-
366365"As to the general question of the state of the law, he was not one of those who wished the present system to be continued. He wished very much they had some substitute by which the sums now collected for the repairs of the Church could be raised in a less objectionable and onerous manner."364" He thought that those persons who, from a conscientious feeling, sought to make the laws respected by enforcing the punishment of imprisonment against those who violated the laws, did no good whatever in the way of maintaining a respect for the law when they acted not in accordance with the general feeling of the community."363362"Your petitioner respectfully submits to your honourable House, that injustice has marked every step of these proceedings against him. That it is unjust to make a demand upon your petitioner for the support of a form of worship which his conscience repudiates. That it is unjust, when your petitioner has good ground for believing that demand to be bad in law to send him for his remedy to an ecclesiastical court, and call upon him to recognise the authority of the dignitaries of a church of which he is not a member; and to seek at an enormous expense the decision of a question involving your petitioner's rights at the hands of parties interested in giving judgment against him. That it is unjust that your petitioner should, for no valid reason and without his consent, be cited before the Arches Court of Canterbury instead of before the Court of the bishop of the diocese in which he
362"That your petitioner immediately applied to the Court of Queen's Bench for a rule nisi, on the grounds that the evidence given in the Court of Arches had been clandestinely taken, and that your petitioner ought to have been cited before the court of the bishop of the diocese: that the court granted the rule applied for by your petitioner, in consequence of which proceedings against your petitioner were stayed; that the case having been heard on the 27th of April, 1840, judgment was subsequently given against your petitioner, and the rule nisi discharged. That your petitioner was arrested on the 13th of November last, by the sheriff's officer, was taken from his family and business, and has now been for eleven weeks a prisoner in the county gaol of Leicester,"The petitioner went me to say,l361"That, on the 17th of May, 1838, the inhabitants of the said parish laid a church-rate of sixpence in the pound; payment of which rate, amounting to two pounds five shillings, was demanded of your petitioner, on the 13th of August, 1838, and was by him refused.
l361Mr. Easthope
3751374 said, the House could not have expected to be called upon so soon to; discuss this question after the recent assurance of the hon. Mover, that he would postpone the question of Church-rates until after Easter. He did not mean to say anything personally discourteous to that hon. Member, but he must remark that, in direct
3751374Sir R. Inglis
379 explained, His hon.
379Sir R. Inglis
388"That thus to imprison William Baines for refusing to contribute towards the expenses attending the worship of the Established Church, from which he conscientiously dissents, is to punish him for acting in accordance with what he regards as a religious duty, and is a violation of the principles of religious freedom."387386385384 hoped, that the House would not allow itself to be diverted, by any observations that had been made, into the consideration of any matter extraneous to that which was properly the subject before it. The question before them was not whether there ought to be an alteration in church-rates; it was not whether it was to substitute any maintenance for the Church in lieu of that which existed; it was not whether the ecclesiastical courts' jurisdiction in these matters should be abolished; it was not whether the amount of fees exacted in these cases were excessive; but the single question before them
388"That thus to imprison William Baines for refusing to contribute towards the expenses attending the worship of the Established Church, from which he conscientiously dissents, is to punish him for acting in accordance with what he regards as a religious duty, and is a violation of the principles of religious freedom."387386385384Sir Robert Peel
ll347 did not see the advantage to be derived from the appointment of committee to review the decision of the commissioners, who had already reported to.
ll347Sir Robert Peel
llll wished to ask a question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer relative to this sum. It appeared by a paper that had been recently laid upon the Table of the House that the whole amount of the naval expenditure for the last year was 1,421,000llllSir George Clerk
 said, that it should be recollected that the estimates which had been laid upon the Table were from 1st of January to 1st of January, and not for the financial year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
lll urged that the account laid upon the Table of the House showed that the amount of outstanding demands against the naval service on the 8th February, was 1,421,000lllSir George Clerk
 said, that hon. Gentlemen ought to let him know beforehand what information was really wanted, for if he had known that this explanation would be required, his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty, would have been there to answer the question. It was not right that he should be called upon thus suddenly to give replies. It was but the other day that the light hon. Gentleman (Sir George Clerk) had complained that the naval returns which had been moved for had not been made, when, on referring to the course adopted when the right hon. Gentleman was himself in the Admiralty, it appeared that though the returns had been moved for every year, they had never been produced.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought, that an answer ought to be given to the question that had been asked.Mr. Herries
 said, that if there were any difficulty in now proceeding with the report, he would move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again. Questions were put about accounts here and there, and if he were not able to answer immediately, an attempt was made to give his silence the appearance as if there was some unfair proceeding on his part, whereas there was no wish to have any concealment; and if he had known that the question was to be put as to this account, the Secretary of the Admiralty would have been there ready to answer it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll397 quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that, in general, if questions were to be asked, it was but fair to pursue the usual practice, and to make an intimation to the party; but he would ask the House whether this was one of those questions on which intimation need be given? The Chancellor of
ll397Mr. Goulburn
 was not aware, any more than his right hon. Friend, that this question was coming on, or that any explanation of the accounts would be required; but with regard to any explanation of the accounts of the navy and army, they depended upon the mode in which the accounts were made up. He knew that in the army, if sums were paid in 1839 for arrears due in 1836, they would not be entered under the year in which they were paid, but under the year fur which they were due; but with respect So the navy, he had always understood, that if any demands were paid in 1840, whether for the current expenses of that year, or for the back years of 1836, 1337, 1838, or 1839, they would be charged in 1840, without making any appropriation of the different parts to former years This showed that there was a distinction between the modes of keeping the accounts in the two departments, and when a question as to the navy expenditure was asked, it required that the accounts should be looked at. At the same time, he must observe, with respect to the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn), he had met with nothing but fairness.Lord John Russell
398lll said, that she distinction drawn by the noble Lord between the mode of keeping the accounts in the army and navy was anything but satisfactory to his mind, for that distinction had nothing to do with the present question. By the vote in the hands of the Chairman, it appeared that an excess of 165,000398lllSir James Graham
 said, that the noble Lord had no right whatever on the present occasion to charge him with being guilty of any want of courtesy against the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had not the least doubt, that there was no wish on the part of the right hon. Gentleman to mystify the accounts; but it appeared to him that it was a matter which required a few words of explanation how the discrepancy between the vote now proposed, and the amount of the out-standing demands had arisen. He was surprised, that neither the Secretary for the Treasury, nor the Secretary to the Admiralty were present; they could perhaps better give an answer to a question of detail than the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Sir G. Clerk
 could not help thinking, all bough the right hon. Gentlemen said, that his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had no right to complain, yet, that if it had happened when the right hon. Gentleman was himself Secretary of the Treasury, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had, in his absence, moved such a vote as the present, he would have complained, that it was to be delayed because the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not answer a question on a mere matter of detail. It was quite new in opposition to such a motion, a question relating to the details of the naval accounts, and not a question of general expenditure; it was a novel course to postpone a bill on that ground, and his light hon. Friend had cause to complain of it.Mr. Lubouchere
 observed that, when he looked at the enormous sums paid to her Majesty's Government, it was their duty to be present. He bad frequently had cause to complain that there was not a single Minister present when important business was going on.Colonel Sibthorp
399 regretted, that the time of the House had been thus taken up, because he had not been able to answer a question, but if he had been aware, that it would have been put, he would have been prepared to give a reply. It was technically true, that every return from the Treasury was supposed to come through his hands, but it did so happen, in point of fact, that he did not
399The Chancellor of the Exchequer
401 said, he perceived that the hon. Member for Preston had put a motion upon the paper since he had given notice of his intention to bring a particular proposition in relation to this bill before the House. Since he had entered the House he had been informed that if he proceeded with his motion and it should be negatived, the hon. Member for Pres-
401Mr. Wakley
 said, that he understood the object of the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury to be, to divide the bill into two. If that were the case, it would not interfere with the motion of the hon. Member for Preston.The Speaker
408407s406405404403402 said, that the motion which he was about to submit to the House was one of a nature purely practical, and could not be blamed for being vexatious and only to produce delay; his object was to test the sincerity of the House, and of those hon. Members who were in favour of the bill, with reference to the continuance of the commission. It was said by many hon. Members that they were anxious that the commission should continue for five years, but no longer; while others said, that they objected to the commission altogether, but that there were many clauses of the bill to which they objected; and the effect of this difference of opinion was, that there was always a majority in favour of the bill. If the bill were divided into two parts, those clauses which related to the commission forming a separate bill, they would have a full opportunity of ascertaining the feelings of the House as to the provisions of the bill—who were favourable to the alteration of the law, and the continuance of the commission. If the House were sincere in desiring that the commission should continue during five years, and should then terminate, if they acted as sensible men, with any desire to conciliate public feeling, and with a spirit becoming the representatives of the people, they could have no objection to throw the clauses into such a form as that they could work them when the commission ceased to exist. This would be a favourable opportunity to show what the House intended should be the future Poor-law of the land, and for determining upon a measure not open to the objections that it was a shifting vacillating law, and that it was liable to be changed in four or five years, leav
408407s406405404403402Mr. Wakley
414413412411410409 said, when the hon. Member who had just sat down had intimated his wish that the bill should be divided as a matter of convenience, he was ready to have heard the hon. Member's reasons. But, in the speech of the hon. Member, he had looked in vain for any reasons or arguments whatever; on the contrary, the hon. Member had addressed himself again to those inflammatory topics which were intended to produce a prejudice against the Poor-law Amendment Bill, and to exclude every other topic which he thought might have the effect with certain parties. Among other topics the hon. Member had referred to the working of the Reform Bill. Now he could not forget that there had been a great deal of discussion on that subject, in which at least most points had been agreed upon. But one point was very much urged upon the House, and which was still more urged in the House of Lords—that provision which gave representatives to the large metropolitan districts, because, said the opponents of the bill, admitting that the old system was bad, admitting that the making of mere paper voters ought not to be allowed, admitting that such large towns as Manchester and Birmingham ought to have representation, yet if you give representation to those large metropolitan boroughs the result would be, that they would send to Parliament a set of mischievous demagogues, who would have no regard to the general interests of the people. If those demagogues should happen to be lawyers, and should sit in courts of justice, they would turn their courts into arenas of
414413412411410409Lord John Russell
 wished to make a few observations on the amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury to divide the bill into two parts, as he agreed with the hon. Gentleman in regarding the present system of poor-laws with great distaste. He entertained great objections to several clauses in the bill before the House, but he thought, that the only chance of getting rid of them, and of amending the law as it stood, was not to separate the bill into two parts, for when the noble Lord had curried that for the continuance of the Poor-law commission, he would care very little about pressing the other measure, and would postpone it until next year. He thought, if the noble Lord wished to escape from a series of very protracted discussions, he would assent to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman. As he was very anxious for the amendment of the law as it now stood, and as he believed the success of the hon. Member's amendment would endanger the success of many alterations which were to be proposed, he should oppose it.Lord Granville Somerset
415 said, that there was more joy over one sinner that repented than over ninety-nine just persons, and the hon. Member for Finsbury stated, that he repented the support that be had given to reform and to the present Government. He sincerely requested the hon. Gentleman to quit the benches opposite and come over to that side of the House and join him. The hon. Member, like other hon. Gentlemen, bad obtained his seat in that House in consequence of the strong opposition which he had shown to this abominable system of poor-laws, and he had certainly that night pointed out the evils of them in a speech of considerable power. The noble Lord alluded to what he was pleased to call amendments in the system; now he had always understood that the meaning of the word amend, was, to change bad to good; if, therefore, it improved the condition of that class of persons for whom the noble Lord said, that he entertained a great regard and consideration, it would be an amendment; but the result was directly the contrary; he therefore, could not tell what was the meaning the noble Lord attached to the word. He not only objected to the Poor-law commission, but to all other commissions that had been
415Colonel Sibthorp
416dddd. dd thought, that the country was greatly indebted to the Poor-law Commissioners in London, for the ability and steadiness they had manifested in carrying the present Poor-law Act into effect. He was convinced, if the power vested in them had been left to local authorities, that the most important improvements would have been sacrificed to local feelings or to temporary popularity in certain districts. Since the New Poor-law Act had been brought into operation, wages in many parts of the country had sensibly increased, and in some agricultural places within his own knowledge they had advanced from 8416dddd. ddSir Harry Verney
 would not press his amendment. He had brought it forward for a practical purpose, but as he had not met the support of many of those who agreed with him in opposition to the system, he would not press it.Mr. Wakley
424ex officio423l422llllllllllllll421llllllCries of "Question, question.420ex parte;A Simple Remedy for Seduction,419418417 said, that if he wanted any apology for addressing the House on the present occasion, he should find it in the multitude of petitions which had been presented to that House. He had himself presented a petition signed by between 4,000 or 5,000 of his constituents. In the sentiments of those petitioners he fully concurred, and he had every reason to believe that they were sanctioned by the general opinion of the country at large. He was resolved to oppose this bill at the present and at every future stage, and he was strengthened in this resolution by remembering that it made every regulation against the poor much more stringent than any previous measure. It was clearly the intention of her Majesty's Government to make this measure permanent, and it would be better and more honest for them to say so at once. The continuance of the Poor-law commission had been defended upon the ground that many of the proposed unions had not yet been completed; but surely that object could be effected in a much shorter time than it was now proposed to give to the duration of the commission. But he objected to the measure on other grounds. It went to give the commissioners a great deal too much power; it invested them with the power of making law; it enabled them to appoint local boards of management, whom they found far more subservient and pliant than boards of guardians; it gave them the power of taxing to the amount of 20 per cent, a large sum annually levied upon the several counties. But the powers of the commissioners were even yet more extensive; in illustration of this he should call the attention of the House to a paragraph which appeared in a newspaper, and respecting the statements which it contained, he had received pri
424ex officio423l422llllllllllllll421llllllCries of "Question, question.420ex parte;A Simple Remedy for Seduction,419418417Mr. Townley Parker
426dsdsss425 rose to second the motion. After what had fallen from the noble Lord a few nights ago, he was satisfied in his own mind that the intention of her Majesty's Government was to make this Poor-law perpetual. He might be told, that they had altered it by reducing the term of the commission from ten years to five. This had been a concession. And why? To satisfy the Conservative side of the House. If ever there was a bill which fully justified opposition in every stage, and in every way, it was the bill before the House; because, if it was looked at it not only went to perpetuate the commission, but to enlarge the powers of the commissioners to a great extent, and it imposed a taxation upon the country, which the country would not bear. Looking at the extent of the power given to the commissioners, and at the mischiefs which the law had engendered, and continued to engender, those gentlemen had no claim, and the Government had no claim, to call upon the House to say, that they should stand in a better situation than to be continued from year to year. The power given to these gentlemen ought not to be put for one year out of the hands of Parliament. The noble Lord had adverted to the mischiefs of the old law, and he fea ed that many such cases might have arisen under that law; but he contended, that as the unions were formed, the poor had no protection; oppressions might go on, and great hardships be inflicted on the poor, without being brought to the cognizance of the authorities of the law. The noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, had on a former occasion, lamented, that the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, should think, that the Poor-law Commissioners ought not to be continued for ten years; he said they ought to be permanent, and he had regretted exceedingly, that at the passing of the first Poor-law Amendment Act a little more firmness had not been exhibited, which would have made the commissioners permanent. He had always considered, that the great value of every law was uniform-
426dsdsss425Mr. Grimsditch
427 was opposed to the bill, because, in his mind, it put the whole labouring class out of the law, and into the hands of the Poor-law commissioners. Petitions to a very great number had been presented to the House against the bill, and it was a remarkable circumstance that there were only two petitions with two signatures in its favour. The present measure had a tendency to keep up dissensions in the country, and if the Legislature wished to excite the deadly hatred of the working classes, all they need to do was to pass the bill under consideration. It was designated by the working classes throughout the country as the rich man's law against the poor. Out of every 100 of agricultural labourers or mechanics 99 would be found, he undertook to say, to entertain the greatest abhorrence of the existing law. Great stress had been laid on the bad administration of the old law; and it had been urged, that nothing could be so injurious as paying wages partly out of the rates. He admitted this, but to what extent had such a system prevailed? It existed in not more than five counties; and in the north, paying wages out of the rates was a thing unheard of. It was no reason, then, because the Poor-law had been previously badly administered in five counties, that the old consti
427General Johnson
430429428 complained of the waste of time occasioned by a discussion on the principle of the bill, after an overwhelming majority of the House had decided in its favour. If hon. Members wished to amend the bill, surely they did not go the right way to work, by moving that it be committed that day six months. This motion seemed to him quite as uncalled for as the recent amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury for dividing the bill into two parts. When the New Poor-law was first introduced, it was generally admitted to be necessary to carry it into execution by the aid of a central controlling authority. It was thought to be impossible that the system could be conducted in any other way for a number of years. The only question, therefore, for consideration at the present moment was, whether the system could go on for five years, or any given period, deprived of the advantage of this controlling power? Payment of wages out of the rates was a very great evil under the old law, and was known under one name or another, in the very county in which the hon. Member who last spoke resided. No one could reflect on the state of the poor under-the old system, without a feeling of pain. It was evident that their morals, habits, and dispositions, were deteriorated in proportion as the Poor-law was badly administered. Previous to the introduction of the present law, the agricultural population, in some of the counties, was on the very verge of an outbreak. Such a state of things required a caustic and constitutional remedy, and he contended, that the principle on which the New Poor-law was founded, was just the same as that which was previously acted upon in counties where the old law was best executed—namely, the workhouse test. What, indeed, was the principle of the Elizabethan law? By it the poor were divided into three classes: the first was composed of children whose parents were
430429428Mr. Miles
431 said, his constituents were unanimous in their opposition to this bill; and they believed, that this system had a tendency to increase rather than to diminish the Poor-rates. Another reason for their opposition was, that this enactment was not suited to the manufacturing districts. He objected to putting the poor to the severe tests required by this act, and to throwing them on their own resources, while the landed interest had a law to protect them; they ought first to repeal the Corn-laws, He was not disposed to blame this law altogether for the state of the poor, because he could remember their condition under the old law. There had been many amendments made by this act, but the jealousy of the people at the power given to the Poor-law commissioners made them unwilling to receive it; but, if the power were vested in boards of guardians, much benefit might accrue from the act.
431Mr. Brotherton
 said, that looking at the various clauses of the bill, and at the way in which they worked, he had felt it necessary to vote against it, because he felt that the general principle of the bill was to make the original Poor-law Amendment Act more strict. Having voted against the second reading of the present bill for these reasons, and having found himself in a minority, and the noble Lord having given way on several points, he should not oppose the bill going into committee, but should feel himself bound to support many of the amendments which had been proposed by every means in his power.Sir A. Dalrymple
432 said, he had supported the original bill, and would not have done so if he had considered it in any way hostile to the poorer classes. His belief was, that this bill was absolutely necessary to their welfare. He merely spoke as to the principle of it, and not as to every clause of it. In almost every county on the south and east coasts the labourers had formerly had their wages made up out of the Poor-rates, and the services of labouring men were put up to auction. That was a system which had been maintained, not in one parish, but in several. If that were the case, was not the change which had taken place in the condition of the working classes of these counties to be considered as an improvement. He contended, that the labourers were much improved in condition by having their wages paid directly in money. The condition of the poor in the old workhouses was ill-attended to. The able-bodied dissolute woman, with her two or three bastard children, was there mixed up with the old and infirm woman of correct life. Now these classes were separated, and old persons were placed in situations where they could enjoy those decent comforts fitted for their age, and where they were separated from those who formerly, under the old system, used to tease and plague them. The able-bodied had the option whether they would work or not, and if they would there was sufficient employment found for
432Mr. Slaney
433Loud cries of "Order." rose amid cries of "Divide," and said it was not his intention to do more than explain the vote he had given on the second reading, and at the same time the reason why he should not support the amendment of his hon. Friend, the Member for Preston. The bill as it stood when he voted on the second reading, was not the same as the present, in one principle at least, and yet he should have voted for it, but for the end of the speech of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) on that occasion which convinced him (Sir C. Douglas), that the continuance of the commissioners for ten years, was the main principle the Government wished to be enforced. He would quote from that speech to prove such was the case. [433Loud cries of "Order."Sir Charles Douglas
s436ss435ex officioHear, hear, from the Ministerial benches.434 said, that, if his impression were correct, the report of the commissioners contained a number of recommendations having a tendency to soften the severity of the bill. Not one of those recommendations, however, was embodied in the bill now before the House. The committee had condemned the size of the unions. They had pronounced the medical districts too large. They had condemned the system of tenders with reference to medical contracts. How, then, could the hon. Member for Somersetshire consistently say that it was a waste of time to discuss the question, and that they should rush at once to the amendment of the bill? It was not fit for amendment. For, was any part of the bill approved of by the people? True, a clause had been introduced by the noble Lord (he alluded to clause A) with reference to local acts. He was afraid that the noble Lord was not altogether pleased with the Members for the metropolitan districts, they were rather unwelcome visitors to the noble Lord. The demagogues were a source of annoyance to him. He was glad of it. He hoped that the noble Lord might continue to suffer these annoyances till a change took place with reference to the existing law. The noble Lord had said, that it was argued at the time of the Reform Bill that one effect of that measure would be to introduce mischievous demagogues into that House as the representatives of the metropolitan districts. Whether such had been the effect or not he could not say. The noble Lord, perhaps, could. He much feared that the noble Lord's opinion of them had been only too true, for the noble Lord had had their support ever since they had been in that House. He could assure the noble Lord that no term which the noble Lord could apply to him as one of them, should prevent him from discharging what he thought to be his duty in that House. The metropolis, however, had shown no such vulgar taste. The effect of the reform of that House had been that the metropolis had returned one noble Lord. The noble Lord had first rattled through the question with reference to destitution, and had proclaimed from his ministerial seat in that House that no distinction should be made
s436ss435ex officioHear, hear, from the Ministerial benches.434Mr. Wakley
 having voted against the second reading of the bill now under discuss too, thought it incumbent on him to state briefly the reason which induced him now to vote for sending the bill into committee. He had voted against the second reading, because he thought the measure unjust, cruel, and unnatural. His opinion remained unchanged. He still thought it liable to the three objections which he had then stated, but he was of opinion that by allowing it to go into committee he might be instrumental in modifying its more stringent clauses. He hoped to see the central power of the commissioners limited from five years to two. Many amendments were proposed, some of which he looked upon as most valuable, particularly the one proposed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for East Sussex, namely, the substitution of the "labour test" for the "in-door test." Feeling, therefore, that by voting for the amendment, "that the bill be committed this day six months," he would be, perhaps, defeating the enactment of a measure which might be the means of modifying the hardships and cruelties of the existing syetem, he should, however inconsistent it might appear, vote that the bill go into committee.Mr. Fitzroy
 asked why they had not been told what the number of assistant-commissioners was to be. The old number was twenty-one, but he would recommend the noble Lord to try the lucky number of five. He saw so much throughout the bill that required alteration that he would cordially second his right hon. Friend's motion for postponing the clause, and, if he moved the postponement of the next clause, also, he would support him with equal pleasure.Colonel Sibthorp
442 said, that his wish was, as he had already stated, that the powers of the commissioners should be continued for ten years; for he still thought, although he undeservedly got credit for thinking otherwise, that ten years would be a better period of time. But, it having Income matter of considerable doubt, that he should have succeeded in carrying that period, and feeling that it would have been rather hard, that those who were in the habit of voting with him should have been subjected to the odium of a defeat, he yielded to what he thought would have
442Lord J. Russell
445"One principal object of a compulsory provision, for the relief of destitution, is the prevention of almsgiving."444443 applauded the discretion of the noble Lord in declining to drag his friends through the odium of supporting him unless he was perfectly sure of carrying his original proposition. For himself, he must say be had not suggested five years as the term for the continuance of the commission merely because that was half of what the noble Lord proposed, but because he considered it a reasonable proposition, which the House might, therefore, fairly infer that he would still support. He very much doubted whether five was not better than a shorter period. In the first place, he did not think there would be any very great advantage in
445"One principal object of a compulsory provision, for the relief of destitution, is the prevention of almsgiving."444443Sir R. Peel
 wished to define the powers of the commissioners before he was called upon to fix the term of their continuance. He did not know what shape the bill might assume when the other clauses should be disposed of. It might be essentially different from what it was at present, and the period for which he should vote must therefore very much depend on the character of the powers vested in the commissioners.Sir E. Knatchbull
 thought it would be very inconvenient to legislate what the commissioners should do until it was decided whether they were to be continued or not. He should certainly vote for the continuance of the commission for five years; but he should reserve to himself the full right at a future slap of the bill, probably on the report, unless the clauses were so modified as to meet his approbation, to limit the duration of the commission as much as he should think proper.Lord G. Somerset
in toto reserving to himself the same power of proposing, on the report, a reduced term of years, or, if the bill were not very much modified, of opposing it in totoSir E. Knatchbull,
 expressed his deep regret that hit right hon. Friend would not divide upon this question. If the bill was to be continued for five years, the House was at least entitled to have an answer to the question he put, namely, what was to be the number of assistant-commissioners and other officers.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, he had stated on a former occasion that the number of assistant-commissioners in England and Wales should be reduced to twelve.Lord J. Russell
 suggested that they might at least be reduced to the noble Lord's lucky number "five."Colonel Sibthorp
 opposed the amendment. The assistant-commissioners were exceedingly useful in attending boards and explaining the objects of the law and its general operation with regard to relief. If the boards of guardians were permanent, and had other opportunities of learning their duties, a smaller number of assistant-commissioners would be sufficient, but in order to enforce something like uniformity of system, twelve was still necessary.Lord J. Russell
 complained, not that the assistant-commissioners had not visited particular unions, but that their visits were made when they were not necessary. If the assistant-commissioners confined themselves to their proper duties, fewer would be wanted.Mr. Darby
447 said, that in the unions with which he was acquainted, the assistant-commissioners were not able to visit more than once in four or five months. But then they were kept away by pressure
447Mr. G. Wood
maximummaximum had presented a petition to-night from the guardians of a union who stated that they got on remarkably well, so long as the assistant-commissioners kept away from them. He was glad to hear that the noble Lord intended to reduce the number of assistant-commissioners. He wished, however, to know whether the noble Lord would have any objection to insert in the present bill the maximummaximumLord G. Somerset
 said, that in the course of last year he had received petitions from several boards of guardians in the county (Berkshire) which he had the honour to represent, and the object of all those petitions had been to state that there was no necessity for so many assistant-commissioners, as the duties which they had to perform were completely works of supererogation. The assistant-commissioners could hardly have at present as much duty to perform as they had when the new law was in its infancy. The object of Government in appointing them originally was to carry out the bill by dividing the country into unions. Now that the unions, or at least the far greater portion of the unions, were formed, their duties must generally cease and determine. Their duties must be 4 few and far between "in those parts of the country where the unions were formed. He was therefore anxious for a reduction of their numbers, though he did not know any reason for fixing their number at five, unless it were that it was one for each of the years that the Poor-law commission was to last. Whatever opinion he might entertain upon the policy of making the Poor-law commissioners permanent—and he was by no means favourably inclined to such policy—he could see no reason for making the assistant commissioners a permanent body. He thought, that the House ought to have an assurance, that the assistant-commissioners would not exceed 12.Mr. R. Palmer
 said, that what he had proposed was this—that in future the assistant commissioners should be twelve. The noble Lord, the Member for Monmouthshire had asked, whether he had any objection to insert a clause in the bill providing that the number of assistant-commissioners should not exceed twelve. That would be a limitation to which he was not at present prepared to accede. He had no objection to state, that there would not be more than twelve assistant-commissioners appointed; but he would not fix their number at that limit in the bill, for he could not make such a limitation in the English bill without inserting a similar limitation in the Irish bill. Now, as the system of unions and of workhouses was quite new in Ireland, he could not tell how many assistant-commissioners might be wanted to carry the bill into effect in that country.Lord J. Russell
 suggested, that the committee should leave the number of assistant-commissioners at twelve, as the noble Lord suggested. As their salaries were voted annually by the House, the House would always retain in its own hands the opportunity of fixing their numbers.Mr. Hume
449 felt inclined to limit the duration of the commission to a shorter period than five years, but at the same time was not disposed to diminish the number of assistant-commissioners. He anticipated, that the commission would not terminate at the end of five years, but it would be wholesome for the commissioners to know that it was not intended that their power should be permanent. Without meaning any imputation on their honour and integrity, he must say, that the commissioners were liable to commit errors in judgment, and particularly this error, that, instead of punishing any malad ministration of the law, they endeavoured to stifle all inquiry into it, under the idea, that the publicity given to such mal-administration would injure the system in public opinon. Now, in a country like this, inquiry could not be stifled. It would therefore be more useful for them to show that, wherever abuses were discovered in the administration of the law, they were resolved to check and punish them. He thought, that it would be very useful, if once a year an opportunty were afforded to the House of making observations upon their conduct. They might thus receive advice like that which the right hon. Member for Tam
449Mr. S. Herbert
, amid great confusion, said, that after the observations which he had just heard, he would not put the committee to the trouble of dividing, but would withdraw his amendment.Mr. B. Wood
 said, that if such a course were adopted he should move, that the Chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again. Two amendments had been proposed and then withdrawn, although the movers of both had threatened to divide the Committee upon them. This was converting the business of the House of Commons into a mere farce. He objected not only to appointing twelve assistant commissioners, but also to appointing any assistant commissioners at all.Colonel Sibthorp
 was not prepared to answer the question of the noble Lord, but he believed that the Act of Parliament fixed the day.Mr. Fox Maule
 wished to ask whether it were intended to take the census on the 1st July next, as had been announced, because as that was the week in which the quarter sessions were held, many persons would be reckoned away from their Houses?Lord Granville Somerset
l said, that the committee would recollect, that on a former night, it had been proposed, that her Majesty's Government should be authorised to guarantee a loan to meet the deficiency for bills drawn from the South Australian colonies; upon that occasion a suggestion was made that there should be an advance of the sum absolutely required to meet the claims for bills and supplies; and it was further suggested, that a vote for this sum should be voted in a committee of supply. Yet upon the whole he thought it better to pursue the more usual course, and take the amount from the consolidated fund. He would, therefore, propose that a sum of 155,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the hon. Baronet had not considered the real object of the motion before the House. It was not made with a view to the final settlement of the question, for that had been determined to be postponed when the matter was discussed the other evening, until a bill should be brought in, which should set the colony in its right position for the future. All that was sought to be done by this grant was to provide for the necessities of those who might, by their being neglected, be left in a position of difficulty. He admitted that if this were a final arrangement, the hon. Baronet would have a right to urge the topics which he had brought forward, upon the House, but as it was, he was sure that he would not deem it necessary to press the matter any further.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l400l said, that the right hon. Gentleman proposed to lend a sum out of the consolidated fund for the purpose of defraying the bills now due. He cordially approved of what had been proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, as the only means of preventing vast distress in the colony. It appeared to him, that the proposal did not go far enough to meet the exigencies of the case. Not only ought the bills which had been drawn by the Governor of South Australia to be provided for, but in his (Sir W. Molesworth's) opinion the debt incurred by the commissioners, and due to the emigration fund, ought also to be paid. There were no funds now available for emigration, and the debt due to the emigration fund amounted to 56,000l400lSir W. Molesworth
 said, that the walks were being repaired, and when that was done it would be re-opened to the public.Mr. E. J. Stanley
455 begged to ask the Attor-
455Sir E. Wilmot
ab initio said, he had no hesitation in stating that the contracts would be declared invalid ab initioThe Attorney-General
l: It was true, that a sum of 23,000lMr. M. OFerrall
461 said, he hoped the noble Lord would give an assurance to the House, that he did not desire to hurry
461Mr. W. Buncombe
 said, that lit: also hoped the noble Lord would give ample time for petitions to be presented on this important subject. He had been in formed, that several petitions were in preparation at Manchester, and that part of the country, very numerously signed, which were intended to be intrusted to him for presentation against the bill. He had no doubt there was a strong feeling in many parts of the country against the measure, but however happy he should be at all times to present any petitions entrusted to his care, he hoped, at the same time, that the petitions against this bill, or in favour of a repeal of the measure altogether, would be placed in the hands of some Member, whose views and opinions on the subject were more congenial with those of the petitioners than his were. He had had some experience of the working of the old law in some parts of the country, and he must say, that the new law was a very great improvement. The new law might not perhaps work so well in other parts of the country, but in those pails that he knew best, its operation was most beneficial, as compared with the old system.Lord F. Egerton
462 said, that he by no means wished to hurry the bill through the House. He had no intention whatever of hastening the subsequent stages of the bill. He only wished that the House should proceed day by day with the committee white there was a full attendance of Members from the country, who must know the opinions and feelings of the different localities which they represented. He thought it better, therefore, to take the clauses as soon as the House conve-
462Lord J. Russell
 said, that there was an extremely strong feeling against the new Poor-law in the manufacturing districts, and especially in Manchester. It was his opinion, Unit this bill could not be carried into effect in the manufacturing districts, and he should divide the House against it on every occasion,Mr. Fielden
 rose for the purpose of deprecating unnecessary divisions, and and begging of hon. Members to direct their attention to those improvements which were desired by those who bad watched the working of the new law. He knew, that nothing had excited more prejudice against it than the separation of married persons advanced in life who were obliged to go into a workhouse. If the noble Lord would introduce an amendment to prevent the recurrence of such severity, he would cordially support him; but if not, he would himself introduce a provision to enable a husband and wife, when of advanced age, to live together, subject, however, to such rules and regulations as it might be thought proper to enact. There was another point deserving of attention. There were many old persons who, with a little aid, would be able to support themselves in their own cottages, but who were compelled by the existing law to go into the workhouse, where they cost more than would have supported them in their old residences. It was things of this kind, which were by no means necessary to the efficient working of the law; that were creating prejudices against it.Sir E. Sugden
463ex officio said, that in the Staines workhouse, of which he was an 463ex officioColonel Wood
 regretted, that every union workhouse was not as as well provided as that mentioned by the hon. and gallant Member.Mr. W. Ellis
 thought the noble Lord could not be in earnest, when he said there was not a strong feeling through the country on the subject of the new Poor-law. [Lord J. Russell: No; not so.] So he understood the noble Lord; and, in proof of the assertion, to observe, that many petitions had not been presented on the subject. But he could easily account for that. The people knew the value of petitioning that House, and did not petition merely because they had no confidence in it. There was no subject on which a stronger feeling prevailed, or on which so many petitions, and petitions so numerously signed, had been presented, for the short time that this Session had already lasted. The noble Lord was, therefore, mistaken, if he supposed, that there was not a strong feeling among the working classes on this subject.Mr. Leader
 had said nothing about a strong feeling prevailing through the country. He had alluded simply to what the noble Lord had said with respect to Manchester, and denied, that there was any appearance of a strong feeling there.Lord J. Russell
 had heard, that the Poor-law commissioners alleged, that under the existing law, they had the power to order the assistant-commissioners to do what he had done the other day at Barnstaple—summon before him the magistrates and gentlemen who had attended at a Poor-law meeting.Sir E. Knatchbull
 had inquired of the Poor-law commissioners, what the facts of that case were, and they were not able to inform him, as they were not aware of what had taken place, but they intended to inquire further of the officers who were aware of the facts; as soon as he should be informed of the facts, he should be ready to state them to the House.Lord J. Russell
 trusted, that if there were any papers on the subject, the noble Lord would lay them on the Table.Sir E. Knatchbull
464, from having been a chairman of a committee to inquire into the working of the Poor-laws, could say, that abuses of the grossest kind had been carried on under the old law, and that some change
464Mr. Slaney
469"——ASSISTANT SECRETARY.""By order of the Board.468"Sir—The Poor-law Commissioners acknowledge the receipt of your letter, of the 4th ult., and of its enclosures, and they have had under their consideration the inquiries which you submit to them with respect to your authority as medical officer of the Uxbridge Union, to order any description of articles of diet for
468"DIET FOR SICK PAUPERS."1,636 A.—Poor-law Commission-office, Somerset-house, March 4, 1841."To the Poor-law Commissioners.""WILLIAM RATHER,.""Your obedient Servant,"Gentlemen,"Gentlemen—I had the honour of addressing a letter to you three weeks ago, on a subject in connexion with the Uxbridge Union, and have not yet been favoured with a reply. Similar circumstances having occurred since I wrote to you, I am anxious for your immediate answer to my inquiries, and have the honour to be,"Uxbridge, February 26, 1841."WILLIAM RAYNER.""Your obedient servant,"I have the honour to be, Gentlemen,"To the Poor-law Commissioners of England and Wales.—Gentlemen—lam a medical officer for one of the districts of the Uxbridge Union, under a contract for one year, to terminate in March next. On the 3rd of last December, in consequence of reports which reached me, I sent the letter marked No. 1 to the guardians. To-day I received the resolution of the board marked No. 2, and have since sent the letter marked No. 3, in reply. The district which I have is extensive and exceedingly poor, and I have ordered articles of diet, which in my judgment I deemed necessary for the well-doing of my patients, and send you a copy of the return to the board of guardians, on which the resolution was founded. Now, gentlemen, I wish to be satisfied on the following points, and as it is ray present intention to publish the whole correspondence for the benefit of others similarly circumstanced, I shall, therefore, thank you for an explicit and clear answer to my inquiries, as upon your answer will greatly depend my continuing a medical officer of the union;—1. Have I authority, as a medical officer, to order any description of article of diet for pauper patients under ray care? 2. From whence does that authority arise? 3. Have the board of guardians or relieving officer authority to refuse an order for diet which I, as a medical officer, deem proper for my patients? And, if so, 4. What would be the proper grounds for such refusal?"Uxbridge, Feb. 4, 1841.467"WILLIAM RAINER.""Your obedient servant,"I have the honour to remain, gentlemen,"Gentlemen,—I have to acknowledge the receipt of a resolution of the board of guardians, handed to me this day by Mr. Woodbridge. I beg to refer you to my letter addressed to the board on the 3rd of December, 1840; and again to state, that the articles of diet which I have ordered, to which that resolution refers, I consider necessary for my patients, and so long as I remain a medical officer of the union I shall continue to order them, if they require them. I have to-day learned, that some of my orders have been refused and others torn up, while to the paupers threats have been held out by Mr. Stockwell, that if Mr. Rayner continued them he should withdraw the money allowed to the pauper by the board of guardians. I therefore consider it to be my duty to state distinctly to the board, that I will not take upon myself the care and responsibility of those patients to whom diet is refused as a remedial means, nor risk the danger incurred by such refusal; but shall feel myself bound no longer to continue a medical officer of the union under such disadvantageous and hopeless circumstances."'To the Hoard of Guardians, Uxbridge Union,"Uxbridge, Feb. 4. 1841."It appeared from the medical weekly return-book of the Ruislip district, that the medical officer has attended nineteen patients during the past week, to fourteen of whom he has ordered indiscriminately mutton, beer, bread, &c. Besides these cases he has given two orders to the relieving officer for paupers whose names do not appear in the medical returns, namely, Mrs. Edward's child, ¼lb. of mutton per day, Mrs. Fellows's, mutton as before. Resolved, that Mr. Rayner, the medical officer, be requested to furnish the guardians with an explanation on the subject.""WILLIAM RAYNER.""I remain, &c.466"Gentlemen,—It having been represented to me, that the board of guardians had observed, that I had given many orders for mutton, bread, and beer to the cases under my care, and which have appeared to them to be more than reasonable, I have considered it
466"Uxbridge, December 3rd, 1841.465 complained of the arbitrary power given as well to the commissioners as to the boards of guardians by this bill. He believed, that by proceeding with it the House was incurring such an amount of moral guilt, that ages of virtuous conduct could not redeem them. He had seen in the newspapers a most extraordinary case, to which he wished to call the attention of the House. It was an account of the proceedings before the magistrates at the Shire-hall, Nottingham, relative to the death of a man of the name of Parke. It appears, that he died from want, and complaint was made, that the parochial medical officer had not done all in his power to afford him aid. The surgeon, when he appeared before the magistrates, stated, that he endeavoured to obtain from the board of guardians some relaxation of the order as to giving nutritious food or other relief in case of destitution and illness occasioned by want of food. He said, that he had attempted, for six months in succession, to induce them to alter rule, so that he might be able, as the medical officer of the union, to go beyond the dietary in cases of urgency; but the reply was, that this was not to be done till he had reported each case to the board and obtained permission. So that if a surgeon of the union saw a patient dying from exhaustion, he had not power to order him a glass of wine or an ounce of nourishing food. He found one of the magistrates on the bench was Colonel Rolleston, he believed a Member of this House, who stated, that he believed, that the proceeding of this board of guardians had met with the disapprobation of the commissioners; and he should like to know from the hon. Member, if he was in the House, whether this was the case or not? Again, during the present day, in the discharge of his duty he met with a surgeon, who asked him why he had not replied to a communication which he had sent him in a somewhat similar case. He had no recollection of the case; so that it appeared the communication had miscarried. It appeared, that this gentleman was the medical officer of the Uxbridge union, and that he had got into some dispute with the board of guardians there, in
469"——ASSISTANT SECRETARY.""By order of the Board.468"Sir—The Poor-law Commissioners acknowledge the receipt of your letter, of the 4th ult., and of its enclosures, and they have had under their consideration the inquiries which you submit to them with respect to your authority as medical officer of the Uxbridge Union, to order any description of articles of diet for
468"DIET FOR SICK PAUPERS."1,636 A.—Poor-law Commission-office, Somerset-house, March 4, 1841."To the Poor-law Commissioners.""WILLIAM RATHER,.""Your obedient Servant,"Gentlemen,"Gentlemen—I had the honour of addressing a letter to you three weeks ago, on a subject in connexion with the Uxbridge Union, and have not yet been favoured with a reply. Similar circumstances having occurred since I wrote to you, I am anxious for your immediate answer to my inquiries, and have the honour to be,"Uxbridge, February 26, 1841."WILLIAM RAYNER.""Your obedient servant,"I have the honour to be, Gentlemen,"To the Poor-law Commissioners of England and Wales.—Gentlemen—lam a medical officer for one of the districts of the Uxbridge Union, under a contract for one year, to terminate in March next. On the 3rd of last December, in consequence of reports which reached me, I sent the letter marked No. 1 to the guardians. To-day I received the resolution of the board marked No. 2, and have since sent the letter marked No. 3, in reply. The district which I have is extensive and exceedingly poor, and I have ordered articles of diet, which in my judgment I deemed necessary for the well-doing of my patients, and send you a copy of the return to the board of guardians, on which the resolution was founded. Now, gentlemen, I wish to be satisfied on the following points, and as it is ray present intention to publish the whole correspondence for the benefit of others similarly circumstanced, I shall, therefore, thank you for an explicit and clear answer to my inquiries, as upon your answer will greatly depend my continuing a medical officer of the union;—1. Have I authority, as a medical officer, to order any description of article of diet for pauper patients under ray care? 2. From whence does that authority arise? 3. Have the board of guardians or relieving officer authority to refuse an order for diet which I, as a medical officer, deem proper for my patients? And, if so, 4. What would be the proper grounds for such refusal?"Uxbridge, Feb. 4, 1841.467"WILLIAM RAINER.""Your obedient servant,"I have the honour to remain, gentlemen,"Gentlemen,—I have to acknowledge the receipt of a resolution of the board of guardians, handed to me this day by Mr. Woodbridge. I beg to refer you to my letter addressed to the board on the 3rd of December, 1840; and again to state, that the articles of diet which I have ordered, to which that resolution refers, I consider necessary for my patients, and so long as I remain a medical officer of the union I shall continue to order them, if they require them. I have to-day learned, that some of my orders have been refused and others torn up, while to the paupers threats have been held out by Mr. Stockwell, that if Mr. Rayner continued them he should withdraw the money allowed to the pauper by the board of guardians. I therefore consider it to be my duty to state distinctly to the board, that I will not take upon myself the care and responsibility of those patients to whom diet is refused as a remedial means, nor risk the danger incurred by such refusal; but shall feel myself bound no longer to continue a medical officer of the union under such disadvantageous and hopeless circumstances."'To the Hoard of Guardians, Uxbridge Union,"Uxbridge, Feb. 4. 1841."It appeared from the medical weekly return-book of the Ruislip district, that the medical officer has attended nineteen patients during the past week, to fourteen of whom he has ordered indiscriminately mutton, beer, bread, &c. Besides these cases he has given two orders to the relieving officer for paupers whose names do not appear in the medical returns, namely, Mrs. Edward's child, ¼lb. of mutton per day, Mrs. Fellows's, mutton as before. Resolved, that Mr. Rayner, the medical officer, be requested to furnish the guardians with an explanation on the subject.""WILLIAM RAYNER.""I remain, &c.466"Gentlemen,—It having been represented to me, that the board of guardians had observed, that I had given many orders for mutton, bread, and beer to the cases under my care, and which have appeared to them to be more than reasonable, I have considered it
466"Uxbridge, December 3rd, 1841.465Mr. Wakley
 said, that under the old law a remedy for the evil of which the hon. Gentleman complained was to be found in an application to a magistrate; he believed that that remedy still continued to exist. If a medical officer said that the case of any pauper patient was one of a dangerous character, and that additional nutriment and stimulants were required for his use, then the magistrates possessed the power, and it was not to be supposed that in any case they would want the inclination to make such an order, as the exigency of the case might seem to require. There certainly was a clause in the existing law to that effect, and he could not help feeling surprised, that it should have eluded the examination of the hon. Gentleman opposite, the hon. Member for Finsbury.Mr. Darby
 agreed, that it was desirable to have every case of alleged abuse investigated, and for his own part be could only say, that he was most anxious the poor should receive not only proper medical attendance, but such necessary articles of diet as their cases required. He had some experience in the matter, and he did not hesitate to state, that he never knew an instance where a pauper wanted relief in which it was not afforded. This was a case which should be inquired into, and he felt delighted when accusations of the kind were brought forward, because it would enable them properly to deal with them.Sir Harry Verney
471470 quite agreed with the last speaker, that in any case of emergency a remedy did exist. The question which the hon. Member for Finsbury had raised was this, whether or not the medical officer could order supplies of food independently of that discretionary power with which the board of guardians were supposed to be invested by the law, as it
471470Viscount Howick
 said, it had been stated, that Mr. Rayner might be one of those who were seeking popularity to serve their own ends, by bringing this measure into disrepute; but were there not others who were seeking popularity with the same view? Were there not noble Lords who, when they were turned out of one place, were trying by all means in their power to get into another? It appeared that three weeks had elapsed before any answer was sent to the statement of this medical officer. Now, if that were the feeling which the noble Lord justified, he would tell the noble Lord he had no reason to boast of it, and that the sooner he quitted the situation of poor-law guardian the more satisfactory would it be to the poor of the union over which he presided. He thought this was a most important case; and that it proved how little they could trust to the Poor-law commissioners in the regulations they made, and how little confidence they could have in the boards of guardians in carrying those rules into execution.Colonel Sibthorp
473472 had listened with pain to the speech which had been made
473472Sir A. Dalrymple
475"Most assuredly I should have given him warm wine, or spiced wine, or something of that sort, but I had no power of doing it, by the orders of the board of guardians.""Do you mean to say, that under the circumstances of this case, which I understand to be one of extreme debility, something more calculated to sustain life, or more stimulating, was not necessary?"474ex officio understood that during his absence his name had been mentioned in reference to a case with which he was in some degree acquainted; and he must express his regret that the hon. Member for Finsbury had not given him some little intimation of his intention to refer to that case, as he was led to believe from what he had ascertained from hon. Members one one side or the other, that some misapprehension might exist as to the circumstances of it, and that blame might be attached to the wrong quarter. He would, however, endeavour to give some explanation of the circumstances of the case. As an 475"Most assuredly I should have given him warm wine, or spiced wine, or something of that sort, but I had no power of doing it, by the orders of the board of guardians.""Do you mean to say, that under the circumstances of this case, which I understand to be one of extreme debility, something more calculated to sustain life, or more stimulating, was not necessary?"474ex officioColonel Rolleston
 thought the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury would induce hon. Members to pause before they voted for the clause defining the powers of the commissioners and guardians; because it was stated, that the commissioners did not sanction this extra allowance to paupers. It was said that the by-rule had been applied only to the Uxbridge Union; but, according to the 4th clause of this bill, he believed it would become a general law for all unions.Mr. C. Hamilton
476 said, he thought the hon. Member Who had just spoken, would find nothing in the 4th clause of this bill to justify the fear he had expressed. The question was. whether a medical officer of an union had a right, without an order of a board of guardians, to order an indiscriminate supply of extra sustenance. He recollected that, according to the documents which the hon. Member for Finsbury had read, the medical gentleman in question had ordered extra sustenance in two cases which did not appear in his medical report; and he must say, that ac-
476Mr. C. Wood
 said, that if a report were laid before a board of guardians, that a medical man had attended in the course of the last week only nineteen cases, and that out of those, in fourteen cases he had ordered wine, and extra sustenance of that kind, he must say, that if he were chairman of that board, he should have felt himself bound to make some inquiry into the circumstances. But he did not think it possible, that out of such a small number of cases, so many could have required such a liberal order as to wine and other things of the same kind. It did not appear to him, however, that the board of guardians did restrict their medical officers from making those orders, until they ex-they extended them too far.Mr. E. Buller
477 said, it must not be forgotten that this case had been referred to the commissioners, and three weeks elapsed without any notice being taken of it. Another letter was then sent, and after taking further time to consider their answer, they at last confirmed the order of the board of guardians by saying, that the medical officer was not to give extra sustenance, except by the advice of the board of guardians, and either at the option of the guardians, or the relieving officer. Now, since boards of guardians only met once a fortnight, and although many cases might be brought in requring extra sustenance, yet the medical man would only have the power to order water-gruel or tea. Were hon. Members sent to that House to devise means for starving the poor? It was with deep regret he had heard the the speech which the noble Lord, the leader of that House had made, on the opening of this debate, on Friday last. The declaration then made by the noble Lord was pregnant, in his opinion, with most serious evils. The noble Lord wished to bind together the base and the good, the vicious and profligate with the virtuous and industrious, and throw them all into a chaos of confusion and destitution. He wished the House to observe the principles which were inculcated in the doctrine, that there should be only one test, whatever might be the circumstances of the case, and that whether destitution arose by the visitation of the Almighty, or by his own profligacy, every poor man should meet at the hands of
477General Johnson
 said, the noble Lord's speech on Friday last was not the subject of the present discussion; but if it were he might say that never in his life had he listened to a speech in which he so thoroughly concurred. He felt the strongest admiration for the courage with which the noble lord had supported this measure, a measure which he believed to be the only true and humane one for paupers and pauperism, in spite of the obloquy that was attempted to be thrown on it. He entreated the House to understand what was the question really before the House. No blame could be attributed to the commissioners or to the board of guardians; but the hon. Member for Finsbury desired that all medical officers attached to unions should have the unlimited liberty of ordering sustenance of the most expensive kind, without it being in the power of the guardians or the commissioners to disallow the orders of the medical officers, even if they felt it necessary to do so. If this principle were admitted, the medical officers would become the real administrators of the relief to the poor, and the Poor-law commissioners and the boards of guardians might be dispensed with all at once. In the case instanced by the hon. Member for Finsbury the commissioners were appealed to, and they were obliged to interpret the law as it existed. The principle which the hon. Member wished to establish was a bad one, both under the new and under the old law.Mr. Grote
 protested against the doctrine of the hon. Member for the city of London. He regarded the medical officer as not only responsible for the medicine he prescribed to his patients, but also for the diet he ordered.Colonel Wood
478 said, that medical officers, when entrusted With the care of the poor, were bound to deal with them in all respects according to their best skill. In doing so they were under the superintendence and control of the board of guardi-
478Mr. Easthope
No479 said, that the case before the House was that of poor persons who had been convicted of no crimes, but whose sufferings proceeded from their poverty. They required medical assistance, and the medical officer did not feel at liberty, in consequence of the positive orders he had received, to administer the relief which their suffering and sinking nature required, without first receiving the sanction of the board of guardians, even though death might he the consequence of delay. If this was the case of any individual who was suffering, not from poverty, but from some cause that occasioned an excitement in the country, he was sure that such treatment would be alluded to in that House in the strongest terms of reprobation. It had been said, that no blame was due either to the guardians or to the commissioners. The hon. Member for London, had gone so far as to say that no blame was attributable to any one, and that that which had occurred was only what might be expected to occur under similar circumstances. Now, the House Would bear in mind some observations which had been made by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, showing the incautious manner in which the Poor-law commissioners were accustomed to express their wishes and intructions, and which was felt to be improper even by the supporters of the Poor-law. He would put it to the House, then, whether some of these incautious expressions might not, in the case brought under the notice of the House, have led the board of guardians into error. It was the opinion of some hon. Members that the medical officer should not administer relief without the consent of the guardians; but it might happen that unless the medical officer had such power he would not be able to save the life of a pauper suffering from sickness. He saw no security for the pauper if the medical
No479Mr. W. Attwood
480Cries of "Order said, the hon. Gentleman had entirely mis-stated what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for London. It was not a question whether a certain discretionary power should be intrusted to medical officers. That was, in fact, the general rule. But his hon. Friend said, that if such power were delegated to medical officers, without responsibility to boards of guardians, it would be transferring to them the whole administration of relief. His hon. Friend had been entirely mis-represented—almost wilfully misrepresented [480Cries of "OrderMr. Ward
 said, that as the hon. Member had withdrawn the charge he had made of wilful misrepresentation, he would leave the House to decide which of the two had been most guilty of misrepresentation.Mr. W. Attwood
 said, that the manner in which the argument of the hon. Member for London had been misrepresented almost justified him in using the expression which had fallen from him.Mr. Ward
post hoc ergo propter hoc481 thought that the old system of Poor-laws was like a cancer spreading on the vitals of the country, and he entertained respect for the courage of the Ministers who dared to probe the wound. He would no more think of charging them with cruelty than he would the surgeon who used the knife to cut out a cancer. Nevertheless, he could not shut his eyes to the occurrences which were taking place in the country. The House had heard of an individual case; but he could quote the case of many individuals in the union of Bridgewater, and he was sure the House could not listen to his account without shuddering at the pain and misery which the poor people had endured. At the end of October, 1836, the workhouse at Bridgewater was crowded to excess. An epidemy of a grave character broke out; dysentery prevailed, and a vast number of persons were
post hoc ergo propter hoc481Mr. Courtenay
482 said, that the great objection to this bill was the power given to the commissioners. If guardians could not do as they liked, why should they be responsible? He did not say, that the commissioners would do what they thought wrong; but if, from the circumstances in which they were placed, they did that
482Mr. Muntz
483 rose to move the amendment of which he had given notice. He was sure that all parties in the House must feel anxiety that this measure should be accompanied by every possible security for the due administration of the great powers it conferred, and for the effectual control of Parliament over that administration. He could but feel the great delicacy, the great difficulty, and that even danger was necessarily attendant on powers so extensive. He could not but think, therefore, that the period for which those powers were by this bill to be continued should be shortened. He entirely concurred in the reasons which had been urged by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth against the period originally intended by the bill. The right hon. Baronet had succeeded by a statement of these reasons in convincing the House that the period ought to be reduced to five years. But he submitted to the House whether, considering the extraordinary functions of the commissioners, attended as they were with so much difficulty, and subjected as they were to so much misrepresentation, the term of five years were not still too long, and whether Parliament were acting with due caution in transferring all classes of the poor to the discretion of the commissioners for so
483Mr. Easthope
 thought it necessary to take the opinion of the committee on a point of order. He had received intimation of different amendments on this point, one being for 1841, another 1842, and that which had just been proposed, 1843. It would be for the committee to decide which amendment should be taken first. He thought the figures in the bill were to be taken as blanks to be filled up.The Chairman
 thought he might be considered as proposing that the words 1846 should stand part of the clause, and that the amendment which had just been proposed should take precedence of others.Lord John Russell
486485484 said, the question he understood the Chairman to have put from the chair was, "that the words forty-six shall stand part of the bill, to which an amendment had been moved by the hon. Member for Leicester, "that 1843 be substituted," and to that question he should address himself. He hoped that the noble
486485484Mr. Grote
487 confessed that he never was more surprised in his life than he was at what had just fallen from the
487Mr. Hodgson Hinde
492No, no"I should have given him spiced port wine but that I had no power to do so, because there was an order of the board which precluded me."No, no"Provided also, that if the medical officer shall at any time certify, that he deems a temporary change in the diet essential to the health of the paupers, the guardians shall cause a copy of such certificate to be entered on the minutes of their proceedings, and shall be empowered forthwith to order by a resolution the said diet to be temporarily changed, according to the recommendation of their medical officer, and shall forthwith transmit a copy of such certificate and resolution to the Poor-law Commissioners, for their approval.""Had told him that if any wine, spirit, or liquor, were given without the previous sanction of the board, the charge would not be allowed in his accounts.'491"Mr. Johnson, governor of the Basford workhouse, was then called by the magistrates, and deposed, that the board of guardians had made an order that no wine, ale, beer or stimulents should be given without the sanction of the board."Hear, hear"Provided, however, that the medical officer may direct in writing such diet for any individual pauper as he shall deem necessary; and the master shall report such direction to the board of guardians, who shall sanction, alter, or disallow the same at their discretion.""The paupers of the respective sexes shall be dieted with the food, and in the manner described in the dietary table hereunto annexed, marked B, and in no other manner."490489488 had listened with the greatest astonishment to the speech made by the hon. Gentleman, the Member for London.
492No, no"I should have given him spiced port wine but that I had no power to do so, because there was an order of the board which precluded me."No, no"Provided also, that if the medical officer shall at any time certify, that he deems a temporary change in the diet essential to the health of the paupers, the guardians shall cause a copy of such certificate to be entered on the minutes of their proceedings, and shall be empowered forthwith to order by a resolution the said diet to be temporarily changed, according to the recommendation of their medical officer, and shall forthwith transmit a copy of such certificate and resolution to the Poor-law Commissioners, for their approval.""Had told him that if any wine, spirit, or liquor, were given without the previous sanction of the board, the charge would not be allowed in his accounts.'491"Mr. Johnson, governor of the Basford workhouse, was then called by the magistrates, and deposed, that the board of guardians had made an order that no wine, ale, beer or stimulents should be given without the sanction of the board."Hear, hear"Provided, however, that the medical officer may direct in writing such diet for any individual pauper as he shall deem necessary; and the master shall report such direction to the board of guardians, who shall sanction, alter, or disallow the same at their discretion.""The paupers of the respective sexes shall be dieted with the food, and in the manner described in the dietary table hereunto annexed, marked B, and in no other manner."490489488Mr. Wakley
496495sls494493 said, that having from the commencement given his most earnest support to the Poor Law Bill, and having since attentively watched its operation, no fear of odium would induce him to swerve from the course to the justice of which all his experience gave increased weight. He entirely concurred in the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland, the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, and the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of London. He must say that those Gentlemen who had testified their disapprobation of the principle of the bill by voting against the second reading had failed to shew what they proposed to substitute in its stead. Mr. Canning had declared that, looking at the extent and complica-
496495sls494493Mr. Hawes
500s"I cannot refrain from expressing my opinion, that the defendant has not conducted himself in such a manner as he ought to have done; he ought riot to visit the rooms of the female inmates after they hate retired for the night, that being the especial duty of the matron. Nor ought he to have used the indelicate threat of taking the complainant, naked as she was, down to the cell below. Neither should he have put her into that cell, or stopped Or altered her diet without an order warranting him in so doing; nor ought he to have beaten the children, particularly the child at the breast of the complainant, in the way he was described repeatedly to have done."s499"Hence it is convenient that some competent authority should expound the intentions of the Legislature to the public."…498"The style for the composition of Acts of Parliament, which has been consecrated by
498"There is, moreover, in this country, another advantage in the interposition of an authority between Parliament and the people,""It is not for us to justify the determination of Parliament, in devolving upon the Poor-law Commissioners a power of subordinate-legislation. We may, however, venture to remark, that if such justification were needed, it might easily be found. The Parliament of this vast empire, having not merely the affairs of Great Britain and Ireland, but also of the colonies, and the dominions of the East India Company to attend to, is occupied with the establishment of general legislative rules, and cannot afford time for entering into the minute details of parochial regulation."…497 said, that his hon. Friend who had just sat down said that he defended the large, and he must add, despotic power of the Poor-law commissioners, on popular grounds. Now he, if he had his will, would not allow these commissioners to hold their office for one day longer than by the existing law they were entitled to do; and that upon popular grounds, also, as he believed. He believed that if there was any one principle more popular with Englishmen than another, it was that of self-government, and this was a principle which many hon. Gentlemen in this House would find too strong for them when they came to a general election. He had listened with great attention to the speeches of the hon. Members for London and Lambeth, but he must say that he had not heard a single word fall from either of them to induce him to give his support to the continuance of this commission for five years. If the speeches of his hon. Friends went to anything, they went to this—that it was impossible that this law could ever be carried out without the assistance of a central board. The
500s"I cannot refrain from expressing my opinion, that the defendant has not conducted himself in such a manner as he ought to have done; he ought riot to visit the rooms of the female inmates after they hate retired for the night, that being the especial duty of the matron. Nor ought he to have used the indelicate threat of taking the complainant, naked as she was, down to the cell below. Neither should he have put her into that cell, or stopped Or altered her diet without an order warranting him in so doing; nor ought he to have beaten the children, particularly the child at the breast of the complainant, in the way he was described repeatedly to have done."s499"Hence it is convenient that some competent authority should expound the intentions of the Legislature to the public."…498"The style for the composition of Acts of Parliament, which has been consecrated by
498"There is, moreover, in this country, another advantage in the interposition of an authority between Parliament and the people,""It is not for us to justify the determination of Parliament, in devolving upon the Poor-law Commissioners a power of subordinate-legislation. We may, however, venture to remark, that if such justification were needed, it might easily be found. The Parliament of this vast empire, having not merely the affairs of Great Britain and Ireland, but also of the colonies, and the dominions of the East India Company to attend to, is occupied with the establishment of general legislative rules, and cannot afford time for entering into the minute details of parochial regulation."…497Mr. T. S. Duncombe
 was against voting the continuance of this commission for a certain number of years, until ke knew what the provisions of the bill were to be by which it was to be empowered. If the bill were to be amended in committee, as he hoped it would be, he should have no objection to vote for the period proposed.Mr. Darby
501 said, he should support the continuance of this commission, but for the shortest possible period. He would not be a party to handing over the poor of England to any set of men whatever. As the chairman of a board of guardians, he must say that all the rules of the commissioners were of a stringent and harsh nature, and that there were too many guardians who were willing to give full force and effect to these harsh regulations. He thought it might be necessary that the office of these commissioners should be continued; but he thought also, that their duration in office should be limited to two years at the utmost, in order that Parliament might exercise a proper control over their proceedings. He agreed with the hon. Member for Lambeth, that nothing could be worse than the old system of Poor-law, and that to it they never could or ought to return. But was that any reason why they should adopt the whole scope and force of the measure now offered them? In one material point the New Poor-law had entirely failed to produce the result which was promised from it: namely, the raising of wages and the bettering of the condition of workmen. So far from this having taken place, he maintained that wages had suffered a decrease in consequence of this enactment, and the reason was obvious, that the people, rather than undergo "the test," as the new system was called, would work for any wages they could get. The fact was, that the framers of this enactment thought too much of themselves, and not enough of the poor; the whole bill was "ratepay"—"ratepay"
501Mr. C. Hamilton
 had always looked upon the Poor-law commissioners as a necessary evil, and he hoped that they would not be required much longer. He must say, however, that he was rather disappointed at the result of the seventh year's experience they had had of the working of this measure. He knew that the former law was full of errors, and subject to great abuses, and that it could never under any circumstances be resorted to again. He wished, therefore, to see the present law I made permanent and efficient, but he feared that would not be effected by commissioners; he thought it could only be accomplished by renewed legislation, and increased care and attention on the part of the guardians. In the mean time, he was desirous that the conduct of the commissioners should be brought frequently under the scrutiny of Parliament, and therefore I he would vote for the continuance of the shorter period proposed.Sir G. Strickland
504dd503502 said, that he had listened with great anxiety to what had been said on this question of continuing the commission, for he certainly was entirely without interest or prepossession either one way or the other; and for one, he was as ready to vote against it as in its favour if it was shown to work ill; but really, after listening with all his attention to the different speeches that had been made, he only felt himself more confused on the matter than before. To the two Members for Finsbury he gave his peculiar attention, from the prominent part they had taken on the subject, but from them he certainly had learnt little for while the first Member for Finsbury that had spoken said the law was a sanguinary law which disgraced the statute-book, and which nothing could recommend, the other Member for Finsbury said it was a good law, or one that worked well, and was objectionable only on account of the commissioners. Again, he had attended to the facts or the evidence adduced against the bill, and he heard that while one Member referred every abuse and evil to the board of guardians, the next traced all the mischief to the control to which the board was subject under the commission; and the hon. Member for Aylesbury, who preceded him, while avowing his mistrust of the commission, and entering fully into the jealousy
504dd503502Mr. Villiers
505 said, that the advocates of the present system were driven to the necessity of reverting to the worst abuses of the old law for a defence which certainly was not a very high compliment to the present law. All the advantages promised by the supporters of the new system—the improved condition of the poor, and the economical savings to be effected, were now abandoned, and the only argument urged in favour of the present system was a fear of reverting to the evils of the old one. The immediate question, however, just then before the House was as regarded the duration of the commission, and he with others did not think that sufficient reason had been shown for vesting in the commissioners, for so long a period, powers which it was admitted could be abused. No argument had been adduced to show why the House, instead of appointing the commission for five years, should not retain in its own hands a power of revision. The Member for Somerset, who was one of the committee which sat on the question of the Poor-laws, had stated, that many suggestions and recommendations had been made by the committee, none of which had been adopted or acted upon by the commissioners. Now the simple question was, whether, after the many statements of abuses which had been made by hon. Members on both sides of the House,
505Mr. W. Attwood
 was of opinion that the period of the commission should be extended for the purpose of carrying the new Irish Poor law into effect. Of 130 unions in Ireland there were only fifteen at present in operation, and the guardians would for some time require instructions from the commissioners, in order to acquire what was of so much importance—uniformity of action throughout the various boards.Mr. Hutton
 said, he could not vote for the continuance of the commission, if the immense establishment of assistant commissioners was to be still kept up. He thought it was their conduct that made the Poor-law unpopular; and that if the guardians were in direct communication with the commissioners it would be all the better.Mr. B. Wood
 would like to hear some reason adduced for continuing the power of the commissioners for five years, for it had not yet been shown what benefit would be derived from the continuance of the commission either to the public or the poor. The hon. Member for London indeed said, that a shorter period would lead to discussion and unnecessary excitement, but by urging the same argument it might be proposed to grant the supplies for the five ensuing years, or pass the Mutiny Act for the same period. Until some reason was given he did not well know how he should vote.Mr. Muntz
 objected to the amendment, as being an attempt on the part of the House to prevent any future House of Commons from continuing the duration of the commission.The Attorney-general
 would withdraw the amendment, although he could produce precedents of similar motions. He was of opinion that if the words were added to the clause, the people would have more confidence in the law.Mr. Hinde
 said, he wished to correct a misstatement which had been made by several hon. Members that night, to the effect, that in 1834 the duration of the commission was recommended to be for five years and no longer, whereas it was the decided opinion of the commission, at the head of which was the Bishop of London, that the commission should be of a permanent character, and the bill, as introduced by the Government at first, was to the came effect. When it was agreed that the commission should terminate at the expiration of five years, it was never contemplated that it should cease at that period, but merely that the House should then have an opportunity of reconsidering the question.Viscount Howick
llll said, that it was his intention to move on a future day (Friday) the reduction of the salary of the Poor-law commissioners from 2,000llllColonel Sibthorp
 said, that he was perfectly ready to make a statement if the House wished it, but the only object of the bill was to enable the Ordnance to carry out the surveys which had been commenced.Sir Hussey Vivian
 said, that a survey on the six-inch scale would occasion an expense of above one-third more than the present survey on the one-inch scale, and, that in the event of its being determined to resurvey those parts of England which had already been surveyed, it was impossible exactly to estimate the expense, but that, of course, the plans and tracings of the old survey would materially assist in those parts of England that had been last surveyed, still, however, no doubt the expense would be great, but that it was a matter of great importance, and great use to the country to have a map on the six-inch scale, whereas, as the right hon. Baronet must be aware, the map on the one-inch scale having been originally intended as a military map, was not of much use, correct and beautiful as the work is, for civil purposes. Where a larger scale was required, the subject had been brought under the notice of the Government by memorials from the Geological Society of Manchester and the Highland Society of Scotland, and it was in consequence of this, and under the impression that it would be of great advantage to the country, that the Government had determined on making the survey of the six northern counties on the six-inch scale.Sir Hussey Vivian
512 said, that by the end of the next year the Irish survey would be finished, and then they would be able to bring over the surveyors. But in the first
512Sir H. Vivian
 said, his hon. Friend should have given him notice of the question; but he was quite sure that they had not teen put down until they had become public nuisances.Mr. F. Maule
 thought, as they had no reason to expect that this Bill would be brought on that night, and as there were objections to some of its provisions, it would be better to postpone it.Lord Granville Somerset
 thought, that before they proceeded with this important measure they should have some statement on the subject.Lord Granville Somerset
459 said that before the question was put he was anxious to call the attention of the House to what appeared to him to be an irregularity in its proceedings. The clause now before them was a clause of appropriation introduced into bill to provide for the ordinary ways and means of the year. Now, it was quite unusual, and unprecedented, to introduce a clause of appropriation into a bill of this description at this period of the Session. He believed the object the Chancellor of the Exchequer had in view in proposing this clause, was
459The Speaker
 said, that after what had fallen from the Speaker, of which he believed no Member was before aware, he thought it would be better to withdraw the clause, and introduce it at the end of the Session, with the understanding on the part of the House that it was to be so introduced.Mr. C. Wood
 said, having heard many complaints respecting the closing of the Green Park, he begged to ask the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Treasury, whether it was temporary or permanent?Mr. Grote
 said, that what he had complained of on a former night was the estimates having been framed on so low a scale; but as to the course which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had pursued, he (Mr. Goulburn) had stated, that he would be quite satisfied with any mode, by bill or otherwise, that would mark the circumstances of the case, so as to guard against it as a general practice.Mr. Goulburn
457 should not have been satisfied without the explanation just given
457Mr. Herries
 wished to inquire of the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether or not he was now applying money belonging to the savings' banks to carry on the expenses of the country? He asked this question because it was believed in the City that a very large sum had been applied in this way. On a former occasion he (Mr. Hume) had asked a similar question in the House, which the Chancellor of the Exchequer evaded; but, in the end, it appeared that he had borrowed money in this manner, and funded it to the amount of more than two millions. He therefore wished to know, whether, in the present state of the finances of the country, this course was again resorted to, as, if so, he considered it to be highly improper?Mr. Hume
 said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the same course, as to applying the funds of the savings' banks to the public service, had been pursued before. Yes, it had, two years ago, by Mr. Rice, and a worse precedent for a Chancellor of the Exchequer could not be followed. He was quite aware that no injury could arise from the practice, because the money would be again replaced at three and a half per cent., but it was the irregularity of the practice he complained of, without consulting the House.Mr. Hume
 thought, that the candid avowal of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to alarm the House, and call for an expression of its disapprobation that any Government should presume to add to the national debt without coming to the House. When the House was sitting, if there were any deficiency in the revenue, the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to come before the House and state fairly what it was, and let the House provide for it. No Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to be allowed to go into the market and raise money as he pleased without the sanction and knowledge of the House. He protested against it as being a most irregular proceeding, and it would be for the House to consider, whether it would place any more ways and means at the disposal of a Government which had adopted such an unconstitutional proceeding.Mr. Hume
 said, seeing the hon. Member, the Under-Secretary for the Home Department in his place, he begged to ask him a question. He had observed, that several fairs in the neighbourhood of London had been put down. He wished to know whether any attempt had been made to regulate them, and so to prevent the abuses which had occurred, that they might be attended with no inconvenience to the inhabitants before this step was taken?Mr. Slaney
lllll456llllll observed, that it had been remarked by the hon. Member for Stamford, on a former occasion, that by the returns there appeared to be an out-standing claim to the amount of 1,421,000lllll456llllllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the law was clear upon the subject, and the exercise of it depended entirely on the discretion of the Government, and for which they were responsible. The same thing had been done before, and whenever the hon. Member thought fit to bring his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) responsibility under the consideration of the House he should be prepared to meet him.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
458 hoped a wrong impression would not go forth, in consequence of the hon. Member's question, that the savings' banks' money was less safe than before, because a por-
458The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had no official source of information with regard to the expenses; but all the information he could give he was willing to render. The reason why he had not laid an account before the House was, because he thought it better to wait until he was in possession of complete information.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he was sure the only object of the House was to mark the circumstances of the case, and he had no objection to that being done in any way that might appear most satisfactory.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
llllllll said, the right hon. Gentleman had not given a distinct answer to the question why, with an apparent excess of 386,000llllllllSir G. Clerk
 said, that he foresaw at the time that the present difficulty would arise, and he suggested a Bill of Indemnity.Sir J. Graham
 had been entirely satisfied with the course which the right hon. Gentleman proposed, thinking it quite sufficient to mark the sense of the House, and to prevent this proceeding from being drawn into a precedent. He would have been satisfied, as he had before said, if in the Queen's Speech the Queen bad said, "I have departed from the ordinary course with respect to the expenditure of the navy. I have exceeded the estimate, and I foresaw that I should exceed it, but the circumstances were such as to justify me in taking the course which I did." That would have entirely satisfied him. It would have been a record of the circumstances under which the thing was done. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer's zeal outstripped his, and he said he would bring in a bill providing for the special case. Some objections, however, had arisen which he had not foreseen, to the course proposed. The object, he thought, would be equally answered by inserting the clause in the general appropriation bill, with some specific reference to it in the preamble. That would prevent its being drawn into a precedent, and avoid those inconveniences and possible dangers to which the right hon. Gentleman, the Speaker of the House, had so properly called their attention.Sir R. Peel
 believed the existing survey was on the scale of an inch to a mile, but that it was intended, that the new survey thould be on the scale of six inches to the mile. This would occasion additional expense; and what he wished to know was, in what proportions the counties now actually surveyed according to the first scale would be burdened? He thought, before anything was done, they should have some estimate as to the expense, and that it would be better to have the surveys of all the counties on the new scale going on at the same time.Sir Robert Peel
 said, he was not considering the advantage of new surveys on a scale of six inches to the mile, but what he doubted was, whether it would be right to take any step until they be prepared to begin simultaneously the survey of the counties on the larger scale.Sir Robert Peel
560lllllll said, he held in his hand a return which showed the articles consumed principally by the poor and middle classes. The first items in the return to which he alluded were spirits, malt, and hops, which articles paid a tax of 13,180,000560lllllllMr. W. Williams
 seconded the motion. He fully approved of the bill proposed by his hon. and learned Friend which he considered was a desirable improvement in the law.The Attorney-general
 rose for the purpose of making a request directly opposite to that made by the hon. Member who last spoke. He hoped the hon. Member for Birmingham would divide the House. He deprecated the practice of hon. Gentlemen bringing forward motions, and thus abandoning them without a division. He would say, in reply to the right hon. Member for Cambridge, that the resolution contained a very plain principle.General Johnson
550 said, that in concurring with the noble Lord who brought the subject before the House, that the system of substituting the hulks for the punishment of transportation was inexpedient, he did not feet that he thereby cast any censure on another noble Lord who had formed a different conclusion. He thought the public were indebted to the noble Lord for having brought before the House a subject of the deepest importance to the country. In any observations that he might address to the House he should not follow the hon. Member who had spoken last by going into the question of the abolition of capital punishments, or into the question of the inequalities of punishments in this country. It was not to be supposed that the House could be capable of pronouncing a correct opinion as to the inequality of any punishment as compared with another unless hon. Members were perfectly acquainted with all the circumstances of the case. He was confident that those concerned in the administration of justice entertained the opinion which at the present day was so prevalent generally, namely, that it was desirable to have as small an amount of punishment as possible consistent with the great object
550Mr. Law
554553552551 said, the discussion had as might very naturally be expected, gene into almost every sublet connected with imprisonment and secondary punishment.
554553552551Mr. Fox Maule
545llll544543542 said, I cannot but regret with the noble Lord, that a subject of so much importance as the present has not received more attention on the present occasion than it did when I brought it before the House on a former night. I admit that the subject is an important one, but at the same time, after listening to the noble Lord with great attention, I do not, see that the difference between our views of the subject is so very great. The noble Lord does not deny the evils of the system of assessment which Sir R. Bourke had described as leading to a state of slavery attended with the worst evils. With regard to the more immediate question involved in the motion of the noble Lord, that there has been no change in the system of transportation since the Lords' committee sat, I have to call the attention of the noble Lord to the fact of the proceedings before a select committee of this House. That select committee sat for a period of two years, and took a great deal of evidence, with respect to which, although there was much discussion in the committee, there was no difference of opinion, or division. The committee consisted of persons of various political opinions, as well as of persons who had bestowed considerable attention to the subject, and in proof of this, I have only to mention the names of those who were members of that committee. The committee consisted of Sir William Moles-worth, Sir George Grey, Mr. Leader, Mr. Ward, Mr. Hawes, Lord Howick, Sir Thomas Freemantle, Mr. Baring, Sir Charles Lemon, Sir Jamas Graham, and one or two others besides myself, and this enumeration, I think, will show that the committee was fairly constituted, and that the members of it represented the various
545llll544543542Loud J. Russell
 rose amidst loud cries of "hear." The hon. Member for Fins-bury was always inveighing against the Government, but why did he sit with them? "Tell me your company, and I'll tell you who you are." There was, certainly some ground for the complaint he made of the absence of the leading Members of the Government, for the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), in his solitary position on the Treasury bench, seemed like an outcast sent there to do the whole business of the Government, while his colleagues were enjoying the luxurious scenes from which he was excluded. The hon. and gallant Officer declared that it was his intention to oppose the motion.Colonel Sibthorp
 regretted to see so small a House on a question of this importance. There was evidently no desire on the part of the House to divide; and, if the question came to a division, it would be evident that the lower orders of the people had not representatives in that House who had sympathy with them.Mr. E. Turner
559, in seconding the resolution, said, that the proposition gave the House of Commons an opportunity for showing that it had some sympathy for the distress of the people. The poorer classes in this country were taxed out of all proportion, as he believed they paid nearly two-thirds of the entire taxation of the country. It was said that taxation and representation ought to go hand in hand, but that was not the case. The people were not represented, of which be could not have a better proof than the state of the benches around him. How did the House of Commons guard the interests of the people? By making Corn-laws which limited their subsistence, and monetary laws which oppressed them still further. The consequence of this was, a state of
559Mr. Muntz
564 maintained that the proposition of the hon. Member for Birmingham was not at all such as had been represented by the hon. Member for Kilkenny. It was not a resolution declaratory of the alleged unequal pressure of taxation, but amounted simply to an assertion "that the assessment of all property real and personal would enhance the value of all property," a manifest absurdity. It was impossible to exaggerate the evils which would inevitably arise in a state of society so artificial as this from any sudden change in the whole system of taxation. If, therefore, this motion did, as he contended it did not, simply affirm that such a change would be expedient,
564Mr. Goulburn
 said, that nothing could show more convincingly how this House was constituted, and the way in which the interests of the people out of doors were treated by its Members, than a comparison of the appearance of the House last night, with the state of the empty benches this evening. He however thanked his hon. Friend for bringing forward his motion, as whatever might be its fate here, it must do good in the result.Mr. Fielden
549548 could not agree with the hon. Member that the feeling prevailing with respect to capital punishments which he was glad to know was general, was a morbid feeling. On the contrary, it was an active intelligent feeling, and he was pleased at it. An instance occurred within the last two weeks which showed the inexpediency of public executions, and he only hoped that such exhibitions would be put an end to. He had listened attentively to what had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Hertford, and he was not aware that he differed from a sentence which that noble Lord had expressed. That noble Lord had collated with great propriety most valuable references from the authorities for the present system, and, holding that the noble Lord was correct, he hoped what he had stated would have its proper influence, and prevent the Government from commuting sentences as they had done. He had always deprecated the departure from the transportation system, and he hailed with satisfaction an announcement made some years back by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke, that it was the intention of the Government to put an end to the hulk system, and to send criminals to their proper destination, according to their sentences. With respect to the evidence on which the present system rested, his opinion was, that transportation ought not to be checked on such evidence, for it was clear they were acting upon exceptions and not in accordance with general rules. He regretted that the hulk system had not been put down, because the effects of restoring prisoners suddenly to society was an active cause of mischief, enabling them not only to engage again in vicious courses, but to contaminate the morals of the rising generation. This country, with her colonies, was little bet-
549548Mr. Hume
ll563 was bound in candour to confess that his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, in the way in which he had introduced this subject, had not done it that justice to which it was entitled: otherwise the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not have treated it quite so glibly as he had done. He begged to differ, however, with the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to this being a proper subject to press to a division. He had no hesitation in saying that the taxes of this country were apportioned most unequally, and consequently most unjustly. It might be very true that certain items of taxation referred to by the right hon. Gentleman had been repealed or reduced since the noble Lord's motion ten years ago in favour of a property-tax. But the broad state of the case was still the same; the same inequality in the apportionment of the public burdens still continued. The higher and wealthier classes of society did not pay above 24 percent. of the taxes, whilst the remaining 76 per cent. fell upon the middling classes and the working man. The constant effect of the present system was to exempt property from taxation, whilst, at the same time, property claimed the exclusive privilege of legislating for the rest of the community. A more nefarious or ruinous principle could not be conceived, and it was very important, in his opinion, that the subject should be brought forward, and that the House should have an opportunity of expressing its opinion upon it. By affirming the resolution of his hon. Friend, they would be establishing this essential principle, that industry ought to be relieved from taxation, and that persons of large property ought to pay in an equal, if not greater proportion than their industrious and struggling neighbours. Why, under the
ll563Mr. Hume
558"That the assessment of all property, real and personal, within the United Kingdom, would be a fit and proper substitute for such of the taxes of excise and customs as press most heavily on the middle and industrious classes; and that such alteration in the mode of raising the public revenue would be calculated, in a high degree, to enhance the value of all property, particularly, by leading to the fuller developement of the copious sources of wealth in this kingdom and its vast dependencies." rose to move the following resolution:—
558"That the assessment of all property, real and personal, within the United Kingdom, would be a fit and proper substitute for such of the taxes of excise and customs as press most heavily on the middle and industrious classes; and that such alteration in the mode of raising the public revenue would be calculated, in a high degree, to enhance the value of all property, particularly, by leading to the fuller developement of the copious sources of wealth in this kingdom and its vast dependencies."Mr. Scholefield
 expressed his opinion, that even the landlords would benefit by the removal of the taxes on articles of general consumption, and his determination to divide the House.Mr. Scholefield
570: Sir, I rise to ask leave of the House to bring in a bill to facilitate the transfer of real and personal property held in trust for charitable purposes, and I will only beg a few moments of the time of the House while I explain its objects. The nature of charitable trust I have no doubt is familiar to most hon. Members. I find most of them shortly mentioned in the preamble to the statute of 43d Elizabeth on this subject. They are, first, the relief of aged, impotent, and poor people; the maintenance of sick and maimed soldiers and mariners; schools of learning, free schools, and scholars in universities; repair of bridges, ports, havens, causeways, churches, sea-banks, and highways; the education and preferment of orphans; the relief, stock or maintenance for houses of correction; the marriages of poor maids, the support, and help of young tradesmen, &c. Now Sir, I am sure there will be a desire on the part of the House to facilitate that object, and I will shortly explain to the House in what manner I purpose to do this by the bill which I am desirous to introduce. I do not purpose to remove any of the guards for securing the due appointment of trustees. I do not wish on the present occasion in any way to touch this part of the subject. I will assume that new trustees are duly appointed. This, Sir, is done in one of two ways. It is done either under an exercise of a power entrusted by the donor or person who established the charity, or it is done by means of a court of equity. But after the appointment is made, there is often very considerable difficulty. The person to whom the trust property is to be conveyed may be well settled, but by the present law, before the charity can be carried on, there must be a valid conveyance of the trust property from the old trustees or the heir at law of the last surviving trustee. Now Sir, here very frequently considerable difficulty and hardship is found to exist. The proper person to execute the conveyance may be abroad, there may be litigation as to who is the heir at law; considerable nicety may exist as to who has the the legal estate, and who is the proper party to execute the conveyance. And the House may see that these questions although often important to other persons or other interests, is of no
570Mr. James Steuart
555 expressed his grateful acknowledgments to the noble Lord for bringing this subject before the House, since it had been the means of eliciting from the noble Lord opposite and the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fox Maule) a most satisfactory piece of information—namely, that they were engaged in some measure, which, in the present Session, would be brought before Parliament, for putting an end to a system which, he was able to state from experience, was one of the greatest of evils—the uncertainty of punishment. He was glad to find that no person was liberated from the hulks till he had undergone three years' confinement, and that then he entered on a system of probation. But though a convict could not be released till after three years and a half, yet when the punishment to which a convict was sentenced in face of
555Mr. Estcourt
567Oh, yes566565 thought the worst system of taxation was that which supported an exorbitant expenditure. But, as his hon. Friend did not propose any reduction, but only the continuance by another mode of the present amount of taxation, he was surprised that the motion did not seem agreeable rather than otherwise to the House. His hon. Friend had tacked a sentence to the end of his motion, as a kind of bait for the great landed proprietors, who, however, were not so shortsighted as he might suppose them to be. He imagined that they would think his proposition, if carried into effect, would increase their incomes; but they appeared to be incredulous upon that point. The hon. Member had said that if this resolution were carried, the people would be convinced that it was the intention of that House to benefit the industrious classes. But from what he knew of the public mind he was sure the people would not be so easily convinced of so extraordinary a fact. It would take more than the passing of such a resolution to convince the working
567Oh, yes566565Mr. Wakley
562561 said, no doubt hon. Gentlemen would be inclined to draw an unfavourable inference, from the appearance of the House this evening; but it would not be fair, he thought, to attribute the absence of Members to a dislike to enter upon the discussion of any subject practically affecting the interests of the people. He believed, that Englishmen were of a peculiarly businesslike character, and that whenever business was to be done, the Members of this House would assemble in large numbers to attend to it, but that whenever it was generally supposed, that a resolution was to be moved, which could not with any practical use, be put upon the Journals of the House, they thought it no dereliction of their duty to stay away. His hon. Friend had brought forward this motion, no doubt, with the very best intentions, and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), was much obliged to him for his suggestions, and would certainly take them into consideration, with the various other projects relating to finance which were continually being offered to him. But, at the same time, he did not think it would be judicious to press this resolution at the present moment; for the adoption of it, unconnected with some other definitive matters of legislative detail, would immediately throw the whole of the commercial interests of the country into commotion. When the variety and im-
562561The Chancellor of the Exchequer
568 would advise his hon. Friend to withdraw his resolution for the present. The state of the House had been alluded to by several Members, and he would suggest to his hon. Friend to bring it on again on some night, when circumstances would compel the attendance of those whose duty it was to be in their places when so grave a subject was under consideration. He would suggest the night appointed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the bringing in the budget. He did not wish to get rid of the subject. He had, so far back as the year 1834, placed on record his opinion, that the taxes pressed too heavily on the industry, and too lightly on the property of the country. In 1834, he had voted in favour of the motion for the repeal of the Malt Laws, though Lord Althorp had threatened, that a property tax would be the consequence if that motion became law. He had since then parted company with hon. Gentlemen on the malt question, because he found, that they sought for a repeal of the tax, exclusively with a view to the benefit of the agricultural interest. He was well aware, that a property tax would be inconvenient to those who had to pay it, but it would compel them to consider how injuriously taxation pressed on other parties. If his hon. Friend divided the House, be should vote
568Mr. Mark Philips
547546 being a Chairman of quarter sessions, took a deep interest in this subject, the importance of which must be admitted by the House. The able manner in which his noble Friend had dealt with the question it would be impossible to praise too highly, and he could only say, that he concurred in the views of his noble Friend without being influenced by party views or hostility to the Government. He was willing to admit that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, deserved great credit for the attention which he had bestowed upon the subject of prison discipline: but with respect to the present question he could not concur in the course taken under the minutes of 1839. He listened to the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, but he certainly thought the noble Lord had not answered the speech of his noble Friend. It appeared to him that there had been an undue exercise of the prerogative of the Crown with respect to the commutation of the sentences of transportation for seven years. The return of 1837 was not an accurate one, and, therefore, he should take that of 1839. In that year
547546Mr. Pakington
556 did not defend the present system of the hulks; he considered it a bad system. There was no classification; one convict was not separated from another, and the system was so radically vicious, that the sooner it was dispensed with the better. But, although he objected to the system of placing convicts on board the hulks, he trusted that the House would not adopt this resolution, which, though it did not in express terms recommend the system of transportation which had been abandoned, it must be considered, coupled with the speech of the noble Lord, as a condemnation of the present plan of detaining an increased number of convicts in the hulks, not merely as a permanent system, but even as a temporary expedient, which roust have the effect of restoring the system of transportation to our Australian colonies as heretofore. It was impossible to exaggerate the mischiefs of such a course. The noble Lord had in his speech passed over lightly the facts and arguments contained in the report of the committee of 1838 on the subject of transportation. His reference to it was most cursory and most unsatisfactory. The noble Lord said, he would not defend the system of assignment which formerly existed. The assignment system was neither more nor less than slavery, and slavery of the very worst description which it ever entered into the heart of man to conceive, demoralising not only to the slave but to the master. There was proved to exist a general demoralization of the population of New South Wales, such as never existed on the face of the earth. The press and every criterion of public opinion showed that a feeling in favour of the convict class existed over that of the free class in New South Wales. He trusted, that this state of society had since been corrected by the non-assignment of convicts, and by the number of new settlers. It was impossible to preach to the labouring population and to the artizans of this country of the advantages of emigration to New South Wales, and of the great demand for labour there, and at the same time to send convicts there and assign them as labourers, and state that this was the worst possible punishment. But if the
556Viscount Howick
"That in the opinion of this House the large increase of the number of convicts to be permanently confined in the hulks of Great Britain, although sentenced to transportation in pursuance of the minute of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, dated the 2d of January, 1839, is highly inexpedient,"541"I will venture to express my apprehension of the success of penitentiaries, upon a scale of such magnitude as to contain the whole number of offenders now sentenced to transportation. The expense of such a measure would be immense, and in countries fully peopled like Great Britain and Ireland it would be a hazardous experiment to return to the population the numbers which will be annually discharged from these prisons as sentences expire. Better far, in my opinion, to lay the foundation of a new colony on the northwestern coast of New Holland, under management improved by the experience derived from New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land. The system which has been pursued there is susceptible of one great improvement—the discontinuance of assignment to private service. But in such case the period of strict servitude which would be devoted to public works should be shortened, and the settlers allowed to obtain the benefit of a convict's labour as a holder of a ticket of leave, the holder being compelled to seek his livelihood in a settler's service, by being restricted from setting up for himself in any trade or business during the continuance of his sentence."540"From what I have seen effected in New South Wales, I am induced to set a high value upon the power of commanding convict labour during the first process of settlement in a new country. The great demand for labour incident to such undertakings has seldom, if ever, been adequately supplied by free people. Where these have been relied on, and no other description of labour obtained, the progress of the incipient colony has been slow and difficult; hence the striking contrast between the condition of the Swan River Settle-
540539"That while the labours of the convict in the penitentiaries or prisons of the mother country operate to the injury of the poorer classes, who have either insufficient or no employ, and thus tend to augment the sum of pauperism, misery, and crime, the labours of the convict, even in the employ of Government in this colony, have a directly opposite effect, as he is converted by the mere process of transportation from a worse than useless burden into a positive advantage. The labours of the convict in this colony involve net merely no competition with the labouring poor at home, but, on the contrary, enhance the demand for labour there, by an immensely increased consumption of British manufactures of almost every description here, imported entirely in British vessels, and for which payment is principally made in raw material, afforded at its present prices by reason of its having been almost entirely raised by means of convict labour … It follows, then, that the continuance of transportation to any amount, so far from being an obstacle to the introduction of labouring emigrants, has the direct effect of enabling the colonists to make more extensive purchases of land, and thereby providing the means of increasing the amount of immigration, towards which they already contribute to the utmost of their ability; it is thus a system of healthy action and reaction within itself, and a combination of benefits almost unexampled.""Transportation is an admirable means of punishment, and of moral reformation to the convicts."538"This moral improvement amongst our people is, under the Divine blessing, steadily progressing.""A marked and acknowledged improvement in morals in the convict population, that by no means an inconsiderable number have shown a total reformation of conduct.""I have now been a clergyman in Van Diemen's Land for upwards of seventeen years. … I have had frequent occasion to announce divine service in the midst of harvest, and even then I never failed to procure a congregation. … Of the people of this colony I may say, that I never saw a more hospitable or kinder race of people in my life; and I should say, that they are a very moral people. Look at the improvement which has been made in the convict population, all of which has been derived from the moral culture bestowed on them by the free: look to the great number of reclaimed convicts—look to the exertions with them of private individuals."537536535"Discern the better, and the worse pursue?""France is at present suffering from the mass of released convicts, who, after having been confined at the galleys, join the criminal portion of the community, perfect adepts in forgery and housebreaking, and connected by acquaintance and sympathy with all the thieves and swindlers of the community. The same result would occur in any opulent and populous community, where crime has every temptation, and industry is abundantly employed."534"Are you aware, that there is any greater dread of transportation now than formerly? (He answered) 'Considerably more, the Governors of the Australian settlements being restricted as to granting pardons, it operates I know, very strongly, and is beginning to be well known in this country, by the felons themselves.' 'You think that is becoming gradually better known in England?' 'I think so. In the overgrown state in which we are, it is really desirable, that those men should go out of the country, for as to their getting employment when they are discharged, it is two to one, that it cannot be done, and, therefore, it is a charity, in the first instance, to transport them.'""I recollect a boy (said he) to whom I said, as he was dismissed from prison, 'You are going out without a hat.' 'Oh, don't trouble yourself, Sir,' was the boy's answer, 'I will have one before night.'"" 'A boy in gaol said one day to me' 'I have no character, Sir; when I come out of prison this day nine weeks, who will have me or look after me, Sir? And how am I to get a meal unless I thieve again?' ""There were many boys now in our gaols who would be honest if removed from evil associations, and put to any profitable employment."533532llllllllll531sicul ignava animalia, quibus si cibum suggeras statim jacent torpentque530"No infirmary has been opened, in consequence of the temptation which would afford to the idle or deceitful to feign sickness for the enjoyment of a fireside and other little comparative luxuries.""Prisoners, if well-conducted, are permitted to see their friends once in six months during the first half of their imprisonment, and once in three months during the latter half. There is a visiting cell in each pentagon which is partitioned by iron bars and close wire gratings into three divisions; in the middle division, an officer is placed to watch and hear what passes between the prisoner and his friends, who respectively occupy the divisions on either side of him. The visit is limited to ten minutes."529528"For several years past I have observed a gradual increase in the number and seventy of the cases of scurvy; I believe it to originate in the poorness and sameness of the diet adopted in the prisons.""The natural and constant depression of strength and spirits which is ever experienced by those who are subjected to the hard labour and rigorous discipline of the hulks."527"Do you believe that the hulk system has been of any service?" and he answered, "Far from it. It is admirably calculated to promote crime."526"Do you think that prisoners dread the punishment of transportation more than they did?—I do; it is generally known that it is much worse now.""The system of our hulks is very bad. I have been on the Committee of the Refuge for the Destitute during several years, and I have found that parties released from the hulks have generally turned out the very worst characters. I have frequently asked the gaolers, in our prisons, as to the efficacy of transportation, and the effect which it produces upon prisoners, and I have found that as a punishment its effects are very great, and that it excites great dread."525"From the view which the Committee take of the inherent defects of the hulk system, and the mischief which it is calculated to produce, they cannot but concur in the opinion expressed by the Committee of the House of Commons upon secondary punishments to that effect, that in future no persons sentenced to transportation should be allowed to remain permanently in this country, (except those selected for confinement in the Penitentiary at Milbank), and that henceforth the convict establishments of the hulks shall be considered solely as an intermediate station between the gaol and the penal colony."524"That convicts sentenced to seven years, transportation shall be, as far as practicable, employed in the hulks and dockyards at home and at Bermuda."523 rose to bring forward a motion relative to the keeping of convicts at home who had been sentenced to transportation. He said, that upon all their previous discussions on transportation, or other secondary punishments, he had been painfully struck by the contrast between the complete indifference of the House and the high importance of the subject. That indifference had prevailed most impartially, whatever was the change proposed, or whoever was the person to propose it. Last year he remembered an able and interesting speech upon this question from the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, a speech of nearly two hours, but delivered to a House of little more than thirty Members; yet, notwithstanding that indifference, and the consequent discouragement to him, he (Lord Mahon) felt so clearly convinced of the mischief of the present system; of its individual suffering, and its national detriment, of the noble Lord opposite having acted on most imperfect information, and with many doubts and misgivings of his own, that he felt it his duty once more to press this question on the attention of the House. Before he had given notice of his intention to bring forward this motion, he had taken an opportunity to consult some hon. Members whom he thought well qualified to give an opinion upon it, they being engaged in the administration of justice as chairmen
"That in the opinion of this House the large increase of the number of convicts to be permanently confined in the hulks of Great Britain, although sentenced to transportation in pursuance of the minute of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, dated the 2d of January, 1839, is highly inexpedient,"541"I will venture to express my apprehension of the success of penitentiaries, upon a scale of such magnitude as to contain the whole number of offenders now sentenced to transportation. The expense of such a measure would be immense, and in countries fully peopled like Great Britain and Ireland it would be a hazardous experiment to return to the population the numbers which will be annually discharged from these prisons as sentences expire. Better far, in my opinion, to lay the foundation of a new colony on the northwestern coast of New Holland, under management improved by the experience derived from New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land. The system which has been pursued there is susceptible of one great improvement—the discontinuance of assignment to private service. But in such case the period of strict servitude which would be devoted to public works should be shortened, and the settlers allowed to obtain the benefit of a convict's labour as a holder of a ticket of leave, the holder being compelled to seek his livelihood in a settler's service, by being restricted from setting up for himself in any trade or business during the continuance of his sentence."540"From what I have seen effected in New South Wales, I am induced to set a high value upon the power of commanding convict labour during the first process of settlement in a new country. The great demand for labour incident to such undertakings has seldom, if ever, been adequately supplied by free people. Where these have been relied on, and no other description of labour obtained, the progress of the incipient colony has been slow and difficult; hence the striking contrast between the condition of the Swan River Settle-
540539"That while the labours of the convict in the penitentiaries or prisons of the mother country operate to the injury of the poorer classes, who have either insufficient or no employ, and thus tend to augment the sum of pauperism, misery, and crime, the labours of the convict, even in the employ of Government in this colony, have a directly opposite effect, as he is converted by the mere process of transportation from a worse than useless burden into a positive advantage. The labours of the convict in this colony involve net merely no competition with the labouring poor at home, but, on the contrary, enhance the demand for labour there, by an immensely increased consumption of British manufactures of almost every description here, imported entirely in British vessels, and for which payment is principally made in raw material, afforded at its present prices by reason of its having been almost entirely raised by means of convict labour … It follows, then, that the continuance of transportation to any amount, so far from being an obstacle to the introduction of labouring emigrants, has the direct effect of enabling the colonists to make more extensive purchases of land, and thereby providing the means of increasing the amount of immigration, towards which they already contribute to the utmost of their ability; it is thus a system of healthy action and reaction within itself, and a combination of benefits almost unexampled.""Transportation is an admirable means of punishment, and of moral reformation to the convicts."538"This moral improvement amongst our people is, under the Divine blessing, steadily progressing.""A marked and acknowledged improvement in morals in the convict population, that by no means an inconsiderable number have shown a total reformation of conduct.""I have now been a clergyman in Van Diemen's Land for upwards of seventeen years. … I have had frequent occasion to announce divine service in the midst of harvest, and even then I never failed to procure a congregation. … Of the people of this colony I may say, that I never saw a more hospitable or kinder race of people in my life; and I should say, that they are a very moral people. Look at the improvement which has been made in the convict population, all of which has been derived from the moral culture bestowed on them by the free: look to the great number of reclaimed convicts—look to the exertions with them of private individuals."537536535"Discern the better, and the worse pursue?""France is at present suffering from the mass of released convicts, who, after having been confined at the galleys, join the criminal portion of the community, perfect adepts in forgery and housebreaking, and connected by acquaintance and sympathy with all the thieves and swindlers of the community. The same result would occur in any opulent and populous community, where crime has every temptation, and industry is abundantly employed."534"Are you aware, that there is any greater dread of transportation now than formerly? (He answered) 'Considerably more, the Governors of the Australian settlements being restricted as to granting pardons, it operates I know, very strongly, and is beginning to be well known in this country, by the felons themselves.' 'You think that is becoming gradually better known in England?' 'I think so. In the overgrown state in which we are, it is really desirable, that those men should go out of the country, for as to their getting employment when they are discharged, it is two to one, that it cannot be done, and, therefore, it is a charity, in the first instance, to transport them.'""I recollect a boy (said he) to whom I said, as he was dismissed from prison, 'You are going out without a hat.' 'Oh, don't trouble yourself, Sir,' was the boy's answer, 'I will have one before night.'"" 'A boy in gaol said one day to me' 'I have no character, Sir; when I come out of prison this day nine weeks, who will have me or look after me, Sir? And how am I to get a meal unless I thieve again?' ""There were many boys now in our gaols who would be honest if removed from evil associations, and put to any profitable employment."533532llllllllll531sicul ignava animalia, quibus si cibum suggeras statim jacent torpentque530"No infirmary has been opened, in consequence of the temptation which would afford to the idle or deceitful to feign sickness for the enjoyment of a fireside and other little comparative luxuries.""Prisoners, if well-conducted, are permitted to see their friends once in six months during the first half of their imprisonment, and once in three months during the latter half. There is a visiting cell in each pentagon which is partitioned by iron bars and close wire gratings into three divisions; in the middle division, an officer is placed to watch and hear what passes between the prisoner and his friends, who respectively occupy the divisions on either side of him. The visit is limited to ten minutes."529528"For several years past I have observed a gradual increase in the number and seventy of the cases of scurvy; I believe it to originate in the poorness and sameness of the diet adopted in the prisons.""The natural and constant depression of strength and spirits which is ever experienced by those who are subjected to the hard labour and rigorous discipline of the hulks."527"Do you believe that the hulk system has been of any service?" and he answered, "Far from it. It is admirably calculated to promote crime."526"Do you think that prisoners dread the punishment of transportation more than they did?—I do; it is generally known that it is much worse now.""The system of our hulks is very bad. I have been on the Committee of the Refuge for the Destitute during several years, and I have found that parties released from the hulks have generally turned out the very worst characters. I have frequently asked the gaolers, in our prisons, as to the efficacy of transportation, and the effect which it produces upon prisoners, and I have found that as a punishment its effects are very great, and that it excites great dread."525"From the view which the Committee take of the inherent defects of the hulk system, and the mischief which it is calculated to produce, they cannot but concur in the opinion expressed by the Committee of the House of Commons upon secondary punishments to that effect, that in future no persons sentenced to transportation should be allowed to remain permanently in this country, (except those selected for confinement in the Penitentiary at Milbank), and that henceforth the convict establishments of the hulks shall be considered solely as an intermediate station between the gaol and the penal colony."524"That convicts sentenced to seven years, transportation shall be, as far as practicable, employed in the hulks and dockyards at home and at Bermuda."523Viscount Mahon
585584 said, that on the second reading of the bill, the hon. Member had been requested to consolidate all the acts relating to copyright of design. But the bill now under discussion contained many important provisions, which were not to be found in the bill as it stood when it was read a second time, nor in any of the acts which it purported to consolidate. He wished to draw the attention of the House to three most important articles of manufacture, in which it was proposed to make great alterations. It was proposed to extend the copyright of designs on carpets, on glass, and on shawls, from twelve months to three years. There were also other most important provisions which were not to be found in the bill as it stood when it was originally introduced, nor in any of the laws at present in existence on the subject which it was proposed to consolidate. There was one provision of this nature of great importance, which had been introduced into this bill, and of which all those interested in the trade ought certainly to have had due notice. By the 6th clause it
585584Mr. Williams
pro formâ, thought the bill went to establish altogether a new principle of election, and he should, therefore, oppose the bill, and take the sense of the House upon it, when it was to be discussed in committee, unless it was previously altered. He understood, that the present motion was merely to commit the bill, pro formâ,Colonel Wood
 thought some definite understanding should be come to on this question.Mr. Law
 said, that unless he saw some alteration made in the bill, he would move the amendment of which he had given notice, on the first opportunity.Mr. Craven Berkeley
 being most anxious to proceed with the Poor-law Amendment Bill, could not give the hon. Member any other day, before Easter, than Wednesday next.Lord J. Russell,
 said, that if the motion were allowed to come on early to-morrow it would probably answer his hon. Friend's object.Lord J. Russell
576575574573 said, that before the House proceeded to the consideration of the other Orders of the Day, it might be convenient that he should state the views which he took with regard to the amendments proposed in reference to the Poor-law Amendment Bill. It was to be observed, that notice had been given of a great number of amendments, at various times, but they were not arranged in the votes according to any definite method, and it was not to be expected, that he should go through them all, or state them precisely in the
576575574573Lord John Russell
 said, that the bill was intended not to affect the existing law; and although it had been decided that parishes governed by local acts might form part of a union, he understood that it was not competent for the Poor-law Commissioners to place parishes in such a situation under the government of boards of guardians under the Act.Lord John Russell
 said, that he did not propose to alter the size of unions, but he proposed that there should be power given to the guardians to appoint committees, who might attend to any immediate and pressing claims, and might recommend other cases to the attention of the board.Lord J. Russell
 said, that his object was to prevent wards being formed of too small a size. That size might be determined either by the number of houses or the amount of rating. Below a certain size it would be extremely inconvenient that wards should be formed.Lord John Russell
 was afraid it would be hardly practicable to introduce such a provision, inasmuch as some of the unions at present were so excessively small that it would be absolutely necessary they should be enlarged.Lord John Russell
 observed, that the rule to which the hon. Member for Finsbury referred was intended to apply to a class of petitions which did not relate to any measures pending in the House; but the House bad since on several occasions, two of them being since be had had the honour of being in that Chair, exercised its discretion in refusing to have petitions printed under circumstances similar to the present case.The Speaker
 said, that the hon. Member should give notice of the motion for having the petition printed.The Speaker
588 apprehended, that nothing could be more regular than the manner in which the bill had been originally introduced; but at a subsequent period an instruction was given to the committee on the bill to insert clauses relating to certain other articles of trade, not stated in the original resolution of the committee on which the bill was founded. Now, there could be no doubt that, if any change of the law as to any one of those articles of trade were proposed, such alteration should be founded on a resolution passed in a committee of the whole House to consider the act relating to those particular articles. He apprehended, however, that there could be no objection to going into committee for the purpose of considering the other clauses of the bill. If the instruction only contem-
588The Speaker
587 wished to state how the case stood. On the 9th of February, his hon. Friend, the Member for Belfast obtained leave to bring in a bill, founded upon a resolution of a Committee of the whole House, for altering the law of copyright, with respect to woven fabrics of cotton, &c, and the bill, in strict conformity, be brought in. In the discussion
587Mr. Goulburn
590pro formâ only wished to have the bill committed 590pro formâMr. Handley
 wished to throw out a suggestion to the hon. Gentleman who had introduced this bill. From communications which the hon. Gentleman had had with the Board of Trade, he perceived that it was the intention of the hon. Gentleman to propose a number of alterations in the bill as it stood, in its printed form before the committee. He would suggest to him whether it would not be better, and save even his own time, that the bill should be considered in committee in the form in which it was intended to stand. He could assure him that he did not offer this suggestion from any desire to prevent the bill from being fairly discussed—he had no such intention. But, from all the experience which he had in the conduct of bills in that House, he was satisfied that much time would be saved by the House having the bill before them in the state as nearly as possible in which the hon. Member desired it to pass. At the same time, if the hon. Gentleman believed that by not adopting this suggestion he would best promote the object which he had in view, he would offer no opposition. The hon. Member would act upon his own discretion.Mr. Labouchere
583 said, he did not rise to express any opinion on the technical point that had been raised. The rule was, that all bills relating to matters of trade should be introduced in committee, but on questions like the present, the House only required a resolution of a general nature. The hon. Member said the hon. Gentleman opposite had attempted to take the House by surprise, but if the hon. Member recollected the discussion that took place on the second reading, the hon. Member would allow that this was not the case. It was then, he believed, unanimously agreed, that whatever might be the opinions respecting particular points of the bill, that the law on this subject, instead of being scattered in four or five, acts of Parliament should be collected into a single bill; and, therefore, to go into
583Mr. Labouchere
 said, that if a bill were introduced into the House, affecting trade and manufactures, and during the progress of the bill, it was desired to introduce a clause affecting any particular trade or manufacture not before mentioned in the bill, that clause must be introduced in a committee of the whole House. It was like a money clause in a bill. The House at present did not know what part of the bill was original, and what was not; and he would suggest to the hon. Gentleman, that he should follow the recommendation of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, to reprint the bill, with indications in the margin as to what was the old law, and what was new.Mr. Warburton
 with great deference to the opinion expressed by the Chair, imagined that if they were to go into Committee with the view of proceeding only with those clauses which were in accordance with the existing law, and excluding from their consideration all that related to any alteration of the law, they would find great difficulty in proceeding at all with the bill as it now stood.Mr. Warburton,
pro formâ; found the objections so numerous, and the difficulties so increasing, that he must consent to the suggestion of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. He would go into committee, pro formâ;Mr. E. Tennent
l.581"Out of 179 firms in the three kingdoms thirty-six only against us. Of near 16,000 priming tables, 2,319 are against us. Of 553 cylinder machines, 149 only against, leaving 404 cylinders. Of 43,362 hands, 7,450 alone are employed by the opponents of protection. And of the enormous production of upwards of 17,000,000 of pieces, 4,500,000 only, or thereabouts, are produced by the copyists. All England, with the exception of this fraction of Lancashire and the neighbourhood, all Scotland and all Ireland, have petitioned for protection and extension. The petitioners for extension have more than doubled since last Session. Three houses of great magnitude, and very largely in the export trade, have petitioned for protection, they proving, in the opinion of competent judges deeply interested in the question, the groundlessness of the apprehensions respecting mischief to our foreign trade. The general result of this statement is, that the production of the copyists, as regards the amount of production, is about one-fourth of the whole, instead of being more than double the amount, as stated last Session before the committee; and the value, piece for piece, inclusive of the fine productions of London, the shawls of Scotland, and the highest class prints of Lancashire, is not more than half the value of the production of the extensionists, or about one-eighth of the value of the whole production of the trade."17,142,60043,8623228855315,839179Total:
17,142,60043,8623228855315,839179Total:150,0001,0903282115599London. For
150,0001,0903282115599London. For293,0001,400——214555Ireland. For
293,0001,400——214555Ireland. For4,175,60014,230—206755,66067Scotland. For
4,175,60014,230—206755,66067Scotland. For1,920,0003,200——6499714Neutral
1,920,0003,200——6499714Neutral4,470,0007,450——1492,31936Against
4,470,0007,450——1492,31936Against6,134,00016,082——2335,84948Manchester. For
6,134,00016,082——2335,84948Manchester. ForProduction. Number of Pieces.Hands employed.Two to Four Coloured Presses.Flat Presses.Cylinder Printing Machines.Printing Tables.Firms.Locality.
Production. Number of Pieces.Hands employed.Two to Four Coloured Presses.Flat Presses.Cylinder Printing Machines.Printing Tables.Firms.Locality.Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension."Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension.
Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension."Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension.
17,142,60043,8623228855315,839179Total:
17,142,60043,8623228855315,839179Total:150,0001,0903282115599London. For
150,0001,0903282115599London. For293,0001,400——214555Ireland. For
293,0001,400——214555Ireland. For4,175,60014,230—206755,66067Scotland. For
4,175,60014,230—206755,66067Scotland. For1,920,0003,200——6499714Neutral
1,920,0003,200——6499714Neutral4,470,0007,450——1492,31936Against
4,470,0007,450——1492,31936Against6,134,00016,082——2335,84948Manchester. For
6,134,00016,082——2335,84948Manchester. ForProduction. Number of Pieces.Hands employed.Two to Four Coloured Presses.Flat Presses.Cylinder Printing Machines.Printing Tables.Firms.Locality.
Production. Number of Pieces.Hands employed.Two to Four Coloured Presses.Flat Presses.Cylinder Printing Machines.Printing Tables.Firms.Locality.Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension."Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension.
Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension."Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension.580579Hume said, the hon. Member had stated this measure ought to have originated in a resolution of the House. Now, if he would turn to the votes of the 8th of March, he would find a resolution had been actually passed. [Mr. l.581"Out of 179 firms in the three kingdoms thirty-six only against us. Of near 16,000 priming tables, 2,319 are against us. Of 553 cylinder machines, 149 only against, leaving 404 cylinders. Of 43,362 hands, 7,450 alone are employed by the opponents of protection. And of the enormous production of upwards of 17,000,000 of pieces, 4,500,000 only, or thereabouts, are produced by the copyists. All England, with the exception of this fraction of Lancashire and the neighbourhood, all Scotland and all Ireland, have petitioned for protection and extension. The petitioners for extension have more than doubled since last Session. Three houses of great magnitude, and very largely in the export trade, have petitioned for protection, they proving, in the opinion of competent judges deeply interested in the question, the groundlessness of the apprehensions respecting mischief to our foreign trade. The general result of this statement is, that the production of the copyists, as regards the amount of production, is about one-fourth of the whole, instead of being more than double the amount, as stated last Session before the committee; and the value, piece for piece, inclusive of the fine productions of London, the shawls of Scotland, and the highest class prints of Lancashire, is not more than half the value of the production of the extensionists, or about one-eighth of the value of the whole production of the trade."17,142,60043,8623228855315,839179Total:
17,142,60043,8623228855315,839179Total:150,0001,0903282115599London. For
150,0001,0903282115599London. For293,0001,400——214555Ireland. For
293,0001,400——214555Ireland. For4,175,60014,230—206755,66067Scotland. For
4,175,60014,230—206755,66067Scotland. For1,920,0003,200——6499714Neutral
1,920,0003,200——6499714Neutral4,470,0007,450——1492,31936Against
4,470,0007,450——1492,31936Against6,134,00016,082——2335,84948Manchester. For
6,134,00016,082——2335,84948Manchester. ForProduction. Number of Pieces.Hands employed.Two to Four Coloured Presses.Flat Presses.Cylinder Printing Machines.Printing Tables.Firms.Locality.
Production. Number of Pieces.Hands employed.Two to Four Coloured Presses.Flat Presses.Cylinder Printing Machines.Printing Tables.Firms.Locality.Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension."Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension.
Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension."Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension.
17,142,60043,8623228855315,839179Total:
17,142,60043,8623228855315,839179Total:150,0001,0903282115599London. For
150,0001,0903282115599London. For293,0001,400——214555Ireland. For
293,0001,400——214555Ireland. For4,175,60014,230—206755,66067Scotland. For
4,175,60014,230—206755,66067Scotland. For1,920,0003,200——6499714Neutral
1,920,0003,200——6499714Neutral4,470,0007,450——1492,31936Against
4,470,0007,450——1492,31936Against6,134,00016,082——2335,84948Manchester. For
6,134,00016,082——2335,84948Manchester. ForProduction. Number of Pieces.Hands employed.Two to Four Coloured Presses.Flat Presses.Cylinder Printing Machines.Printing Tables.Firms.Locality.
Production. Number of Pieces.Hands employed.Two to Four Coloured Presses.Flat Presses.Cylinder Printing Machines.Printing Tables.Firms.Locality.Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension."Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension.
Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension."Comparative Statement of the Houses in Great Britain and Ireland, for and against Copyright Extension.580579HumeMr. E. Tennent
578 said, that as far as he was concerned he should be very glad to accede to the suggestion, but there was a number of individuals in town watching the progress of the bill, to whom it would be highly inconvenient that the points on which he and the right hon. Gentleman differed, should not be settled that even-
578Mr. E. Tennent
572 hoped his hon. Friend
572Mr. Fielden
 hoped his hon. Friend would persevere in his motion.Mr. Hume
 said, the hon. Member was scarcely in a condition to proceed with the bill. The bill which the hon. Member obtained leave to bring in was, to regulate the law as to copyright of designs on woven fabrics of cottons, &c.; but the bill now before the House extended its provisions to designs of metals, mixed metals, glass, shawls, and every other description of our manufactures, and must take all manufacturers in those branches by surprise; they had got no notice whatever of the intentions of the hon. Member. Even now the preamble of the bill was incomplete. If the hon. Member had intended to include every sort of manufacture whereof designs formed a part, he ought to have said so in his preamble in order that all who were to be affected by it might have had notice. He was aware that the bill had brought many gentlemen from distant parts of the country to London, but the question was not one of convenience to them, but whether the House of Commons ought to discuss a bill so different from that which the hon. Member obtained leave to bring in. In his opinion each of the articles enumerated in the bill ought to have been proposed in a committee of the whole House and there discussed. That not having been done, he would ask the Chair whether they were in a condition to proceed with the bill. He submitted to the hon. Member that the best thing he could do would be to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, amend his bill, and give notice to all whose interests were to be affected, and bring it on on a future day.Mr. Hume
582 objected to the recommittal of the bill, as it was contrary to the rules of the House. He begged the Clerk would read the motion upon which the bill was
582Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether the hon. Gentleman meant to introduce glass, metal, carpets, and other articles in that bill, when that resolution was agreed to. Me complained that the House and the country were taken by surprise, because the rules of the House carefully guarded against any alteration being made in matters affecting the trade or commerce of the country, and they required that every such alteration should be made in a committee of the whole House. Resolutions ought to have been proposed in committee to include gluss, metals, as well as woven fabrics and paper hangings. He submitted, that no such matters being included in the resolution, the hon. Gentleman's bill was irregular, and having stated thus much, he hoped to hear if there was any resolution of the House, or any instruction to the committee to depart from the rule laid down so carefully for so many years.Mr. Hume
 appealed to the Speaker, whether, in point of form, they could proceed with the bill. It proposed to alter the laws relating to trade in a variety of articles, and with respect to them, the bill was not founded upon a resolution of the whole House in Committee. If the rule was a good one, as he believed it was, it ought to be adhered to strictly, as it had been on former occasions.Mr. Hume
 suggested, that the bill should be withdrawn altogether, and a new bill introduced, which, he was satisfied, would meet with no opposition till it arrived at its present stage.Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether there was any clause in the bill, providing that regular accounts be furnished of the income and expenditure under the bill. He thought, that a clause ought to be introduced into the bill similar to the one in the Public Roads Bill, for the purpose of letting it be known what amount of money was received, and how that money was expended.Mr. Hume
589 said, there appeared to be a general feeling, that the bill should be
589Mr. Sheil
 hoped, that as the rule of the House was laid down in one of its standing orders, the hon. Member for Finsbury would persevere.Mr. Alston
 hoped, after the statement from the Chair as to the practice of the House, the hon. Member would not persevere with his motion.Mr. Estcourt
 would rather adhere to the standing order, in preference to the practice of the House.Mr. T. Duncombe
 submitted, that he was not bound to take that course. He now held in his hand a copy of one of the orders of the House, made under the sanction of the right hon. Gentleman's (the Speaker's) predecessor, in February, 1839, in which it was stated, that when Members presented petitions, and gave notice of a motion respecting them, they were to be printed with the votes. Now, with every respect for what might have since become the practice of the House, or the understanding as to the notices for the printing of petitions, he would maintain his right to ask that this petition be printed with the votes, and he was ready to name the day for taking it into consideration. He founded this claim on the standing order of the House, which had not been rescinded.Mr. T. Duncombe
 would not press his motion at that time, if he were allowed to make it on the following day at the time of private business.Mr. T. Duncombe
 would be satisfied with that arrangement.Mr. T. Duncombe
 presented a petition from a Mr. S. Cousins, an elector of Hertford, complaining of his having been refused a copy of the registry of freeholders of the county, though he offered to pay for it. The hon. Member moved, that the petition be printed in the votes; and in the proper time he would give notice of the day when he should move that it be taken into consideration.Mr. T. Duncombe
 wished to know whether, in the provisions which were proposed to be made with regard to the size of unions, the noble Lord had contemplated the distinction between densely-populated districts and those agricultural neighbourhoods where the inhabitants were not so numerous?Mr. Grimsditch
 hoped the hon. Member would adhere to what had been the practice of the House during the present Session.Sir E. Knatchbull
 thought leave might be given to bring in a bill to-morrow, and the discussion in committee might take place next week.Sir George Clerk
 said, the question was not as to the printing of the petition, but as to what was the understanding of the House with respect to notices for printing petitions.Sir G. Grey
 thought it only due to the hon. Member for Belfast, to declare his belief, that he had not taken any steps in reference to this measure, which could justly draw upon him the animadversion of the House. He was quite certain that the hon. Member had not introduced the additional subjects into the bill, without the knowledge and concurrence of the House. But the question for consideration was, whether in the steps which had been taken with reference to this bill, they had adhered to the strict rule applicable in such cases. They ought to have gone into a Committee of the whole House, upon the proposal to consolidate the former acts in reference to this subject, and he trusted that the House would adhere to the regular course. In making this remark he had no intention to delay the measure any more than was absolutely necessary. He was quite prepared to go on with it, if such were the decision of the House, but he must say, that some of the clauses of the bill were not so generally known as they should be, and as the hon. Gentleman had intimated his intention of making some further alterations, he would suggest to him, whether it would not be better to have the bill reprinted before it was considered by the Committee. Perhaps the Speaker would have the kindness to state what was his opinion upon the point of form. He apprehended that they ought first to have gone into Committee on all the subjects mentioned in the bill, but that, if they had omitted what was regular with reference to some of those subjects, they were still in a position to go into Committee on the clauses of the bill which did not refer to them. It was a question of convenience to the parties out of doors whether it would be better to go partially into Committee, or wait until the bill had been printed, with the amendments.Mr. Mark Philips
 asked whether the arrangements proposed with regard to the formation of wards, had any reference to the amount of rating of the inhabitants?Mr. Halford
 begged to ask what was proposed to be done with regard to those large metropolitan parishes at present governed by local acts? He understood that the existing Act provided that the commissioners should not interfere with them. As the bill at present stood, it provided that the law already in existence should not be altered. He believed that the law was doubtful, and that some litigation had taken place, the commissioners having attempted to place the parishes of St. Andrew and St. George the Martyr under the provisions of the bill.Sir Robert Peel
586 said, the standing order of the House was, that no bill
586Sir Robert Peel
577 thought that it was better to clear up the point at once. As the bill stood, it took away from the commissioners all power of dissolving unions
577Sir R. Peel
 would wish that the practice of the House during the Session should be adhered to. No hon. Member ought to be allowed to act on his own views of what the practice was, in opposition to the general understanding of the House as to the general practice.Sir R. Peel
 hoped that some definite rule would be laid down on the subject; for certainly the general understanding of the House was at present at variance with the printed regulation.Sir R. Peel
 thought the most judicious course would be to bring in a new bill. From the disposition the hon. Member had shown to meet the views of the House, he was satisfied, that no obstacles would be thrown in the way of advancing it to its present stage.Sir R. Peel
pro formâ, said, as his hon. Friend, from the course which the discussion had taken, would, of necessity, have to make many alterations, he could not be expected to go into committee, pro formâ,Sir R. Peel
592591 hoped that the House would not agree to the present motion, because it would be establishing an important principle, which would be attended with great inconvenience. A few years ago petitions presented to that House were printed, as a matter of course. A great majority of the petitions that were presented were moved to be printed, as a matter of course, with the votes. In
592591Viscount Howick
 took a different view of the subject. The only point the House were called upon to decide was whether they would print this particular petition, and he thought they ought to do so if it could be shown that the petition was of such a character as to call for the immediate interposition of the House to obtain an earlier investigation than could be obtained by waiting for a reference to the committee. What was the nature of this petition? An individual complained to the House that by the supposed mistake or misconduct of a public officer he had been debarred from procuring a register of county voters. There was no subject which the House was more bound to entertain than one which concerned the exercise of the elective franchise, and the statement, whether true or false, having been made to the House upon the authority of an hon. Member, who had given notice that he meant to make it the subject of discussion, he thought the House should consent to the printing of this petition for the use of Members only. He thought that there was a special ground for the printing of this petition which did not apply to petitions of less urgency.Mr. Goulburn
593 differed very much from the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn). The question merely was, whether this petition should be brought under the consideration of the House at an earlier period than it would have been had it been referred to the committee. To make this petition an exception to the rule would be casting a stigma upon those petitions which were referred to the committee, and would be declaring that those alone were worthy of the attention of the House which were printed with the votes. If it could be shown that this petition was of so much
593Mr. Greene
 thought, that, as the hon. Member had given notice of his intention to bring the petition under the attention of the House, it was of the highest consequence that it should be placed in the hands of hon. Members before the discussion came on.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that the question was in truth whether the House had confidence in the judgment of the committee appointed to consider the subject of printing petitions. The course which the committee took was to print all petitions of this character, and he was of opinion, that if the petition had last night been referred to them, the hon. Member for Finsbury would have attained his object quite as early as he would now secure it.Mr. G. W. Wood
 could assure the hon. Member, that the House in nowise found fault with the manner in which the committee discharged their important duties. He took a different view of the case from that of the hon. Member, and he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, that a petition which contained allegations such as those which were here made, relating to the exercise of the elective franchise by the constituency of that House, was one of such primary importance, that it demanded to be at once printed, for the purpose of being taken into consideration.Mr. T. B. Estcourt
s.,594"That all petitions which are presented relative to subjects which Members wished to bring under the consideration of the House are printed with the votes, the Member giving notice when he presented the petition of the day on which he will make his motion." would not say whether a better rule than the present might not be established, or whether they should not place some further restrictions on the printing of petitions; but the question then was, the application of the existing rule. He found that the law of the case had been laid down by Lord Dumfermline as follows.—
s.,594"That all petitions which are presented relative to subjects which Members wished to bring under the consideration of the House are printed with the votes, the Member giving notice when he presented the petition of the day on which he will make his motion."Lord J. Russell
 objected to the printing of the petition, which was that of an indifferent party complaining of no personal grievance, but of some acts alleged to be done towards his clients. He very much doubted whether it would be expedient to grant those returns which were to be moved for, but he should have no objection to them, if the right hon. Baronet could procure the consent of the parties who were concerned.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
595 thought, that it was of very great importance that the rules of the House relating to the printing of petitions should be determined, and should be strictly attended to, as well as that every
595Sir Robert Peel
 thought that the effect of adopting the course which an assent to this motion would establish, would be to induce many hon. Members to bring forward subjects of small importance. It was to be remembered, that hon. Members had a strong pressure from their constituents and from their private friends, and he contended, that if any impartial man looked back to the number of petitions presented since the late rule had been established, he would find that only one in ten was of such a nature as to be entitled to be printed. He cordially concurred with the right hon. Baronet as to the impropriety of debating petitions upon their being presented, but after the decision which had been arrived at in reference to the petition of the hon. Member for Finsbury, for the future he should always vote in favour of printing petitions, because he thought that greater difficulties would occur by reason of the petitions being discussed upon their being presented than from their being printed.Viscount Howick
 saw no reason to alter his opinion upon the existing state of the practice of the House. What he thought was, that the rule should be altered, and that there should be a distinct definition of the circumstances under which a petition might be printed, for that the mere intention of an hon. Member to found a motion upon it was not, in his view, sufficient.Sir R. Peel
596 said, that his definition of the rule was entirely different from that
596Mr. Hume
, in reference to the question previously put by the noble Lord (Lord Fitzalan), wished to know whether the parish of Marylebone was under the control of the Poor-law Commissioners so far as that they would have the power of preventing the exportation of the unfortunate females referred to in the report?Colonel T. Wood
599l."1. That in the opinion of this council, the parent state, indisputably deriving a direct pecuniary saving (independently of other advantages) from the assignment of convicts to private service in New South Wales, and its interests being at all events in an equal, if not a superior degree involved in the due coercion and discipline of such transported offenders, ought in justice to bear at least one-half of the expenses attendant on the police and gaol establishments, which are raised to their present large amount chiefly through the introduction of a convict population into the colony. 2. That his Excellency the Governor be respectfully solicited to represent, on behalf of this council, to her Majesty's Secretary of State fox the Colonies, that this council has most reluctantly consented to so large an expenditure for the support of those establishments since the 1st. of July, 1835, and has voted the full amount of the estimate for the same for the year 1841, solely from a conviction that it would not be justified in declining to make provision for the maintenance of the public tranquillity and security. 3. That by the appropriation, for the period from July 1st, 1835, to 31st December, 1841, of so large an amount (about 597,000599l. then rose for the purpose of moving the following resolutions on the subject of the land fund and finances of New South Wales:599l."1. That in the opinion of this council, the parent state, indisputably deriving a direct pecuniary saving (independently of other advantages) from the assignment of convicts to private service in New South Wales, and its interests being at all events in an equal, if not a superior degree involved in the due coercion and discipline of such transported offenders, ought in justice to bear at least one-half of the expenses attendant on the police and gaol establishments, which are raised to their present large amount chiefly through the introduction of a convict population into the colony. 2. That his Excellency the Governor be respectfully solicited to represent, on behalf of this council, to her Majesty's Secretary of State fox the Colonies, that this council has most reluctantly consented to so large an expenditure for the support of those establishments since the 1st. of July, 1835, and has voted the full amount of the estimate for the same for the year 1841, solely from a conviction that it would not be justified in declining to make provision for the maintenance of the public tranquillity and security. 3. That by the appropriation, for the period from July 1st, 1835, to 31st December, 1841, of so large an amount (about 597,000599l.Mr. Grote
 said, that neither the hon. Gentleman nor the public need be alarmed lest any compromise of money should be allowed in the case alluded to. His noble Friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department had always set his face against any compromise, and the commissioners of police, from the commencement of the prosecution, had always refused to listen to any offers of the kind. The defendants would be brought up for judgment at the commencement of the next term.Mr. F. Maule
 said, that the parish being regulated under a local act, the Poor-law Commissioners had no power.Mr. F. Maule
l.l.597"On Friday, at the meeting of the board of directors and guardians of the parish of Marylebone, the proposition of sending some of the most vicious female paupers to the colony of South Australia, by the emigration ship Daniel Wheeler, which will sail from the London
l.l.597 begged to call the attention of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, to a paragraph which appeared in the Observer of Sunday last. The noble Lord read the following paragraph:—
l.l.597"On Friday, at the meeting of the board of directors and guardians of the parish of Marylebone, the proposition of sending some of the most vicious female paupers to the colony of South Australia, by the emigration ship Daniel Wheeler, which will sail from the London
l.l.597Lord Fitzalan
 said, that the only knowledge which he had of the subject was from the newspapers, and, in answer to his noble Friend's second question, he could only say, that he considered the proposed application of the parish funds to such a purpose a very improper one.Lord J. Russell
 referred to the East-India Acts laid on the Table during the last three days, and called the attention of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade to the ambiguity of the wording of one of the Acts, by which, according to his (Mr. Goulburn's) interpretation, it would be supposed that sugar could be imported into the presidency of Madras by land, though prohibited by sea.Mr. Goulburn
598 said, he had taken the opinion of those parties connected with
598Mr. Labouchere
 rose to ask a question, to which he hoped the hon. Under-Secretary of State would be able to give a satisfactory answer. On the 13th of February, 1841, the trial of the Queen against Lord Waldegrave and Captain Duff, for an assault upon some police officers, took place in the Court of Queen's Bench. It appeared that the commissioners of police had instituted the prosecution, and that, at the trial, some conversation took place, during which the judge suggested that there should be some private arrangement. Now, he begged to know, whether there was any intention to bring the case to a close, as the public mind was very much dissatisfied on the subject?Mr. Hume
612 had said, that he had no objection to the motion of the hon. Gentleman being assented to for a committee to inquire into the state of the colony of Newfoundland, when it should be brought forward. He was not prepared to slate the course which he intended to adopt with respect to that colony; but, when he had received despatches
612Lord John, Russell
 said, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had intimated to the noble Lord, on Wednesday last, that certain amendments would be necessary, in order to guard parishes which were under local acts from the interference of the commissioners. By the present bill, the boards of guardians had the power to dissolve the union by a majority of votes. But the right hon. Baronet also suggested, that there ought to be an equal power vested in the board of guardians to unite with parishes which had been united with others. The town of Brighton was governed by a local act. A neighbouring parish was under the power of the Poor-law Commissioners—it was joined to a union. Now, that parish might be dissolved by a majority of the guardians; and, if the guardians of the parish of Brighton had not the power to refuse to be joined with another parish, the Poor-law Commissioners might, under the terms of the bill, bring the town of Brighton under their government. He hoped that the noble Lord would provide not only that the Gilbert unions, and unions so situated, should not be dissolved without the consent of the majority of the guardians, but also that no parish should be added to another parish for the sake of forming a union under the Poor-law Commissioners.Captain Pechell
 begged to ask the noble Lord, whether it was his intention to introduce a separate clause with regard to the reduction of the number of assistant Poor-law Commissioners.Lord G. Somerset
 replied in the affirmative.Lord John Russell
 rose, pursuant to notice, to move the insertion of words, the object of which was to repeal the Poor-law Amendment Act, and he should take the sense of the House upon it.Mr. Fielden
 understood that the hon. Member was going to propose an amendment, the effect of which would be to repeal the Poor-law Amendment Act. He wished to know, if that was the object of his amendment.Lord J. Russell
 hoped the noble Lord would listen to his statement. He was moving the introduction of words which, he admitted, if adopted by the committee, would go to repeal the Poor-law Act.Mr. Fielden
 understood the object of the hon. Member's amendment was In repeal the Poor-law Amendment Act; it was to repeal the existing Poor-law, whereas the bill, to a clause of which he moved that amendment, was to continue that law. Such a course of proceeding was quite irregular.The Chairman
 said, as to the irregularity of the course of proceeding, he had nothing to do with it. He had given notice of the amendment, and he, therefore, considered that he had a right to be heard on it.Mr. Fielden
 said, that the hon. Member could not, under the title of the bill, move the amendment he proposed. The hon. Member was entitled, on proper notice being given, to ask leave to bring in a bill to repeal the Poor-law, but as the object of the present bill was to continue the Poor-law in existence, and as that bill had been read a second time, and the House was now in committee, considering how that object could be best carried into effect, the hon. Gentleman could not, according to the usages of the House, propose an amendment to the bill purporting to repeal that law. The hon. Gentleman could no more move in Committee the repeal of the Act, than he could move the repeal of the Habeas Corpus Act.Lord J. Russell
614 was as strongly opposed to the Act as his hon. Friend the Member for Oldham. He thought the measure an odious and detestable one. Nevertheless, in the performance of their labours, it was absolutely necessary that they should adhere to certain rules and regulations. He would, therefore, recommend to his hon. Friend to withdraw the motion for the present, if he found it inconsistent with the usual practice. Besides, his hon. Friend should remember that that was not a fitting occasion, as it appeared to him, for bringing the entire subject under consideration, as many Members who were
614Mr. Wakley
 repeated, that the motion was contrary to the practice of the House.The Chairman
 said, that undoubtedly the question then was, whether or not the motion was in conformity with the rules of the House. It did not appear to him that it was. Leave had been given to bring in a bill for the continuance of the commission which the proposed amendment would do away with altogether. He was clearly of opinion, therefore, that the motion could not be entertained.Sir Robert Peel
 thought, that, if the proposition of his hon. Friend was contrary to the printed rules of the House, then he would be wrong to persevere in it; but if it were merely contrary to the practice of the House, he would be right to persevere in it, because the more frequently the practice of the House was violated, the better it would be for the public.Mr. Wakley
 was very sorry to hear what had just fallen from the hon. Member. He ought to be well aware, that unless attention was paid to certain rules and regulations, their proceedings must inevitably become a scene of great and gross irregularity. When the hon. Member contrasted the printed rules with the practice of the House, and inferred that the practice was not binding unless embodied in the printed rules, he begged to say that he knew of no rules on this subject, except such as might be extracted from the Journals of the House. The practice, in such matters, was usually gathered from the experience of old and attentive Members of the House, and he had never yet heard the practice questioned which he had already stated.The Chairman
 said, that the feeling in Oldham was unanimous against the bill which the Poor-law Commissioners were about to introduce there. He regretted that he should have to inform his constituents that the House had refused to hear him on the subject.Mr. Fielden
615 said the hon. Member was clearly out of order in persisting after what had fallen from the Chairman, It was of no importance whether the regulation laid down by him was a written rule or a part of the constant practice of the House. But he must make one remark upon the endeavour of the hon. Member to raise a prejudice out of doors by stating
615Lord J. Russell
 hoped the House would allow him to state his reasons why he thought he ought to make the motion.Mr. Fielden
 apprehended that the hon. Member was not at liberty to assign any reasons in committee for altering the rules of the House, because it was not in the power of a committee to alter the rules of the House.Mr. Williams Wynn
 gave notice for Monday of a motion for an instruction to the committee to the same effect as his proposed amendment.Mr. Fielden
616 rose to move its postponement. When the noble Lord, some fortnight or three weeks since, stated that it was not the intention of Government to interfere with those parishes that were now governed under Gilbert's Act, the declaration gave great satisfaction. But since that time a doubt had risen whether, even under the existing law,' the Poor-law commissioners would not have the power to get rid of the operation of the local acts by incorporating the particular parish with others in a union. Many of the parishes now regulated by local acts were under great apprehensions of being put to heavy legal expenses in defending their privileges against the Poor law commissioners on this account. There were legal proceedings now pending on the subject, and he hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord would consent to postpone this clause, until it was decided whether or not the Poor-law commissioners had the power in question. He hoped, also, that the noble Lord would introduce a declaratory clause, intimating that those parishes would be secure under their local governments. The words of the clause were very ambiguous, and partook of that ingenuity and subtlety that characterised every thing that emanated from Somerset-house, and he hoped the noble Lord would give effect to what he (Mr. Wakley) really be-
616Mr. Wakley
618617 observed, that the parish of St. Pancras had a local act, and that the Poor-law commissioners attempted to introduce their particular government by-virtue of one of the clauses in the old act. In that attempt, however, they failed. The Court of Queen's Bench held, that when there was a local act, and a board of guardians, it was not competent to the Poor-law commissioners to introduce a board of guardians under the Amendment Act, as distinguished from the guardians under the local act. The parish of St. Pancras, therefore, escaped from the Poor-law commissioners with the dissentient opinion of one of the learned judges. He well remembered what had taken place when he left the court, though he would not mention names. He left the court followed by a gentleman, who said, "As you don't like to have a board of guardians we will put you into a union." Upon which he said, "Sir, if you have any intention of doing that, I beg to tell you, that your present remark will for ever prevent that; for in the Court of Queen's Bench, or in my place in Parliament, I will always be ready to state what I have said, and prevent you from doing indirectly what you cannot do directly." He was a parishioner, and considered, that if they were large enough to conduct their own affairs, under a board of guardians, they did not want to be put into a union. He dared the party to do so. Some time after the Poor-law commissioners put the whole of the city of London—he thought no fewer than fifty-one parishes—into one union. He had moved, in the Court of Queen's Bench to set aside that order. Many parishes under the government of local acts and boards of guardians, complained of the interference of the Poor-law commissioners, and had said, that if they received the law as laid down at Somerset-house, many respectable persons who could live out of the workhouse with a little assistance, which the parishes were ready to afford, would be driven into the workhouse, and would, in consequence, die of shame. The Court of Queen's Bench had decided, after great deliberation, that under the 28th section, the Poor-law commissioners had the power of forming an union of any number of parishes they thought proper. There was no injustice in saying, that a board of guardians should not be imposed where one already existed but these
618617Sir F. Pollock
 said, that he hoped that the statement of Ins hon. Friend would have due effect with the noble Lord, It was said by the Poor-law commissioners, that they had the power to interfere with local nets.Sir S. Canning
619 said, that he understood the hon. Gentleman to complain that under that bill the local acts would be more interfered with than under the Poor-law Bill itself. The purport of the clause was, that so far as that act was concerned, no further interference should occur than that which had taken place under the general act. That was what the clause professed and did. Me could not see any ambiguity in the clause; it stated most explicitly that the present act should not interfere with any local acts that might exist. As to whether there was any ambiguity in existing acts of Parliament, that was a different question, and one to which the hon. Gentleman appeared to have directed his attention. The proposition which the hon. Member had endeavoured to establish was in many respects a startling one; because he stated that the Court of Queen's Bench having pronounced a judgment, one judge only dissenting, we should pass a law directly at variance with the principles which the Court of Queen's Bench had laid down. The hon. Member had referred to the parish of St. Pancras. In that parish as there existed a board of Guardians under the local act, the Court of Queen's Bench had decided that there should not be another board constituted under the Poor-law Bill, and that the management of the poor in that parish should be left to the existing board. With reference to the other points, the formation of unions, the judges had decided that there was nothing in the
619Lord J. Russell
620 said, that it could not be denied that the existing law, particularly that portion relating to the influence which the commissioners exercised over those parishes which had local acts, had given rise to great dissatisfaction. The Court of Queen's Bench had decided, that in parishes governed by local acts the Poor-Jaw commissioners should not interfere. But by uniting the parishes, by including them with others in the form of an union, the Poor-law commissioners had it in their power to set aside the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, and the authority of all local acts and local boards of guardians. In that way all the parishes now governed by local acts were placed under the arbitrary control of the new Poor-law commissioners. He would not go so far as the noble Lord, and say that
620Sir R. Peel
621 said, that from the knowledge which he possessed of the borough that he had the honour to represent, he was enable to corroborate the statement made by the right hon. Baronet Opposite. The affairs of the poor of Coventry were administered by local boards. Now, it was well known that that city presented some of the most difficult cases that could be found in any part of the country. There was no place more liable to fluctuations in trade than Coventry, and there, as was well known to some hon. Members at least, the Poor-law commissioners could not interfere with the local boards. As
621Mr. Ellice
 said, that after the speech of the right hon. Baronet, he was sure that the noble Lord, the Secretary of State, must give way—the noble Lord would be compelled to give way, after such a speech from the other side. Surely he would give way—the Government only existed through the forbearance of the right hon. Baronet. As a proof of this he would call the attention of the House to the fact, that on the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, the duration of the commission was changed from ten years to five. For his (Mr. Leader's) part, he was delighted that the hon. Baronet had made the speech which the House had just heard, and he was convinced that the further consideration of the clause would be postponed. He could not say that the present clause had originated the dishonesty or the ambiguily—it merely went to continue the dishonesty and the ambiguity of the former measure. In West minster there were several large parishes well administered under local acts, it was evident that the noble Lord wished to bring them all under the control of the Poor-law commissioners: for that reason did he say that the clause was dishonest and ambiguous.Mr. Leader
622 conceived that there had been some misunderstanding with respect to the power possessed by the commissioners. The Court of Queen's Bench said, that the commissioners were not to interfere with the electoral regulations of those parishes which possessed local acts, but they might interfere in the superintendence of the affairs of the poor and the
622Mr. F. Maule
 hoped that the large parishes not already under the Poor-law commissioners would be allowed to remain as they were. The House ought seriously to consider before they took from those parishes the management of their own affairs. He quite concurred with his right hon. Friend in thinking that the House should have additional information before they proceeded; and, in addition to the returns already called for, he begged to say, that they ought to have a return showing the number of parishes possessing local acts where the population exceeded 1,000 souls. He, as other hon. Members who went before him, strongly recommended postponement,Viscount Sandon
623 was also favourable to postponement, at the same lime that he was opposed to any inducement being held out to the Poor-law commissioners to do that indirectly which the law did not permit them directly to effect. He was not one of those who were disposed to deprive the commissioners of the power of superintending and controlling the manner of administering relief to the poor. He conceived it to be most important that the commissioners should possess this power whatever might be the extent and nature of the local authority. As a proof of the necessity of this superintendence, he should allude to some matters which took place in the city which his right hon. Friend on the Treasury Bench represented. It was alleged that considerable abuses prevailed in the workhouses there; he had no reason to believe that there existed any foundation for those statements, but the newspapers got hold of them, represented them as abuses of the most crying nature, and imputed the whole blame and responsibility to the Poor-law commissioners, assuming that the matter had originated with them, when in fact the parishes in question were under the government, of local acts. Now these facts proved, as he conceived, in a manner the most conclusive, the absolute necessity which there existed for having some central authority to investigate and determine in cases of this description. As a further proof of the utility of this central authority, he begged to remind the House of the cases in Marylebone, to which the
623Viscount Howick
 implored the House not to destroy or fritter away the measure, by preventing the commissioners from exercising a proper degree of superintendence over large parishes possessing local acts.The Attorney-General
 said, that the clause left the law just as it was before, but to that the metropolitan parishes decidedly objected. He hoped, therefore, that the further consideration of this clause would be postponed.Sir B. Hall
624 said, in regard to what the right hon. Gentleman opposite had stated—that it was desirable the House should be in possession of a statement of the number of parishes to which local acts applied, he would answer that such a statement had been already made out, and was contained in the fourth report of the Poor-law commissioners, and it certainly would be convenient for the House to have extracts from that report laid before them. [Sir R. Peel.—There might also be a statement of the population, according to the last census.] The report did not contain such an account, but it did state, that there were 364 parishes incorporated under local acts, and eleven parishes under separate local acts. There could, however, be no objection to such an account being made out. It did not seem to him that there was any objection to some provision being introduced in regard to large parishes under local acts; because, although he did not in the least expect that the Poor-law commissioners would endeavour to do indirectly that which they could not do directly, he did not object to an act of Parliament expressly forbidding them. He had therefore no objection to the postponement of this clause. With regard to his general opinion, he had nothing to add to what had been stated by his noble Friend, the Member for Northumberland. He agreed with him in all he had stated, in reference to the powers given to the governing bodies of large parishes under local acts, and in the opinion that
624Lord J. Russell
 wished to know whether the noble Lord would object to a return being made by the Poor-law commissioners, showing the grounds of litigation in the different parishes.Mr. Wakley
 said, he hoped the noble Lord would not object to extend the return which was to be made of the number of parishes under local acts, and their population, to the parishes that were incorporated under Gilbert's Act.Captain Pechell
 was surprised to find, that hon. Gentlemen, who always on other subjects preferred local government should, on the subject of the Poor-law, be opposed to it. He had been requested by his constituents to vote against this Clause, and he was certain, if it remained as it was, a great number of guardians would resign.Mr. Muntz
627626625"And be it enacted," "that no rule, order, or regulation by the Poor-law Commissioners should be issued after the passing of this act, except such orders as should be necessary for the formation and superintendance of Unions, under the provisions of this act," rose to propose certain verbal amendments, so that the clause stand thus,—after the words
627626625"And be it enacted," "that no rule, order, or regulation by the Poor-law Commissioners should be issued after the passing of this act, except such orders as should be necessary for the formation and superintendance of Unions, under the provisions of this act,"Mr. H. Hinde
629628 would not now enter into a discussion respecting the rules, orders, and regulations, of the Poor-law commissioners. It was plain that the proposition of the hon. Member went to the extent of taking from the commissioners all power save that of forming unions, and calling upon the board of guardians for returns and accounts of expenditure. He would briefly describe the state of this question when the Poor-law Amendment Bill was brought under the consideration of Parliament. Everybody was at that time convinced that the greatest abuses had taken place under the old administration of the Poor-law. The hon. Member talked of the arbitrary power possessed by the commissioners, but under the old system there existed about 13,000 different bodies, exercising this arbitrary power according to their own will or caprice. One of the commonest forms in which this power was exercised was that of taxing all the inhabitants of a parish for the purpose of making up the wages of the labourers. This was one of the many abuses which convinced the whole country of the impossibility of continuing the old law.
629628Lord John Russell
 said, he thought it to be the duty of the House to lay down rules arid regulations, and not to delegate that power to third parties. Many gentlemen who were ready to hand over the poor to the management of the commissioners, would themselves hesitate to enact what those commissioners had enacted. A committee of that House would be able to consider the whole subject in the course of a few days, and to decide what discretion should be vested in the commissioners.Mr. H. Hinde
ds.630 said, if the House went into the consideration of rules and regulations, the hon. Member would probably find that a majority would not coincide in his views. The hon. Gentleman wished that they should not make pauperism a degradation. Surely they should not make it an honour. They ought not to teach the poor to trust to any but their own resources. That man was a most mistaken friend to the poor who taught them to place reliance on a public fund on which they could always fall back. All that had passed showed that the House was not in a position to lay down principles which would make superintendence unnecessary. With the hon. Member's amendment, the superintendence would be merely nominal. In fact, if the hon. Member's amendment were carried, the result would be, that an expensive commission would continue to exist, but it would have very little business to transact. The hon. Member talked of irresponsibility; but who were responsible if the commissioners were not? What had they met with from any Members of that House, but odium and obloquy in return for their labours, in which he believed they had made as few mistakes as it was possible for men to make under the circumstances. The improved system was fraught with many indirect advantages. He believed a better school of self-government than the local boards of guardians did not exist. He thought there never was a law which gave rise to so much talent, industry, and good feeling as had been
ds.630Mr. Ward
 said, the boards of guardians in the country, comprising large rate-payers, as well as magistrates, felt the hardship of being compelled to receive the dictation of commissioners sitting in London. Constituted as boards of guardians, if they were not competent to carry out the objects of the Poor-law, they Were not fit to manage the county-rates or any other matter.Sir H. Fleetwood
631 would be glad to know what good feeling the commissioners had exhibited towards the poor? No law had ever produced so much discontent in the country as the new Poor-law. The orders of the commissioners were continually at variance, so that it was impossible to
631General Johnson
632dictadicta felt much difficulty in giving his vote, arising from the opinions which had been given respecting the propriety of many parts of the new Poor-law; but, having supported this law, he could not see how it could be carried out but by the commissioners having a large power of superintendence and control, which he was not prepared to abolish. The amendment of his hon. Friend went to do away with the power of the Poor-law commissioners as to making rules and regulations, except a limited control in future, not doing away with the former rules now in existence. All the regulations to which he objected would be still continued, if the amendment of his hon. Friend were carried. Although he (Lord G. Somerset) was not able to support the doing away with many of those stringent regulations, yet he did think the House should force the commissioners to modify many of their regulations. He thought that a great part of the unpopularity of the present Poor-law was owing to the manner in which it was carried into effect. He believed that the feeling against the new Poor-law was mainly attributable to the orders of the commissioners, and still more to the manner in which those orders were delivered—to their harsh expressions and most disagreeable opinions with regard to the lower classes of the community. The higher classes were better treated; but even the higher classes, in the board of guardians, were sometimes treated with little consideration by the commissioners, who seemed to think that they were in the position of being right in all their 632dictadictaLord G. Somerset
635"We trust that your Lordship will not consider that we have laid before you too-highly coloured a picture of the favourable moral effects which have already resulted from the Poor-law Amendment Act, or that we have taken too sanguine a view of the ulterior consequences of this important measure. We can assure your Lordship that it has been the contemplation of these results, and the hope of these consequences, which have mainly enabled us to sustain the continuous labour and anxiety of the last four years, and to bear patiently the charges made against the law and its administration, and those attacks on the principles and details of our proceedings which have been so pertinaciously forced upon the public attention, and which have occasionally, but we rejoice to say, rarely, been countenanced by some persons from whom (considering their character and position in the country), we might reasonably have expected aid and not obstruction in the performance of our duties."l."We need hardly assure your Lordship that although we derive satisfaction from perceiving the gradual diminution of the burthens of the rate-payers, and from the conviction that the Poor-law Amendment Act has already relieved the country from a direct annual taxation of nearly 2,300,000l.634633 could not allow the observations that the noble Lord had made to pass without remark. He felt that in the original appointment of the Poor-law commissioners the Government was deeply responsible. This he could answer for, that never were appointments made in which the Government was more anxious or more careful to select Gentlemen who would be able to carry into effect the views of the legislature. No other object than that had influenced the Government. With regard to one of them who was originally appointed, it was well known that in his political opinions he was adverse to the present Government. As to the other, he had served as Under-Secretary of State to a noble Lord who was not then present, but who had been Secretary of State for the Colonies. And as to the third, he did not believe that any Member of the Government was aware, when he
635"We trust that your Lordship will not consider that we have laid before you too-highly coloured a picture of the favourable moral effects which have already resulted from the Poor-law Amendment Act, or that we have taken too sanguine a view of the ulterior consequences of this important measure. We can assure your Lordship that it has been the contemplation of these results, and the hope of these consequences, which have mainly enabled us to sustain the continuous labour and anxiety of the last four years, and to bear patiently the charges made against the law and its administration, and those attacks on the principles and details of our proceedings which have been so pertinaciously forced upon the public attention, and which have occasionally, but we rejoice to say, rarely, been countenanced by some persons from whom (considering their character and position in the country), we might reasonably have expected aid and not obstruction in the performance of our duties."l."We need hardly assure your Lordship that although we derive satisfaction from perceiving the gradual diminution of the burthens of the rate-payers, and from the conviction that the Poor-law Amendment Act has already relieved the country from a direct annual taxation of nearly 2,300,000l.634633Lord John Russell
636 did not believe that any one could be guided by more upright and correct motives than her Majesty's Ministers had been in the choice of the Poor-law Commissioners. With regard to the Gentleman at the present moment at the head of the commission, it was impossible for any man to have the slightest intercourse with him without feeling esteem for him. But these private considerations were not to tie the hands of the Members of that House, and prevent them expressing their opinions against this law, and the manner in which it had been carried into effect. The noble Lord at the other side of the House quoted to them a passage which he thought indicated a great degree of modesty, and vindicated the commissioners from the charge of arrogance which was made against them by his noble Friend (Lord G. Somerset). He did not think that a passage could be quoted which more supported the charge. It was impossible for any man in their (the commissioners') opinion, to pall in question the Poor-law Amendment Act; it was impossible for any man to make a charge against an officer of the Poor-law commission without being at once run down. This, was not fair; it was surely open to men who saw and lamented in many instances the effects of the pressure with which the Poor-jaw did operate on certain classes to state their
636Viscount Sandon
637 could not allow the statement just made by the noble Lord,
637Sir H. Verney
 had given no opposition to the passing of the New Poor-law, but had done his best in his own district to promote its successful working. He had not, however, been able to do otherwise conscientiously than oppose the present bill, and he must, therefore, support the amendment of the hon. Member below him. In doing so, he did not think he was acting inconsistently. He opposed the principle of the perpetuation of the powers of the commissioners, which appeared to him to breathe in every line of this bill. His impression had been, when the New Poor-law was first introduced, not that the power of the commissioners was to be permanent, but quite the reverse. Their use was to put the bill into efficient working. If he had anticipated that their appointment would have given rise to their continuance, and a demand for increased powers, he should have opposed the original measure. It was said, that the board of commissioners was necessary in order to shelter the board of guardians from obloquy in the exercise of their duty. To impute this degree of cowardice and want of good sense to the people of England, was a libel on their characters which they did not deserve. He did not think that the rich and poorer classes stood in such relation to each other, that they wanted a central and intermediate authority to interpose between them. He felt that he could not do otherwise than oppose this bill, in all those parts of it which gave increased power to the commissioners.Mr. Halford
638 wished to say a few words in reference to the case of the Bas-
638Mr. G. Knight
639 defended the commissioners from what he considered rather an unmeasured attack on the part of the noble Lord- His belief was, that in the exer-
639Mr. Slaney
dsss640 begged to submit, that it appeared to him, that the house had been occupied more than an hour in discussing a matter that was not before them. Their business was to discuss the clauses of the bill, and not the private and personal character of the commissioners. He had never heard any individual, whatever might be his feeling with regard to the Poor-law, throw out any imputation against the character of the commissioners or any person in the commission. He knew no circumstance prejudicial to the private or personal character of the commissioners, or to any person employed in their service. He was opposed to the new Poor-law, and to the rules and regulations of the commissioners, and not to the individuals themselves. He begged to remind the hon. Member for North Nottingham (Mr. G. Knight), that his statement was an explanation, and not a refutation, of the statement made on a former evening. The hon. Member said, that there was a misapprehension of an order, and that, in fact, there was no written order at all. But there was an order, whether verbal or written, and he should like to know who made that order. The medical attendant stated that the order was in force, and he added, that for six successive weeks he applied to the chairman of the board of guardians entreating that the order should be rescinded, and the chairman acknowledged that such was the fact. It was admitted that blame existed somewhere, but who was to blame? He put it to the House whether a medical practitioner was empowered, under the existing rule of the Poor-law commissioners, to administer such food and wine as he thought necessary for sick patients? What was the answer given to Mr. Henry Len-
dsss640Mr. Wakley
642641 begged to be allowed to make a few remarks, in consequence of a communication he had received from the guardians of the Basford union. It had been stated on a former evening by the hon. Member for Finsbury, that an order had been made in that union, that, even in cases of emergency, the medical officer should not be at liberty to administer wine or other stimulants without the sanction of the board of guardians, and that, in consequence of this order causing delay, there had been a case in
642641Viscount Howick
 did not think the question which the House was now called upon to decide, had reference to the con duet of the commissioners, but whether powers should be intrusted to them which should reside in the Legislature alone. He did not stand up for the old law; the abuses of that system had nothing to do with the question whether arbitrary and hitherto unheard of powers should be given to the Poor-law commissioners. He entirely concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury with reference to the individual character of those gentlemen; but still he must say there was a general opinion throughout the country, and especially amongst the boards of guardians, that it would be extremely dangerous to permit any single case on being brought before the commissioners to be made the ground of a general rule.Mr. C. Hamilton
644in articulo mortis,643bonâ fide. regretted that his hon. Friend (Mr. G. Knight) had been induced again to bring forward the ease of the Basford Union. He was perfectly certain, from what he knew, if his hon. Friend had been permitted to exercise his own judgment he would have been silent. His hon. Friend had alluded to certain documents he had received from a certain individual, but without favouring the House either with an explanation of those documents or the name of his correspondent. He knew what was the nature of the document, and certainly it suggested a most ingenious and adroit mode of getting out of the difficulty. He was prepared, however, to assert what he had asserted before with reference to this case, premising, however, that his statement did not depend on any 644in articulo mortis,643bonâ fide.Colonel Rolleston
 hoped the matter would, not be allowed to drop. As it stood now, there was a most extraordinary contradiction, for it was impossible to state where the truth lay, between the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down, and the statement of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. G. Knight) and his noble Friend (Viscount Howick) near him. There was one thing ascertained, that within two months before the death took place, this surgeon did, of his own authority, give to persons within the workhouse, meat, wine, and ale, without the authority of the board, and without its being disallowed. How these facts were recancileable with the existence of any such order as that referred to, appeared to him utterly inconceivable. The guardians, in the resolution referred to by his noble Friend, stated, that by the order of this identical surgeon, and by his authority, from the 28th of December to the 10th of February, twenty-eight persons had received extra diet of meat, twelve had received meat and ale, and five had received meat and wine; and, that ten days before the matter referred to in discussion, this same medical officer had ordered four ounces of wine to one, and three ounces to another patient; and that during the same period, in numerous cases of out-door poor, wine, ale, and meat were given upon the undisputed order of the surgeon. These were facts or they were not, and surely it ought to be ascertained whether they were facts or not. If they should prove to be facts, they would afford a better proof of what was the practice of this union, than an order the existence of which was disputed.Mr. C. Wood
 had only one remark to make. Supposing that the guardians of the Basford union were chargeable with harshness in the case which had been mentioned this evening, or that the surgeon had been guilty of neglect, he would ask, under either supposition, with such a case before them, whether it were safe to place the administration of the Poor laws exclusively in the hands of the guardians, free from all interference from a higher authority. He had always approved of the existence of the board of commissioners, looking at them not only as a superintending authority over the boards of unions, but also as a tribunal to which the poor man could have recourse in case of hardship, and in neither light did he consider it safe to discontinue their wholesome influence.Sir R. Peel
646 said, that the argument made use of by the right hon. Baronet would go to the establishment of the Poor-law commission, not for five years, nor for ten years, but in perpetuity. With respect to the right hon. Baronet's referrence to the supposed incompetence of boards of guardians to act on their own authority, he could only say, that there were unions under local acts, and under Gilbert's Act, over whom the commissioners had no control, and in none of which had such horrible cases of inhumanity and neglect as that laid to the charge, of the Basford union ever occurred. He hoped, therefore, that no one in this House would be induced, by such arguments as those which they had just heard from the right hon. Member for Tamworth, to give their support to the continuance of the system which worked such cruelties. He, believed, that the feelings of the country generally, from one end to the other, were hostile to this measure. There had been few petitions presented in favour of it; but a great number from all parts of the country against it. This evening the House had received one at the hands of the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, coming from 50,000 petitioners, who besought the House not again to put them under the yoke of the commissioners at Somerset house. The hon. Member for Sheffield had presented a petition in favour of the bill; but if the hon. Member supposed that that petition represented the feelings of his constituents, he would be likely to find himself mistaken when he next presented himself before them at a general
646Mr. W. Buncombe
 said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Member for Tamworth as to the boards of guardians not being to be depended upon, if freed from the control of the commissioners, he begged to state one fact which happened within his own knowledge. Some little time back a low fever broke out in the union to which he belonged; and it raged so badly, that some persons were wanted to act as nurses for the sick. The hoard of guardians wished to take a few old women out of the workhouse for this purpose, but it was suggested that this could not be done without first applying to the commissioners for their sanction. Accordingly the commissioners were applied to, and they refused their permission to do as proposed. He merely stated this fact in order that the House might see whether the board of guardians might not be able to administer the Poor-law better than the commissioners.Mr. Blackstone
 said that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had enlogised the board of commissioners as a tribunal of appeal for the poor man. Now if he (Mr. Fielden) could be brought to believe that the commissioners exercised their power in favour of the poor man, and in the cause of humanity, he should almost forgive the extravagant power with which they were invested. But all experience shewed the contrary to be the case; and that the commissioners directed all their powers to increase the oppression of the poor man. He did not blame the commissioners however, but he blamed the act which authorised them, and the Parliament which passed that act. The; unreformed Parliament, whatever were its faults, would never have passed such a cruel law.Mr. Fielden
 before the committee divided, begged to explain to hon. Members who might not have been in the House in the early part of this debate, that the difference between the clause in the bill and his amendment went to this: the bill went to give the commissioners a legislative power as well as a power of superintendence. His amendment would give them the power of superintendence without the power of legislation.Mr. H. Hinde,
 said that in his view of the amendment of the hon. Member, it would deprive the commissioners of all power of superintendence.Lord J. Russell
650 on the question being again put upon the clause, moved the following amendment: "And be it enacted, that every rule, order, or regulation of the Poor-law Commissioners which shall be issued after the passing of this act, and which shall apply to the amount or description of relief to be given to the poor, or to their management in any workhouse, shall be deemed to be a general rule, subject to all the provisions relating to general rules contained in the act first herein recited: and such rule, order, or regulation shall be accompanied by the minutes or instructions of the said commissioners issued in explanation of such order, and every other rule, order, or regulation of the said
650Mr. Rice,
 observed, that under the poor-law Amendment Act, the general rules issued by the commissioners must be laid before Parliament. Now, it was rather singular, that during the six or seven years those gentlemen had been in office, the number of general rules which had been laid on the Table of the House did not exceed four or five. As the operation of this measure very much depended upon the notoriety which the proceedings of the commissioners acquired, it was desirable that means should be taken to effect that object, more especially as some hundreds of special orders were directed to various unions of which, properly speaking, ought to be regarded as general rules.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, it was true, that few general rules were laid upon the Table by the House, because few were made by the Poor-law Commissioners. The clause proposed was one to bring before Parliament all general rules applicable to nay class of cases. He thought his hon. Friend's clause would not effect that object with certainty. He thought the amendment proposed would give rise to confusion.Lord J. Russell
 said, he wished the first part of his hon. Friend's clause had been more general. It was his opinion that all rules made by the Poor-law Commissioners should be under the supervision of the Secretary of State, and subject to the control of the House. It appeared to him also that the second part of the clause was contradictory to the first.Mr. J. Jones
 said that, as the treaty was not yet signed, it was not to be expected that he should state what course the Government would take. He had no objection to add, however, that it was a general rule, in which he concurred, that no drawback was allowed on stock, should any alteration be made in the duties on it, accumulated during a pending treaty.Mr. Labouchere
 at the request of some wine-merchants, wished to put a question to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. He desired to be informed whether, in the event of a commercial treaty being completed between England and France, and any reduction of duties taking place in consequence, those persons who had stock in hand would be entitled to receive the drawback upon it?Mr. Mackinnon,
 had not exactly understood the effect of what had fallen from the noble Lord the other evening upon the subject of motion which he (Mr. Pakington) proposed to bring forward on Tuesday next, relating to the colony of Newfoundland. He should feel obliged by the noble Lord intimating to him what he had stated.Mr. Pakington
669668"That the condition of the paupers shall be in no case so eligible as the condition of persons of the lowest class subsisting on the fruits of their industry."667666665"It is not by the consolidation or concentration of powers, but by their distribution, that good government is effected. Were not this great country already divided into states, that division must be made, that each might do for itself what concerns itself directly, and what it can do so much better than a distant authority. Every state again is divided into counties, each to take care of what lies within ifs local bounds; each county again into townships or wards, to manage minuter details; and every ward into farms, to be governed each by its individual proprietor. Were we
665664"The depressed condition of the manufacturing population, to which we have already adverted, and the disquietude of the public mind occasioned by the chartist riot at Newport, in Monmouthshire, rendered us extremely unwilling to take any step in the manufacturing districts of Lancashire which might have even a remote tendency to produce a disturbance, or which might be used by designing persons as a pretext for agitation."66352,000,0006,700,0001833
52,000,0006,700,000183316,000,0002,250,0001789
16,000,0002,250,00017898,000,0001,490,0001776
8,000,0001,490,0001776£1,300,000£160,000Reign of James II.
£1,300,000£160,000Reign of James II.Government Taxes.Poor Rates.
Government Taxes.Poor Rates.
52,000,0006,700,0001833
52,000,0006,700,000183316,000,0002,250,0001789
16,000,0002,250,00017898,000,0001,490,0001776
8,000,0001,490,0001776£1,300,000£160,000Reign of James II.
£1,300,000£160,000Reign of James II.Government Taxes.Poor Rates.
Government Taxes.Poor Rates.662661 rose to move, that it be an instruction to the committee on the Poor-law Continuance Bill, to introduce a clause into the bill for the repeal of the Poor-law Amendment Act. The hon. Member said, that nothing but a sense of duty, and a settled conviction in his own mind, that the Act had failed either to amend the administration of relief to the poor, or to accomplish the specific effects which its promoters said it would secure, added to the fearful apprehensions he entertained of the danger of continuing this law, would have induced him to take this course. He had, from the introduction of the bill into that House in 1834, to the present lime, maintained that there was no necessity for such an Act, and that what was called the abusive administration of relief to the poor under the law as it then stood, was not caused by the poor themselves, nor by any defect in the law, but was the effect of excessive taxation, of alterations from lime to time in the currency, of Corn-laws to make food dear and sustain rents, of laws to repeal the tax on property, and raise the revenue by taxes on every article that ought to be largely consumed by the poor, and lastly,
669668"That the condition of the paupers shall be in no case so eligible as the condition of persons of the lowest class subsisting on the fruits of their industry."667666665"It is not by the consolidation or concentration of powers, but by their distribution, that good government is effected. Were not this great country already divided into states, that division must be made, that each might do for itself what concerns itself directly, and what it can do so much better than a distant authority. Every state again is divided into counties, each to take care of what lies within ifs local bounds; each county again into townships or wards, to manage minuter details; and every ward into farms, to be governed each by its individual proprietor. Were we
665664"The depressed condition of the manufacturing population, to which we have already adverted, and the disquietude of the public mind occasioned by the chartist riot at Newport, in Monmouthshire, rendered us extremely unwilling to take any step in the manufacturing districts of Lancashire which might have even a remote tendency to produce a disturbance, or which might be used by designing persons as a pretext for agitation."66352,000,0006,700,0001833
52,000,0006,700,000183316,000,0002,250,0001789
16,000,0002,250,00017898,000,0001,490,0001776
8,000,0001,490,0001776£1,300,000£160,000Reign of James II.
£1,300,000£160,000Reign of James II.Government Taxes.Poor Rates.
Government Taxes.Poor Rates.
52,000,0006,700,0001833
52,000,0006,700,000183316,000,0002,250,0001789
16,000,0002,250,00017898,000,0001,490,0001776
8,000,0001,490,0001776£1,300,000£160,000Reign of James II.
£1,300,000£160,000Reign of James II.Government Taxes.Poor Rates.
Government Taxes.Poor Rates.662661Mr. Fielden
670 seconded the motion. He had no wish to recur to the old law, but he disapproved of the unconstitutional power with which the commissioners were invested. They had used coercion instead of conciliation. He objected to making poverty a crime, which was the case under the present law. He thought the bastardy clauses were provisions for seduction, and those clauses, at all events ought to be repealed. With respect to the powers given to the Poor-law Commissioners, he thought it was impossible that, the Commissioners could issue an order to meet all cases. In a manufacturing district, if a mill stopped, 500 people might be thrown upon the parish, for it was impossible that those who were subsisting upon a mere
670General Johnson
 begged leave to call the noble Lord's attention to those provisions of the bill which related to medical assistance for the poor. It was his opinion that, in the absence of a learned Serjeant, who took much interest in that subject, they ought not to be proceeded with, at the same time, that he did not think they ought to be put off to a late hour, or to a time when the House was thin.Mr. Wakley
 concurred with the hon. Member as to the importance of the subject, and as to the expediency of its being discussed when the House was full, and when the hon. and learned Gentleman to whom allusion had been made was present. These considerations, however, did not appear to him to offer any sufficient reasons for not then proceeding with the bill in the regular way.Lord J. Russell
 said, he hoped that when a convenient time should arrive for discussing and amending that part of the bill no objection of a merely technical nature would be put forward.Mr. Wakley
, in the absence of the hon. Member for Carmarthen, said he wished to move an alteration to the clause of which that hon. Member had given notice, in these words—"Clause 6, after the words any 'general rule,' to insert the words, 'except rules, orders, and regulations relating to the relief or maintenance of the poor."Mr. W. Attwood
 said, it would be now too late to propose such an amendment, for they had gone beyond line 25.The Chairman
 would in tha ase move the amendment, as a proviso, at the end of the clause.Mr. W. Attwood
"Provided always that before any rule is issued as a particular rule in cases where a general rule has been established, a list of unions and parishes, signed by two of the commissioners and countersigned by the Secretary of State, to which such general rule may be applied, shall be entered on the books of the minutes of the Poor Law Commissioners." said, in order to meet the difficulty he would propose the addition of the following proviso:—
"Provided always that before any rule is issued as a particular rule in cases where a general rule has been established, a list of unions and parishes, signed by two of the commissioners and countersigned by the Secretary of State, to which such general rule may be applied, shall be entered on the books of the minutes of the Poor Law Commissioners."Lord J. Russell
 withdrew his amendment, and the clause proposed by Lord J. Russell was agreed to.Mr. W. Attwood
673"Provided always, and be it enacted, that the Commissioners shall be required to publish every order, rule, or regulation, which the said Commissioners shall issue after the passing of this Act, before the same shall come into operation in any union at least twice in the pub-He newspapers circulated within the locality of the said union." said, that he wished to move a proviso to the clause, but, in order to do so, it would be necessary for him, in the first instance, to move the discussion of certain words in the clause. His opinion was, that sufficient publicity was not given in the various unions to the orders and regulations of the Poor-law Commissioners. There were many unions in which the rules and regulations at the Poor-law Commissioners did not meet the public eye, and were unknown even to the board of guardians, but were shut up in the drawers of the clerks of the union. It was his intention to move this addition to the clause—
673"Provided always, and be it enacted, that the Commissioners shall be required to publish every order, rule, or regulation, which the said Commissioners shall issue after the passing of this Act, before the same shall come into operation in any union at least twice in the pub-He newspapers circulated within the locality of the said union."Mr. Townley Parker
 thought it would not be advisable that the rules should be published in the newspapers. It would be very inconvenient to do so, and would be very expensive.Lord J. Russell
 was surprised that the noble Lord should object on the ground of expense. He regretted to say that there was a great deal of expense uselessly inflicted on the country—the salaries of the noble Lord and hon. Gentlemen opposite, for instance. He thought it would be satisfactory that publicity should be given to the orders of the Commissioners, and he knew of no better channel through which it could be made than the county newspaper.Colonel Sibthorp
 thought the clause was one entirely of a humane nature. Suppose it should be desirable to relax a stringent rule by leaving out the words now proposed to be left out, they would be deprived of all power of relaxing the rule, and, if the advertisement in the county papers were insisted on, such relaxation could not take place for fourteen days.Mr. Fox Maule
onus probandi defended the clause. A party had only to require proof of the sending of the rules, and then the onus probandiThe Attorney-General
 said the words of the latter part of the clause (the effect of which is to make defendants in criminal or civil actions, arising from neglect or infringement of the rules of the commissioners, pay the expenses of witnesses to prove that such rules of the commissioners were sent, if they required such proof, and it was made out to the satisfaction of the court) might act with great hardship, as, though the rules might be proved to be sent, the defendants might never have received or seen them, and the fear of incurring the expense of the witnesses would operate effectually in preventing them requiring this proof. He would not, however, divide the Committee on this point.Lord G. Somerset
 proposed to add the words, "in any civil case."Mr. J. Jones
677 was opposed to the keeping of lunatic paupers in parochial workhouses. He thought that part of the clause respecting the treatment of pauper lunatics should be expunged, and that so important a subject should be intro-
677Mr. Williams Wynn
 consented to the amendment. The present clause had been framed in order to remedy the great evil which previously existed, of allowing paupers, whose condition required their separation from the others, to remain in the workhouses. He had no objection, if a better plan could be suggested, to fall in with it.Lord J. Russell
 (in supporting the amendment) said, that this was a part of the subject well deserving the attention of the House. He could speak from experience, having been chairman of the board, to the beneficial effects resulting from the operation of the 3d and 4th William 4th. He hoped that the noble Lord would see the propriety of framing a substantive motion on the subject of lunatics in general.Lord Ashley
 hoped that the noble Lord, in considering the condition of the insane poor, would not omit the consideration of the case of criminal lunatics.Lord G. Somerset
678 then moved as an amendment, that after the word "fit," in the fourth line, should be inserted the words "with the consent of the majority of the
678Mr. B. Wood
 objected to the amendment, because it gave to the boards of guardians an initiative; and he feared, had they, in the first instance, required the assent, of the vestries to the formation of unions, instead of leaving that to the commissioners, very few unions would have been formed at all under this bill, although, after the unions had been formed, the vestries, generally speaking, showed great zeal in carrying into effect the provisions of the bill. The hon. Gentleman, he thought, had lost sight, too, of the latter part of the clause, which provided that no funds should be raised for the purpose of carrying out this object, without a majority of four-fifths of the boards of guardians of the respective unions or parishes thus united, and which would give to the guardians all the control that the hon. Member desired. As to the expense, it was considered that the proposed plan would be more economical, and probably the House, in its annual grant for legislation, might not consider it unfitting to devote a portion of such grant in aid of this object.Lord J. Russell
 objected to the clause in consequence of the expense to which it would give rise, and because he conceived that under the present system, pauper children were already supplied with the means of instruction. He would support the amendment.Mr. Hodges
679 regretted exceedingly that it was not the case, as the hon. Member stated that pauper children were already provided with instruction. No adequate provision had been made by boards of guardians for the proper training and education of children, as was proved by the
679Mr. Grote
680 doubted much the propriety of generally adopting, in the unions throughout the country, that system which the hon. Member for London seemed to think worked so efficiently at Norwood. Upon the success of that system the hon. Member grounded his support of this clause; but it did not follow that what was good for the metropolis must be also good for the agricultural districts. His experience of the Poor-law was derived from its operation in the country unions, and his conviction was, that the system proposed by this clause, would not produce those beneficial effects which the framers of it had in view. According to the definition laid down in the bill of the infant poor, every person under the age of sixteen, might, at the option of the commissioners, be transferred to this school. It was not likely that the commissioners
680Mr. Goulburn
681No, no! said, the fact stared them in the face, that thousands and thousands of pauper children were wholly without proper educational instruction. [681No, no!Mr. Hawes
682 said, that the hon. Gen-
682Colonel Wood
 supported the clause. He felt confident that, under proper management, the union establishments would serve as model schools, and tend very much to raise the character of the parochial seminaries throughout the country. In the union, of which he was chairman, he had seen a partial application of the principle, and the result of his experience was, that it was highly advantageous to the poor.Sir C. Lemon
685684683 thought the committee were discussing somewhat prematurely the technical arrangement of this clause, notice having been given of various other amendments, the determination of which must very much affect the judgment ultimately to he pronounced upon it, He
685684683Lord Stanley
 said, that the board of commissioners were to have a power to appoint a board of management hi these districts. Conceiving his amendment to be a proper one it was his intention to press it to a division.Mr. B. Wood
687686 said, that his hon. Friend was right in thinking that sonic measures might be taken by the board of management without the authority of the board of guardians; but the board of management could not go far without incurring some new expense, and then the board of guardians would necessarily
687686Lord John Russell
 thought the argument which the noble Lord used against the proposition of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock would be just as forcible applied to any religious teacher whatever. It would seem, then, that the noble Lord intended those schools to be places for secular instruction only.Mr. Goulburn
688 explained. All he had said was, that the appointment of
688Lord John Russell
 did not think the point had been sufficiently explained. What his hon. Friend had stated was, that in unions of limited extent it was practical for the clergyman of the neighbouring parish to attend at the workhouse for the purpose of superintending the education of the children; and he knew from experience in the union with which he was connected, that such a thing was practicable. But if the children were taken in large numbers out of extensive counties, such as Huntingdonshire and Cambridgeshire, and congregated in these central schools, no clergyman could be expected to take upon himself the heavy duty of superintending their religious education. The noble Lord, however, would leave their religious instruction to the chance interposition of any benevolent individual residing near the school.Mr. Goulburn
"In the rural unions of this district, it fortunately happens that religious dissensions are almost unknown, and religious scruples have only, on very rare occasions, been the cause or the pretext for throwing impediments in the way of education. Hence the chaplains in the majority of the unions give their valuable assistance in the improvement of the schools; a fact which I take the greater pleasure in acknowledging, inasmuch as, in some unions, they have almost supplied the place of a good schoolmaster, and it has only been in two instances that the slightest opposition has been experienced from that quarter."690"Their valuable assistance in the schools I take pleasure to acknowledge, inasmuch as in some unions they have almost supplied the place of good masters, and in only two in-
690"The chaplain, in many cases, discharges the duties of a schoolmaster, gratuitously and most efficiently.""The secular instruction and moral and industrious training of the children are designed to counteract their vicious tendencies, and such practical lessons will pervade that secular instruction and moral training as will aim at that object; but the sanctions of religion are to be at the foundation of their instruction, and the claims and duties of religion are to be carefully enforced.""The object of primary importance is the appointment of a chaplain."689"The difficulties arising from differences of religious creeds are scarcely even incidentally found to operate, and the means adopted for affording the children religious instruction are fortunately obtaining universal acquiescence."" We recommend an enactment for the purpose of authorizing the commissioners to direct boards of guardians to appoint chaplains of the Church of England." said, the noble Lord had raised a doubt upon a point of which the commissioners had already disposed. Those gentlemen, and Dr. Kay with them, had officially reported that not only had they never heard of such a thing as opposition to chaplains for the schools, but they distinctly stated, that no complaint had been made against such an arrangement. In order to obviate any doubt, they had thus spoken—
"In the rural unions of this district, it fortunately happens that religious dissensions are almost unknown, and religious scruples have only, on very rare occasions, been the cause or the pretext for throwing impediments in the way of education. Hence the chaplains in the majority of the unions give their valuable assistance in the improvement of the schools; a fact which I take the greater pleasure in acknowledging, inasmuch as, in some unions, they have almost supplied the place of a good schoolmaster, and it has only been in two instances that the slightest opposition has been experienced from that quarter."690"Their valuable assistance in the schools I take pleasure to acknowledge, inasmuch as in some unions they have almost supplied the place of good masters, and in only two in-
690"The chaplain, in many cases, discharges the duties of a schoolmaster, gratuitously and most efficiently.""The secular instruction and moral and industrious training of the children are designed to counteract their vicious tendencies, and such practical lessons will pervade that secular instruction and moral training as will aim at that object; but the sanctions of religion are to be at the foundation of their instruction, and the claims and duties of religion are to be carefully enforced.""The object of primary importance is the appointment of a chaplain."689"The difficulties arising from differences of religious creeds are scarcely even incidentally found to operate, and the means adopted for affording the children religious instruction are fortunately obtaining universal acquiescence."" We recommend an enactment for the purpose of authorizing the commissioners to direct boards of guardians to appoint chaplains of the Church of England."Mr. Colquhoun
l691 said, there could be no doubt of the immense importance of the subject. These children were and would be often the offspring of guilt and crime; yet no fault attached to them, therefore, even if it was a question of expense, it was their duty to incur it. But he should be able to prove that by being liberal in their education, they would, in fact, be saving the money of the nation, for those poor infants who were in darkness, would be brought to light, and prevented from costing the country expense for their punishment as criminals. In unions, there were not enough of children to provide a good schoolmaster—the guardians would not go to the expense. Besides, in the union workhouse, there was an impossibility of giving them that industrial education which would make them such servants as masters and mistresses desired to have. In proof of the old system having
l691Mr. Slaney
695694693"As far as the teachers and servants are concerned, this evil is now to a considerable extent remedied by the more constant superintendence which the chaplain (the rev. Joseph Brown), in addition to his other important duties, is enabled to bestow on the punctual attendance and persevering activity of the several officers, and on the maintenance of harmonious co-operation among them, since he has relinquished his superintendence of two other children's establishments, and confined his attention solely to that at Norwood. The chaplain's aid in the selection of servants and nurses, in a vigilant inspection of their moral conduct, and their deportment towards the children, has been of great importance to the establishment, has remedied several defects, and affords the boards of guardians one of the best safeguards against abuses."692 said, that though the amendment of the hon. Gentleman was one of a strictly practical nature, the course which the discussion had taken had brought before the House great principles which were involved in the consideration of the subject. As that course had been pursued, it might perhaps conduce to the general convenience of the House, and even tend to shorten the discussion, if it were not now to be departed from. From a very careful perusal of that most important and interesting document, the report on the training of pauper children, he had come to the conclusion, that where a large number of children were educated together securities were afforded for their good education; but at the same time he had the strongest impression, that provided you could, without any violation of those parental claims which the House was bound to respect in the poor as well as in the rich, congregate the children and treat them as the children of the State, you were hound to provide for their religious instruction in the principles of the Established Church. If these children belonged to the Stale, and if there were a religion professed by the State, could there be a doubt that the religious principles instilled into their minds ought to be in conformity with those of that form of religious belief supported by the State? Therefore, when his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilmarnock, proposed his amendment with relation to that subject, he should give it his cordial support, and that not only on general principles, but on the authority of the document to which he had referred.
695694693"As far as the teachers and servants are concerned, this evil is now to a considerable extent remedied by the more constant superintendence which the chaplain (the rev. Joseph Brown), in addition to his other important duties, is enabled to bestow on the punctual attendance and persevering activity of the several officers, and on the maintenance of harmonious co-operation among them, since he has relinquished his superintendence of two other children's establishments, and confined his attention solely to that at Norwood. The chaplain's aid in the selection of servants and nurses, in a vigilant inspection of their moral conduct, and their deportment towards the children, has been of great importance to the establishment, has remedied several defects, and affords the boards of guardians one of the best safeguards against abuses."692Sir R. Peel
696 said, that agreeing very much in what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman as to the great degree of discretion with which the commissioners ought to exercise this power, he thought that the amendment of the hon. Member for Southwark would be a check against the commissioners running too fast, The amendment was useful, and
696Lord G. Somerset
 said that, notwithstanding the suggestion of the noble Lord, he could not refrain from expressing his regret if he had correctly understood what fell from the right hon. Baronet opposite. In speaking of the district workhouse schools he had understood the right hon. Baronet to say that ail children sent there were to be considered as the children of the State, and were consequently all to be educated in the religion of the State. Such an opinion was so entirely inconsistent with the declarations of religious toleration which he had frequently heard from the right hon. Baronet that he could scarcely believe that he had correctly understood what he had said. He did not mean to say that he would object, as many dissenters did, to the appointment of a chaplain of the Established Church; but if it were pretended that, because the children were left destitute, the State had a right to say, "I have now become possessed of the soul as well as of the body of the children, and in spite of the religion of their parents in which they have been already brought up, I will educate them in the religion of the State," he protested against any such doctrine. He knew that a child of twelve years of age was admitted to the most solemn sacraments of the Roman Catholic religion, and yet this bill would apply to all children under the age of sixteen, and compel them, in spite of their former principles, to adopt the religion of the State. That principle was certainly not adopted in the school at Norwood; for he knew that Roman Catholic clergymen had gone to that school, and there instructed the children of their own faith. He was afraid that the resolution of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock was conformable to the interpretation which he had put upon the speech of the right hon. Baronet.Mr. Langdale
697—I stated my opinion most distinctly, that if the parents, or one of them, objected to the education of the child in the religion of the State, you ought to defer to that objection. I have always held that you have no right to force the religion of the State on children whose natural guardians objected to it; and I adhere to that opinion. If a Roman Catholic father, or either of the parents, being Roman Catholics, object to the
697Sir R. Peel
 expressed his satisfaction at the right hon. Baronet's explanation.Mr. Langdale
 observed, that the right hon. Baronet had said that he would not oblige children whose parents objected to be taught the established religion, but he had not said whether he would allow their being taught the religion to which they belonged.Mr. Muntz
 had no objection to the alteration suggested by the noble Lord. Amendment agreed to.Lord J. Russell
700 thought that the boards of guardians were decidedly the best persons to be intrusted with executive and discretionary powers where there was question of taxation. But for the management of the schools referred to in the clause, it
700Sir R. Peel
 was opposed to the principle of the alteration suggested. If any such addition were made to the board of management, the ex-officio managers belonging to the board of guardians would of course very much exceed them in numbers, and outvote them in all cases where there was a difference of opinion.Lord J. Russell
 was not shaken in his opinion by what had fallen from the noble Lord; but declined to press his suggestion to an amendment.Sir R. Peel
 then moved that the clause be amended by inserting the following after the word "aforesaid" in line 39;—"Provided also, that such principal sum or sums to be raised for the purpose of providing any such building or buildings as aforesaid, and all interest thereon, shall be raised by a special poor-rate to be made on the several parishes or unions so united as aforesaid; and that it shall be lawful for every tenant from year to year, paying such special rate, to deduct and detain out of the rent payable to his or her landlord, for the premises in respect of which such special rate is payable, the full amount of such special rate so paid in respect of the same premises; and every such tenant shall be and is hereby acquitted and discharged of and from the payment of so much of such rent as such special rate so paid as aforesaid shall amount to."Mr. Bruges
 would have no objection to the proposed alteration, provided the hon. Member would insert the words:—"One half to be paid by the tenant, and one half by the landlord." It should be borne in mind that if this clause were not inserted in the bill, there Would still be a charge on the rates for maintaining these children in the workhouse.Lord J. Russell
701 stated that he intended to propose some variation in the words as
701Mr. Colquhoun
 observed that the hon. Gentleman, at the time that he gave notice of his amendment, had stated very truly what was the practice at Norwood. There undoubtedly a chaplain of the Church of England was engaged; but it was a part of the regulations of the school at Norwood, that any Roman Catholic children that might be admitted to it should be permitted to receive such religious instruction as their parents or guardians might think fit. Now he feared that if the last words of the amendment proposed by the hon. Member were embodied in the bill, viz., that the chaplain should "be empowered to regulate and superintend the instruction and training of the children;" the chaplain, being a clergyman of the Church of England, would very properly feel it his duty not to admit of any instruction in the doctrines of the Church of Rome. He thought, therefore, that if a proviso of this nature were to be appended to the clause, it should at least be of such a kind as would admit of an equal degree of freedom in the instruction of children as was at present permitted at Norwood school, which the hon. Gentleman took as his model.Lord J. Russell
702 opposed the motion. He thought it was not fairly brought forward, considering the nature of the notice, and the subject was at present under the consideration of the Poor-law commissioners. When the inquiry was termi-
702Mr. F. Maule
659 said, the course the noble Lord proposed to take was one that bore very hardly upon individual Members. He was quite aware the noble Lord said last week that he wished to press on this bill, but on all former occasions ample notice had been given of motions to take precedence. If the question was decided in this manner, persons who brought forward these motions would be placed in an unfavourable or rather in an unfair position. The noble Lord had not placed on the votes of the House any notice upon this subject. The noble Lord had stated, that he had no objection to go into Committee of Inquiry, and if so, he asked the noble Lord, whether he thought, when an hon. Member brought forward a motion for an enquiry into the state of one of the most important colonies of the British
659Lord Stanley
 said, he had no objection to the appointment of a committee, or to go into the whole question when the matter was ripe for discussion. But he thought it would be most inconvenient and unfair to the parties concerned for the hon. Gentleman to bring forward a motion on that subject at a time when his statements could not be met.Lord John Russell
 believed the course which he had proposed was one which had been already pursued on special occasions with regard to important bills before the House. He remembered that on one occasion the hon. Member for Montgomery, wishing to move that the Orders of the Day should take precedence of motions, strongly advocated that view of the case. Even the hon. Gentleman opposite had not said, that it was not proper in any case to take the course which had been proposed.Lord John Russell
 said, that he had given notice of a motion, that the Poor-law Bill should take precedence of the notices of motion for to-morrow. It seemed to him a bill of such importance—one of which the House had already discussed so many provisions—as also its general principle, that it was desirable they should go on with it in Committee for as many successive days as possible. With regard to the motion of the hon. Gentleman, if he meant to discuss it, it would certainly put him in a difficult situation with respect to the motion itself, independently of the Poor-law. He had not yet received sufficient information on the subject from the Governor of the colony of Newfoundland, and, therefore, any statement that he might make on to-morrow would be necessarily imperfect—it would, in fact, be impossible for him to state, at present, as well as he could do in three or four weeks hence, the course which the Government intended to pursue. He trusted the hon. Gentleman would not seek to embarrass the Government by pressing the consideration of his motion.Lord J. Russell
 complained that the hon. Gentleman proposed to introduce his motion in the absence of sufficient information. He thought the hon. Gentleman should adjourn it till he could obtain a full House and the subject be fairly discussed.Mr. John O'Connell
 objected to the course proposed by the Government with respect to the order of proceeding for to-morrow. It was a most unusual proceeding. When it was first moved that even on Mondays and Fridays the Government business should take the precedence of all other business, it was strongly objected to, as an infringement of the undoubted privilege of the House.Sir G. Clerk
 repeated, that he had no wish to embarrass the Government, but, if the noble Lord should press his motion, he should divide the House on the subject.Mr. Pakington
658 said, he understood the noble Lord opposite gave notice, that he should to-night, on the Order of the Day being read for going into Committee on the Poor-law Bill, move that that bill take precedence of ail motions on to-morrow night. He (Mr. Pakington) found no such motion on the Orders of the Day, and, therefore, he would ask what was the course of proceeding which the noble Lord proposed to adopt? He would remind the noble Lord
658Mr. Pakington
Lord John Russell.660 thought the question, whether or no his hon. Friend should proceed with his motion by a speech upon the state of Newfoundland, was quite distinct from that whether the House should supersede his notice by foregoing the order. It was, to say the least, a dangerous precedent, and should only be resorted to in cases of strong necessity. A Government with a majority might at any time take that means of getting rid of inconvenient motions; and the greater the majority, the more dangerous would be such a precedent. The
Lord John Russell.660Sir R. Peel
714"Gentlemen—The scandalous events which occurred at two partial elections during the late recess, the ferocious conduct of a mob at Carbonear, by which one of those elections was rendered abortive, and the necessity of military interference and protection on those occasions, are matters of general notoriety. I consider that the documents already before the House, are sufficiently demonstrative to prove those evils, and, in the exercise of my discretion under the existing circumstances of the colony, I must decline compliance with this address, believing that no good could result to the community from the publication of all the representations which I have received on this subject. So convinced am I of the absolute necessity of an amendment of the election law, that I avail myself of this opportunity to state, that should, unhappily, no legislative enactment be made during this Session to secure the free exercise of the franchise, and the public tranquillity in future elections, I will not undertake the responsibility of issuing proclamations or writs for the election of a new House of Assembly, or make myself
714"I am anxious to press this matter upon your immediate attention, because, if in the two great districts of the colony which return seven of the fifteen members of which the house is composed, elections can only be carried on under protection of bayonets if brutal force and lawless violence are to be perpetually resorted to, and, as heretofore, to a degree that can be restrained solely by military interference, the inevitable inference must be, that the island is unfit for a representative system and legislative institutions and that this ancient possession of the British Crown, is not duly prepared for conducting its own affairs, and watching over its particular interests, by means of a General Assembly.""For this purpose it seems desirable that our system should be assimilated, as nearly as circumstances will permit, to that of the mother country.713"The approaching period of a general election, and the scandalous events which have lately occurred in partial elections, the last of which was rendered altogether abortive by the ferocious conduct of a mob at Carbonear, compel roe to suggest for your deliberation, as
713"Mr. President, and hon. Gentlemen of the Council, Mr. Speaker, and Gentlemen of the House of Assembly.712711"Have interfered with the duties of the Executive, by appropriating to individuals, by name, the most trifling salaries—depriving one constable altogether of his stipend, lessening that of another, increasing that of a third, and this, too, without any complaint being made against the sufferer, or any recommendation in favour of the one benefitted, but solely and notoriously because the individuals affected y their votes were either opposed or favourable to the Members of the Assembly at their election, or did or did not approve of their subsequent conduct. However contemptible such conduct may appear, the evil effects of it are daily felt more extensively and seriously than we can describe. The peace-officers, who are poor, and mainly depending for subsistence on their salaries, are naturally deterred from independency doing their duty; and we fear the evil is not confined to these the lower functionaries.""Though established for many years, the Chamber had sedulously avoided all interference with, or the expression of any opinion: upon, the civil government of the island or its political affairs; but the perils to which the best interests of the colony are now exposed, and which threaten with ruin its trade and prosperity, compel your petitioners to depart from their accustomed course, and with the unanimous and express concurrence of the society at large, to lay before your royal council: with earnest entreaties for relief, the most intolerable wrongs they endure."710" The numerous and useless offices connected with the House of Assembly which they have created for the sake of patronage—the prodigal manner in which they have endeavoured to squander the revenues of the colony to support themselves and their adherents, and the invidious distinctions and provisions which they have made in several instances for the purpose of prejudicing individuals against whom they entertain personal dislike, indicate with painful certainty their determination to exercise all the power they possess, or are permitted to arrogate, in extending their influence, and inflicting injury on those who presume to differ from them. We deem it incumbent upon us now to bring under the especial notice of your Majesty the important fact, that the magistrates, constables, and other subordinate functionaries in this colony, are entirely dependant upon the annual grant of the House of Assembly for the payment of their salaries. A ready method is thus afforded of controlling their independence, if not of corrupting their integrity, by diminishing, or withholding, or perhaps increasing their respective stipends, in proportion as they are supposed to be more or less favourable or adverse to the authority of the priests and their partisans, and we lament to add, that the determination to exercise this influence has been manifested in the votes of the present Session."709"More particularly have they, and the few factious and needy individuals who have associated with them, been unceasing in their attack and untiring in their exertions to bring odium upon the present Chief Justice of the colony, Mr. Boulton, and at any sacrifice to procure his removal from the office which he so ably and impartially fills. In seeking the cause of this malignity displayed toward the Chief Justice, we solemnly declare to your Majesty that we can discover none, except it may he the apprehension that his inflexible administration of justice, unawed by their power or their threats, is calculated to divest the priests and their adherents of their undue ascendancy and to subject them, in common with your Majesty's other subjects, to the supremacy of the law. We take this public opportunity of expressing our full confidence in the integrity and ability of Mr. Boulton, and our entire satisfaction with the firm, judicious, and impartial, manner in which he has discharged his duties. We have also no hesitation in asserting that, notwithstanding the infamous attempt to create distrust in his official conduct, the public confidence in him remains unshaken, and we should lament as a public calamity any circumstance that might cause his removal or retirement from the bench of this colony, which would thereby suffer a loss not easily repaired."708habeas corpus,707706, in rising to move that a select committee should be appointed to inquire into the state of the colony of Newfoundland, said he could assure the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, that he had no desire to interfere with the progress of the Poor-law Bill, in the principles of which he fully concurred. He hoped he should not say anything that should lead to an acrimonious discussion, or prejudice any person or party whose conduct was to be inquired into by the committee for which he moved. For some years past the colony of Newfoundland had been in a most distracted state, and for the last four years the respectable and wealthy classes of the colony had been pouring in petitions to both Houses of Parliament, laying them at the foot of the Throne, and presenting them to the Colonial-office, praying for a redress of grievances which they declared insufferable and intolerable. He felt it due to the House to state, as clearly and distinctly as he could, the grounds on which he sought this investigation, into the state of an important dependency of the British empire. He could not conceal from the House a fact which was notorious to every one who had paid any attention to the distracted state of this colony, that there was a large portion of that religious animosity prevailing there, which was happily unknown in other parts of the empire, and which could not be too deeply deprecated. He could assure the House, that he did not mean to enter on this portion of the subject, or to excite feelings of animosity against any class or person, but would turn attention to the question, whether the present form of constitution was such as would permanently conduce to the interests and prosperity of the colony. In 1832, when Lord Grey was at the head of the administration, a charter was issued granting to the colony a local
714"Gentlemen—The scandalous events which occurred at two partial elections during the late recess, the ferocious conduct of a mob at Carbonear, by which one of those elections was rendered abortive, and the necessity of military interference and protection on those occasions, are matters of general notoriety. I consider that the documents already before the House, are sufficiently demonstrative to prove those evils, and, in the exercise of my discretion under the existing circumstances of the colony, I must decline compliance with this address, believing that no good could result to the community from the publication of all the representations which I have received on this subject. So convinced am I of the absolute necessity of an amendment of the election law, that I avail myself of this opportunity to state, that should, unhappily, no legislative enactment be made during this Session to secure the free exercise of the franchise, and the public tranquillity in future elections, I will not undertake the responsibility of issuing proclamations or writs for the election of a new House of Assembly, or make myself
714"I am anxious to press this matter upon your immediate attention, because, if in the two great districts of the colony which return seven of the fifteen members of which the house is composed, elections can only be carried on under protection of bayonets if brutal force and lawless violence are to be perpetually resorted to, and, as heretofore, to a degree that can be restrained solely by military interference, the inevitable inference must be, that the island is unfit for a representative system and legislative institutions and that this ancient possession of the British Crown, is not duly prepared for conducting its own affairs, and watching over its particular interests, by means of a General Assembly.""For this purpose it seems desirable that our system should be assimilated, as nearly as circumstances will permit, to that of the mother country.713"The approaching period of a general election, and the scandalous events which have lately occurred in partial elections, the last of which was rendered altogether abortive by the ferocious conduct of a mob at Carbonear, compel roe to suggest for your deliberation, as
713"Mr. President, and hon. Gentlemen of the Council, Mr. Speaker, and Gentlemen of the House of Assembly.712711"Have interfered with the duties of the Executive, by appropriating to individuals, by name, the most trifling salaries—depriving one constable altogether of his stipend, lessening that of another, increasing that of a third, and this, too, without any complaint being made against the sufferer, or any recommendation in favour of the one benefitted, but solely and notoriously because the individuals affected y their votes were either opposed or favourable to the Members of the Assembly at their election, or did or did not approve of their subsequent conduct. However contemptible such conduct may appear, the evil effects of it are daily felt more extensively and seriously than we can describe. The peace-officers, who are poor, and mainly depending for subsistence on their salaries, are naturally deterred from independency doing their duty; and we fear the evil is not confined to these the lower functionaries.""Though established for many years, the Chamber had sedulously avoided all interference with, or the expression of any opinion: upon, the civil government of the island or its political affairs; but the perils to which the best interests of the colony are now exposed, and which threaten with ruin its trade and prosperity, compel your petitioners to depart from their accustomed course, and with the unanimous and express concurrence of the society at large, to lay before your royal council: with earnest entreaties for relief, the most intolerable wrongs they endure."710" The numerous and useless offices connected with the House of Assembly which they have created for the sake of patronage—the prodigal manner in which they have endeavoured to squander the revenues of the colony to support themselves and their adherents, and the invidious distinctions and provisions which they have made in several instances for the purpose of prejudicing individuals against whom they entertain personal dislike, indicate with painful certainty their determination to exercise all the power they possess, or are permitted to arrogate, in extending their influence, and inflicting injury on those who presume to differ from them. We deem it incumbent upon us now to bring under the especial notice of your Majesty the important fact, that the magistrates, constables, and other subordinate functionaries in this colony, are entirely dependant upon the annual grant of the House of Assembly for the payment of their salaries. A ready method is thus afforded of controlling their independence, if not of corrupting their integrity, by diminishing, or withholding, or perhaps increasing their respective stipends, in proportion as they are supposed to be more or less favourable or adverse to the authority of the priests and their partisans, and we lament to add, that the determination to exercise this influence has been manifested in the votes of the present Session."709"More particularly have they, and the few factious and needy individuals who have associated with them, been unceasing in their attack and untiring in their exertions to bring odium upon the present Chief Justice of the colony, Mr. Boulton, and at any sacrifice to procure his removal from the office which he so ably and impartially fills. In seeking the cause of this malignity displayed toward the Chief Justice, we solemnly declare to your Majesty that we can discover none, except it may he the apprehension that his inflexible administration of justice, unawed by their power or their threats, is calculated to divest the priests and their adherents of their undue ascendancy and to subject them, in common with your Majesty's other subjects, to the supremacy of the law. We take this public opportunity of expressing our full confidence in the integrity and ability of Mr. Boulton, and our entire satisfaction with the firm, judicious, and impartial, manner in which he has discharged his duties. We have also no hesitation in asserting that, notwithstanding the infamous attempt to create distrust in his official conduct, the public confidence in him remains unshaken, and we should lament as a public calamity any circumstance that might cause his removal or retirement from the bench of this colony, which would thereby suffer a loss not easily repaired."708habeas corpus,707706Mr. Poking ton
Edinburgh Advertiser begged to call the attention of the Government to an advertisement in the Edinburgh AdvertiserMr. M'Kenzie
725"And be it further enacted, that in every combined parish or union school-house for the education of the infant poor, a chaplain of the United Church of England and Ireland shall be appointed rot the purpose of administering religious instruction to such infant poor, according to the doctrine of the said united Church, to all such children belonging to the said Church: provided always, that such clergyman shall in no way interfere with the religious instruction of the other portions of such infant poor; and that it shall and may be lawful for any minister of such other persuasion, at all reasonable times of the day, to visit such school for the purpose of instructing such children (not being members of the Church of England) in the principles of their religion."724723722 said, that whatever objections might be made on the part of certain persons to the appointment of a chaplain for these schools, he was satisfied of the necessity for such appointment. He was no advocate for imposing upon the Dissenters any additional contributions for the maintenance of a Church from which they conscientiously differed in religious opinion; but he believed most confidently, though he had had no communication with any of the Dissenting bodies upon the subject, that so attached were they in heart, in feeling, and in principle, to the union of religious instruction with secular education, that rather than see two or three hundred children belonging to the United Church of England and Ireland left to secular instruction only, or to a chance religious instruction, they would sacrifice their feelings and their convictions as Dissenters from the Established Church. He entirely assented, therefore, to the proposition for the appointment of a chaplain. But he hoped, at the same time, that the duties of the chaplain would be strictly confined to the instruction of those who properly belonged to him, namely, to those children who had been brought up in the faith and the doctrines of the Church of England; and that his instructions would neither directly nor indirectly be extended to those who honestly dissented from the Church. He believed, that the Dissenters would receive this proposition not merely without reluctance, but with great satisfaction, if it were applied in
725"And be it further enacted, that in every combined parish or union school-house for the education of the infant poor, a chaplain of the United Church of England and Ireland shall be appointed rot the purpose of administering religious instruction to such infant poor, according to the doctrine of the said united Church, to all such children belonging to the said Church: provided always, that such clergyman shall in no way interfere with the religious instruction of the other portions of such infant poor; and that it shall and may be lawful for any minister of such other persuasion, at all reasonable times of the day, to visit such school for the purpose of instructing such children (not being members of the Church of England) in the principles of their religion."724723722Dr. Lushington
726 had listened to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman with great pleasure, but there were some parts of it from which he was compelled to dissent. He thought that in this country, where there was a church by law established, all whose religion was not known, or who were indifferent on the subject, might be assumed to belong to it, and brought up accordingly in its doctrines. He thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had overrated the difficulties of this question. In the parish in which he resided, and which contained 153,000 inhabitants, the whole education of the poor was under the superintendence of a chaplain of the Church of England; and though no child could be taught the Church Catechism if the parents objected to it, the chaplain informed him (Lord Teignmouth) that no objection had been made daring the whole time he held the office of chaplain. The mistress of the girls' school, who had tilled that situation
726Lord Teignmouth
 said, he thought it was to be assumed, that the children were of the Church of England. But there were exceptions, to provide for which he thought there should be a separate clause.Dr. Lushington
 thought that the least cautious way of determining the religion of the children was, to assume that they belonged to the Church of England, unless an objection were made by the parent or natural guardian.Viscount Sandon
 begged to know, in the case of children received into the work-house, with no near relations or guardians, but the belief of whose parents was known to be different from that of the Church of England, in what way the right hon. Gentleman would proceed?Mr. Gladstone
 said, his own notion was, that they should assume, in the first instance, that all children who were brought into the workhouses, or the schools, belonged to the Established Church; and having made that assumption, that they should leave the door open, not merely to the parents or natural guardians of the children to go further—he would not say to what precise extent at that moment—but that they should leave a just and fair opening to those who were interested in the welfare of the children, to show what was the belief of the parents, and to ask them to bring them up in that faith; bat, if no one interfered, then he granted that up to a certain period of age, they should assume that the children were of the Established Church.Dr. Lushington
727 said, he thought, if any system of religious instruction were adopted at all, it should be interwoven with the course of secular education. It would be most undesirable to separate the two, as he believed many of the Dissenters of the present day would rather their children received spiritual instruc-
727Mr. Colquhoun
lll said, he had recently presented a petition from a large body of Dissenters, and another had been also presented to that House from a congregation of the Society of Friends, distinctly objecting to the appointment of paid chaplains, but not objecting to the religious instruction of children in workhouses being placed in the hands of competent persons. Did they mean, that those chaplains should be paid out of the poor-rates? They must recollect, that competent chaplains could not be paid less than from 100lllMr. Hawes
728 certainly felt the full weight of the objection stated by the hon. Gentleman with respect to the children of Dissenters. At the same time, he could not but confess there was very great force in the argument urged, as to the impropriety of allowing 300 or 400 children to he brought up, without any regular provision being made for their religious instruction. This difficulty had been experienced at the Norwood establishment, and be concurred with what was stated by
728Lord J. Russell
 had no objection to the appointment of chaplains; but he thought, in allowing the right of objection to having a child educated in the established religion, they might go a step farther. Suppose an orphan of Catholic or Dissenting parents, twelve or fourteen years old, and fully instructed as he might be supposed to be in his own faith, to be admitted into the school, he thought the objection of the child himself ought to be sufficient, and that provision should be made for allowing it.Mr. Langdale
729 observed, that the board
729Sir H. Verney
 would strongly impress upon the House the necessity of postponing this clause, for great differences of opinion must necessarily arise in the discussion of this amendment, which were not likely to be overcome by the momentary attention which could now be given to it. He was of opinion that if the number of children in the schools belonging to the Established Church were greatly beyond the Dissenters, the majority should have the largest proportion of the funds which would be allotted for this object; but at the same time those children who asserted different opinions should also have a claim to a portion of the funds allocated to the purpose of being educated according to their peculiar desires. If, for example, he took the town he represented, Sheffield, containing upwards of 100,000 inhabit ants, they would find themselves placed in the same position with regard to the Poor-rates as the Church-rates, for there was not a Church-rate levied there for a length of time. In that town there were Dissenters of every class, who would of course assert their right of being educated according to their own particular tenets. He should, therefore, beg the House to postpone the clause for the present, until they had the exact proposition of the hon. Member opposite submitted to the House in print.Mr. Ward
 said, he would prefer i rejecting the clause altogether rather than such enormous power should be given to the commissioners.Mr. Blackstone
 hoped that a proper spirit of conciliation would induce hon. Members to agree upon the clause rather than to propose its rejection altogether. He thought that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, and the hon. Member for Kilmarnock had very nearly met as to the particular justice of the case, mid he hoped that some amicable under standing would be come to upon the points in dispute.Mr. Slaney
730 observed, with respect to the proposition of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, that certain restrictions would be necessary in the case he wished to provide a remedy for, so as not to make it imperative on the board of guardians, when a child made objections to a certain religious education, to consult the opinions
730Lord Sandon
 said, the point was very important which they had to determine, namely, whether the rate-payers generally should be taxed for the support of those children that belonged to the Church establishment exclusively.Mr. Ward
 said, he thought it was understood that no inquiry should be made upon the subject of the religion of the child unless in the case of some party objecting upon behalf of the child. It was proposed that a certain discretion should be vested in the board of management of acting as they thought proper in the case of a child making conscientious objections against being educated in the principles of the Established Church. He should think, that such objections, coming from the child himself, would be much more sacred than those which might be made by an adult person on behalf of such child. He did not consider that any thing serious remained for discussion as to the details of the clause. If there had been an objection made upon principle as to the details of the clause, then a postponement would be but reasonable. The question resolved itself into this—whether they were to tax the whole nation in support of a certain system of religion exclusively? This he thought they were as fully competent to decide now as in a week or a fortnight hence. He therefore hoped there would be no postponement.Mr. W. Gladstone
 said, that one of the reasons which would induce him to support the postponement was this, that the printed proviso was totally silent as to the payment of chaplains, and the hon. Member opposite had, therefore, taken the House by surprise.Mr. Hawes
 objected to the postponement. It was these postponements which drove all the business to the end of the Session, when it was hurriedly got through.Colonel Sibthorp
731 said, it, was no novel principle to tax the people generally for the payment of chaplains. This was the case with the chaplains of county gaols, who were paid out of the county-rates. He thought it absolutely necessary that the children should have a religious education, and they could not have that effectually without providing a chaplain,
731Mr. Tatton Egerton
 said, that in point of form there could not be a postponement of this proviso. The committee must either approve of it or reject it with a view to its being introduced at another time. As he was ready to agree to the proviso, with the amendments suggested, he thought it was better to introduce the proviso now, leaving it open to his right hon. Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, and the hon. Member for Knaresborough, to propose their alterations afterwards, when they thought fit, rather than to reject it altogether. He thought, likewise, that rejecting the proviso at present would be taken as an objection to the clause without there being an intention of refusing it. He should, therefore, be ready to support the hon. Gentleman in his proviso, if he thought fit to divide the committee upon it; but he would not support the rejection of the clause.Lord J. Russell
 said, the committee knew nothing of the amendment to which the noble Lord referred. He had never heard it.Mr. Ward
 thought such a proposition ought not to be brought before the House without distinct notice. He would take the sense of the House against the payment of chaplains out of the poor-rates.Mr. Hawes
 said, his original proviso, of which notice had been given some days ago, was to appoint chaplains to these schools. It had never entered into his head to suppose that they would expect the whole services of literary men, of men educated as gentlemen, and devoting themselves to a very laborious and anxious calling, without giving them a farthing. He was surprised that such a proposal should be gravely made by any man within those walls, and not at once be scouted. That was a proposal he had never made, and never would make, before that committee; he, therefore, in giving his notice, implied the necessity of a salary.Mr. Colquhoun
 should be willing to adopt this clause if the hon. Member would add these words "that the salary of the chaplain be provided for by proportionate payments out of the poor-rates."Mr. Ward
732 said, it appeared to him that
732Mr. Hume
, hoped his hon. Friend would not persist in his motion. The effect of the motion would be to put Dissenters upon an establishment which was altogether contrary to their principles.Mr. Hume
 opposed the clause. He found that it gave the commissioners the power of determining how a board of management should be appointed by the guardians. The salaries of the chaplains were also to be left to the commissioners. But his main objection to the clause was, that it exhibited a strong symptom of the perpetuity of the Poor-law commissioners, who were to have in their hands the appointment of certain officers—the clergymen, whose salaries were to be determined on by the board of guardians under the direction of the commissioners. That alone would be sufficient to induce him to divide the committee on the clause. There was scarcely a town in the country which was not provided with a school for the poor, who could much more easily attend these parochial schools than schools twenty or thirty mites off. The Poor-Jaw commissioners acquired additional power in every clause of the bill.Mr. T, Parker
 trusted his hon. Friend would not divide upon this clause. He could not agree that the largest schools were necessarily the best schools. He thought the hon. Member had better wait till a subsequent clause came on, by which the board of management were empowered to contract for the maintenance of the poor for seven years.Mr. Darby
735 considered that the clause as it stood extended the powers of the commissioners, by giving them that of taxation, which it was not before intended they should have. The establishment of district schools might be an excellent thing; but it should be the subject of separate legislation. To take from the board of management the power of regulating the salaries was an insult to the common sense of the country, and most offensive to the respectable gentlemen who composed the boards of guardians. He re-
735Mr. Grimsditch
 said, he understood that the clause could not now be postponed, so that they were driven to the necessity of dividing upon it. As the clause stood, he thought it would give great additional offence to various classes of the community. He agreed with the hon. Member for Macclesfield, that this was matter for separate legislation. Here was a clause introduced into a poor-law bill, incidentally relating to a large proportion of the children of the poor, and the power was given and confined entirely to the Poor-law commissioners. This bill, however, could not last five years. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, for no doubt he would then be on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, would come down to the House at that period and say that he could not propose its continuance. The commission could not outlive the term proposed in this bill, and yet the commissioners were to fix the salaries of the chaplains, and the commissioners were to have additional power and additional patronage, and there was nothing in the clause to lead the public to suppose that the commission would terminate in five years, or in fifty-five years. But the House would find that the feeling of the country against this bill would be so strong that it would be utterly impossible to stem the torrent. Could the House legislate upon this subject with the care and deliberation and caution which the circumstances of the country demanded? Where the feeling and the aversion of the country were so strong, could the House legislate in this manner, by introducing a clause incidentally, and containing a proviso differing from the clause? He believed that the clause as it stood would increase the strong feeling out of doors against the bill. The clause gave extraordinary power to the commissioners, and seemed to contemplate the perpetuity of the commission.Mr. Wakley
 considered that if the boards of guardians were the best judges of who were fit to be chaplains, they must be the best judges of what their salaries should be. He had no faith in the efficacy of the clause as it stood, and he should vote against it.Mr. Gisborne
 could not vote for the rejection of the clause altogether; he considered it one of the most important parts of the whole bill.Mr. Hawes
 thought that clergymen of all denominations should be permitted to attend to the spiritual wants of the infant poor, and he hoped, that whatever their creed might be, they would be animated with sufficient zeal to perform their duties without the hope of any positive pay to stimulate them.Mr. Howard
"To insert at the end of clause 11,'Provided always that so soon as any such board of management for any union shall be instituted, it shall forthwith prepare and publish the rules and regulations relating to the training of the infant poor aforesaid, and the admission into such building, from lime to time, of the parents and relatives of such infant poor." rose to move the amendment of which he had given notice:—
"To insert at the end of clause 11,'Provided always that so soon as any such board of management for any union shall be instituted, it shall forthwith prepare and publish the rules and regulations relating to the training of the infant poor aforesaid, and the admission into such building, from lime to time, of the parents and relatives of such infant poor."Sir H. Fleetwood
738 admitted the propriety of publishing the rules for the instruction of the infant poor generally, at the same time that he objected to the publication by
738Mr. F. Maule
 said, that if the parents of poor children knew that under certain regulations they might visit their children, they would be most anxious to avail themselves of the privileges of these schools. He would not object to the alteration of his amendment where it might be found objectionable.Sir H. Fleetwood
 thought it probable that, after a great expense in erecting buildings had been incurred, a sufficient number might not be found of orphans and others for whom these establishments were intended to fill them. In the event of any miscalculation of this kind, he would propose to make these receptacles subservient to the public good, by admitting the children of the adjacent poor, who were willing to pay a trifling sum towards their education. By this course he thought a great benefit would be conferred on the community.Sir R. Peel
 thought, that if the wishes of the parents were consulted, especially as the plan proposed gave industrial employment to the children, the system would make its way as soon as it became known.Mr. Slaney
 feared, that unless the proposed plan were carried into effect with the greatest possible discretion, it would cause a great departure from the principles of the Poor-law Amendment Act.Mr. Goulburn
 held that the question now under consideration was worthy to be made the subject of separate legislation. He deprecated the interference of the Poor-law commissioners in a matter of this nature. The clause now under consideration ought to have no place in the present bill.Mr. Grimsditch
 expressed his intention of withdrawing the amendment, his object in proposing which was, that infant children who were not compelled to go to those schools might have the benefit of them if their parents wished.Sir H. Fleetwood
739 thought that this might not be an improper time to state that he had a clause prepared to carry out the proposition which had been suggested by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, upon the understanding that in the first instance pauper children should be provided for, but that in the event of
739Mr. F. Maule
 expressed his concurrence in the sentiments of his right hon. Friend, and observed that he thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Maule) would find them already acted upon in the management of county lunatic asylums, which were, in 'the first place, open to paupers from all districts, at an expense to the parish of a small sum; next, to criminal lunatics, upon payment of another sum; and thirdly, in ease of vacancies, to private families who might suppose that patients would be better accommodated there than in the county hospital, upon payment, also, of a certain sum; which sums went to relieve the county-rates, while they afforded a facility to the pauper lunatics of obtaining the best accommodation upon the cheapest terms.Lord Stanley
 begged to know what the principle of the contribution was to be, and said it ought to be defined in the clause.Captain Wood
 replied, that the rate of contribution for the building of those district schools would be with reference to the size and population of the unions, and that afterwards it would depend on the number of children sent to those schools. He was not then prepared to introduce a definition of it into the clause; but he would take the suggestion into consideration.Mr. F. Maule
 ventured to say that it would be impossible to devise any scheme for general contribution which would be palatable to four-fifths of the board of guardians, unless they defined beforehand what the principle of that contribution was to be.Sir R. Peel
740 observed, that if the former suggestions of the right hon. Baronet the member for Tamworth met with the approbation of the House, he thought they might regard those schools as a part of the national system of education, and that therefore there ought to be a portion
740Sir H. Verney
 was of opinion, that this subject should be brought under their consideration in a separate bill. If it were intended that the commissioners should be continued not in perpetuity, but for five years, and no longer, were they to assume that those schools were only to last for the same period; or was a separate commission to be appointed for the purpose? It would be absurd to set about establishing such schools as, were proposed by this bill for the period of five years, and if the period were to be longer, then must the commission be also continued, or a separate commission appointed. Another objection he had to the proposed arrangement was, that a kind of degradation would attach to those children who, not being themselves paupers, should be sent to the schools of pauper children. Far better would it be to frame a separate measure on the subject, and to establish schools for children who were not paupers, and then send to those schools the pauper children at the expense of the parish.Mr. G. Palmer
741 hoped, that the suggestion he had thrown out would not be misunderstood. A large district school having been established, and the children of paupers in the house having, undoubtedly, the first claim to participate in its advantages, he contemplated the possibility of a number of vacancies, and therefore he proposed, that a power should be taken to render that accommodation available for the education of children whose parents were not in the workhouse. A poacher, for instance, might not be willing to enter the workhouse, but, having some regard for the education of his children, it was most desirable that day scholars, living in the neighbourhood and paying a certain sum, should be admitted. This case he had no doubt would frequently occur. A benevolent gentleman seeing profligate parents, who would not go into the workhouse, might be disposed to undertake the education of their neglected children, having an opportunity of paying for them in the district school upon certain prescribed conditions. Sure he was that in acting thus with the consent of parents, and having a clergyman of the Church of England presiding over the education so communicated, great good must be effected. He could not
741Sir R. Peel
 thought the clause very objectionable in its present shape. It was scarcely practicable to frame such regulations in an Act of Parliament as would meet the likely contingencies of so complex a system. The only tiling intelligible about it was, that it would entail enormous expense on every district, with out securing any efficient plan of education.Mr. Grimsditch
 suggested, that some words should be inserted referring to the principle upon which the commissioners should proceed in fixing contributions. Another clause was promised in order to define that principle; but, if no such clause were forthcoming, the commissioners might proceed most arbitrarily upon the present clause. Unless some restrictions were introduced, he should vote against the clause.Lord Stanley
 had no objection to the insertion of words to that effect; and the following proviso was then added:—"Provided always, that such proportion of rated contribution shall be fixed by the commissioners in the manner hereinafter enacted."Lord J. Russell
 put it to the noble Lord (J. Russell) whether this clause had not been framed with reference to the perpetuity of the Poor-law commission? He expected a frank reply to this question. If he did not, he should draw his own inference, and so would the country.Mr. T. Parker
.—Not to my knowledge.Lord J. Russell
 asked why its provisions were restricted to the metropolis, and not extended to populous towns in the country.Lord G. Somerset
 was understood to say, that he should have no objection to extend the clause if other populous towns desired such an arrangement.Lord J. Russell
744743 proposed to insert in the clause, after the words "for relieving and setting to work therein," the words, "of casual, and vagrant poor;" and he wished to do so in order to remedy an evil which had been seriously felt by the constituency he represented. He would state to the House, that for the purpose of affording relief to the poor, the City of London was divided into three unions—namely, the City of London within the walls, the East London union, and the West London union. The City of London within the walls contains a population about equal to the aggregate of the other two, and was, besides, the most wealthy of the three. Of course it was not surprising, that in a district so populous as this the applications of the casual and destitute poor for temporary relief should be very numerous; but inasmuch as it happened that the City of London within the walls had no workhouse of its own, it was the custom of the relieving officer in that district to give to vagrants a shilling and a loaf of bread each, and to send them away. These same people afterwards went to the East or West London union workhouse for a night's lodging; and the number of persons who made these applications in the evenings, at most inconvenient hours, was so great as entirely to break through the good order and tranquillity of those establishments. He held in his hand a list of the admissions into the West London union workhouse, for the first week of the present month, and he thought the House would be astonished to hear that in that week there had been no less than 245 of those vagrants claiming and receiving admission. But what made the difficulty and inconvenience greater was, that a very large proportion of these vagrants were of the worst and most disorderly characters. The list he held in his hand contained the names and ages of each of the persons admitted; and he regretted to stale that by far the lager proportion of persons so admitted
744743Mr. Grote
746745 said, he should have been very glad if the present clause had not appeared in this bill, a bill to the principle of which he was strongly opposed. He was against the bill, the whole bill, and every clause in the bill. There was nothing in the bill, in his humble opinion, which rendered it worthy the adoption of the House. He must say he very much regretted that the hon. Member for the City of London had brought forward this proposition, which was levelled against a class of unfortunate people, many of whom, perhaps, had been driven to the commission of crimes under circumstances, which he lamented to say, though they afforded no justification, must be regarded as some palliation of their conduct—circumstances to a great extent, in his humble opinion, which were the fruit of the enactments of that former bill, which the noble Lord opposite was pleased to call an amendment of the Poor-law Act. He would not enter into the details given by the hon. Member for the City of London, of these poor creatures applying for a shilling, with which
746745Colonel Sibthorp
 withdrew the words "casual destitute," retaining these, "vagrant poor," instead.Mr. Grote
 thought there was not sufficient information before the House with regard to the persons contemplated by the clause to justify its adopting the amendment at present.Colonel T. Wood
 proposed to leave out the words of the clause which made it applicable to "women having been prostitutes, or habitually of lewd or disorderly behaviour," and to insert instead,—"common prostitutes, who shall have been duly convicted as idle and disorderly persons." As the clause stood, the master of a workhouse, or, at all events, the board of guardians upon his complaint, would send any decent woman who might not happen to be as submissive or obedient as bethought proper to these receptacles, which were professedly for very different persons; for he would have nothing to do but to say that she was habitually disorderly. Some independent authority ought to be appointed to decide who came under the description of this clause. It should not be left to persons who might desire to get rid of an individual whom they deemed disagreeable, or who might wish to gratify some ill feeling.Lord G. Somerset
 recalled the noble Lord's recollection to a petition which he had recently presented from the parish of St. George, Southwark, and which showed that other unions besides that of the City of London required some such plan as this now proposed. He was disposed to support the amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for Monmouthshire.Mr. B. Wood
 saw some difficulty in agreeing to the amendment. Women who were convicted of disorderly behaviour would be sent to the House of Correction. Was it meant that, having once been convicted, they should then be brought within the operation of the bill?Lord J. Russell
 said, the clause as it was originally proposed was liable to the same doubt.Mr. Goulburn
747 said, that the governors
747Mr. T. Egerton
 hoped that the clause would not be made applicable to all persons who might, at a former period, have been convicted of being disorderly, or who might have fallen into vice, because, if it were so, it would put a stop to all reclamation and reform of character. The great objection to the clause was this very thing—the incomplete definition of the persons who were to be set to work. Was it safe, he would ask, to intrust such an authority as the master of the workhouse with the power of declaring any individual female to be a person of habitually lewd and disorderly behaviour, and sending her without due examination to a workhouse, which, if not absolutely a prison, was still a place of restraint? He wished for some clearer definition of the persons who were the subjects of this clause, as with the present words it would be possible for masters of workhouses to act with the greatest unfairness and cruelty. He should support the amendment of the noble Lord.Mr. Estcourt
 said, that while contemplating the possibility of abuse on one side, they must not entirely forget the evil on the other, of relaxing all power over persons who might come into the workhouse. It was quite right to say, that you would not subject a woman to punishment unless she were convicted of some intelligible offence; but suppose a woman came to the workhouse as a casual pauper, and asked for relief, and by the grossness of her conduct disturbed the other inmates, behaving in a manner that would be with perfect justice styled lewd and disorderly; if there were no control over that woman, unless she had been previously convicted of some offence, she might defy all restraint. Scenes of the grossest impropriety would occur if a general statutable exemption were given to all females not previously convicted.Sir R. Peel
 said, if any person behaved in a disorderly way in a workhouse, there not only should be, but actually was, the power to correct that person; but by this clause the master would have the power of judging and pronouncing on the conduct and character of parties at their entrance into the workhouse. He could not but think, that such a power would be dangerous, and likely to be abused.Mr. Darby
 said, as this clause had so very important a bearing on those whom he had the honour to represent, as it concerned the interests of a great many persons in the extensive parishes of the metropolitan districts, he must offer one observation to the House. If he understood the clause, its object simply was to make a classification of persons of this description, to place one set in the workhouse and another in a distinct receptacle, in order to obtain the good effects of a separation. No one could contend, that vicious persons should be allowed to enter the workhouse, and instantaneously corrupt those who, though destitute, were innocent. Therefore some security must be had against contamination. But if the House adopted the words of the noble Lord, they might as well negative the clause altogether, for how was the master of the workhouse to get a list of persons previously convicted for disorderly conduct, or how was he to prove their identity? Persons of this description were quite notorious, and was it to be supposed, that the master of the workhouse would, without any reason whatever, inflict on a decent woman the penance reserved for those of the character mentioned in the clause? You must trust something to the discretion of the master, for it was impossible to define the objects of the clause with perfect clearness. If the clause were not adopted, scenes might be expected to occur which would render the workhouse a disgrace to the country.Dr. Lushington
 observed, that all he required was, the appointment of some independent person, who would not be likely from caprice or worse motives to send a person to these penal workhouse. He asked, would be safe to give the power of affixing a stigma into the hands in which it was proposed to vest it? It was desirable to have a separate establishment for women of that class, but he did not think it safe to give the master of a workhouse the power of saying, that this or that woman was a disorderly character. The master might be actuated by improper motives; he might, for example, have made overtures to the woman which she had rejected, and from a feeling of revenge he might consign her to the separate workhouse.Lord G. Somerset
749 thought the amendment of the noble Lord would render the clause entirely useless. Where
749The Attorney-general
 withdrew his amendment.Lord G. Somerset
 denied that there would be any coercion. The question was simply whether persons of the class described should be dealt with in one workhouse or another.Mr. Grote
 thought the clause so wholly objectionable, so arbitrary and oppressive, that he should move it be expunged altogether, and he would lake the sense of the House upon the questionColonel Sibthorp
, we understood to say, would oppose the clause if it was to be the means of bringing taxation upon the metropolitan districts for the maintenance of these workhouses.Mr. Estcourt
 stated that his objection to the clause was very strong, and it was his intention to divide against it.Colonel Sibthorp
 stated, that he had an important amendment to move, which he should be averse to call on the House to take into consideration at that late hour of the night.Lord G. Somerset
 admitted the importance of the amendment, and would not oppose the motion to resume.Lord John Russell
719Cheers.718717716 had stated a few nights ago, that it was not his intention to oppose the motion of the hon. Gentleman for a Select Committee. In assenting, then, to the motion, he begged to observe, with respect to the motion of the hon. Member, that it appeared to him, that the hon. Gentleman, in the statement with which he had preceded his motion, wished to show that the disturbances which had occurred at the elections in Newfoundland, and the evils which had arisen, and which were likely to arise from the present constitution, were of such a nature, and had been allowed to continue to such an extent, that it became the duty of the Imperial Parliament to interfere. He agreed in many of the observations of the hon. Gentleman, and was ready to admit, that the statement of the governor of the colony called for serious attention. While he, in general, agreed with the governor of the colony as to many of the evils and grievances which had occurred, he had requested him to look out as much as he possibly could for elements for better working the constitution, and if he failed in his inquiry, it would be his duty to look to the measures which it would be the duty of the Government to submit to Parliament. He should not oppose a committee of inquiry, as the House seemed to concur with the hon. Member that advantage might result from it. He wished it, however, to be clearly understood, that although he did not oppose inquiry, he was not prepared to state the nature of the measures which he intended to propose with respect to the House of Assembly of Newfoundland, nor the general views which the Government took of the matter. He should propose his measures without reference to this inquiry, and without reference to the opinion which the House and the committee might adopt. He admitted that this was one of the cases on which the House in general required information to enable it to legislate. With no previous notice or information on the subject it was impossible that the Members of that House could follow the events that transpired in each colony belonging to this country. He, therefore, thought, that it would be advantageous that a certain number of the Members of that House should be made acquainted with the real state of affairs in the colony before he submitted to the House the
719Cheers.718717716Lord John Russell
 said, his resolution could in no degree affect the British revenue and he did not, therefore, see any reason for the proposed delay.Mr. Labouchere
 said, the right hon. Gentleman would see that it would be improper in him to give any answer that could in any way anticipate his right hon. Friend's statement; but he repeated, that the resolution he had to propose was quite independent of the general subject. Considering what the House had done this Session for the East Indies, he thought there should be no opposition to entertaining a question so important to the West India colonies.Mr. Labouchere
705 said, that on the new regulation for the Post-office coming into operation, the public had been called upon to post their letters earlier. He wished to know whether there was any prospect of an extension of the time of closing, according to the understanding that such should be
705Mr. Herries
ll thought it rather unfair towards the colony that these statements should have been made when there was no possibility of answering them. He did not wish to detain the House on the present occasion, but he could not avoid noticing the almost exclusive preference given to one class of persons not professing the religion of the majority. Out of 19,000llMr. J. O'Connell
720 was quite satisfied that the result of inquiry would be to elicit the truth. He, therefore, was glad that a committee was to be appointed. All that he wished was, that the inquiry should proceed with the full knowledge of all classes in the colony. He trusted that it would not be pursued in a way to suit the views of the gentleman who had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Droitwich, who was the representative of the minority in the colony, but that ample time should be given to the majority to answer the charges which had been brought against them. He said this because his hon. Friend, the Member for Dublin, and himself last year presented two petitions
720Mr. Hume
 begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it were true, as had been stated, that her Majesty's Government had entered into an agreement by which the mails were to be carried, in Scotland, six days in the week by railway, and on Sunday by coach.Mr. Hume
704 objected to the principle on
704Mr. Hume
 said, that no special directions were given by the commissioners, such matters being left to the parties on the spot.Mr. R. Gordon
 said, that under the Act of last Session, the Postmaster-general had no power to compel the proprietors of railroads in Scotland to carry passengers on Sunday, though they could require them to carry the mails. Two railroads in Scotland had agreed to carry the mails, though they refused to carry passengers; but they said, that the Post-office must bear the expense of the communication by steam, in which they were quite right. The Post-office found, however, that they could convey the mails by horses cheaper than by railway, without any inconvenience to the public, and they had accordingly contracted for that purpose.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was sorry to say, that so far from seeing any prospect of the understanding being carried into effect, there was, on the contrary, so much pressure arising out of the increased correspondence, that there was much difficulty in carrying on the business with the present establishment of clerks.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, if the resolution embraced an isolated abstract measure, then his objection could not apply; but suppose the importation of foreign sugar at a lower rate should form a part of the right hon. Gentleman's financial measures, then he apprehended it would be better for them to have the whole subject before them at once.Sir R. Peel
 inquired whether the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade meant to move his proposed resolution for regulating the commercial intercourse of the West-India colonies and the United States, on Monday next, or whether the committee on the Poor-law Act was to have precedance. Because, as the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had fixed an early day after Easter for the Budget, and as the resolution in question might have some relation to the general financial statement, or that financial statement have relation to the resolution it would be much more expedient to postpone the resolution till after the statement had been made, in order that the House might have the whole measure of the right hon. Gentleman before them at the same time.Sir R. Peel
754 was not aware that the Home Office was compelled to attend to
754Mr. Fox Maule
761 seconded the amendment. He said that he did so on the ground that it was the paramount duty of a great national Legislature to instruct the people in the principles of the Christian religion The importance and value of Christianity were recognised in all the public transactions connected with the State. The bill
761Mr. Pringle
 said in reply, he thought the hon. Members for the Universities, in their opposision to the bill, had not represented the real Christian feeling of those bodies, but rather the jobbing spirit which too often prevailed there.Mr. Divett
766 said, the hon. Gentleman said there was an indifference to religion amongst the Members of that House. He had taken down the expressions at the moment they were uttered, and he was extremely happy to have given the right hon. Gentleman an opportunity of disavowing them, though the disavowal amounted to an abandonment of two-thirds of the right hon. Gentleman's argument. The question was, were they to admit into the administration of a Christian community those who held Christianity in aversion and abhorrence? That was the ground taken by his hon. Friend near him. The right hon. Gentleman attempted to grapple with that objection, and in doing so he bad used arguments which he had since disavowed. The right hon. Gentleman complained that this particular measure was opposed as if it involved the admission of Jews to all privileges whatever. But did the right hon. Gentleman really mean to deny that this measure was not viewed as a stepping stone to ulterior objects? Did the right hon. Gentleman expect that any Member of the House who had witnessed antecedent proceedings would be to credulous as to suppose that those who urged the present measure aimed at nothing beyond throwing open corporate privileges? Confining himself to the present bill, he could not admit that a Jew could properly take part in the administration of a Christian community. Christianity was part and parcel of the law of the land. Could they admit Jews to offices which might require them to determine questions affecting Christianity? How could a Jew enforce the law against blasphemy or against Sabbath breaking, or determine questions arising from labour performed on a day on which the Jews thought no labour could be conscientiously performed? The Jews themselves had the same objection to admit heathens to the management of Jewish affairs, that be had to admit them to the administration of the taws of a Christian
766Mr. Goulburn
765 had heard with great pain the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman, that he saw no distinction between the religion of the Jews and the Christians. The right hon. Gentleman had said this, not only once, but twice.
765Mr. Goulburn
 said, it was important that not only the Members of the House, but persons engaged in trade should be apprised of these resolutions before they were brought forward.Mr. Goulburn
sdssdsad valoremad valorem753 said, it was his intention to introduce certain modifications in the new schedule of duties which he would bring forward in the customs resolutions on Monday next. When he had originally proposed these resolutions he stated, that be was not
sdssdsad valoremad valorem753Mr. Labouchere
ex cathedra767 agreeing distinctly with his noble Friend who had just sat down, would not, at that fatal hour of the evening, detain the House by any remarks on the principle of the bill. He would only state that the argument that, the Jews ought not to be admitted to that House, because they could not take a conscietious part in religious discussions, appeared to him of no validity. Religious questions as debated in that House were also political, and it was only as political questions that they could fitly be discussed there at all; the less the House discussed purely; religious questions the better, and if we wanted a proof of this, his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War had furnished it this evening. His right hon. Friend had, unnecessarily, irrelavantly, and unjustly, attacked a body of divines of the Church of England, respecting whose writings the House could know but little and whose principles were at any rate subjects of grave and philosophical discussion. Those principles went far too deep for chance conversation and cursory de-
ex cathedra767Mr. Milnes
 said, a petition had been laid on the Table of the House relative to the destitute condition of persons in a populous district of the metropolis. He had that morning visited that district, and it was lamentable to see the wretched and filthy state in which the majority of its inhabitants were. He wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Home Department, whether or not the Home Office was possessed of any power to enforce the discharge of their duty by the local authorities, with respect to cleansing the district to which he alluded? In consequence of the proposed improvements to take place in that quarter, nothing had been done by the parochial authorities with respect to cleansing it. He alluded to the district of St. Giles.Mr. Slaney
 explained that what he had said was, that there were none of the questions which had been agitated in that House, and to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, on which the hon. Gentleman could possibly differ more from Jewish than he had done from Christian Members of that House.Mr. Macaulay
764763762, amidst cries of "Divide," said he could make allowance for hon. Gentlemen, and he would detain the House for a very little while indeed. He would confine himself to a few words upon a remark made by his hon. Friend, and repeated by the hon. Gentleman who seconded the amendment. Those hon. Gentlemen had treated the bill in a very improper manner. They had discussed it as if it would relieve the Jews from all civil disabilities whatever, and would render them eligible to sit in Parliament. The bill had no such object. It was true that his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had said, that they ought to be admitted to seats in Parliament, and he (Mr. Macaulay) was of the same opinion. But that was not the question at present. This was a measure for admitting them to civil and municipal offices, and his hon. Friend opposed it, not because he gave any reasons for thinking Jews incompetent to fill such offices, but because he thought them not competent to act in the Legislature. He had listened with great attention to the speech of the hon. Gentleman, and he was quite unable to discover any argument therein against the removal of these Jewish disabilities which might not be urged with equal force against a large proportion of the Members who, at that moment, had seats in the House. His hon. Friend alluded to the prayers which were offered up in that House, and he asked, could Jews join in them? But that was a question which would apply to many Gentlemen already in that House. There was one Gentleman, a member of a highly respectable sect, which considered such a form of prayer to be irreligious. His hon. Friend said, that the prayer asked for the promotion of true religion. But there was as much difference already in the House on the subject of true religion, as there was between the Jew and the Christian. The Roman Catholic differed from the Protestant, and the Unitarian differed from the Trinitarian, as to what was the true religion.
764763762Mr. Macaulay
760759Hear758757l.l.l.l.756755 rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move as an amendment, that it be read a third time that day six months. If it was possible to draw a broad line of principle between a bill to admit Jews to municipal offices, and one to permit them to hold other offices, including seats in Parliament, the subject would be different from that which they had now to discuss; but he was satisfied that such a line could not be drawn; and the advocates of this measure must, to be consistent, follow it up with another, throwing open to Jews seats in Parliament, and all other offices which might be held by Christians. On that point there would be but little difference, so that it would be of no use to argue it. He would, however, state his reasons for objecting to the bill, and, without leading the House into theological questions, such as had been urged on a former discussion, he would state the grounds of his objection in that way which appeared most plain to himself, and most likely to be intelligible to the House. His reason for opposing the bill was this—that the profession of the Jews was of itself in the nature of a disqualification for legislative office in a country where Christianity was interwoven with the institutions of the State. It had been said on high authority, that Christianity was part and parcel of the law of England. He would not stop to inquire how far in strict truth that dictum was tenable. It was not necessary that he should define it. It would be sufficient for his purpose to state, that in our general practice our laws were modelled on the principles of Christianity, and they had a solemn recognition of those principles in a practice—which he trusted would never be discontinued—of commencing the daily proceedings in both Houses of Parliament by the solemn invocation and worship of the Almighty.
760759Hear758757l.l.l.l.756755Mr. W. Gladstone
 regretted that sugar and coffee had not been included, and gave notice of his intention to renew his motion for a reduction of the duty on sugar and coffee immediately after the recess.Mr. Ewart
 said the discussion could not be confined to the bill alone, because nobody denied that it was intended to lead to further changes. He had mentioned the case of a man imprisoned for blasphemy on a former occasion, who would be most unjustly punished if offices were given to Jews. Exclusion from office was not a punishment. It meant no personal disrespect to the individuals. It was a matter which must be always subject to the freest discretion of the State. They had been told of centuries of misrule in Ireland. He believed there was gross exaggeration in such statements; and whatever misrule there had been, existed long before—distinctions of religious creed had no connection with them. On the principles he had so often stated to the House, he should vote for the amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Newark.Sir K. Inglis
 did not think there was anything in the religion of a Jew to disqualify him for exercising corporate office. He thought they might very well administer the law as mayor, or in any other municipal office. Therefore, confining himself to the question immediately before the House, he saw no reason for refusing the concession which was demanded.Viscount Sandon
 inquired whether the ground thus purchased would be appropriated in any way to the recreation of the people of Dublin.Sir R. Peel
 replied, that it would be used both for the exercise of the troops and the recreation of the inhabitants.Viscount Morpeth
774 said the object of this clause was to enable guardians of any parish or union having more workhouse room than the poor of such union required, to let out their surplus room to any other parish or union having a pressure of paupers more than they could accommodate. He admitted, that cases might arise when, from some temporary pressure, such a power might be convenient. But there was that expressed in the clause which raised some jealousy in his mind: it was this, that such board of management should have the power to contract with the guardians, &c. of any parish or union for the maintenance and management of such poor in such manner and for such period not exceeding seven year?. This be thought, was an improper provision, for it went not to remove the source of any tem-
774Lord G. Somerset
 here said, that he intended to move the omission of the whole clause, and he apprehended that his amendment would come in order before that of the noble Lord.Mr. Wakley
 said, the hon. Member could make his motion after the clause was amended.The Chairman
"Provided always that nothing herein contained shall authorise the placing of men and their wives, children and their parents, in separate establishments, or the removal of any paupers, whatever, out of the precincts of the union in which they may be settled, against their consent."775 said he was about to explain, that he intended to propose the omission of the clause, should he not succeed with his amendment; but he thought he would first endeavour to make the clause as good as he could, lest he
"Provided always that nothing herein contained shall authorise the placing of men and their wives, children and their parents, in separate establishments, or the removal of any paupers, whatever, out of the precincts of the union in which they may be settled, against their consent."775Lord G. Somerset
776 wished to address a few words to the House as to the purport of this clause. The intention of it was not quite what the noble Lord opposite supposed. One of many reasons for it was, that there were many unions where the workhouses were not sufficiently large to receive the inmates who were sent there, and it would therefore be more advantageous to the poor to be sent from a workhouse of that description to another where there was a sufficient establishment and more accommodation. However, that was a temporary reason; but there had been certain cases where it would have been desirable to remove paupers from one workhouse to another. At the same time that that was the general object of the clause, he admitted there was great force in the noble Lord's objection, so far as it related to the clause in the words in which it was then drawn up, as it might be hereafter used for purposes for which it was not intended, and might not only cause considerable dissatisfaction among the poor, but might produce much practical inconvenience. With respect to amending the clause, there were two modes in which it occurred to him that that might be done. One way would be to prevent a contract being made with any union so that paupers might be removed to any great distance—they might say perhaps greater than ten miles:—from the precincts of their own union. The noble Lord proposed, that the paupers should not be removed without their consent; but surely the noble Lord would see, that such an amendment would practically defeat the operation of the clause, because guardians would not contract if afterwards they had to ask the consent of the paupers in the workhouse; besides which, it was hardly possible to say they asked the consent of the paupers as to their removal from one workhouse to another, when they afterwards required them to be taken back to their own union. But the consent was uncertain: and it would therefore be im-
776Lord J. Russell
777 could not think that either alternative of the noble Lord would meet the difficulty of this particular clause. He entertained this apprehension as to the working of this part of the law:—It frequently happened that work-houses were for a considerable period destitute of inhabitants, and during that time the guardians were anxious to receive persons into them who might be willing to pay for their maintenance there, in order to meet the expense to which the establishment was subject; but if those guardians contracted for seven years to receive at all times persons who were distressed, they would block up their own work-houses effectually, and when the period arrived at which their work-houses were not competent to accommodate those who were desirous of being received into it, they would find it necessary to resort to outdoor relief to a considerable degree. That was a serious danger which the clause of the noble Lord was likely to produce, and for that reason he thought it better that the clause should be withdrawn. He very much objected to making the clause apply only to children, because the general ground on which they had proposed that the schools for children of the poor should be distinct from the workhouse was that they might give them better instruction; but if they only removed them from
777Mr. Goulburn
 supported the expediency of withdrawing the clause altogether.Mr. Ward
 wished to ask the noble Lord whether there was any objection to those amendments which had been already agreed to being printed and delivered with the votes?Mr. Gisborne
 did not know whether the practice of the House allowed of that being done; but if it did it would be very convenient. The next week would be the vacation; and when he returned to the country, he had no doubt one of the first questions he should be asked would be, "Well! what are you doing with the New Poor-law?" But he should really have great difficulty in giving an answer, ft was most desirable that all hon. Members should have a distinct knowledge of what had already been done on the subject.Sir E. Knatchbull
778 said, he believed there was no objection to the request of the hon. Member being complied with, it being understood, however, in the first place, that particular words in particular clauses were not to be considered as words that might be finally adopted; because in several cases they were introduced rather to show the intention of the committee than to express correctly that intention; and, in the next place, that they should do something that was conformable to the rules of the House. Now he did not know whether there was any objection, after the bill being considered in committee to-morrow night, that they should agree to the remaining clauses in the bill, it being understood, however, that when they should go into committee again, they should begin where they really left off in the consideration of the clauses. If the House agreed to that course, the bill would be reprinted, and he thought hon. Members might then see what was the general substance and intention of its provisions. And he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman, as well as others, if they were asked any question on the subject, would explain that the committee had still to consider various words
778Lord J. Russell
 thought it would be desirable to show in some way how far they had really proceeded in the bill.Viscount Sandon
 understood that could not be done; but he had heard from a high authority in that House that there was no objection to the clauses as amended being re-printed.Lord G. Somerset
779Cries of No, no. said, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Kent had just observed, that he should not know what to say when he was asked what they had done with the New Poor-law. He believed there were many hon. Members in that House similarly circumstanced, and he thought many of them would not know so well even as the right hon. Baronet how to answer; because the right hon. Baronet had given the bill his most strenuous opposition; and he believed that many hon. Members would be very glad if they had had the opportunity of doing the same. The 18th clause they had expunged; and certainly he had reason to rejoice at such a circumstance. That clause was probably the most savage in principle that the bill contained. [779Cries of No, no.Mr. Wakley
 was sorry the learned Attorney-general was not present whilst this clause was being discussed, because the hon. and learned Gentleman in the year 1835 had declared the state of the law to be clear and defined against the unfortunate petitioner whose case he had on a former occasion brought before the House. He trusted the noble Lord would relieve these unfortunate wives who were deserted by their husbands from the persecution of the Poor-law commissioners.Captain Pechell
780 said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury had spoken of the former clause as being conceived in a savage spirit, and had described the bill in general as an insult to humanity; and the hon. Gentleman who last spoke had talked of the persecution of the Poor-law Commissioners. If any censure was cast upon them with respect to their own conduct, they were then exceedingly sore and sensitive; but when the Poor-law commissioners were concerned they were immediately charged with a degree of inhumanity, cruelty, and savage spirit hardly found among barbarians. The hon. Gen-
780Lord John Russell
781 was of opinion that the whole of the clauses of the bill required explanation, and he was sure that the noble Lord did not understand the intention of many of them. With respect to the clause under consideration, he confessed he did not know what the effect of it would be. If a man left his family, the clause enacted that relief to the children should be relief to the mother. Now, according to the existing law, this was relief to the husband, and was it intended that he should be discharged from that obligation? This clause could not possibly act as ex-
781Mr. Darby
 apprehended that the intention of the clause was to place these women in the same situation as widows. The Committee would presently come to the discussion of the case of widows, and would have then an opportunity of deciding whether relief should be allowed them out of the workhouse or in the workhouse. He was of opinion that there should be some discretion left to allow the relief of widows out of the work-house; and if the Committee were of the same opinion, it would follow that women deserted by their husbands would be allowed relief out of the workhouse.Mr. Slaney
 explained. The wives of men, who went beyond the seas were, by the clause, placed in the situation of widows, but with regard to those whose husbands refused or neglected to maintain their families it enacted that the relief given to the children should be deemed relief to the mother.Mr. Darby
 hoped the noble Lord would withdraw the clause, because of its entire inutility. If it had any meaning at all, perhaps the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor-general would explain it to the Committee.Mr. Muntz
782 thought he must be a bold man who ventured to say he understood the clause. He agreed in the general principle stated by the noble Lord, that the industrious labourer ought not to be taxed to support the idler. The hon. Member for Finsbury was good enough to say, that he was a strong opponent of the bill. Now, he had acted solely on the same principle has had guided the hon. Member. He had determined to consider the bill in committee, solely for the purpose of making it as good as he could. He felt throughout, that the provisions of the first act were more stringent than they need be, and he wished to see how far they might be relaxed. As the Attorney-general was not present, the Solicitor-general would probably favour the Committee with his opinion as to the intention
782Sir E. Knatchbull
783femme sole. said, it was not material for the purpose of deciding whether this clause should be adopted or not, what was formerly the state of the law (though there might be some analogy in the cases which had been put;) but let the old law be as it might, still the propriety of this clause remained the subject for the consideration of the Committee. It was generally considered that the wife of a person who was transported beyond seas was, for most purposes, a 783femme sole.The Solicitor-General
784 was sure that the committee felt obliged to the hon. and learned Gentleman for his explanation. With respect to this clause, it was quite plain that a very extensive and severe alteration of the law against married women was now for the first time brought forward. The hon. Gentleman the Solicitor-general had properly divided the clause into two parts. With respect to the first portion of the clause, he could not help thinking that if they left the words of the clause as they stood, they would revolutionize the condition of the married women of this country more extensively than any bill of this kind ought to do. Now it would not, as the clause stood, be confined merely to persons seeking parochial relief, but would apply to all married women whose husbands happened to be beyond the seas. He did not think that it was in committee upon a bill of this kind they could with propriety introduce an alteration so wide and so extensive as this. So far as that portion of the clause was concerned, it should have his (Lord G. Somerset's) most strenuous opposition. The committee ought to consider that this clause would apply to a very large class; namely, the wives of soldiers and sailors, in whose condition it would make a very severe alteration. By this clause new obligations would be thrown on them. Even if the clause went to affect no other class, he was sure that the House would never sanction it. We there any justice in throwing the burthen of supporting her family on the wife when the husband refused to maintain them. The fact of the husband refusing showed that he was within the law, and why not then enforce the law against him instead of throwing the whole burthen upon the wife. He did not wish to speak harshly of the Poor-law commissioners, but he thought they were too prone to recommend a one-sided remedy. In this case they merely looked to the necessity of providing a check against women of bad character, without considering the disadvantage they might inflict upon women
784Lord G. Somerset
 said, the object of the clause was explained to be to prevent collusion between the husband and wife. But in the case of a husband who was an idiot there could be no collusion, and suppose a wife in such case able to maintain herself, would they in that case add to the misfortune of her situation by throwing upon her the burthen she was unable to bear, of supporting her family.Mr. Freshfieid
785 had not been able to gather from the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman whether he was in favour of or opposed to the clause, but he must say, that the noble Lord opposite had completely made out the charge made by his hon. Friend the Member for Fins-bury, that it was inhuman. The noble Lord had even gone further; he had spoken of it as a revolutionary clause—a clause which created a great revolution in the state of the married women of this country. When this bill was first proposed the object was stated to be not only to amend the Poor-laws, but to remedy many of its rigours. It had at all events been satisfactorily proved to the committee by the speech of the Solicitor-general that by this clause the law would be made much more rigid as against married women than it had been hitherto. What right had they to do that? Was public feeling sufficiently in favour of this bill to justify them in proposing such a clause? He thought the speech of the noble Lord would satisfy the committee that the clause ought to be expunged. His hon. Friend the Member for Somerset, had argued in favour of the clause: and upon what ground? Why upon the ground of the possibility of a fraudulent application for relief. Were all the applications necessarily fraudulent? Might there not be many virtuous and industrious
785Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, that this clause would have the most beneficial effect on those to whom it was intended to apply. Its main object was to preserve those family ties which were so often broken by the neglect or misconduct of a husband. The object of the clause was to hold out no inducement to a wife to desert her offspring when they had been abandoned by their father. The object, on the contrary, was, to maintain the family ties. The effect of the clause was merely to give the children a title to the protection of their remaining parent. It was a humane clause and beneficial to the parties to whom it related.Sir C. Grey
 could assure the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that nothing was farther from his thoughts than to treat the clause with ridicule. It was only in reference to an expression of the right hon. Gentleman, that he had been induced to smile. He heard nothing to induce him to support the clause.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, the noble Lord had found fault with his remarks with regard to the conduct of the Poor-law commissioners, but he begged to state that his remarks merely applied to individual cases, and more especially to that of Jane Champion.Captain Pechell
 did not think the committee was quite ripe for the decision of the clause then before it. He did not think there was any situation in which a woman was entitled to greater commiseration than that of widowhood—and in the temporary widowhood to which the clause applied, he was willing to place her in the same situation as the law placed a widow in reality. He thought the case was one in which a discretion might very fairly be left to the Board of Guardians, and he would suggest the propriety of postponing the clause.Sir T. Acland
786 earnestly hoped that this clause would not be pressed upon the House for its adoption; for, having listened to the arguments which had been advanced, it appeared to him that the
786Dr. Lushington
 would not vote against the clause, but he should certainly concur in the recommendation to postpone it. He had had some experience in the working of the Poor-laws, and he believed, that they could not compel the wives of sailors to go into the workhouse.Sir H. Verney
 would vote for a discretionary power being placed in the hands of the guardians as to whether the woman was entitled to relief or not. If they thought the case was one in which she should go into the workhouse, they ought to have the power to compel her to do so.Mr. Ainsworth
 had moved the expulsion of the clause, and ample grounds had been given for it. Gentlemen of the highest professional acquirements had spoken upon the clause, and had given the most opposite opinions upon it.Mr. Wakley
787 admitted, that the general opinion of the House seemed against the clause as it now stood. Before he stated what he meant to propose, he would allude to the hardship of the law at present, and he would remind the House that in considering the relief that should be given to certain classes, it,
787Lord John Russell
 suggested, that the noble Lord would do better to strike out the clause altogether, and he could bring in another after the amendments coining before the House had been discussed.Lord G. Somerset
 objected to the clause as giving too much power to the commissioners to interfere with and supersede at their pleasure the laws of the land.Mr. Grimsditch
 asked whether the Act 7th of George 3rd, was to be considered as repealed by this clause, or was it to be left to the commissioners to set aside acts of Parliament, or allow them to have force just as they pleased.Mr. Wakley
 said, the clause would not repeal the 7th of George 3rd, which one hon. Gentleman had alluded to, and of course while one authority was acting the other would not. The machinery proposed by this clause would be found much better for the interests of the children than that of the 7th of George 3rd, and he had the greatest confidence in the use the Poor-law commissioners would make of their powers.Lord John Russell
 objected to the clause, and thought that as so many clauses were objectionable, and so many had already been struck out, the best and shortest way would be to strike out the bill altogether.Colonel Sibthorp
789 would oppose the clause unless an amendment were introduced to the effect, that the cost should not be incurred without the consent of the rate-payers. The clause, as it stood, would give the board of guardians, who were under the complete control of the Poor-law commissioners, the power to tax the rate-payers without the consent of the latter, and to any extent they pleased. In some of the metropolitan parishes, there were, in fact, two sets of guardians acting in opposition to one another—one being elected under the Poor-law, and the other under a Local Act. How was this clause to be carried into effect in these parishes? The bill, instead of producing uniformity would produce confu-
789Mr. Thomas Duncombe
 said it was necessary that the guardians within the metropolitan police district should have the proposed extended powers, which would be greater than those allowed to rural boards, because within the metropolitan district larger workhouses were required, and it was generally more difficult to procure materials.Mr. Fox Maule
 hoped they would have the aid of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth to throw out this clause, us in the case of a former clause, when the right hon. Gentleman raised great hopes amidst those who desired to retain the benefit of their local acts. It was monstrous to see how popular rights and popular privileges were, night after night, frittered away by persons who call themselves advocates for liberal principles. Me hoped he was not saying anything unpleasant to certain hon. Gentlemen in that House, which would be especially unbecoming him on this occasion when he was about asking a favour from them, which ought, on the contrary, to induce him to indulge in the most sweet and dulcet notes he could command; but, at the same time, he could not but feel how annoying it was to be obliged to petition those who, while they call themselves friends of the people, were bringing forward and supporting laws which were prejudicial to their comforts, and abhorrent to their feelings. He confessed he could not speak with forbearance on the present question, conscious, as he was, of what would be its pernicious effects if passed into a law. He would, however, intreat the noble Lord to consent to a postponement of this clause until the House should be made acquainted with the noble Lord's determination with reference to those districts which had local acts of their own.Mr. Wakley
790 said, that if this clause were necessarily connected with the subject matter of the third clause, he would of course advocate the postponement of it as he had done with the former clause, but he really could not understand how the hon. Member for Finsbury could prove the connection. This was a clause which proposed to give power to the guardians of the poor to raise or borrow
790Sir R. Peel
7921,215
1,215132Girls
132Girls273Boys
273Boys515Women
515Women295Men
295Men
1,215
1,215132Girls
132Girls273Boys
273Boys515Women
515Women295Men
295Men1,242
1,242131Girls
131Girls288Boys
288Boys524Women
524Women299Men
299Men
1,242
1,242131Girls
131Girls288Boys
288Boys524Women
524Women299Men
299Men1,351Additional during the week 11
1,351Additional during the week 11194Girls
194Girls295Boys
295Boys538Women
538Women313Men
313Men
1,351Additional during the week 11
1,351Additional during the week 11194Girls
194Girls295Boys
295Boys538Women
538Women313Men
313Men791 said, that whatever tended to compel parishes to build proper and efficient workhouses would have his hearty support. There were many of the metropolitan districts which neglected doing this, and this clause was introduced for the purpose of obliging those districts to do their duty in this particular. This was not a measure of severity or harshness, but one of morality and humanity. He held in his hand a statement which had reference to one of those metropolitan districts, and after reading it to the House, he would put it to the hon.
7921,215
1,215132Girls
132Girls273Boys
273Boys515Women
515Women295Men
295Men
1,215
1,215132Girls
132Girls273Boys
273Boys515Women
515Women295Men
295Men1,242
1,242131Girls
131Girls288Boys
288Boys524Women
524Women299Men
299Men
1,242
1,242131Girls
131Girls288Boys
288Boys524Women
524Women299Men
299Men1,351Additional during the week 11
1,351Additional during the week 11194Girls
194Girls295Boys
295Boys538Women
538Women313Men
313Men
1,351Additional during the week 11
1,351Additional during the week 11194Girls
194Girls295Boys
295Boys538Women
538Women313Men
313Men791Mr. Hawes
 said, that the amount which had been fixed under the Poor-law amendment act, was the average amount of the rate for the previous three years, which sum had not been found sufficient. This clause was then introduced to give the guardians power to raise more money for the purpose of giving increased accommodation in the workhouses. The clause was solely for that purpose, and that alone.Mr. Fox Maule
 quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, that this was a subject which should not be considered with any reference to party objects, for this was as much a Tory bill as a Whig bill. This was a measure which evinced as much despotic Toryism as philosophical Whigism. He supposed the hon. Member for Lambeth had received his information from Somerset-house, and it was very well known that the gentlemen there were not remarkable for their candour. If it were true that under the old system there were only twenty-four beds for 190 boys, the fact could be easily explained. The hon. Member for Lambeth should have said bedsteads, which would then have made the case much different as to the hardship which had been practised. He understood that the beds were then placed upon the floor, and were much larger and more comfortable than those which had been formed under the new system. If the House would not consent to postpone this clause, they should come to a division upon the amendment, and then he would test the sincerity of those hon. Members who boasted of being the advocates of the poor. He would therefore propose, that, after the words "metropolitan districts," the following words should be added, "with the consent of the rate-payers in public vestry assembled." The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth said, what could be more reasonable than to give the guardians power to raise money for the purchase of a site so as to give the necessary accommodation to the inmates of the workhouses? but he (Mr. Duncombe) begged to remind the right hon. Baronet that there were other objects mentioned in the clause beside that, for it would also empower them to make "additions to any such workhouse" as they may think fit,Mr. T. Duncombe
 begged leave to disclaim the charge of having procured the document he had read from Somerset-house, He assured the hon. Member for Finsbury that he had not received his information, either directly or indirectly, from the Poor-law commissioners, nor from any person connected with the Poor-law commissioners. He received it from a highly honourable independent professional gentleman.Mr. Hawes
794usque ad nauseam. said, the hon. Member for Finsbury, although in the habit of indulging in vituperation against the Poor law commissioners, should not impute to them acts which they had never done, for the manifestation of his spleen. The hon. Gentleman had dwelt upon these topics 794usque ad nauseam.Mr. Grote
 wished to say, in explanation to the observations which had been made by the hon. Member for Finsbury, that this clause was not proposed for the purpose of giving power to enlarge workhouses, for the guardians possessed that power already; but it was only intended to give them the power to purchase sites for enlarging them.Sir R. Peel
 could bear testimony to the great care that was bestowed upon every thing relating to the well-being and education of the poor in that part of the metropolis which he had the honour to represent. He was opposed to the amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury. If the clause was passed with the amendment of the hon. Member it would be necessary in such a parish as that of Shoreditch, for instance, to consult 5,000 or 6,000 persons before any of the provisions contemplated by the clause could be carried into effect, the vestry in that parish consisting of that number of ratepayers. He was of opinion that the word "guardian" included not only those elected under the new Poor-law act, but those elected under the local act, so that under the clause the rate-payers would have a voice in the making of the rate. That, however, was his opinion of the law. How was it possible that in parishes comprising such immense populations as those of Shoreditch, Whitechapel, St. George's in-the-East, and other such places, the act could be administered directly by a vestry of rate-payers? No one could deny that the clause was a necessary one, and he trusted it would pass without any such amendment as that proposed by the hon. Member.Dr. Lushington
panacea796795 said, that if the construc-
panacea796795Mr. Wakley
 said, he had no objection to answer the question put to him by the hon. Member for Finsbury. It was quite true, as the hon. Gentleman stated, that the prohibitory order had not been issued to the city of London. Let the House recollect that the hon. Gentleman stated that the Poor-law Bill was most unpopular in the metropolitan districts, and more so now than at its first promulgation. Was not he (Mr. Grote) then entitled to answer, what he believed was the fact, that it was unpopular when first introduced, but not now? If the hon. Gentleman thought there was nothing in the Poor-law Bill but the prohibitory order forbidding out-door relief, he was exceedingly mistaken. There were other unions beside that of London in which the order referred to was not enforced; but the system was carried fully into effect in every other respect in the city of London, and he maintained that in its working it gave general satisfaction.Mr. Grote
 hoped that as so great an extent of authority and control over the funds of the unions was about to be granted by this act to the boards of guardians, they would be prepared to exercise this power over the purse of the unions with great moderation.Mr. W. Attwood
797 said, that great hardships would be inflicted on the rural parishes to which the metropolitan police district extended by the large sums of money which the commissioners were empowered to raise. The district which the operation of the clause would affect included every parish in the counties of Middlesex, Kent, Surrey, Essex, and Herts, within twelve miles of Charing-cross. Hon. Gentlemen who represented these counties should be
797Mr. Estcourt
 hoped his hon. Friend would reserve his objection until they arrived at the 36th or 37th clause, which fixed the mode of electing the guardians in the union. He felt, and he thought his hon. Friend would feel also, still stronger objection to that mode of voting prescribed by the clause—namely, by proxies and by accumulative voting. This was highly objectionable, and if opposed with success by his hon. Friend, he believed that much of his hon. Friend's objection to the extensive nature of the powers confided to the guardians would be obviated.Mr. Hume
 said, he was afraid, if he suffered himself to take the advice of his hon. Friend, his opposition would come too late in the instance of the clause relative to the mode of taking the votes of the parishioners for the election of guardians. It reminded him of the advice once said to have been given, to lock the stable door after the steed had been stolen; for this was too much of a tory measure not to be carried through the legislature this Session. He was ashamed to hear the nature of the support given by persons calling themselves reformers to the unfair and unjust mode prescribed for taking the votes at the election for guardians. What! were they afraid of submitting the election of guardians to the parishioners in vestry assembled? What became of their consistency? But he would ask also what were they to do with those unions over which, as in the case of the Holborn union, there were appointed two separate boards of guardians which were continually squabbling, falling out, and opposing each other? If he were compelled to go out alone, he felt that his objections to the clause were so strong that he should refuse all solicitation to withdraw his amendment, and divide the Committee.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, the clause was introduced in order to give the commissioners a control over a practice which had been found to prevail in some unions—namely, that of inducing too many young persons to enter into particular favoured trades in the districts, though such trades were very limited or on the decline: thus artificially forming apprenticeships in that trade. The commissioners would, by this clause, be empowered to repress that practice, by proper rules and regulations:Lord J. Russell
 said, the clause had been rendered unnecessary in consequence of the same power being given to the commissioners under the 61st section.Mr. Goulburn
 would admit, that there might be irregularities under the present system, but that was not the question. The question was, whether they should give the commissioners a power never yet intrusted to a public body—that of saying how lads should be apprenticed, to what trades, and with what masters. He must support the amendment.Colonel Rolleston
 said, he thought it would be impossible to lay down, with regard to apprenticeship, any general rules applying equally to the metropolitan and rural parishes. Trades might be overstocked in some parishes, which were not so in others. He thought it should be explained that the commissioners should have the power of modifying their rules according to the special circumstances of each case. He did not at all understand the words "defining the classes of poor children," and should be glad to hear them interpreted by the noble Lord opposite. He thought the clause would run better thus,—"that the commissioners may, by order under their hands and seals, define the trades to which children now liable to be apprenticed by law may be apprenticed."Sir R. Peel
801 said, that the effect of the clause would be to restrain, and not to extend, the power of apprenticing. The guardians had already the power of apprenticing and giving premiums. This power had, under the old law, been grossly abused; lads had been apprenticed out to a master without any inquiry being made
801Viscount Howick
 suggested that overseers and guardians should be called on to report periodically, so as to secure a supervision over the morals of the children.Mr. Hawes
 was not opposed to the power sought to be conferred by the clause on the commissioners, but he was of opinion, that they should have the additional power of modifying their own regulations. What was applicable to one parish would not be so to another, and, therefore, he desired, that the definition of the trades, rather than the class of persons should be substituted in the bill.Sir R. Peel
 thought, the best way to proceed would be to expunge the clause altogether, and substitute in its place a proviso, of which he had given notice, to the effect, that the persons to whom pauper children were apprenticed should be obliged to send the said apprentices to the half yearly meeting of the guardians of the union in which such persons resided, in order that their treatment and condition for the time might be examined into, and ascertained.Sir E. Wilmot
 said, that the power sought for by the right hon. Baronet would be conferred by the clause as it stood.Viscount Howick
802: I think the power to make rules ought to be left to the commissioners without any concurrent power to the guardians, as proposed by the right hon. Gentleman; and I am, therefore, also opposed to the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member; but the right hon. Gentleman is quite correct in saying, that the rules of the commissioners should be different in different parts of the country, and I do not think, that
802Lord John Russell
 said, that, at present, the boards of guardians had an almost unlimited power of apprenticing. The object of this clause was to restrain that power, and he hoped, that it would pass without any material alteration; for in the metropolitan unions the present system had worked very badly, and a uniformity of system had been found to be very desirable. That uniformity could only be obtained by giving these general powers to the commissioners.Mr. Grote
 said, that, in his opinion, this clause, as it stood, must be wholly ineffectual. It was an attempt to apply a general rule to that which must require a particular regulation in each case.Mr. Darby
 said, he would withdraw his amendment, as he understood, that the noble Lord was willing to make some alteration in the clause.Mr. B. Wood
: But I am not willing to admit the amendment of the hon. Member.Lord John Russell
 said, that he certainly was not disposed to submit the sole authority in this matter to the commissioners.Mr. B. Wood
: I said, that with regard to the words "defining classes," I was willing, if they would not carry into effect the object of the clause to alter them; but that the commissioners are to make the rules independently of the guardians or any other authority.Lord John Russell
 said, that he would allow the clause to pass then, as he should have an opportunity of seeing it after it had been amended.Mr. B. Wood
 said, that if the noble Lord would not postpone the clause, he should move that it be expunged.Colonel Sibthorp
 wished to know whether the commissioner was to have any addditional salary; whether the country was to be at a greater expense by the erection of a new court?Colonel Sibthorp
: The proposition is, to abolish an old, not to erect a new court.Mr. Gordon
 said, that the alteration of the excise duties on tobacco had been very injurious to the honest trader, and he wished to know whether any further alteration was to be made?Mr. Goulburn
 said, that this bill had no reference to trade at all.Mr. Gordon
 expressed a hope, that not only the Appeal Court, but the Excise Court of the commissioners, would be abolished.Mr. Hawes
 said, that was not the intention; the objections to the primary court would probably be removed by transferring the appeal to a regular court of law.Mr. Gordon
 thought, that the jurisdiction would be much better intrusted to the public magistrates.Mr. Hawes
l was afraid, that although the change would effect a saving of 300lMr. Goulburn
 said, that there had been no appeal for fifteen years, he believed, to the present Court of Appeal.Mr. Gordon
l stated, that it was proposed to raise 150,000lMr. E. J. Stanley
pro formâ said, that he was disposed to give his best consideration to the noble Lord's amendments. With regard to the interpretation clause, the object was to secure the assistance of persons best acquainted with the locality under survey, and not to interfere with private property in any way whatever. If; the noble Lord would allow the Bill to go through committee pro formâSir H. Vivian
 was not prepared to offer any opposition to the hon. and gallant Gentleman. The entire correspondence between the Poor-law Commissioners and the local authorities, with reference to these cases, would be speedily laid on the Table of the House.Mr. F. Maule
773 said, he should take the sense of the House on the bill, and after striking out the first clause, he should endeavour to do away with the machinery of high constables. He thought a proper survey should be made in a proper manner, by persons delegated by Government. Fie said delegated by the Government, because there would be in the survey interference with private property. There were many provisions of the bill to which he greatly objected. He objected to lords lieutenant of counties having anything to do with the selection of the parties who were to mark out the boundaries. The next part, of the machinery to which he objected was the country surveyors.
773Lord G. Somerset
 said, that he would not object to this course, with the understanding that the consideration of the report would be postponed.Lord G. Somerset
 complained, that no portion of that sum had been appropriated to the improvement of Lambeth, which so considerably contributed to the fund from which it was to he derived.Mr. Hawes
772sdsThe Times771770"That there be laid before the House copies
770 rose, pursuant to notice, to move
772sdsThe Times771770"That there be laid before the House copies
770Colonel Sibthorp
806 must put in a similar claim on behalf of the rural districts of
806Mr. Goulburn
 said, he had that day found, that the city of London had lost none of its fame for gormandising, for, on asking how the city poor were fed, the answer was "like fighting cocks; we take care not to put our poor on your country allowance system." He would in a day or two lay before the House the city dietary, in order that the House might see that the boasted uniformity of the New Poor-law was all imaginary.Mr. Wakley
 said, the married men with families encountered the greatest difficulties of those who desired to emigrate, while such men were those most of all wanted by the colonies. Now, remarking that many of those men had contracted marriage on the faith of the old Poor law, and had suffered greatly under the operation of the new, he trusted the noble Lord and the House would take the peculiar hardship of their case into further consideration, so as to give married men and their families an opportunity of removing to settlements where their labour would be beneficial to all parties.Mr. L. Hodges
 said, the emigration sgents were desirous to get the very men whom the parish authorities desired to keep at home—namely, the men of good character. He did not know how the noble Lord would get over this difficulty.Mr. Darby
 said, he understood it had been agreed that the burials of paupers were to tale place in the burial-grounds of the parishes to which they belonged; and he therefore proposed an amendment to provide clearly for this object, enacting that the pauper be buried in such parish as he was chargeable to.Mr. Darby
 thought it was the general feeling of the House that the noble Lord intended to give up this clause altogether. A greater insult had never been offered to the poor people than was conveyed by the clause. If the committee adapted it, they might go one step further and give up the bodies of the poor to the anatomy schools. It would give guardians power to consign to the grave the bodies of paupers without the consent or attendance of their relatives. He hoped the noble Lord, who, he believed, had really some humane feelings, would on this occasion show some respect to the affections of the poor, which in the occurrence of death, were buried with more touching sincerity, he was sorry to say, than the higher classes generally displayed. He therefore begged the noble Lord to give up the clause.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, that the hon. Member who last spoke did not appear to understand the object of the clause, or he would not seek to have it expunged. The object of the clause was not to prevent the bodies of poor persons from being given up to their relatives, but to provide for their burial when necessary. With respect to this point the question was still unsettled, and many unseemly disputes occasionally arose between parishes and the Poor-law authorities, which it was the purpose of the clause to provide against. With respect to the amendment of the hon. Member (Mr. Darby), he had no objection to its adoption, reserving to himself the right of altering the precise words, should he deem it necessary to do so in point of form.Lord J. Russell
830 thought the amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman so just that it deserved the serious consideration of the House. He was glad to hear
830Sir E. Knatchbull
 thought the clause ought to stand thus—that there ought not to be an absolute compulsion to bury the pauper in the parish to which he might belong, but: that it should be done on the application of his friends; in short, showing that there were some persons who took an interest in the matter, and their feelings ought to be consulted. But there were difficulties to be met. What would they do in such places as the metropolitan parishes, where there were no burying-grounds, or where they were quite crowded, as in the St. Margaret's churchyard? He apprehended, therefore, that some clause or other must be introduced to guard against this difficulty, not only as applicaable to London, but as applicable also to other very populous places where there might be a deficiency of burial ground. The object of this clause was for the purpose of providing for the payment of the customary dues; because, as the law now stood, a clergyman could not refuse to bury a corpse brought to the churchyard. He was bound to bury it, and if a pauper it was impossible that he could recover the smallest amount of dues. He thought the amount ought to be regulated, and that the expenses incurred ought to be reduced to a moderate scale.Dr. Lushington
 said, that in some parishes they might have a very small churchyard and a very large union workhouse, and he therefore thought it expedient that the bodies of paupers should be buried in their respective parishes, and not in the parish in which the union workhouse might be situate; and yet there ought to be a control in the hands of the guardians, in order to guard against the difficulty of a pauper dying when his parish might be sixty or seventy miles off.Mr. Darby
 wished to know if the hon. Member would withdraw his amendment.The Chairman
 said, he would withdraw his amendment.Mr. Darby
 said, as he understood the expense of burying the paupers was to be borne by the general fund of the union, his opinion was, that the expense should be borne by the parish to which the pauper belonged.Colonel Wood
 was understood to say, that, would be the caseMr. F. Maule
 was glad that the amendment was withdrawn. He thought that the burial of the pauper in his own parish ought not to be compulsory, unless it was required by the relatives.Sir T Fremantle
 said, at that moment he and the Members near him did not know what amendments had been proposed to be introduced, or what modifications were proposed to be made. He thought it would frequently happen that there would be indecent disputes as to who were to bury the bodies of persons who died without effects. It was right that their burial ought to be provided for, and the feelings of their relatives ought to be respected. Did the noble Lord propose to modify that portion of the clause which related to the burial of the deceased in the parish where he died? If so, his (Mr. Wakley's) objection to the clause would cease.Mr. Wakley
 said, he had stated that the hon. Member for Sussex, had proposed, that persons dying without effects should be buried in the parishes to which they belonged. There was an objection to that, because it might be that no person or relative desired that the body should be interred in its own parish; he had, therefore, said, that he would endeavour to form words which should provide for those objects.Lord J. Russell
 said, that would do away with his objection to the clause.Mr. Wakley
 objected to paupers being buried in the small churchyards of some parishes where union workhouses were situate, as the crowded state of the churchyards thereby became a grievance.Sir A. Dalrymple
 objected to the latter part of the clause, which gave the decision of the payment of the amount of the customary fees for burying paupers to the Poor-law commissioners. He should move the omission of these words from the clause.Mr. Darby
 was glad the noble Lord had given way on this clause; otherwise the poor would have been greatly aggrieved.Mr. H. D. Goring
 did not see any great distinction between the clause as it stood and the amendment proposed. Discretion was vested in the guardians as the clause now stood. As he understood the amendment, it was to continue that discretion to the guardians. He thought the difference not very material.Mr. Grote
832 said, the difference was very material. The amendment contained directions to the guardians, which would
832Sir T. Fremantle
 could not see where the difficulty would be in sending for the relatives of the deceased person and allowing them to take the body away and inter it in the place where they wished.Colonel Sibthorp
" That when the body of any pauper is conveyed for interment far from the union workhouse, due care be taken that the conveyance of the body be conducted in a decent and proper manner, and that all expenses incurred for carrying such proviso into effect shall be allowed by the auditors of such union." said, he had objected to the clause as originally brought in, but the objectionable points were to be modified, and he thought the committee should apply itself with great care and assiduity to render this clause unobjectionable. There was one point, with regard to the burial of paupers in the churchyards of the parish where the union workhouse might happen to be, on which he wished for information. The noble Lord had spoken of giving power to the commissioners to increase the churchyards, and he wished to know the intentions of Government on that point. He agreed in what had been said, as to the feelings of paupers on this point, of being buried in a particular parish because the union workhouse happened to be situated in that parish. If a pauper should express a desire to be buried in a particular parish within the union, his wish should be complied with. With regard to the burial of paupers in a distant parish, he had had representations made to him that the mode of conveyance was not in accordance with the feelings of the poor, and he thought that a little more expense might be incurred in conveying the bodies of paupers to a distant parish. He should with this view move this proviso:—
" That when the body of any pauper is conveyed for interment far from the union workhouse, due care be taken that the conveyance of the body be conducted in a decent and proper manner, and that all expenses incurred for carrying such proviso into effect shall be allowed by the auditors of such union."Lord G. Somerset
833 said, when he spoke of introducing words to sanction the burial of a pauper in the parish to which he belonged, he meant to say, if the pauper himself expressed a desire to that effect. He saw some difficulty in accomplishing this, but it should be considered. With regard to the other point mentioned by the noble Lord,
833Lord J. Russell
 was glad he had elicited this opinion from the noble Lord, that the interments should be conducted in a decent manner, because some auditors had thought they were not authorised to allow it.Lord G. Somerset
 said, as the clause was to be altered, he should wait till he saw it in its altered state; but he should be glad to hear the opinion of the noble Lord as to leaving out the latter part, authorising the commissioners to direct, in cases of dispute, whether any, and what amount for the burial of paupers, should be paid out of the poor-rates, to which he had an objection.Mr. Darby
s. said, he proposed to limit the amount to 10s.Lord J. Russell
 said, if, as he understood, paupers were to be buried in the parish to which they belonged, the question as to fees for non-parishioners would be done away with.Mr. Goulburn
"That it shall be lawful for guardians to charge the expense of the burial of paupers to any parish under their control to which such person may have been chargeable." read the clause thus far—
"That it shall be lawful for guardians to charge the expense of the burial of paupers to any parish under their control to which such person may have been chargeable."The Chairman
 proposed as an amendment to insert, after the word "control," the words "or to which the deceased, at the time of his death, may be actually chargeable." His object was to prevent unions which contained only one parish being made liable to the funeral expenses of paupers who had come from a distant parish.Captain Pechell
 objected to the amendment. His hon. Friend seemed to have in view the case of the Gilbert unions. The only effect of the amendment would be to give boards of guardians the power of disposing of the money of parishes which were not under their control.Mr. F. Maule
834 said, that the case which his hon. Colleague had principally in view, that of the Brighton union, stood almost alone. The county hospital stood
834Sir A. Dalrymple
 suggested to the hon. and gallant Member to withdraw his amendment, and give the words to the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, for his consideration.Mr. Darby
 saw no reason for withdrawing his amendment. It was one of considerable importance. He could assure the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary, that it had nothing to do with the Gilbert unions. The House would soon hear enough of the Gilbert unions, and would find that in those unions the funerals of paupers were conducted in a way grateful to the feelings of their relatives.Captain Pechell
 objected to the words, as going further than the spirit of the clause intended. Their insertion would give guardians an improper control over the funds of distant parishes.Lord J. Russell
 was opposed to the insertion of the words as altering the whole meaning of the clause.Sir T. Fremantle
 said, it appeared to him that the object of the hon. and gallant Member would be effected by striking out the words "under their control."Sir C. Grey
 differed from the hon. Baronet. He had done his duty by proposing the amendment, but he would yield to the feeling of the House. He therefore withdrew his amendment, with the hope that the noble Lord would bear it in mind.Captain Pechell
 on the Chairman reading the words "fee or fees," suggested that the clergy might, without making any very great sacrifice, forego their fees on the burial of a pauper; or, if they would not, the chaplain of the union ought to be called upon to perform this duty.Mr. Leader,
 observed, that the words "custom of the place" were very ambiguous, and might give rise to some discrepancies hereafter. He suggested, that the words "fees usually paid in the parish on the burial of a pauper" be inserted in the clause.Dr. Lushington
835 said, that he willingly consented to the insertion of the
835Lord John Russell
 asked, what the amount of the fee on the burial of a pauper was proposed to be?Mr. Humphery
s replied, that 5sLord John Russell
 observed, that the proviso was not necessary, for those who recommended patients to such hospitals, generally, if not always, removed the body in case of death.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that there was no such difficulty as the hon. Member for Cambridge apprehended, in the interment of paupers who died in hospitals, for, if their friends did not remove their bodies, the governors of the hospital provided for their burial.Mr. Humphery
" No, no," from some Members on the Ministerial benches.836 expressed a hope, that the noble Lord would consent to reduce the size of the unions, and take from them all densely-populated districts such as he (Mr. Grimsditch) represented, and which contained 40,000 inhabitants. The expenses attending the casual poor and va-
" No, no," from some Members on the Ministerial benches.836Mr. Grimsditch
 supported the clause, which he considered was calculated to remove a great many evils and inconveniences. Much litigation would be prevented by it; the hardship of paupers being driven about from one parish to another would be avoided; and the necessary relief of the poor would be much facilitated.Viscount Howick
 did not consider the relief of the poor would be facilitated by the clause. A great alteration, including a transfer of heavy burdens, was proposed, and it was incumbent on those who proposed that alteration to give good reason for so doing. As to the poor being driven about, they could as well be driven from union to union as from parish to parish. The clause, too, would inflict great hardships on remote parishes. Under all the circumstances, he felt bound to press for the rejection of the clause.Lord G. Somerset
837 should support the clause, as he conceived it would be productive of great benefit in preventing litigation, in facilitating the relief of the poor, and pre-
837Mr. Hawes
 considered the clause would inflict great injustice, especially on rural parishes lying out of the line of great roads, for they would have to pay for the support of casual poor, while they derived no benefit from any money that might be spent by persons passing along the line of road.Colonel Wood
 would admit that it would be a hardship on parishes twenty miles off the line of road to pay for casual paupers—Irish, for instance, who might sometimes spend money—along the line of road, but from which expenditure remote parishes would have no advantage.Alderman Humphery
 Somerset complained of the short time allowed by the clause to receive the notice, and some words should be introduced into the clause to take care that the documents were duly delivered.Lord Granville
 was also of opinion that something should be done to ensure the delivery. Putting the documents into the post-office was not sufficient to ensure the delivery.Mr. Grimsditch
 said, he should oppose the clause as unconstitutional in the extreme, and quite unknown to the law. He should take the sense of the House against the clause.General Johnson
 said it was a mistake to suppose that the provisions of the clause were unknown or opposed to the law. In very important business, such as giving notice of the dishonouring of bills of exchange, a notice sent by post was sufficient. He thought it only reasonable that proper time should be allowed for the delivery of the notices alluded to in the clause; but when such important business was transacted through the medium of the post, he did not think it necessary to employ special agents for the delivery of these notices.The Solicitor-General
838 was understood to consent to the substitution of the words "se-
838Lord J. Russell
 objected to the amendment. If it were adopted, a person not wishing to receive a notice might go out when it was expected to arrive, and thereby avoid receiving it. Moreover, an honest and upright officer would find a great difficulty in proving a negative—in proving that he had not received the notice.Mr. Aglionby
 said, it had not escaped his notice that the case alluded to by the hon. Member might arise, but it was very improbable. The notice would generally be directed to the overseers or other officers of a union, and if they kept out of the way in order not to receive it, the Court before whom the case should be brought would perceive the trick, and take care they should reap no advantage from it. Was the hon. Gentleman prepared to say that the mere dropping of the notice into the post-office should be considered a delivery to the party to whom it was addressed, and that great expense should be incurred because, as often happened, the postmaster had omitted, for two or three weeks, to shake his bags sufficiently? When the very important nature of the matter was considered, something surely ought to be inserted, if not his (Lord G. Somerset's) proviso, to protect parties to whom documents of the kind were addressed, beyond what now stood in the clause.Lord G. Somerset
 knew from his professional experience how difficult it was to prove the negative in such a case. If any proceedings were taken, in the course of which the defendants denied the delivery of the notice, he thought it should be compulsory on the post-office to prove the actual delivery at the house of the party. It was not, as the hon. and learned Serjeant (Serjeant Wilde) seemed to suppose, an universal rule to prove notices by delivery at the post-office. In the notices required by the standing order committee to be given to proprietors of land, through which a rail-road was proposed to be made, the service was directed to be personal, or by leaving the document at the party's residence.Mr. Aglionby
 said he would willingly defer to the Attorney or Solicitor General as to the best form of putting the proviso, so the effect he intended should be produced.Lord G. Somerset
 under these circumstances, should propose an alteration of the proviso in these words, "unless the party to be affected by such notice or other document should prove that he had not received it."The Solicitor-General,
 wished to know whether it was fair to put a man to prove a negative?Sir R. H. Inglis
 was of opinion that a negative might be proved by circumstances, though he admitted there was generally a difficulty in so doing. He was, therefore, favourable to the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor-General.Dr. Lushington
 would adopt the amendment of the hon, and learned Gentleman.Lord G. Somerset
 doubted the feasibility of the amendment, especially if the parties lived at a distance from each other.Mr. Darby
 suggested, in addition, that on proof of wanton objection the party making it should be subject to the costs of suit.The Solicitor-General
 thought that the amendment of his hon. and learned Friend would meet all the exigiencies of the case.Lord J. Russell
 said that there would be no saving of expense by adhering to the plan of sending the notices by post. To serve them otherwise would cost little; but if an overseer was obliged to prove a negative, the expense of bringing forward circumstantial evidence would cost seven or eight pounds.Mr. John Jones
 withdrew his proviso, and adopted the words proposed to be added to the clause by the Solicitor-general.Lord G. Somerset
 said that the hon. Member for Carmarthen should recollect that the expense would not occur in more than one out of a hundred cases. If the notices were served personally instead of by the post there would be an appeal in almost every case, and the expense would be enormous.The Solicitor-General
840 objected to the service by post at all, and hoped that the hon. and gallant Member for Oldham (General
840Mr. T. Parker
 recommended the postponement of this clause likewise.Mr. T. Egerton
 Somerset thought that unless they relieved the high constable from the responsibility which now rested upon him with regard to the collection of the county rates, there would be considerable difficulty in his executing the duty imposed on him under this clause.Lord Granville
 said that the county of Middlesex ought to be excepted out of the operation of this clause, for there each parish had a right to pay its rates to the treasurer of the county, from whom security was taken.Colonel Wood
 said the consequence of the clause as it now stood was, that the ratepayers might be called upon to pay twice—once by the overseer, and once by the guardians.Mr. Darby
 said that the clause would effect a great saving in the collection of the county-rates. In Kent a thousand pounds would be saved to the ratepayers by that means.Lord John Russell
 objected to the clause on the ground that it threw upon the guardians a duty entirely distinct from those for which the guardians were originally created—and to which he was anxious to confine them, because, if they overburdened the office with duties, in a short time they would find no persons willing to fill it.Mr. Goulburn
 hoped the noble Lord would persevere in the clause. As to the guardians being required to pay the money for the county- rates, it was only the cheapest and readiest way of collecting them; and the additional trouble to the guardians was quite trifling.Mr. E. Buller
ex officio841 said that there were now various summary processes for com-
ex officio841Lord G. Somerset
 said that he did not think any difficulty could arise, though the hundreds and unions were not co-extensive, as he presumed that neither of them divided parishes. This was altogether a matter of convenience; and it had been considered better that the guardians should order the collection. As to security for the money, he never found that the security was very great whilst the money was in the hands of the high constable; when it was in the hands of the treasurer of the county they did get security; and he thought that there might be some provision for getting greater security from the clerk and treasurer of the board of guardians, and making them responsible for the payment of the county-rates. The clause had been introduced in consequence of numerous suggestions that it would provide a more simple mode of collecting the county-rates. It added nothing to the power of the commissioners or the guardians.Lord John Russell
 said that it might be a great improvement in the collection of connty rates, but it had so little to do with a Bill relating to Poor-laws that it ought hardly to find a place there. Mr. Goulburn
 hoped that the noble Lord would withdraw the clause, which had nothing to do with the subject matter of the present bill, and introduce it as a separate bill.Mr. Hawes
 said it was quite true that it was not necessary to the working of the Poor-law; but it had been suggested and introduced as a great convenience. However, he had no objection if the Committee thought it better to leave it out of the present bill; but he could not undertake to introduce it in another.Lord John Russell
842 inquired whether, according to the forms of the House, the bill could be reprinted during the vacation, so
842Sir C. Douglas
 said before that could be done, it would be necessary to go through the remaining clauses.Lord John Russell
 said he did not mean to introduce at present into the bill, in the form of clauses, the amendments which he had expressed his readiness to adopt. He had not however, altered his intention as to introducing them.Lord John Russell
 said it would be a great convenience, if the noble Lord would prepare and insert them himself rather than leave them to be introduced irregularly and desultory by each of the hon. Members who proposed them.Mr. Goulburn
pro formâ said the bill should be committed again on Monday pro formâLord John Russell
823l.ll. said, that every Gentleman who had a regard for the character of the House, must deeply regret, that such scenes of bribery and corruption should have taken place at St. Alban's, at Canterbury, and at Walsall. He did not know whether hon. Members were cognizant of what was done in their name, and in their behalf, or not. He believed they were not, and for this reason. He declared upon his honour as a gentleman, that when he stood for Carlisle, in the year 1820, he was not cognizant of one single farthing having been expended in bribery, when, in fact, several thousand pounds had been expended in that manner. He was informed at that time, that the legal expenses of the election would be from 4,000823l.ll.Mr. James
ex parteex parte820prima facie felt assured, when the evidence before the St. Alban's committee was printed, that it would satisfy every hon. Member as to the conscientious conduct of the committee. He had not seen any of the observations in the newspapers as to the proceedings of the committee, and he had cautiously abstained from reading them during the progress of the inquiry. The House should recollect that the committee only proceeded on the petitioner's case, and endeavoured to get at the agency through a case of bribery; in doing this allegations of bribery were brought against two individuals. With respect to the two individuals, the evidence taken before the committee went, to a very considerable extent, to establish a case against them. Indeed a ex parteex parte820prima facieMr. J. E. Elliot
819 should hardly have thought it necessary to address the House on this question but for the observations of the hon. Member for Finsbury, who complained that a compromise had taken place in the cases of the Canterbury and St. Alban's election committees. He would venture to assert, as chairman of the Canterbury committee, that they had not the slightest cognizance of anything of the kind. They went into the committee-room perfectly unconscious of what was to be done, or of the course intended to be taken by the counsel for the petitioner. They went into that room under the belief that the proceedings would go on. In the first place, he explained to the legal gentlemen engaged on each side the course which the committee had thought proper to adopt as to their future proceedings. Immediately afterwards the counsel for the petitioner got up and stated, that, on the previous night, he had gone into an examination of the evidence which he should be able to adduce before the committee, and although he was satisfied that many acts of bribery had been committed at the election, as he could not bring home the agency, he thought it wiser not to proceed and involve his client in great expenses, when the probability was that he should not succeed,
819Mr. R. Clive
 said, he entered deeply into the feeling of his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth. The tenour of the discussion which had been gone into would imply, perhaps, that some imputation was intended to be conveyed upon the Members of the committees. If such were the intention or feeling which had prompted the motion, he should object to the production of the evidence and proceedings in these cases; but, on the other hand, these productions would be very useful for general purposes. For his own part he would say, that, in respect to the chairman of the St. Alban's committee, Mr. Sanford, no Gentleman could have conducted the inquiry more honourably, and he knew no gentleman he would sooner see filling such a situation.Lord F. Egerton
 was rather in favour of the minutes of evidence and the proceedings before these committees being laid before the House. If indeed it were to be considered that their production implied that the House sanctioned or concurred in any imputation against the Members of these committees, he should decide against the motion; but he thought that after what had been stated there could not be an impression of such a nature. He thought, in fact, there were two reasons of considerable importance in favour of asking for the printing of these documents. First, he thought it was important in the first working of the new act to have the minutes of evidence; but there was another consideration of great weight with him, in respect to which he had last year introduced a bill—namely, to ascertain whether it was not advisable to give these committees some additional powers on behalf of the House and the country, not as affecting the present Act of Parliament, but as it affected the Grenville Act, and having, as he had frequently stated, a tendency to make questions before committees appear questions between two parties aided by able counsel. He thought, however, that the production of this evidence would show the insufficiency, he would not call it the deficiency, of the tribunal; but a want of power in this case was useful, as pointing out what remedy might be hereafter applied.Lord J. Russell
816815814813812 assured the House that
816815814813812Mr. A. Sanford
 said, the hon. Member who had just sat down, seemed to labour under the impression, that bribery had taken place at the last election for Walsall; but, although his (Mr. Gladstone's) friends were accused of bribery, the petitioners afterwards discovered there was no foundation for such charge, and on the day the committee met, they withdrew the charge altogether. Before the hon. Member made another similar charge he would recommend him to read the evidence adduced.Mr. J. E. Gladstone
818817exparte felt obliged to the hon. Member for Wallingford, for having brought forward this subject, and he should cordially support his motion. He did not wish to trespass on the attention of the House after the speech of his hon. Friend, the Chairman of the committee, but there was one point not touched on by his hon. Friend, and to which he wished to direct the attention of the House. It was, that the evidence taken before the committee was incomplete, and only an 818817exparteMr. Mildmay
LocketPeachumBeggars' Operaprima facie" Mr. Hildyard then addressed the committee, and slated, that after the close of the proceedings on the previous day, he had thought it his duty to unite with his learned friend, Mr. Talbot, in taking into serious consideration the position and prospects of the case, and that the result of the consultation was, that they had determined to proceed no further with the case, as the views which the committee had taken of the law of evidence were so different from those of him (Mr. Hildyard) and Mr. Talbot, that he and his learned Friend were of opinion, that they would not be justified in putting the committee or the sitting Member to any further trouble."" The chairman stated, that the committee had resolved that the evidence should be received, but desired that it should be given by Lord Grimston himself." Upon the admission of strangers," The chairman, after the room had been cleared, declared the sitting Member duly elected, and that neither the petition, nor the opposition thereto was frivolous or vexatious."811" Mr. Sergeant Wrangham, on behalf of Mr. Smythe, said, that the petitioner's counsel had acted most fairly and handsomely towards him, in thus, in the very outset, making the communication he had then addressed to the committee; and on behalf of the sitting Member he begged leave to add, that he not only did not ask for, but sincerely deprecated, any
811" Mr. Austin rose and said, that after duly considering the evidence, he should have been able to produce in support of the petition, and having communicated with the counsel for the sitting member, he had now only to announce, that he should not further prosecute the petition.prima facie" Except a change takes place, and that right soon, every idea of public principle in elections is lost, and one abyss of universal corruption absorbs the aggregate constituency. The St. Alban's ease must operate injuriously to all parties. The ministerialists have been promising us for this month past, that they should unseat Mr. Smythe on the Canterbury petition; but their counsel, on looking over his case, finds that the very principles which he himself had succeeded in establishing in the St. Alban's case, would inevitably re-act on him in the Canterbury, and that his own arguments would put him out of Court. He, therefore, at once abandons the petition."810"According to the decisions of tins committee, if, which God forbid, they should become authority and precedent, nothing could
810" Of course these proceedings became universally known, and universally talked of. They have been brought before a committee of the House of Commons, and there proved; and no attempt at disproof so much as thought of. The whole reliance of the lord of the bedchamber's advocates was placed upon one point:—' The bribery we don't deny; but you can't prove the agency.' And accordingly, having a majority of ministerialists on the committee, they have steadily adhered to their point, 'agency not proved.'" There never was a more open, unblushing, reckless purchase of a borough than that effected at St. Alban's at the last election. The facts of the case, happily, are beyond all doubt. One of the leading ministerialists of the town comes up to London on hearing of the vacancy, drives to the Treasury, and there contracts for one of the lords of the bedchamber, whom he duly escorts down to St, Alban's as the candidate of his procuring. He then sets to work, loudly proclaiming to every one that 'we have plenty of money,' and dispensing this commodity in open day-light, in exchange for votes, alike to whig or tory, without the least apparent wish or attempt at concealment." 'When things have come to the worst, there is hope that they may mend,' says the old proverb. With reference to the St. Alban's election petition, and the law and practice of committees in cases of bribery, this saying seems to come into full force."809 could assure the hon.
LocketPeachumBeggars' Operaprima facie" Mr. Hildyard then addressed the committee, and slated, that after the close of the proceedings on the previous day, he had thought it his duty to unite with his learned friend, Mr. Talbot, in taking into serious consideration the position and prospects of the case, and that the result of the consultation was, that they had determined to proceed no further with the case, as the views which the committee had taken of the law of evidence were so different from those of him (Mr. Hildyard) and Mr. Talbot, that he and his learned Friend were of opinion, that they would not be justified in putting the committee or the sitting Member to any further trouble."" The chairman stated, that the committee had resolved that the evidence should be received, but desired that it should be given by Lord Grimston himself." Upon the admission of strangers," The chairman, after the room had been cleared, declared the sitting Member duly elected, and that neither the petition, nor the opposition thereto was frivolous or vexatious."811" Mr. Sergeant Wrangham, on behalf of Mr. Smythe, said, that the petitioner's counsel had acted most fairly and handsomely towards him, in thus, in the very outset, making the communication he had then addressed to the committee; and on behalf of the sitting Member he begged leave to add, that he not only did not ask for, but sincerely deprecated, any
811" Mr. Austin rose and said, that after duly considering the evidence, he should have been able to produce in support of the petition, and having communicated with the counsel for the sitting member, he had now only to announce, that he should not further prosecute the petition.prima facie" Except a change takes place, and that right soon, every idea of public principle in elections is lost, and one abyss of universal corruption absorbs the aggregate constituency. The St. Alban's ease must operate injuriously to all parties. The ministerialists have been promising us for this month past, that they should unseat Mr. Smythe on the Canterbury petition; but their counsel, on looking over his case, finds that the very principles which he himself had succeeded in establishing in the St. Alban's case, would inevitably re-act on him in the Canterbury, and that his own arguments would put him out of Court. He, therefore, at once abandons the petition."810"According to the decisions of tins committee, if, which God forbid, they should become authority and precedent, nothing could
810" Of course these proceedings became universally known, and universally talked of. They have been brought before a committee of the House of Commons, and there proved; and no attempt at disproof so much as thought of. The whole reliance of the lord of the bedchamber's advocates was placed upon one point:—' The bribery we don't deny; but you can't prove the agency.' And accordingly, having a majority of ministerialists on the committee, they have steadily adhered to their point, 'agency not proved.'" There never was a more open, unblushing, reckless purchase of a borough than that effected at St. Alban's at the last election. The facts of the case, happily, are beyond all doubt. One of the leading ministerialists of the town comes up to London on hearing of the vacancy, drives to the Treasury, and there contracts for one of the lords of the bedchamber, whom he duly escorts down to St, Alban's as the candidate of his procuring. He then sets to work, loudly proclaiming to every one that 'we have plenty of money,' and dispensing this commodity in open day-light, in exchange for votes, alike to whig or tory, without the least apparent wish or attempt at concealment." 'When things have come to the worst, there is hope that they may mend,' says the old proverb. With reference to the St. Alban's election petition, and the law and practice of committees in cases of bribery, this saying seems to come into full force."809Mr. T. Duncombe
" Also, the minutes of proceedings and the evidence taken before the Select Committee on the Walsall election,"827l.Gladstone826 trusted, that the right hon. Baronet would not object to the production of the evidence merely because he thought no imputation rested on the character of the committee. If it was intended to legislate on the subject, the
" Also, the minutes of proceedings and the evidence taken before the Select Committee on the Walsall election,"827l.Gladstone826Mr. Wakley
828 assured the House, that he had no intention whatever of casting
828Mr. Blackstone
" That the minutes of the proceedings and the evidence taken before the select committee appointed to try the merits of the late election for the borough of St. Alban's be laid before this House."808 said, that it was his intention to move, that the evidence should be printed which had been taken before the committee appointed to inquire into the St. Alban's election. In bringing the motion before the House he felt bound to say, that they were greatly indebted to the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) for the bill which he had carried through the Session before last, for altering the constitution of election committees. In the present case he considered it to be highly necessary that the House should see on what grounds the decision of the committee on the St. Alban's case had been made. It could not be denied that at the late election at St. Alban's the grossest bribery prevailed to a great extent: such, at least, was the impression throughout the country; but it was impossible that private individuals could be called upon to squander large sums of money in tracing that bribery up to its source. He should only move for the minutes of the proceedings, as he was anxious that the House should judge of them for itself. In reference to the notice which the hon. Member for Finsbury had last night given, that he would move also for the minutes of the proceedings before the select committee on the Canterbury election peti-
" That the minutes of the proceedings and the evidence taken before the select committee appointed to try the merits of the late election for the borough of St. Alban's be laid before this House."808Mr. Blackstone
824 said, that the petition contained an allegation with respect to treating, and the special report stated, that a system of treating to a considerable extent had existed at Walsall, previous to, and at the last election; but that the evidence was of so doubtful a nature, that they could not connect it with the sitting Member. He (Mr.Hayter) had the misfortune of differing with the majority of the committee on that occasion, and on reflection, he had seen no reason to change his opinion. He believed, that every Member felt, that the difficulty of the inquiry was owing to the nature of the tribunal. These questions were considered simply as issues to be tried between two interested parties, but the most interested party, the House of Commons, did not appear in that tribunal; and although it might be quite clear, that certain persons could prove or disprove the facts, it did not suit the purposes of the parties interested to call these witnesses, and the committee were consequently left to come to a decision on imperfect evidence. He must say, that he never saw an investigation in which there was so little of truth and so much of falsehood stated. The committee felt the insufficiency of the tribunal as at present constituted, and he trusted, that if the right hon. Baronet, to whom the country was so much indebted for the improvement which had taken place in these tribunals, should think it necessary to amend his bill, he would endeavour to devise some
824Mr. Hayter
ex parte825 quite agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last as to the policy of devising some means by which truth could be extracted from unwilling witnesses examined before election committees, but the mode in which that object could be accomplished was quite apart from the nature of the tribunal that might be appointed to try the merits of controverted elections. Whether that tribunal were in future to be a court, of law, or whether the House of Commons would find it necessary to resort to the former mode of dealing with these subjects, were matters not at all affecting the expediency of granting additional powers. The House must see, that additional powers for the purpose of extracting evidence were wholly apart from the nature of the tribunal before which that evidence was to be produced. There was another point which it was not then the proper time to discuss, and that was the policy of committees resorting to legal advice—to the impartial advice of assessors—for the purpose of enabling them to judge of the value of the arguments urged by counsel, the weight of the objections which they might take, or the importance of the points in dispute between contending advocates. All these, as he had already observed, were subjects into which they need not then enter; but with reference to the matters which did properly come under their consideration, he must, in the first place be allowed to say, that nothing had occurred which in the least degree tended to impeach the integrity of the tribunal before which this election had been tried. Neither in the last nor in the present session of Parliament had anything occurred to show, that committees had not in all cases been most desirous of doing their duty, and of administering justice with strict impartiality between the parties. In the present case he would put it to the hon. Members to say, whether any course could have been adopted that was in any respect preferable to that which had been taken. The panel of chairmen met and took into their consideration the points most frequently litigated before election committees; they took into their consideration the necessity of there being a proof of agency before the question of bribery could be gone into; and they likewise considered whether in any case the evidence of bribery might be
ex parte825Sir R. Peel
primâ facie822821 thought the com-
primâ facie822821Viscount Howick
 said, he thought they would more appropriately form the subject of a separate bill, and in that form he should have no objection to propose them.Lord John Rusell
900 quite concurred in most of the principles stated by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. His objection, however, to the right hon. Gentleman's measure was this, that he thought his performance did not equal his promises. When the right hon. Gentleman said, that this measure would place the East and the West Indies upon the same footing, the right hon. Gentleman stated that which he thought was not the fact. He would beg to direct the attention of the committee to a few of the leading articles in the right hon. Gentleman's resolution which affected the West-India colonies. The right hon. Gentleman had said on a former night, that one of the most important articles of consumption in the colonies, particularly for the negro population, was fish, and yet upon this article he found a duty proposed of 25 per cent. Then upon beef and pork there was to be a duty of 15 per cent., and upon flour of 10 per cent. Now he could not imagine what local advantage any one of the colonies could derive from any one of these duties. The Canadas would certainly not be benefitted by the duty of 10 per cent, on flour, whilst the West Indies would be severely prejudiced by it. Then there were the articles of white and yellow pine and of shingles, most extensively used in building in the West-India islands, which were to be charged with a duty of 15 per cent. These articles came from America; and, he would ask, what part of Great Britain, or what interest in it, could be in the least benefitted by such a duty? Soap and candles, also, were to be charged with a duty of 7 per cent. Now, to show the disparity between the 'duties proposed to be levied upon the same articles in the East and West Indies respectively, woollen manufactures were to be charged with a duty of 2 per cent. in the East Indies, and
900Mr. Colquhoun
920919918917 said, that after the important and satisfactory speeches of the President of the Board of Trade, and the noble Secretary for the Colonies, he felt some scruple in troubling the House with any remarks, as they certainly had, in the opinions they had professed, said what was quite sufficient to recommend the measure to him. They had avowed themselves, with
920919918917Mr. Villiers
922 said, his principal object in addressing the House was, to state that the language used by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton was as inconsiderate and rash as were the propositions which emanated from the committee of which the hon. Gentleman was a Member, and wholly unworthy of notice. He thought that some of the resolutions before the House would do a serious in-
922Mr. B. Baring
 was not aware to what observations of his the hon. Member who spoke last referred, but if they were meant to apply to what had been said in another place, respecting the conduct of the import duties committee, he wished it to be understood that he repeated all that he had stated.Mr. Villiers
 said, that he certainly had referred lo those observations upon what had passed in another place, and which were expressed with the flippancy which generally characterised the hon. Member's remarks.Mr. B. Baring
 said, that what he felt, with respect to the observations made by a noble Lord in another place was, that they were "personal, offensive, and unfounded;" and he was justified in this. The noble Lord to whom he alluded, had said that the conduct of the committee savoured more of design, trick, and contrivance, than any thing he had ever known. It was for the House to determine whether those were terms which ought to be applied to a committee appointed by itself. When the hon. Member said, that his (Mr. Villiers's) remarks savoured of the flippancy which characterised everything which fell from him, he could not, of course, reply to such observations without disturbing the order of the House. He treated it with the most perfect contempt, and would not waste the time of the House by alluding to it further.Mr. Villiers
 suggested that the reports of what had passed in another place might not be strictly accurate.Mr. B. Baring
, who had been speaking to a Member behind the Chair, during Mr. Bernal's address, now resumed his seat.Mr. Villiers
: he was, of course, in the hands of the House, and was ready to apologise if he had transgressed its rules. If he had offended, it was unintentional; but he had certainly felt hurt at the expressions used by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He was ready to retract what he had said, if the hon. Member would retract what had fallen from him.Mr. B. Baring
925 said, he was ready to retract the expressions used by him, that the hon. Member considered personally
925Mr. Villiers
 said, he still thought that there must be some mistake as to the offensive expressions attributed to his noble relative, for such language was abhorrent from his nature. He need add no more to what he had already said, which he believed, was considered satisfactory.Mr. B. Baring
 said, that he thought he could explain why the hon. Gentleman was not better supported by his friends, by the sentiment which the only friend that did support him, namely, the hon. Member for Whitby, expressed to him, before the committee was broken up—which was, that he really believed, that if the committee lasted for another week, that he should be as good a free trader as himself.Mr. Villiers
 hoped the House would not agree to the motion of the hon. Gentleman. The great manufacturing towns of the kingdom were greatly interested in the passing of the bill, and he would ask whether the hon. Member was disposed to stand in the way of a measure of such great importance.Mr. Fox Maule
 said, that many Members were not aware, that the bill would come on that evening. The noble Lord opposite had said, that on Friday, or Monday he would inform the House whether the bill was to be proceeded with before Easter. On Friday, the noble Lord gave no such intimation, and he apprehended, that the noble Lord had given no such intimation in the earlier part of that evening.Sir Charles Douglas
931 said, that if he had reason to believe, that hon. Members were absent on the supposition, that the bill would not be taken up that evening, he would not persevere with it, but declared his conviction, that no hon. Members were absent under that apprehension, (t was certain, that many hon. Members
931The Attorney-General
 again stated his objections to proceeding with the bill at that late hour. He did not wish to place himself in opposition to the general feeling of the House, but he was strongly impressed with the conviction that the measure was of far too important a character to be hurried through at that time of night and in so thin a House.Mr. Boiling
"And every such security shall be registered by the clerk of the peace, or some other officer of such borough, appointed for such purpose, in a book to be kept by him for registering such securities; and it shall and may be lawful for every person who shall be entitled to the money so to be secured, and such person, his executors and administrators, is and are hereby empowered (by endorsing his, her, or their name or names on the back of such security) to transfer the same, and his, her, or their right, to the principal money and interest thereby secured, unto any other person; and every such assignee may in like manner transfer the same again, and so from time to time, as circumstances may require, and the person to whom such security or any assignment thereof shall be made, and his executors, administrators, and assigns, shall be creditors upon the said borough fund or rate, or gaol rates, in an equal degree one with another and the said mayor, alderman, and burgesses, by their counsel, shall direct in what order such securities shall be discharged, by drawing lots or otherwise, as they shall see fit, subject nevertheless to the discharge in the first place of all such securities as shall bear the highest rate of interest." proposed, in line 13, after the word "rates," to insert the following:—
"And every such security shall be registered by the clerk of the peace, or some other officer of such borough, appointed for such purpose, in a book to be kept by him for registering such securities; and it shall and may be lawful for every person who shall be entitled to the money so to be secured, and such person, his executors and administrators, is and are hereby empowered (by endorsing his, her, or their name or names on the back of such security) to transfer the same, and his, her, or their right, to the principal money and interest thereby secured, unto any other person; and every such assignee may in like manner transfer the same again, and so from time to time, as circumstances may require, and the person to whom such security or any assignment thereof shall be made, and his executors, administrators, and assigns, shall be creditors upon the said borough fund or rate, or gaol rates, in an equal degree one with another and the said mayor, alderman, and burgesses, by their counsel, shall direct in what order such securities shall be discharged, by drawing lots or otherwise, as they shall see fit, subject nevertheless to the discharge in the first place of all such securities as shall bear the highest rate of interest."Mr. Ludlow Bruges
 proposed to introduce two clauses; one confirming the charter of Manchester, about which great expenses had been incurred in legal proceedings, the other indemnifying officers, and placing them on the same footing as that in which similar officers in corporate towns stood prior to the passing of the 5th and 6th William 4th.Mr. Wilson Patten
 declared himself decidedly opposed to it. He objected to it as being bad in principle. The object of it was to place upon the people of Manchester the whole burden of the expense incurred by the vexatious opposition offered by a small body to the general wish and feeling of the town.Mr. Mark Philips
 hoped the Mouse would adopt the principle of compensation.Mr. Courtenay
 objected to the principle of the clause.Mr. Hume
 suggested, that the clauses should be printed and moved on the bringing up of the report.The Attorney-General
 had no objection that Birmingham and Devonport also should be included in the clause. He thought the committee had better report progress and ask leave to sit again: the clauses might be considered in committee, when there would be more opportunity for discussion than on bringing up the report. The hon. Member concluded by moving; that the Chairman do report progress.Mr. W. Patten
 replied, that the commissioners were assiduously engaged in the duty which they had undertaken to perform, and he hoped that the several reports of the sub-commissioners would speedily be given in, and would as speedily be followed by the general report.Mr. F. Maule
 said, that as far as he was concerned in getting that return, he had done all that lay in his power, and had informed the coroners throughout the country, that the House had addressed her Majesty requesting such information. But it was not in his power to compel such returns, and from very few of the coroners had he received any direct return at all, whilst from many others he had understood it was almost impossible to make it out. In one instance, the coroner said, that in order to make out the return, he must go through between 4,000 and 5,000 depositions. With respect to the metropolis, it would be almost impossible to furnish it, and as far as the hon. Member for Finsbury was concerned, he had received no answer at all, but the hon. Member would be able to state the reason of that for himself. As the coroners furnished the returns, they should be laid before the House, but if they could not be made out, the hon. and gallant Member might, perhaps, frame his motion in a more practicable form.Mr. F. Maule
 said, that the clauses he had suggested having been assented to by the noble Lord opposite, he wished to ask whether the noble Lord himself would embody them in the bill.Lord Eliot
 said, that the recommendation of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests applied to the case of the churchwarden recommended by the Crown.Lord J. Russell
882 would have had no objection to enter into the discussion of this subject on an occasion more fitting than the present, but he certainly did object to enter into the discussion with the hon. Member when it was his intention to postpone the bill until after Easter. The right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, had suggested, that he should put the bill in the form in which he should wish to propose it to the consideration of the House, but, on reflecting on that course, and after consulting with the Speaker, it appeared, to him that after the House had gone through certain clauses and adopted certain amendments in them, he could not now well place those clauses in any other form than that which the committee had already adopted. At the expense, therefore, of the appearance of the bill, he must leave it as it was at present gone through in the committee, with regard both to the clauses up to that point which the committee had reached, as well as the amendments in the latter
882Lord J. Russell
 had only to state, that the Commissioners of Woods and Forests had made a representation to the Treasury recommending, that measures should be taken to indemnify the churchwarden for any expenses to which he might be put, by such means as had been provided under the 58th of George 3rd, c. 57, or in such other manner as the law officers of the Crown might advise. It certainly was the intention of Government to bring in a bill upon the subject in the present Session of Parliament, but Lord Duncannon wished there might be time enough allowed previous to the introduction of the bill to obtain the consent of the vestry. It would now, he apprehended, be too late to introduce the measure as u private bill, but it was the intention of the Government that it should be introduced us soon as possible.Lord J. Russell
914ex concessu913912911910909 wished to address a few observations to the House after the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; because, interesting as this conversation, rather than a debate, had been, there was no speech from which he had
914ex concessu913912911910909Lord John Russell
877ll said, pursuant to notice, he wished to put a few questions to the noble Lord with reference to the parish of Marylebone. It was well known that the affairs of that parish were in a very confused condition; that a rate had been levied, and as that was found insufficient to liquidate the parochial expenses, Lord Kenyon (who was a churchwarden of the parish) had had his House and furniture seized by those having claims upon the parish. Under these circumstances, Lord Kenyon was compelled to find security. A demand had also been made on his Lordship for the sum of 39877llLord Teignmouth
924 thought the resolutions proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, conducive to the interests of our colonial empire; and he should not have troubled the House but for an observation of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who seemed to labour under the impression that the reciprocity treaties were not injurious to the shipping interest of this Country. Unquestionably there had been a considerable increase in our coasting trade, parti-
924Mr. A. White
 wished to know whether there was any objection to lay before the House, after the recess, the return for which he had moved so far back as the 26th of February, 1841, relative to the number of inquests of paupers for seven years preceding the passing of the New Poor-law Act, and also for the seven years during which the act had been in operation.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, under these circumstances, he would at some future day propose a motion to meet the object he had in view in a more practicable form.Colonel Sibthorp
lsdsldsl921 observed, that he had an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the peculiar views entertained by Mr. Huskisson with regard to protective duties, and that those views were modified
lsdsldsl921Mr. G. Palmer
: They are so connected, that in any argument respecting them, it would be difficult to separate one from another.Mr. Goulburn
892891 said, if he was going to oppose the adoption of the resolutions on the present occasion, he would be willing to take the view of the right hon. Gentleman, but he merely wished to discuss the principle in which they all generally agreed. The first resolution appeared to him to be one which would have a most material effect upon the industry and the shipping of the country, and it was a resolution which, if not explained, would make a very serious alteration materially affecting the interests of this country. The second resolution was an important one, considering its effects upon the trade between our North American possessions and the West Indies; and the right hon. Gentleman carried into that trade the same principles which he applied to the trade of foreign countries. It was proposed materially to reduce the duties at present payable upon articles that would be brought into competition with North American produce in the markets of the West Indies. It was well known how very likely people were to imagine that even the best considered measures of commercial change were calculated to affect their interests, and considering the present state of our North American colonies, be thought that this was not the time to alarm their fears, or give them any cause to apprehend that their interests were likely to be endangered by any act of the Imperial Parliament. He thought that they ought to take care not to alarm the apprehensions of the inhabitants of these colonies, who, seeing a change of this kind, might apprehend that a similar change would be carried into effect with respect to the timber imported from those colonies to Great Britain. He thought that they ought to avoid anything which was calculated to excite the fears of those colonists. They ought to recollect, that they had taken a moment to legislate for the commercial interests of Canada when that province had no representatives, and at a
892891Mr. Goulburn
 said, that the whole of his argument had been directed to the purpose of eliciting an explanation. Why the duties of 40 per cent., introduced by Mr. Huskisson, and confirmed by Mr. Poulett Thomson, as proper protection duties, had so entirely changed their character as to require the present alteration, as yet no satisfactory reason had been given. With respect to the committee on import duties he would not say a word; but he was anxious to know whether this was only one of a series of measures, and he thought that upon that he had been a little enlightened, not by the Government, but by other hon. Members on the other side of the House. He had been a little surprised to find the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, taking the field against committees as guides for the opinion of the Government, for if there ever was a Government which had placed itself in the hands of committees, it was that Government which he now had the honour to address.Mr. Goulburn
 rose to order. It was a rule of the House, that no reference should be made to what occurred in debate in the other House of Parliament. That rule had already been violated in the course of the present discussion, and the consequence had been the occurrence of an unpleasant misunderstanding.Mr. Goulburn
889888887 wished the right hon. Gentleman had reserved the present resolution for an occasion when there should be a fuller attendance of Members to discuss a subject of so much importance, and especially those Members who were most conversant with the matter to which the resolution referred. He thought it would have been better to have waited for a full discussion, than that the House should be led blindly into the adoption of so serious a change in our colonial duties. The right hon. Gentleman had stated this to be a mere isolated case, quite distinct
889888887Mr. Goulburn
 said, if the course he had suggested were contrary to the forms of the House, he did not wish to urge it, but if it had been conformable to them, it might have proved of great convenience to hon. Members.Mr. Goulburn
: I think it would be better to discuss the resolutions separately.Mr. Labouchere
886ad valoremad valoremad valoremad valoremad valorem885"6. That goods, the produce or manufacture of the islands of Guernsey, Jersey, Alderney, or Sark, imported from such islands, be admitted into the British possessions in America upon the payment of the same duty as the like goods the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom, or any of the said possessions.""5. That so much of the said Act as permits any sort of craft, food, and victuals, except spirits and any sort of clothing and implements and materials fit and necessary for the British Fisheries in America, to be imported into the place at or from whence such fishery is carried on, duty free, shall be repealed, except so far as regards the following articles (that is to say), bread, flour, pork, beef, bacon, butter, lard, cheese, molasses, (the produce of the British possessions), potatoes, oatmeal, pot barley, Indian meal, peas, rice, salt, oak-staves, shingles, wood hoops, leather and leatherware, and all sorts of fishing craft and bait, fishermen's clothing and hosiery, which shall be delivered duty free, for the use of the fisheries."4. That rum, the produce of places within the limits of the East-India Company's charter, and imported into British North America, shall pay the same duty as rum the produce of places in the British West Indies.l"3. That tea be permitted to be imported into British North America by inland carriage or navigation, on payment of the duty which may at that time be chargeable upon tea imported from the United Kingdom, together with 10lTogether with the amount of any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of, or imported from, the United Kingdom or the British possessions.050——pickled, the barrel 
050——pickled, the barrel 620Fish, dried or salted, the cwt. 
620Fish, dried or salted, the cwt. Now prohibited, but the prohibition whereon is to cease:—
Now prohibited, but the prohibition whereon is to cease:—070Pitch pine, and other lumber, one inch thick (except into Canada), the 1,000 feet
070Pitch pine, and other lumber, one inch thick (except into Canada), the 1,000 feet620Wood hoops (except into Canada) the 1,000 No.
620Wood hoops (except into Canada) the 1,000 No.070Oak staves and headings (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
070Oak staves and headings (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.020Shingles (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
020Shingles (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
050——pickled, the barrel 
050——pickled, the barrel 620Fish, dried or salted, the cwt. 
620Fish, dried or salted, the cwt. Now prohibited, but the prohibition whereon is to cease:—
Now prohibited, but the prohibition whereon is to cease:—070Pitch pine, and other lumber, one inch thick (except into Canada), the 1,000 feet
070Pitch pine, and other lumber, one inch thick (except into Canada), the 1,000 feet620Wood hoops (except into Canada) the 1,000 No.
620Wood hoops (except into Canada) the 1,000 No.070Oak staves and headings (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
070Oak staves and headings (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.020Shingles (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
020Shingles (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.884FreeThe bottles
FreeThe bottles0107lWine of all sorts, whether in bottle or not, for every 100l
0107lWine of all sorts, whether in bottle or not, for every 100l040Beef and pork salted (except in Canada), the cwt.
040Beef and pork salted (except in Canada), the cwt.020Wheat flour (except into Canada) the barrel
020Wheat flour (except into Canada) the barreld.d.s.s.££
d.d.s.s.££
FreeThe bottles
FreeThe bottles0107lWine of all sorts, whether in bottle or not, for every 100l
0107lWine of all sorts, whether in bottle or not, for every 100l040Beef and pork salted (except in Canada), the cwt.
040Beef and pork salted (except in Canada), the cwt.020Wheat flour (except into Canada) the barrel
020Wheat flour (except into Canada) the barreld.d.s.s.££
d.d.s.s.££"2. That in lieu of the several duties payable under the said act, upon the following articles, not being the growth, production, or manufacture, of the United Kingdom, or of any of the British possessions in America, imported or brought into any British possession by sea, there shall be paid the following duties, viz.:—llllllsl"1. That in lieu of the respective duties of 7llllllsl rose to move the following resolutions.
886ad valoremad valoremad valoremad valoremad valorem885"6. That goods, the produce or manufacture of the islands of Guernsey, Jersey, Alderney, or Sark, imported from such islands, be admitted into the British possessions in America upon the payment of the same duty as the like goods the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom, or any of the said possessions.""5. That so much of the said Act as permits any sort of craft, food, and victuals, except spirits and any sort of clothing and implements and materials fit and necessary for the British Fisheries in America, to be imported into the place at or from whence such fishery is carried on, duty free, shall be repealed, except so far as regards the following articles (that is to say), bread, flour, pork, beef, bacon, butter, lard, cheese, molasses, (the produce of the British possessions), potatoes, oatmeal, pot barley, Indian meal, peas, rice, salt, oak-staves, shingles, wood hoops, leather and leatherware, and all sorts of fishing craft and bait, fishermen's clothing and hosiery, which shall be delivered duty free, for the use of the fisheries."4. That rum, the produce of places within the limits of the East-India Company's charter, and imported into British North America, shall pay the same duty as rum the produce of places in the British West Indies.l"3. That tea be permitted to be imported into British North America by inland carriage or navigation, on payment of the duty which may at that time be chargeable upon tea imported from the United Kingdom, together with 10lTogether with the amount of any duty levied at the same time upon similar articles, the produce of, or imported from, the United Kingdom or the British possessions.050——pickled, the barrel 
050——pickled, the barrel 620Fish, dried or salted, the cwt. 
620Fish, dried or salted, the cwt. Now prohibited, but the prohibition whereon is to cease:—
Now prohibited, but the prohibition whereon is to cease:—070Pitch pine, and other lumber, one inch thick (except into Canada), the 1,000 feet
070Pitch pine, and other lumber, one inch thick (except into Canada), the 1,000 feet620Wood hoops (except into Canada) the 1,000 No.
620Wood hoops (except into Canada) the 1,000 No.070Oak staves and headings (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
070Oak staves and headings (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.020Shingles (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
020Shingles (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
050——pickled, the barrel 
050——pickled, the barrel 620Fish, dried or salted, the cwt. 
620Fish, dried or salted, the cwt. Now prohibited, but the prohibition whereon is to cease:—
Now prohibited, but the prohibition whereon is to cease:—070Pitch pine, and other lumber, one inch thick (except into Canada), the 1,000 feet
070Pitch pine, and other lumber, one inch thick (except into Canada), the 1,000 feet620Wood hoops (except into Canada) the 1,000 No.
620Wood hoops (except into Canada) the 1,000 No.070Oak staves and headings (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
070Oak staves and headings (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.020Shingles (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.
020Shingles (except into Canada), the 1,000 No.884FreeThe bottles
FreeThe bottles0107lWine of all sorts, whether in bottle or not, for every 100l
0107lWine of all sorts, whether in bottle or not, for every 100l040Beef and pork salted (except in Canada), the cwt.
040Beef and pork salted (except in Canada), the cwt.020Wheat flour (except into Canada) the barrel
020Wheat flour (except into Canada) the barreld.d.s.s.££
d.d.s.s.££
FreeThe bottles
FreeThe bottles0107lWine of all sorts, whether in bottle or not, for every 100l
0107lWine of all sorts, whether in bottle or not, for every 100l040Beef and pork salted (except in Canada), the cwt.
040Beef and pork salted (except in Canada), the cwt.020Wheat flour (except into Canada) the barrel
020Wheat flour (except into Canada) the barreld.d.s.s.££
d.d.s.s.££"2. That in lieu of the several duties payable under the said act, upon the following articles, not being the growth, production, or manufacture, of the United Kingdom, or of any of the British possessions in America, imported or brought into any British possession by sea, there shall be paid the following duties, viz.:—llllllsl"1. That in lieu of the respective duties of 7llllllslMr. Labouchere
926 said, that what he meant with regard to committees was, that with regard to customs duties he had always thought, that it was not his business to move for a committee of the House of Commons, because that would amount to an intimation to the public of the opinion of the Government, that those duties ought to be altered; and any such opinion ought to be reserved until the Government
926Mr. Labouchere
899898897896895"The undersigned agents for the West India colonies possessing legislatures consider that they would not be justified in withholding the expression of their entire concurrence in the measure embraced in the proposed resolutions of the President of the Board of Trade, 'on the trade of the British possessions abroad,' because they consider it will be highly beneficial to the colonial interests entrusted to them. Such a measure has for many years been urgently solicited, and had it been granted would have afforded very great relief. In the former state and relations of colonial society, it would have been a boon from which the planters would have derived the principal advantage. But now, when the whole population will participate in that advantage, there are considerations of sound policy, no less than of moral right, which induce the undersigned on behalf of their constituencies, to regard this measure of relief as losing none of its importance. They beg, therefore, to express their acknowledgments to her Majesty's Government for having brought it forward."894onus probandi893 had listened to the speech made by the right hon. Gentleman with very great satisfaction; because it showed that the right hon. Gentleman, with all his experience and all his knowledge, could not make a valid or good objection to the resolutions. The right hon. Gentleman was evidently not favourably inclined
899898897896895"The undersigned agents for the West India colonies possessing legislatures consider that they would not be justified in withholding the expression of their entire concurrence in the measure embraced in the proposed resolutions of the President of the Board of Trade, 'on the trade of the British possessions abroad,' because they consider it will be highly beneficial to the colonial interests entrusted to them. Such a measure has for many years been urgently solicited, and had it been granted would have afforded very great relief. In the former state and relations of colonial society, it would have been a boon from which the planters would have derived the principal advantage. But now, when the whole population will participate in that advantage, there are considerations of sound policy, no less than of moral right, which induce the undersigned on behalf of their constituencies, to regard this measure of relief as losing none of its importance. They beg, therefore, to express their acknowledgments to her Majesty's Government for having brought it forward."894onus probandi893Mr. Labouchere
 thought that there was a considerable difference between them, and that it would be better to deal with them separately.Mr. Labouchere
916: The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries) had asked why he had not re-appointed the committee on exports this Session. He had, since he filled his present office, never moved for a committee to investigate a subject of this nature, and never opposed such a motion when made by any hon. Gentleman. He thought that committee had adduced extremely valuable information, but that a Minister ought not to shelter himself behind any committee, but to act as he thought best. If the hon. Member for Kilkenny should think proper to continue this committee this year, he should not resist the motion; but he should altogether oppose its re-appointment being made the pretext for interminable delay in legislation. He would never allow, that there was not ample information before the House and the country on all the great interests of our commercial policy, and if the right hon. Gentleman threw out the suggestion of the appointment of a committee, with the view of showing the impropriety of legislating on this subject, or forbidding it from availing itself of the opportunities which might offer for its adjustment, he thought such an argument ought not to be listened to for a moment. And when he said this, he confessed his principles so far coincided with those of the right hon. Gentleman, that he was in favour, not of absolute free trade, but of a moderate protection. But the whole question was—what was that moderate protection? The moment our duties
916Mr. Labouchere
 said, in answer to a question, it was his intention, in the bill to be founded on the resolutions, to enact, that it should not come into force until the 1st of January, 1842, which would enable the various colonies to make the arrangements that would become necessary in consequence of the alterations.Mr. Labouchere
 said, that his hon. Friend had been absent from his place when the Chairman addressed the Committee; perhaps he would be kind enough to repeat what he had said.Mr. Warburton
908907ex parte906905 was not aware of what had been uttered by the noble Lord to whom
908907ex parte906905Mr. Herries
l915 was anxious to correct a misapprehension into which the noble Lord had fallen, in conceiving that he had complained of the witnesses before the committee, having only an imperfect knowledge of the subjects to which their evidence related. Nothing of that sort fell from him. As to the individual to whom the noble Lord alluded, no one more highly appreciated his merits than himself. While in office, he had the good fortune to have a long and constant acquaintance with that Gentleman, and he would be the last to speak disparagingly either of his opinions or general intelligence. What he had said was, that he hoped before any measure was taken the subject would be more fully investigated before a committee, comprising amongst its members a large proportion of persons who had been connected with the administration of the affairs of trade. He thought the noble Lord was not likely to dispute that proposition. He also much regretted that the inquiries of the committee had been of so partial and limited a nature; for, although he might concur with all the witnesses examined, fairness required that those on the other side of the question should have had an equal opportunity of placing their opinions upon record. This was the more necessary, because however accidentally it might have happened, the fact was, an opinion very generally prevailed, and the examination of the late Secretary to the Board of Trade, to a great extent, countenanced the supposition, that the inquiry was promoted and superintended by Ministers, and that the opinions recorded on the evidence, un-contradicted by any antagonist statements, were those of the present Government. He would give a single instance of the mischievous effects of this mode
l915Mr. Herries
929 said, that the reason why Members who opposed the views of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, did not attend the committee was, that they did not expect the inquiry would take the course it had taken. When the committee was moved for, it was distinctly stated, that the operation of the Corn-laws would form no subject of inquiry before the committee. In answer to his noble Friend (Lord G. Somerset), the hon. Member for Kilkenny had stated, that finding on reference to the British tariff, which was erroneously supposed to be more simple than that of other nations, no fewer than 1,150 articles had duties imposed on them
929Mr. Herries
 denied, that he had given any pledge on the subject. The majority of a committee always determined what course the inquiry should take, within the orders of the House.Mr. Hume
928 said, that there was no inconsistency in the report; for although there was not time for the committee to analyse the evidence, yet they thought that there were facts enough upon the evidence to enable the Government to reconsider the system of differential duties. That was the opinion of the majority; the hon. Gentleman was in the minority, and of course complained of the course which the majority had taken. But as to the charge of unfairness, he appealed to the hon. Member himself to say, whether there was any disposition to prevent any ques-
928Mr. Hume
904ll903dsdssddsllll902l901 subscribed to almost every sentiment which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and was particularly pleased with his speech, coming as it did so soon after one of a very different character, from a right hon. Gentleman who had recently spoken from the opposition benches. At a time when the commercial energies of the country required more perhaps than in any previous period to be encouraged and called forth, he thought that the whole community of the kingdom had cause to be greatly obliged to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade for the measure which he now proposed. He must say, also, that he was surprised at the doubts and objections which had been made by the right hon. Member opposite, to this proposal, recollecting, as he did, that that right hon. Gentleman had been a colleague in office with that great statesman, Mr. Huskisson, whose views this measure did but go to carry out. The right hon. Gentleman having been a colleague with Mr. Huskisson when, at different times, he
904ll903dsdssddsllll902l901Mr. Hume
 defended the conduct of the committee, and was about to read an extract from the speech of the noble Lord in another place, whenMr. Hume
 did not wish to excite angry feelings; he only wished to put the House in possession of the explanation he had received from the noble Lord alluded to, of what he had stated in the House of Peers.Mr. Hume
Morning Chronicle said, that he had guarded against that objection, by sending the passage upon which he was about to comment, and which appeared in the report of the Morning ChronicleMr. Hume
 said, that the commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the children employed in factories had not yet made their report, and he wished to know if they were soon likely to do so.Mr. Hume
 (the Chairman of the Committee) said, that a great portion of the discussion which had taken place that evening had been altogether irregular. Many points had been debated which had no reference to the subject before the committee. He was sorry to say, that since he entered the House the rule which prohibited reference to what occurred in the other House of Parliament had been much disregarded. The consequence was, that he, when sitting in that chair, did not like to interfere to prevent such references, because at other times he heard they were made without being checked. He was, however, quite sensible of the irregularity of the practice, and of the evils which resulted from it. Now, that notice had been taken of the breach of order, he trusted that the good sense of the hon. Member for Kilkenny would dictate to him the propriety of desisting froth the course upon which he was about to enter.Mr. Bernal
 repeated his observations.Mr. Bernal
 said, that before he put the question, he felt it necessary to take notice of some unpleasant words which had been used in the course of the discussion. He was sure that they were the result of misconception, and had been used, on each side, in a moment of irritation. He hoped the committee would confirm the impression which the matter had made on his mind, and second his efforts in calling upon the two hon. Members to whom he referred, to consider the language which had fallen from them, and, so much as they possibly could to explain and retract.Mr. Bernal
 then put the question, that the resolution be agreed to.Mr. Bernal
ssdss881880ss879 said, he desired to take this opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the dietary tables for the poor in the city of London. If he neglected to avail himself of that opportunity, one so convenient might not again present itself. They all knew that the object of the Poor-law Amendment Act was to make provision for the destitute, and to take proper care of the funds of those who contributed to the payment of the rates. These objects, it was quite clear, could not be effected without some test of destitution. The bill also professed to introduce a system of uniformity throughout the whole of England and Wales. It was well known to hon. Members that considerable inequality prevailed as to the mode of administering relief, and that the regulations of the commissioners had in some unions been considerably relaxed. Amongst the advocates of the measure it was rumoured that the bill had ceased to be unpopular; they alleged that its unpopularity was rapidly declining. In that House on Friday they had heard unqualified statements, to the effect that its unpopularity had ceased altogether. When inquiry was made as to whether or not relief had been withheld from able bodied poor, the reply was, that no such order had been issued by the commissioners. From that and other causes it did happen that the bill was not so unpopular in the city as it was in most parts of the country, and it was therefore that they had not heard so much lately of the nature of the diet supplied to the poor. In most parts of the country it was well known that water gruel formed the chief article of diet. Now, he wished to know whether the country gentlemen would sanction one system of diet for their own unions, and quite another for the parishes in the metropolis. One thing was quite clear, that the allowances to the poor in the city of London were quite different from those which they received in other parts of England and Wales; and he should not for a moment hesitate to say, that if the House
ssdss881880ss879Mr. Wakley
883 said, he had received a number of communications from coroners in different parts of England, in reference to this return, and they informed him that they found it next to impossible to make it out. If the hon. and gallant Member had any specific or direct object in view, probably he would prepare his motion in
883Mr. Wakley
 said, that not only the goods of Lord Kenyon, but those of the other churchwarden, had been distrained.Sir B. Hall
ex parte927"Recommended that, as speedily as possible, the whole system of differential duties should be considered, and that a change should be effected.""The evidence was so valuable, that the committee could hardly do justice to it in detail, unless they proceeded step by step to a complete analysis, which the advanced period of the Session would not allow." said, that having been a Member of the Committee on import duties last year to which allusion had been made, he felt bound to state, that he shared largely in the opinion which had been expressed, that the report of that committee and the evidence taken before it were calculated to give an unfair, because a partial, view of the ease. He begged attention to this fact, for which he would refer to their proceedings, and which was a perfect contradiction of the assertion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the inquiry had been fair and impartial. The first paragraph of the report stated that—
ex parte927"Recommended that, as speedily as possible, the whole system of differential duties should be considered, and that a change should be effected.""The evidence was so valuable, that the committee could hardly do justice to it in detail, unless they proceeded step by step to a complete analysis, which the advanced period of the Session would not allow."Sir Charles Douglas
 said, that he was bound to say, that no impediment had been thrown in the way of asking any question of the witnesses examined before that committee; and it was certainly true that the hon. Member had asked him whether he would attend the committee. He had replied that he would, but he felt that on a subject of that description he ought to have been supported in the committee by gentlemen of more experience on his own side of the House.Sir C. Douglas
gravamen said, that the sin of the committee had been, that they had brought out most valuable facts, which had been more quickly and thoroughly appreciated by the mercantile and manufacturing part of the community, and had laid a firmer hold upon the public opinion in general than the facts elicited by any committee he was acquainted with. That was the gravamenMr. Ward
 expressed a hope that the hon. Members would be willing to run a race with each other in retracting expressions which they had used under the influence of excitement. Under the circumstances it was not unnatural that the hon. Members should have expressed themselves warmly—one being the relative of a noble Lord, and the other a prominent Member of a Committee, upon whom and which severe strictures had respectively been made.Viscount Morpeth
930 said, that was his complaint. He complained, that impressions and views, which the President of the Board of Trade had declared to be delusive and visionary in regard to several leading facts, should have been put forward by a committee who had only gone into one side of the question. Both sides
930Viscount Sandon
 said, that it was quite impossible, that questions of such enormous importance to the commerce and manufactures of the country could be justly investigated without the examination of one witness, except on one side. The consequence of the publication of the evidence of the Under-secretary of the Board of Trade had been, that when it was found, that an official personage had come down to the committee and stated, that he would change this and change that, it was supposed, that he spoke with the authority of Government, and sales in several branches of trade were suspended. He could affirm this to be the case.Viscount Sandon
 said, if the motion were not agreed to before five o'clock, hon. Members would be prevented from giving notices of motions for any day after the holidays.The Speaker
954 did not rise to oppose the motion, the importance of which he did not deny. It was important, so far as it could be done, to facilitate to all classes of the people the means of seeing works of art throughout the country. The appointment of a committee was, he thought, a judicious mode of proceeding, and he was glad that his hon. Friend had altered
954Mr. Labouchere
 had no objection to acquiesce as his motive for calling for these documents was one of good feeling to the two countries interested. He was against war with any country, but he was particularly opposed to a war with the United States, for such a struggle must be one of a shocking and unnatural character. His motives were for the best, but he would not press them against the wish of the noble Lord, who must act upon better information than he could possibly possess. He would therefore postpone his motion until after the recess, by which time he trusted the noble Lord would be able to communicate to the House information upon this painful subject of a conclusive and satisfactory description.Mr. Hume
 said he believed it was the usual practice, but he thought a very bad one.Mr. Hume
 thought that motion would come better at the close of the proceedings, because Ministers were in the practice of walking out as soon as certain business was over, and thus other Members might be prevented from bringing on their motions. He spoke feelingly for he had a motion on the paper which he was most anxious to make.Mr. Hume
d rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire into the present state of the national monuments and works of art in Westminster Abbey, in St. Paul's Cathedral, and in other public edifices; to consider the best means for their protection, and for affording facilities to the public for their inspection, as a means of moral and intellectual improvement for the people. The hon. Gentleman said, that he had the authority of the magistrates, the commissioners of police, and others, to state, that in their opinion the attainment of the object he proposed would be highly beneficial to the community at large. Hitherto a system of exclusion had existed, which, however, had been gradually withdrawn, and his object was to remove it altogether, and to give the masses of the community as much as possible the benefits to be derived from the inspection of those valuable works of art with which this country was enriched. No country in Europe possessed more valuable works of art than England; but hitherto they had been locked up from those who were not sufficiently wealthy to purchase access to them. The advantages that would thus accrue to the people were incalculable. Every work of art would become a source of feeling, reasoning, and thought to them. The desire to visit these exhibitions was daily increasing, in proof of which he would mention, that every day of the year thousands of the poorer classes in the metropolis found their way to Hampton Court, and there enjoyed the pleasure afforded by the highest works of art without fee. He would also mention, that since the Palace had been opened, the people spent the time they had formerly consumed in drinking in the gardens in the examination of the treasures of art which it contained. In one year the number that passed through the Tower at the fee of 6dMr. Hume
 wished to ask the noble Lord (the Secretary for Foreign Affairs) when the Portuguese commission for the settlement of British claims upon that country would be opened for the reception of claims.Mr. P. Howard
 said, as the noble Lord intended to stop till the close of the proceedings, it would not be at all inconvenient for him to make the motion at the end of the evening.Mr. Wakley
l said he had been anxious to do justice to the efforts of the Inspectors and of the Government. He at once frankly and fully acceded to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, thinking that although he might have a majority, it would not, under the circumstances express the opinion of the House. He therefore gave notice that when the estimates were brought forward he should move an addition to the paltry grant of 30,000lMr. Ewart
And justify the ways of God to man.didThey didliberté d' enseignement942desideratum941"The teaching of the people, the education of youth, literature and science, all the institutions, the depositaries of human knowledge, all collections which preserve its monuments and acquisitions are comprised in this department."940939938"For nine years (says M. Ducpetiaux) the
938937 said, that his object in introducing the subject which he had announced to the House, was twofold.
And justify the ways of God to man.didThey didliberté d' enseignement942desideratum941"The teaching of the people, the education of youth, literature and science, all the institutions, the depositaries of human knowledge, all collections which preserve its monuments and acquisitions are comprised in this department."940939938"For nine years (says M. Ducpetiaux) the
938937Mr. Ewart
ll953952d951: It is not very often that I concur in sentiment with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, but when that does
ll953952d951Mr. Mackinnon
948947946ll945i. e944943 seconded the mo-
948947946ll945i. e944943Mr. W. S, O'Brien
949 said he felt that he could scarcely do justice to the subject then under discussion, looking to the state of the benches at that moment. He did not, however, attribute that fact to a proof of a want of good feeling upon the subject matter of the motion, but rather to the circumstance that that was the last day of meeting before the adjournment for the Easter holidays, and also to the fact, that many hon. Members who took a deep interest in the question had left town, under the impression that the subject of national education would not be brought forward at present. To the motion of his hon. Friend he entertained objections, founded not so much upon the proposal made, as in the difficulty of carrying the scheme into execution. He agreed in the feeling expressed by his hon. Friend that that. House could not direct its attention to a more important object than that of the advancement of all practical measures to extend the blessings of education to all classes of the community. He agreed as to the deficiency of education in the coun-
949Sir G. Grey
955lll had really never heard such an address as that just made in reference to the motion. The speech really was a mode of evasion of the question. As compared to the former one the motion certainly was improved, but when the committee reported on it the difficulties would be as great as they would be upon an address to the Crown, for neither the Crown nor the House had power over the cathedrals and other public buildings of the country. If the former were, however, to be opened, he must confess he should be afraid to expose the national character to the sarcasm of pilgrims, who would find much to remark upon if Westminster Abbey were thrown open as a school of art. He certainly would object to the works of art in that or other buildings of the same character being regarded in the same view as those in the British Museum. If there were a proposal made to remove the works of art now in Westminster Abbey to the British Museum, though as a separate measure, he should decidedly object to it, yet, however repugnant it might be, he would sooner agree to it rather than that the abbey should be regarded as a mere repository of models for artists. In the remarks the hon. Gentleman made about the reduction of the fees for visiting certain buildings, he did not do justice to the facts of the case, so far as Westminster Abbey was concerned. The fees for the admission of visitors to the abbey had been considerably reduced; but it was at the expense of the prebendaries and dean: each of the former had sacrificed 100955lllSir R. Inglis
 said, with respect to the Cartoons his noble Friend the Chief Commissioner of woods and forests had gone to Hampton Court the day before, and he hoped the direction given by him would ensure them againt a recurrence of risk to these great works, of which the loss would be irreparable.Lord Morpeth
956 observed that his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny had a notice on the paper for copies of the correspondence that had taken place between the agents of the government of the United States and her Majesty's Government respecting the destruction of the steam-boat Caroline. He had to request that his hon. Friend would not now press the question on the consideration of the House. He trusted that on the part of both Governments there was an anxious desire that the negotiations respecting this matter should be brought to an amicable and satisfactory determination. But still there were points connected with it which had excited a very strong feeling both in this country and on the other side of the Atlantic; he would therefore put it to the consideration of his hon. Friend whether it would not be advisable at present, while the question was still the subject of communication between the two Governments, to abstain from introducing any motion which must necessarily be followed by a discussion on details that would most likely have the effect of defeating the wish not only of his hon. Friend, but also the desire of the English Government and the government of the States, He hoped, therefore, his hon. Friend would agree to postpone his motion until a later period of the Session, before which time probably the negotiations now pending between
956Viscount Palmerston
 replied, that the commissioners had met, and, before proceeding to decide the various claims, had very properly determined they would decide on the principles which should govern them. The first point which arose was to decide which of the various contracts were binding. The commissioners differed on this point, and had to refer the arbitrator who had not yet pronounced his decision. The commissioners thought that they could not proceed with satisfaction until they determined on what principles the claims should be decided.Viscount Palmerston
 could only speak for himself, and he intended to remain quite as long as any other Member; but he believed it was the usual practice, when it was intended to adjourn for more than one day, to make the motion before the commencement of the regular business.Viscount Palmerston
960 said, in reply to the observations of the hon. Gentleman, he could assure the House that there was no one at all times more anxious to do everything for the public accommodation than the noble Lord at the head of this department. It must be well known to the hon. Member that a large portion of the park was leased to different persons, portions of it to the Toxopholite and other societies, and with respect to other portions, they had been let off to persons who had expended considerable sums of money on them, and who had entered into engagements with the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, by which they were guaranteed against the intrusion of the
960Mr. E. J. Stanley
 thought the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone went too far, and he was not empowered to state that the whole of the Regent's Park, from the water to the Zoological Gardens, would be thrown open to the public. It was the intention of his noble Friend to throw open a portion of the grass-land between Lord Hertford's villa and the Zoological Gardens; but objections were entertained to opening the park as far as the water at present.Mr. E. J. Stanley
 said, he could not state fully and precisely at that moment what might be the views of the head of the department to which the matter belonged, but he really thought the best course would be to leave the subject for the present in the hands of his noble Friend, and if the measures which he took did not prove satisfactory, it would of course be open to the hon. Member for Wigan to bring forward any motion upon the subject which he thought proper at any future time.Mr. E. J. Stanley
 thought the time had now arrived for putting an end to such bills as the present. They might be all very well in times of anarchy and confusion, but as Ireland was now more free from crime than England he thought there was no necessity for them now. We ought to place confidence in men who behaved well.Mr. Hume
963 believed that the statement of the hon. Gentleman, with respect to the proportion of crime between the two countries, was correct; but at the
963Viscount Morpeth
 said that the estimates would be ready to day or to-morrow. This was the usual time for laying them on the Table of the House.Mr. Gordon
 said it was so. The bill would be proceeded with, and several modifications would be proposed, at the suggestion of gentlemen of both sides of the House, who had taken great interest in the measure, and to whose attention he was much indebted.Mr. Fox Maule
 said, that out of 286 acres in the park, 200 might be opened to the public, and certainly he had not heard any good reason why they should not be so applied. The only argument that he had heard against opening the whole was that the indulgence might be abused, but he thought that it would not be difficult or expensive to prevent such abuse.Lord Teignmouth
 inquired when the civil contingencies and the miscellaneous estimates would be laid on the Table of the House. They had been promised before the recess, and had they been delivered there would have been time for their proper examination. It had been stated by the press that he had been at Nottingham assisting Mr. Walter, whereas he had not left London during the recess, and he wished to have studied the papers. He should oppose the grant to Dr. Bowring.Colonel Sibthorp
 asked, was it intended to proceed on Thursday with the Counties' Courts Bill?Sir E. Sugden
 thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley) could not have understood the motion, because the part which he stated as about to be opened had been open a considerable time. The part the public were anxious for was that immediately east of Cornwall-terrace. He understood that the large space from the Marquis of Hertford's house to the Zoological Gardens was not leased at present, and therefore there was no reason why it should not be open to the public. He wished to know whether any measure had been taken for affording similar accommodation to the public at the northeast and east of the City of London Unless the opportunity were now taken would be altogether lost, and the population would become so dense that, without such accommodation, it would be most unhealthy to live in the neighbourhood.Mr. Hume
, seeing the Secretary-at-War in his place, begged to ask him whether the statements which had appeared in the public papers were correct, that a soldier of the 11th Hussars had been flogged on Sunday, the 11th inst., and whether there were any regulations at the Horse-guards with respect to military punishments on that day?Mr. Hume
958957 replied, that, although the discipline of the army was not immediately connected with his department, yet,
958957Mr. Macaulay
962 was much obliged to the hon. Member for Wigan for bringing forward the motion, but he thought they were treating the question more lightly than it deserved. The right hon. Baronet who had just sat down had pointed out the importance of forming a park in the eastern part of the town, but he had forgotten to say a word on the question before the House. He had not said a word about a park of which the people were the owners, and from which they were shut out. He thought they ought to give the people a place to which they were entitled before they devised means of creating other parks. It was a serious ground of complaint that the people had been for some time excluded from the greater portion of the Regent's-park. The noble Lord opposite had stated that that park had been originally Marylebone fields, and that it had been enclosed in order to fit it for the reception of the people, but since these villas had been erected, certain favoured individuals had obtained leases, and were not to be disturbed. It was clear, from the tone in which the hon.
962Mr. Wakley
 said, that before he tool that step with which he intended to conclude, he wished to obtain from the Government some more explicit statement as to what their views and intentions were He could not feel that he had satisfactorily performed his duty without obtaining a clear understanding on the subject. There were 200 acres of the park from which the public were now excluded; the object of his motion was to have that space thrown open, and unless there were some clear understanding upon that point he should certainly feel it his duty to take the sense of the House.Mr. Ewart
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to take into her consideration the advantage which would accrue to the public, from throwing open to the public the remainder of the Regent's Park."onus probandi959 rose to move an address to the Crown for opening the Regent's Park to the public. The hon. Member said the object he had in view was to increase the sources of rational amusements which were now enjoyed by the inhabitants of the metropolis. At present the Park was open from Portland-place almost in a direct line to the Zoological Gardens; but if hon. Members had extended their vision beyond the walks, they could not have failed to have observed that there was about twice as large a portion from which the public were excluded. His object was to throw open that further portion. It had been stated as an objection that certain clauses in the leases of the villas would exclude the public from
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to take into her consideration the advantage which would accrue to the public, from throwing open to the public the remainder of the Regent's Park."onus probandi959Mr. Ewart
 said, that he had seconded the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Wigan, but he should, nevertheless, request of him not to take the sense of the House upon the subject, as he had received a guarantee from the Government that almost the whole of the park should be opened for the use and gratification of the public.Sir B. Hall
 thought it was high time the park should be opened to the public, to whom his hon. Friend had rendered a useful service by bringing the subject under the notice of the House.Sir De Lacy Evans
961 so seldom agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that he was happy to express his entire concurrence
961Sir R. Inglis
, seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, in hit place, and observing that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, was absent, wished to ask whether it were intended, according to the promise of the noble Lord, to inform the House this evening what course the Government meant to take on Monday night next, in respect to the Parliamentary Voters' Bill, (Ireland.)Sir R. Peel
 said, that in the absence of his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) he was unable to give an answer as to the views of the Government, to which his noble Friend's statement had reference. He could only say, at present, that it was his intention to proceed with the Bill. Whatever modifications of particular clauses he might think it right to introduce, he should explain to the House tomorrow or Thursday.Lord Morpeth
 denied that either the honour or the integrity of Sir H. Douglas had been in the least impeached.Sir H. Vivian
974ex parte973 said, if he had had to complain the other evening that the hon. Gentleman had asked him a question without any notice, he thought that that hon. Gentleman had been more uncourteous now, for the hon. Gentleman had asked him a question on Wednesday night totally and entirely distinct from the question he had asked to-night, and of which the hon. Member had not given any notice. If the House would permit him, he would simply state the facts of this case to the House, and the position in which it at present rested. The noble Lord the Secretary of State, and her Majesty's Government, had been most anxious, on the occurrence of vacancies in the deanery of the Chapel Royal, to make those va-
974ex parte973Mr. Fox Maule
1017, in reply, begged leave to state, that all his remarks must
1017Lord Charles Fitzroy
l.ll." As having been established or decreed since my arrival in these islands "—" Our post-office is invested with very great power and may at pleasure open letters."1012meditatingfaction1011two" I have much pleasure in meeting the sixth Parliament of the Ionian States, and I congratulate the country, that the constitutional functions and electoral rights have been exercised so judiciously and beneficially, as to have assembled in this House, persons of so much consideration, character, talents, influence, and stake in the country, as those whom I have the honour to address. Never has the electoral body more spontaneously, cheerfully, and numerously, discharged their electoral rights, than upon the recent occasion."1010The Government Gazette" And not by words only have the Ionian people shown their contentment, for at the late elections consequent upon the dissolution of the Sixth Parliament, they flocked in unprecedented numbers to give their votes in favour of the candidates brought forward."" With respect to the false and slanderous remarks, &c., &c., Signor Dondi, for malversation of office, fraud and peculation was subjected to a criminal prosecution. In this I however took no part, further than to stay the proceedings during the sitting of Parliament, that it might not be charged against the Government as an act of vengeance to remove an opposing member."1009" The same agents, the agents of the Philorthodox Society moved by the same influence, their views directed to the same end, are the framers of this memorial."auspicium melioris œvi" Yielded to the strong conviction that changes of this kind were dangerous."1008" That, if it were not intended to advance farther in the grant of political rights, it must
10081007 in calling the attention of the House to Ionian affairs, was fully aware of the difficulty of the task that he had undertaken, not from want of conviction of the justice of the cause he was about to advocate, the defence of the Ionian people against their Governor, but from having opposed to him the Gentlemen on the other side of the House, whose principles of government arc so much in accordance with those of the present Lord High Commissioner and
l.ll." As having been established or decreed since my arrival in these islands "—" Our post-office is invested with very great power and may at pleasure open letters."1012meditatingfaction1011two" I have much pleasure in meeting the sixth Parliament of the Ionian States, and I congratulate the country, that the constitutional functions and electoral rights have been exercised so judiciously and beneficially, as to have assembled in this House, persons of so much consideration, character, talents, influence, and stake in the country, as those whom I have the honour to address. Never has the electoral body more spontaneously, cheerfully, and numerously, discharged their electoral rights, than upon the recent occasion."1010The Government Gazette" And not by words only have the Ionian people shown their contentment, for at the late elections consequent upon the dissolution of the Sixth Parliament, they flocked in unprecedented numbers to give their votes in favour of the candidates brought forward."" With respect to the false and slanderous remarks, &c., &c., Signor Dondi, for malversation of office, fraud and peculation was subjected to a criminal prosecution. In this I however took no part, further than to stay the proceedings during the sitting of Parliament, that it might not be charged against the Government as an act of vengeance to remove an opposing member."1009" The same agents, the agents of the Philorthodox Society moved by the same influence, their views directed to the same end, are the framers of this memorial."auspicium melioris œvi" Yielded to the strong conviction that changes of this kind were dangerous."1008" That, if it were not intended to advance farther in the grant of political rights, it must
10081007Lord C. Fitzroy
 presumed, that the gallant Member had not heard the letter read from Mr. Courage, who distinctly states, that the Post-office was invested with the power to open letters. An authority that could only emanate from the Government. The letter that he (Lord Charles Fitzroy) alluded to, had been detained four months in the Corfu post-office, and came out from thence on delivery, with the Corfu post-mark upon it, although this letter had been sent under cover to a merchant who never received it.Lord Charles Fitzroy
10141013: The noble Lord has stated his opinion at considerable length; but I cannot gather from his speech any reasons why this House should appoint the committee he asks for. The noble Lord should recollect that we are not speaking of a colony under the direct dominion of the Crown, or with a representative government and under the direct control of the Crown, but of the Ionian Islands as constituted under the treaty of 1815, and over which her Majesty presides under the title of Protecting Sovereign. The peculiar nature of the constitution of the Ionian Islands requires, that whatever authority her Majesty may exercise as Protecting Sovereign, she ought not to exert any direct interference over it. I do not say
10141013Lord John Russell
 said, that the hon. Gentleman had not understood him, because what he stated was that, under existing circumstances, no such inquiry as was asked for ought to be granted.Lord J. Russell
 said, there had been accounts received through India of such an action, but official accounts of such an action had not been received. There had been accounts received from which persons appeared to be missing, and when the official accounts were received, they would of course be printed.Lord John Russell
997l.996l.l.l.995l.l.994ll.l.993ll.ll.ll992991l.l.l990l.989l.l988 said—It would, no doubt, be agreeable to any member of
997l.996l.l.l.995l.l.994ll.l.993ll.ll.ll992991l.l.l990l.989l.l988Lord John Russell
 gave notice, that to-morrow he should move for a return of the number of instances of corporal punishment which had been inflicted on a Sunday in the British Army during the last ten years. He begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary -at-War whether there had been any infliction of corporal punishment under circumstances similar to those that had taken place in the recent punishment of a soldier of the 11th Hussars, under the command of the Earl of Cardigan.Mr. Hawes
984ll.lNo hardly knew in what way to take the last sentence of his right hon. Friend. As far as he could understand, the only objections of the right hon. Gentleman to the view of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for London, related to matters of detail. ["984ll.lNoMr. C. Buller
971 wished to know whether it were intended to produce the informa-
971Mr. C. Wood
"From which deduct—979" III. That it appears, by papers now be" fore the House (No. 511,1840, No. 81, 1841), that there has been received from the sales of Crown lands in New South Wales, during the period from 1831 to June, 1840, inclusive, a gross total sum of …… £958,000" II. That the above large expenses of police and gaol establishments have, since July, 1835, been defrayed by the application of a considerable portion of the net proceeds of the sales of Crown lands in the colony to the general purposes of colonial revenue.l." '3. That by the appropriation, for the period from the 1st of July, 1835, to the 31st of December, 1841, of so large an amount (about 597,000l." '2. That his Excellency, the Governor, be respectfully solicited to represent, on behalf of this Council, to her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies, that this Council has most reluctantly consented to so large an expenditure for the support of those establishments since the 1st of July, 1835, and has voted the full amount of the estimate for the same for the year 1841, solely from a conviction that it would not be justified in declining to make provision for the maintenance of the public tranquillity and security." '1. That in the opinion of this Council, the parent State, indisputably deriving a direct pecuniary saving (independently of other advantages) from the assignment of convicts to private service in New South Wales, and its interests being at all events in an equal if not a superior degree involved in the due coercion and discipline of such transported offenders, ought in justice to bear at least one-half of the expenses attendant on the police and gaol establishments, which are raised to their present large amount chiefly through the introduction of a convict population into the colony.1." That it appears that, in October, 1840, the following resolutions were passed by the Governor and Legislative Council of New South Wales;—978l977Resolved, "That this Council equally concurs with their Committee, that every department of industry is cramped, and that no undertaking, public or private, can be prosecuted except at great disadvantage, in consequence of the exorbitant rate of wages and the difficulty of procuring mechanics, workmen, or servants, especially shepherds, upon any terms whatsoever; and, this Council cannot
977l976ll.l975 rose to bring forward the resolutions of which he had given notice, on the subject of the colony of New South Wales. The subject was the same in which he had had the honour to address the House on the 25th of last month, and it would be in the recollection of hon. Gentlemen that the sitting of the House in that colony had been brought to an unexpected termination before he had bad an opportunity of bringing to a close the statements be had to make respecting the colony. He should, therefore, entreat the House to bear with him while he related the main features of the case. The resolutions he was about, to propose were the same as he had then brought forward, and there was merely a slight alteration in the last to get rid of an objection in point of form. It appeared, that for the last few years, since 1835, a heavy charge had been imposed upon the colony of New South Wales, the colony having the entire, and undivided charge of the gaols and police of the settlement. Up to that time the revenue had been fully adequate to meet the demands of the colony, but since then the ordinary revenue had been considerably diminished, insomuch that recourse had been had to trespassing on the land and emigration fund, which had been already pledged and consecrated to other purposes. The colonists thought that a case of extreme hardship and injustice. It should be remembered, that this was originally a penal colony, and that it still retained marks of its origin, although it was daily assuming a more
"From which deduct—979" III. That it appears, by papers now be" fore the House (No. 511,1840, No. 81, 1841), that there has been received from the sales of Crown lands in New South Wales, during the period from 1831 to June, 1840, inclusive, a gross total sum of …… £958,000" II. That the above large expenses of police and gaol establishments have, since July, 1835, been defrayed by the application of a considerable portion of the net proceeds of the sales of Crown lands in the colony to the general purposes of colonial revenue.l." '3. That by the appropriation, for the period from the 1st of July, 1835, to the 31st of December, 1841, of so large an amount (about 597,000l." '2. That his Excellency, the Governor, be respectfully solicited to represent, on behalf of this Council, to her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies, that this Council has most reluctantly consented to so large an expenditure for the support of those establishments since the 1st of July, 1835, and has voted the full amount of the estimate for the same for the year 1841, solely from a conviction that it would not be justified in declining to make provision for the maintenance of the public tranquillity and security." '1. That in the opinion of this Council, the parent State, indisputably deriving a direct pecuniary saving (independently of other advantages) from the assignment of convicts to private service in New South Wales, and its interests being at all events in an equal if not a superior degree involved in the due coercion and discipline of such transported offenders, ought in justice to bear at least one-half of the expenses attendant on the police and gaol establishments, which are raised to their present large amount chiefly through the introduction of a convict population into the colony.1." That it appears that, in October, 1840, the following resolutions were passed by the Governor and Legislative Council of New South Wales;—978l977Resolved, "That this Council equally concurs with their Committee, that every department of industry is cramped, and that no undertaking, public or private, can be prosecuted except at great disadvantage, in consequence of the exorbitant rate of wages and the difficulty of procuring mechanics, workmen, or servants, especially shepherds, upon any terms whatsoever; and, this Council cannot
977l976ll.l975Mr. Grote
 wished to repeat a question he had put the other night to the hon. the Under Secretary of State, which he thought might have been answered, though he had not given any notice. He begged leave to ask whether her Majesty's Ministers did or did not appoint Mr. Candlish, of Edinburgh, to be Professor of Biblical Criticism for the University of Edinburgh, and whether that appointment had since been cancelled, and if so, on what grounds.Sir G. Sinclair
 begged to state that he had understood the hon. Secretary-at-War in the sense that he had explained; and that, on the whole, his explanation was perfectly satisfactory.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that if the noble Lord disapproved of the conduct of Sir Howard Douglas he would have voted for the inquiry.Sir H. Hardinge
1015 must defend the conduct of his absent Friend (Sir H. Douglas) from the insinuations which the noble Lord opposite had made against him, but at so late an hour he would not go into (he various details into which the noble Lord had travelled in connexion with the subject. At the same time he must say, he had read the letter of the noble Lord, to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, respecting Sir H. Douglas with the greatest pain. With respect to the charges made against his absent friend, that he was hostile to granting freer institutions to the Ionian States, he considered the noble Lord (J. Russell) had, in his letter of the 30th of November last, sufficiently answered all those charges, and particularly when he said that, if the changes that were claimed were granted, the people of those islands themselves would be the first sufferers in consequence. Sir H. Douglas was an active and most able officer, and he had the concurrence of the Secretary of State himself in saying that the Ionian Islands were not in a fit state for free institutions. With respect, however, to the charge or insinuation of the noble Lord (Lord Charles Fitzroy) as to Sir H. Douglas having opened a letter and replaced it in its cover, he begged the noble Lord would be kind enough to state to the
1015Sir H. Hardinge
 was satisfied with the explanation given by the noble Lord.Sir H. Hardinge
 supported the motion, and expressed his belief that if Sir H. Douglas knew that his conduct was impeached, he would be the first to call for inquiry.Colonel Rawdon
 said, the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies seemed to imagine that the House of Commons had no right to interfere in the matter; but he (Mr. Hume) contended that there was no other tribunal to which an appeal could be made. He supported the motion, and was astonished that the friends of Sir Howard Douglas did not court the inquiry which was sought for. The Parliament of the Ionian Islands had been curiously elected under the auspices of Sir Howard Douglas. The members of that legislature had, in fact, been elected at the point of the bayonet. Under such circumstances could it be a matter of surprise that a body so elected should be loud in their expression of devotion to the party who had caused their election. The freedom of the press, too, was annihilated under physical restraint. If the House of Commons did not allow this inquiry, they neglected their duty. If the noble Lord were supported by no other Member than himself, he would advise his noble Friend to divide the House.Mr. Hume
l1006l.1005 had always been anxious to see a representative government for New South Wales, and the present debate arose out of the fact, that the colonial system of this country had hitherto been perfectly unintelligible, and depended entirely on the Minister for the Colonies for the lime being. He only wondered that our colonies were so prosperous as they now were. In staling this, however, he saw the danger of adopting the principle of his hon. Friend (Mr. Grote); it was one which this House ought to weigh well. The noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, stated, that he agreed with every hon. Gentleman who had spoken as to the great advantages of emigration, both to this country and to the colony, and that we were therefore bound by every means in our power to promote the system of emigration. He agreed with the noble Lord, and the only difference between his hon. Friend and the noble Lord was, whether the whole amount of the produce of the sale of lands should be applied to the purposes of emigration or not. But the noble Lord had shown, that the whole of the proceeds of the sale of lands was applied to the purposes of the colony; then, of course, the complaint of his hon. Friend could not be supported, that we had applied but a portion of the money to that purpose. Now, suppose there were no convicts at all in the colony, would the inhabitants be obliged to maintain gaols
l1006l.1005Mr. Hume
 admitted, that the noble Lord had not censured the conduct of Sir H. Douglas, but still he thought there was sufficient ground for inquiry, although the whole of the papers had not been produced.Mr. Hume
972 said, he was much obliged to his hon. Friend for asking this question, and for giving him an opportunity of setting right a misunderstanding with regard to what he stated on a previous night. It had been stated that he had said that there were precedents for the conduct followed—he must say most improperly and culpably—by Lord Cardigan, in flogging a soldier on a Sunday. What he had stated was this, that having inquired of officers of great standing and experience in the service, he had learned from them that there were precedents of punishments having been inflicted on
972Mr. Macaulay
 considered it most preposterous and alarming, that this country should be called upon to make distinct grants for the police establishments of colonies having separate revenues within themselves. He should therefore vote against the motion of the hon. Member for London. With regard to placing the management of the affairs of the colony in the hands of a representative government he was in favour of a measure of that sort; but he thought that, in establishing a domestic legislature, a branch answering to the House of Lords in the mother country was completely unfit for an infant colony.Sir C, Grey
 said, if the motion were pressed to a division, as he thought there were grounds before the House to justify an inquiry, he should vote for it.Sir C. Grey
983l.Hear982l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.981980 said, the objections which had been urged by his hon. Friend, and upon which his speech seemed to hinge, had reference to two points. His hon. Friend stated first, that he considered a most unjust and unfair arrangement had been made with the colony, by charging it with the payment of the expenses of police and gaols; and next, the hon. Gentleman adverted to the administration of the emigration funds. With regard to the first part of his hon. Friend's remarks, he thought it but fair to state what had actually been the course pursued by the Government in regard to this colony. The original course of proceeding was to pay out from this country the whole of the expenses of the colony, deducting the proceeds of the colony, and making up the deficit by a vote of Parliament. When Lord Goderich was Secretary for the Colonies, in the year 1827, an arrangement was then made by which the expenses of police, Was made payable by this country; but in the despatch in which the arrangement was made, Lord Goderich distinctly held out, that if the revenue of the colony should at a future time be able to bear it, the colony must pay a part of the expense of the convict establishment; and he more specially pointed out and alluded to the mixed expenses (as they were termed), viz. the police and gaols, which ought to be paid by the colony. He was anxious to state these facts, because the hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the course
983l.Hear982l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.981980The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 understood that his hon. Friend rested his motion on the ground that there had been a specific understanding, that when lands were sold the proceeds should be applied to the importation of free and good labour; and in consequence of its being found that the Government was actuated by no fixed principle, but that the funds pledged to be employed for that purpose might hereafter be applied to the maintenance of the navy and army, or other purely English purposes, he called upon the House to consider wha portion of the expense of the police and the gaols should fall upon the colony, and what upon the mother country. He should certainly vole for the inquiry, in order that they might ascertain the state of the debtor and creditor account between Australia and this country, not for the purpose of causing any wasteful grant, but of doing an act of strict justice to the colony, and redeeming the pledges held out by the Government to induce persons to buy land in the hope of obtaining labour for its cultivation.Mr. Ward
1004 considered with his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel), that it was the duty of countries to make their revenue cover their expenditure. He could not, however, on this occasion, vote with his right hon. Friend, as he considered that New South Wales had a moral and binding claim on this country. If, instead of being kept at Milbank, a thousand convicts were removed to the other side of the globe, were the obligations of this country to defray their expenses any the less? Why, on the same principle, the expenses of the hulks and convict dock-yards at Portsmouth should be levied on the town of Portsmouth. As was stated in the pamphlet which his right hon. Friend the Member for Tarn worth had quoted from, it was no act of the colony to have these convicts, and the mother country should not, in addition to relieving herself of them, make the colony pay for the relief. The question was, not whether such places as the Ionian Islands, or Malta, or Ceylon, were to be relieved from certain burthens,
1004Sir R. H. Inglis
 thought the conduct of Sir H. Douglas highly creditable, and that he was fully deserving of the testimonials in his favour which had appeared in the Ionian papers.Sir R. Inglis
1003l.l.l.1002l.l.l.l.1001ll.1000ll.l999l.l.l.: Sir, I think, that some of the observations made by the right hon. Baronet have raised a new feature in this debate. The right hon. Baronet dwells on the advantages that would accrue to New South Wales from the introduction of free settlers and the promotion of emigration, and he asks will the House refuse a paltry 50,0001003l.l.l.1002l.l.l.l.1001ll.1000ll.l999l.l.l.Sir Robert Peel
1016 referred to a report of a finance committee on the annual expenditure of the Ionian Islands, for the purpose of showing that the state of the finances under former governors was no better than at present, and said, that if such a thing could be done as to call for a committee of inquiry of the House of Commons with respect to Sir H. Douglas, an officer who, for six years, had served his country in a
1016Sir R. Peel
Gazette? wished to know whether any official accounts had been received of an action in Canton river, in which some lives had been lost; and if so, why they had not appeared as usual in the Gazette?Sir Robert Peel
l.998 said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down, contended, that all the local expenditure of a colony ought to be borne by itself. He would agree to the correctness of that principle as applied to ordinary colonies. But, with regard to New South Wales, the circumstances were very peculiar, from the fact of its having beeen so long a penal settlement. Since its foundation, there had been 75,000 or 80,000 convicts exported to that colony, of which 30,000 were still under punishment. The demoralization of the population was consequently very great, No person could form any idea of the amount of crime which was perpetrated by this population, consisting in so large a proportion of convicts exported from the mother country. Under such circumstances, to compel the colonists of New South Wales to pay for the whole expense of police and gaols, which this disposition to crime rendered necessary, would in reality be to burden them with a portion of the expenses of the criminal jurisprudence of the mother; country. It was true that the colonists had derived advantages from the system of convict slavery, in the labour which they obtained from them; but it should be recollected also, that they clothed and fed their convict slaves, and thus diminished the cost of them to this country. Moreover, free labour was always found to be cheaper and better, when it was to be obtained, than convict labour. But the land-fund had been interfered with in such a way, as to deprive the colonist of that amount of free labour which they had expected on going out, and had still a right to expect. Our colonies were well worthy of attention and encouragement at the hands of the mother country. They
l.998Sir William Molesworth
987" That your petitioners are labouring under privations of the most appalling nature, in consequence of being frequently out of work, and, when fully employed, their wages ate in-adequate to purchase a sufficiency of the common necessaries of life; that in consequence of their poverty your petitioners, with few exceptions, are so ill clothed, that they cannot attend the public worship of God without violating the sense of decency instilled into them by early education, and their children are
987primâ facie986985 admitted the able manner in which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had met several of the statements of the hon. Member for London, but it seemed to him that the main positions of the colonists remained altogether untouched. Was it denied that the most grievous distress prevailed at the present moment in New South Wales for want of labour? Was it denied that this distress proceeded mainly from the acts of the Government at home? That colony had been in existence little more than fifty years. Within that short period it had attained a degree of strength and development altogether unparalleled in ancient or modern times. It had become the greatest wool market in the world. In 1807 wool had been exported to the extent of less than 300lbs., and the gentleman who first introduced the breed of sheep into the colony had died but three or four years ago. But last year the exports of wool had reached the enormous amount of 6,000,000lbs. This prosperity had been arrested in a great measure by the conduct of the Government. First of all, in 1834, came the Act of Mr. Spring Rice, which threw on the colony the entire charge of the police and gaols, expenses incurred beyond all doubt in a great measure by the mother country
987" That your petitioners are labouring under privations of the most appalling nature, in consequence of being frequently out of work, and, when fully employed, their wages ate in-adequate to purchase a sufficiency of the common necessaries of life; that in consequence of their poverty your petitioners, with few exceptions, are so ill clothed, that they cannot attend the public worship of God without violating the sense of decency instilled into them by early education, and their children are
987primâ facie986985Viscount Mahon
 said, that instructions had been forwarded to the office of the Poor-law commission in Ireland to furnish this information, and great stress had been laid on the expediency of its being communicated to the House without delay. It had not readied his hands, but he begged to say, that it should be presented to the House without a moment's unnecessary delay.Viscount Morpeth
l.l had to state, that the only alteration of any material character which he intended to propose in committee on the Parliamentary Voters (Ireland) Bill, was to raise the amount of rating which was to confer the elective franchise for counties from 5l.lViscount Morpeth
1023 could not conceive on what ground the hon. Member wished to defer the consideration of those bills. He thought, that by assenting to the motion the House would be acting unfairly towards those parties who were interested in the establishment of local courts, and therefore he objected to the postponement. As the hon. Gentleman had no
1023Alderman Copeland
 said, he did not, like the hon. Member, despair of being able to carry the County Courts Bill this Session. He thought, that it would be a great hardship on private individuals to allow them to incur the expense of carrying their separate private bills through, and afterwards to render all their exertions useless by pressing the general bill, and under such circumstances, the House would be just as responsible for the expense to which the parties interested in these bills had been put.Mr. Fox Maule
 was not prepared to give this information, but he did not imagine the addition to the Accountant-general's income would be considerable, for the fund of the Court of Exchequer was not large. It was to be recollected, that the labour and responsibility of this officer would also be increased by the new arrangement.The Attorney-General
 could not agree to this course. It was most desirable to avoid any further delay with this bill.The Attorney-General
1027 could see no reason whatever for voting against this clause. The jurisdiction of the Exchequer had already, by a former clause, been transferred to the Court of Chancery. All that now remained, therefore, was to transfer the money to where the jurisdiction was. They were going to divide on a clause to which no one objected. He would ask, how could they prevent the sharing of profits between the Accountant-general and the broker? If they did not divide the profits, the broker would get the whole. Perhaps they
1027Mr. O'Connell
1026 said, that no fees would go by the transfer of this business of the Court of Exchequer to the Accountant - general; but the additional profit would be by the brokerage. The broker would give him half his fee for the preference, the suitor paying no more. He had not heard one word said against the reasonableness of the objects of the clause under consideration, and it seemed to him, that the proposed introduction into it of matter having no connection with these objects was at the present moment unadvised. The facts relating to the mode in which the profit was made,
1026The Solicitor-general
 said, that the noble Lord should find him no captious objector. He was perfectly satisfied with the view taken by the noble Lord, and willingly withdrew his opposition.Sir E. Sygden
1029l1028 said, that by the preceding clauses, they had abolished the jurisdiction pf the Court of Exchequer, and they were now to consider how many new judges it would be necessary to appoint in Chancery. He proposed, that the blank in the clause should be filled up with the word "two," He would state shortly why he proposed, that there should be two new judges. The bill which came down from the House of Lords, last year, proposed, that there should be two, and the number had been determined on after very full consideration in the House of Lords, That House, after full deliberation, thought two necessary. Lord Brougham had been of a contrary opinion, but gave way to that of the Lord Chancellor, Lord Langdale, and Lord Lynd-
1029l1028The Attorney-general
 begged leave to correct his hon. Friend. The remark of the hon. Gentleman respecting the Court of Bankruptcy was inapplicable. There it was a question of one court with four judges, while the present clause proposed to create two courts with one judge in each. He begged to remind the hon. Gentleman also, that only one vacancy could be filled up, for when the second occurred it could not be filled up without the sanction of Parliament.The Attorney-General
1035l103410331032 said, that though he
1035l103410331032Mr. Pemberton
"I should say certainly not; that is my decided opinion; there should be one judge who should lake the whole of the equity business, if the court is to be retained as an equity court.""Is it your opinion that the Court of Exchequer will make an effective court of equity without an additional baron, devoted exclusively to that department." said, the right hon. Gentleman thought that the equity jurisdiction of the Court of Exchequer should be retained, and quoted Mr. Baron Alderson as an authority in support of that opinion. Now he would refer the right hon. Gentleman to Mr. Baron Alderson's evidence, question 494, in which he was asked,
"I should say certainly not; that is my decided opinion; there should be one judge who should lake the whole of the equity business, if the court is to be retained as an equity court.""Is it your opinion that the Court of Exchequer will make an effective court of equity without an additional baron, devoted exclusively to that department."The Attorney-General
 could inform the House 'that although Lord Brougham had formerly thought that the appointment of one judge would be enough, that noble Lord was now firmly of opinion that the appointment of two was necessary. He was of the same opinion, because at present there was a delay of three years between the setting down of a cause and its hearing—a delay which induced many persons to allow themselves to be robbed rather than incur the expense, and trouble, and delay of a Chancery suit.Mr. J. Stewart
 said, the Lord Chancellor was now preparing, with the assistance of able and experienced advisers, a set of regulations for the conduct of the business in those offices, which, it was hoped, would prove beneficial to the suitors, and satisfactory to the public.The Attorney-General
ll1040l thought it would be necessary to give a higher salary for the additional Vice-Chancellors. Considering the enormous weight of the duties which they would have to perform, and in which they would be deprived of the assistance and advice which were available to other judges; considering, too, that the Master of the Rolls had a salary of 7,000ll1040lMr. Pemberton
 said, that there was at present some difference of opinion on the state of the law with respect to masters in Chancery, and certain other judicial functionaries holding seats in Parliament. The question, he remarked, ought to be arranged in some settled manner.Mr. Pemberton
 only regretted, that his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Exeter, had not made his very excellent speech last session—when, by what he considered a most unwise decision, the Judge of the Admiralty was excluded from sitting in that House in future Parliaments. He hoped he might give notice, on his hon. and learned Friend's part, that his hon. and learned Friend would make a motion to remedy the blunder of last session.Mr. Jervis
 had no objection to insert such a clause.The Attorney-General
1051l could not agree with the Chancellor of the Exchequer in thinking that there would be no difficulty in procuring gentlemen to fill this office for a few months, without any prospect of compensation when it was abolished. He most sincerely believed that no barrister of sufficient standing would have taken the office on those terms. Suppose, session after session, the bill should not pass, would the case remain the same? Would the holder of the office still have no title to compensation? He asked then whether it were wise, in a case that was admitted to be doubtful, to risk the success of a measure of this importance for so small a matter. With regard to the precedents, they were all in favour of the amendment of his hon. and learned Friend; for he was quite satisfied that he was correct in stating that Mr. Brougham had been appointed after a distinct notice had been given by the Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords of the intention to reduce the salaries of the Masters in Chancery. What course had been adopted when they took away a portion of the patronage of the Lord Chancellor. They made compensation by adding 1,0001051lMr. Pemberton
 said, that he meant to vote for the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Exeter, on the ground that Lord Abinger had a right to appoint a person to the office, and that the individual so appointed had therefore a right to compensation on being deprived of it.Mr. Jervis
l begged to state one fact to the House previous to their dividing. Mr. Scarlett had actually given up a situation worth 500lMr. Villiers Stuart
 supported the amendment. Lord Abinger had accepted his situation, with the patronage attached to it, and as the gentleman whom he had appointed to the vacancy alluded to was admitted to be perfectly competent to the duties of the office, he thought that he was fairly entitled to compensation.Mr. Creswell
: The situation which Mr. Scarlett so resigned was that of counsel to the Mint and to the Post-office.Major Scarlett
—I thank the hon. and learned Gentleman for what he has so explicitly stated as to the fate of this hill. I have said, and I repeat, that I shall be satisfied with any decision to which the House may come on this question, hut if we are to be told that important bills of this kind will be rejected by the House because it differs in opinion as to the arrangements and money matters, it amounts to this—that no great measure is to be passed unless the House of Lords, and the House of Lords alone, has the power of granting compensation and settling the money questions. It is not a question of a compromise with the House of Lords as to our giving up the privileges which we have assumed in this respect, for that might be advantageous; but it is an absolute transfer of that privilege; it is saying that if you mean to have judicial reforms of importance, with regard to all matters of compensation the House of Commons is to pronounce no opinion of its own; and Mr. Scarlett may be entitled to compensation or he may not, the House of Commons is only to record the supreme judgments of the House of Lords.Lord J. Russell
 said, that he recollected a case bearing some resemblance to the present, which arose with regard to the provision for compensation made in the First Fruits and Tenths Act. Before that bill passed a vacancy occurred at the board, and he appointed a gentleman who had been acting as his private secretary; but when the bill passed, although compensation was granted to some gentlemen, as to that particular office none was claimed or expected, and he, in his position, should have considered it wrong to hold out to that gentleman any prospect of compensation—but certainly the Lord Chief Baron did not stand exactly in the same position. He did not complain of the hon. and learned Gentleman for bringing forward this subject. It was a question upon which two opinions might fairly be held; and all that his right hon. Friend wished was that the House should decide it.Lord John Russell
1056 said it was exceedingly difficult to take any certain course in pursuance of a resolution of so general a character as that to which the noble Lord alluded. He had not given a direct negative to the proposition contained in the resolution; for to the proposition by itself he felt no great objection. But what he stated was, that he did not think it desirable that the House should come to such a resolution; and he therefore moved the previous question, hoping that the noble Lord would hare been satisfied, and not have divided the House. However, the House did divide, and adopted the resolution of the noble Lord. There was a very elaborate report made by the committee on transportation, which committee was composed of persons holding the most opposite political opinions, and by men, some of whom were in office and some not. That committee came to certain resolutions, in which they decidedly disapproved of transportation of convicts to any settled districts in the colonies. With that opinion he agreed. The resolution alluded to by the noble Lord said nothing
1056Lord John Russell
 repeated, that in his opinion a certain number of convicts should be transported to districts not settled in the colonies, that a limited number should be confined in the hulks, and that the rest should be confined in the penitentiaries; but he could not exactly mention the numbers. This plan could not, however, be acted upon in the course of a few weeks; neither could any definite system be adopted upon a bare resolution of the House of Commons. The thing must be conducted according to the regular mode. He had before stated, that votes had been already proposed for building penitentiaries.Lord John Russell
1057, amidst considerable laughter, repeated his former statement,
1057Lord John Russell
: More than 4,000.Lord J. Russell
1061 said, he had been really misunderstood in what he had before stated to the House. The course which the Government intended to pursue with regard to the punishment of transportation—the punishment of death being confined to very few offenders—was to have three distinct species of punishment,—of transportation, confinement in prisons, and in the hulks. With regard to transportation, he certainly had always been of opinion that it was advisable to send a certain number of convicts abroad; that by sending them abroad they would obtain for them, after a certain period of punishment, the means of providing honestly for their own livelihood; because when they considered this punishment of transportation, they were bound to consider not only the immediate effect of it on our own country, but also on the society that they were establishing in another quarter of the globe: and what he certainly considered to be a very great evil was establishing a society in another quarter of the globe which really, if allowed to go on in the way in which it was proceeding, would have been a monstrous creation. With regard to the mode of doing this, it had appeared to him that there had been far too great a number of convicts sent out to our penal colonies. There was a great number to provide for, but many of these were only included under the sentence of transportation in consequence of acts passed ten or twelve years ago, for crimes which were not before punished with transportation; and there were seve-
1061Lord J. Russell
 could assure the hon. and gallant Member, that he had no desire whatever to take any improper advantage. It was desirable to go into Committee of Supply, because it was necessary to vote certain sums of money, for the purpose of paying off Exchequer-bills.Lord John Russell
 said, that having conversed with his hon. Friend, the Attorney-general, they were both of opinion, with the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, that the seat of the existing master should not, at any rate, be disturbed. The question raised by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, as to the successor of that functionary, was a distinct one altogether. Some understanding should be come to, but he retained his opinion, that it would not be advisable to exclude Masters in Chancery. His hon. Friend, the Attorney-general, had other occupations as well as the master, and yet no one could say that he should be excluded. He could not help thinking, that the more they excluded persons qualified to give correct and proper legal opinions, the more they would lower the character of that House.Lord J. Russell
 remarked, that the salary proposed by the clause was the same with that received by the Puisne Judges, who had many and great expenses to defray out of their income.Lord J. Russell
 replied, that they would be placed on the same footing as the present Vice-Chancellor.Lord J. Russell
 understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that this being an office which was already sufficiently paid, anything added to its emoluments ought rather to be applied, as the right hon. Gentleman said, to compensate officers who would lose their employments by this bill, or as the hon. Member for Ripon had suggested, in the payment of clerks for the accountant's office. That was a reasonable proposition, and he saw no objection to it. But the proposition of the hon. Member for Ripon, for the rejection of this clause was of a totally different nature.Lord J. Russell
 said, that the hon. Gentleman had understood him rightly. He should be most glad to hear from hon. and learned Gentlemen any suggestions which they might have to make, and he would be perfectly willing to assist in carrying them into effect, if introduced in a separate clause, in such a manner as to make the emoluments a means of affording compensation, to clerks for loss of salary.Lord J. Russell
llNisi Prius; was of opinion, that suitors without courts was a much greater evil than courts without suitors, and was the particular evil which now pressed upon the public, and which it was now sought to remedy by the creation of two new courts. Without this assistance it was quite impossible that the Vice-Chancellor and Master of the Rolls, could get through the enormous heap of business that was now before them; and, looking at the nature and amount of that business, he had no hesitation in saying, that less than two new courts would be insufficient. His right hon. and learned Friend said, that there were now only three courts of common law, and why, therefore, was it necessary to appoint two new equity judges? Why, his right hon. and learned Friend forgot that now, besides the three courts of common law, there was the Bail Court, and a separate judge of each court almost sitting daily at llNisi Prius;Mr. Lynch
 said, he considered his holding a seat in that House would not disqualify him for performing his duties as Master in Chancery.Mr. Lynch
1062l exceedingly regretted, that a subject of so much importance should be incidentally discussed. After calling the attention of the House to two of the resolutions of the committee on transportation, he expressed his decided opinion, if offenders were to be imprisoned, it would be found not only more effectual, but much more economical, to confine them at home than abroad. The system of transportation had hitherto cost the country not much less than 500,0001062lMr. Hawes
1053 thought, that the services
1053Mr. Hawes
 thought, that the House ought to act liberally in compensating persons deprived of any office in consequence of improvements in the law. They ought to do so not only in justice but in policy, because the slightest disposition on the part of Parliament to act illiberally towards persons so situated, would make the passing of any measure of Reform a matter of great difficulty. What was the worth of these twopenny-halfpenny questions, compared with the great good which would be gained by a reform like the one now proposed? He thought that the Court of Exchequer had behaved admirably on this occasion, as Lord Abinger had offered no opposition to a bill which would strip him of a great deal of patronage.Mr. C. Buller
ll1037lllll1036 felt it was great presumption in him to intrude himself upon a debate on the practice of a court with which he had no acquaintance, but he looked on this as the first step towards a great and useful series of law reforms. He was glad the commencement had been made with the Court of Chancery, because its delays had been, and still were, productive of great misery. He was quite prepared to agree with his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down, that the reform would be incomplete with this measure only, and until the Government proceeded to introduce those measures
ll1037lllll1036Mr. C. Buller
 thought the House much indebted to the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Ripon, not only for what he himself had brought before it, but also for that which he had caused the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-general, to bring forward. He could not, however, see why the right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Ripon, should divide the House against his right hon. and learned Friend, because his proviso was not introduced. The right hon. Gentleman might feel assured, that if he brought forward a clause embodying the views which he had stated, it would find ample support in that House. The mixing up the subject with the matter now under discussion, he looked upon as impolitic. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman would take the trouble of preparing a separate clause, and when the subject came under the consideration of the House, he should not think, that the House did its duty, if it failed to provide other means for the payment of a public officer.Mr. C. Buller
1063 was sorry to be obliged to inform the noble Lord, that if he persisted in his determination at that late hour, to take into consideration those important documents which had so recently been laid on the Table of the House, he must be prepared to listen to a speech from him of four or five hour's duration. He had never, during his experience in that House, seen such an attempt to smuggle papers into it. He hoped that the noble Lord would postpone his motion,
1063Colonel Sibthorp
 did not think that anything which had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend at all justified the observations of the noble Lord—and he begged to remind the noble Lord and the committee that the bill had been sent down last year by the House of Lords without the compensation clause. He mentioned that to show that the House of Lords, thinking it right that these offices should be abolished, had been content to originate a measure on the subject, though they had no power to provide compensation for those who held the offices which they proposed to abolish; it was impossible, therefore, that the House of Lords could be obnoxious to the observations of the noble Lord. The noble Lord the Chief Baron of the Exchequer was bound to make the appointment ha had made, and to fill the office with a competent person, and therefore it would be most unjust to deprive the person accepting of it of a fair compensation.Sir E. Sugden
 said, the noble Lord had only to insert a proviso in the clause, that any additional fees which should go to the Accountant-general's office, should go towards the payment of compensation to officers, and it would then meet with his approval. What he objected to was, that the clause should pass without some such explanation as this, and that the provision should be left till afterwards.Sir E. Sugden
1025ll said, he had not the slightest wish to cut down the salary of this very useful and efficient officer, but at the same time there was no reason why it should be unduly increased. The salary of the Accountant-general was at present about 4,5001025llSir E. Sugden
 said, he should propose to have the clause postponed until the information he asked was obtained.Sir E. Sugden
 said, that he understood this clause as transferring to the Accountant-general of the Court of Chancery the funds standing in the name of the Court of Exchequer. This arrangement, and the greater amount of business got through under the new system, would, he apprehended, very largely increase the emoluments of the Accountant-general, though the present amount of his income seemed quite sufficient for the office. The expense of the additional clerks would have to be defrayed out of the suitors' fund, or, in other words, by the public, while the increased fees and emoluments would be received by the Accountant-general. He (Sir E. Sugden) thought it desirable, that before this clause was adopted, the House should have some information as to what the future income of that officer was to be.Sir E. Sugden
1038ll said, that if a thousand more judges were called into existence, still the evils complained of by the hon. Gentleman would not be removed, because they did not originate with the judges, the fault being partly in the rules of court and partly in the complicated claims of the different parties who were not agreed among themselves, as in the case referred to by the hon. Gentleman. The widow might say—"Give me my annuity." But the answer to that was, naturally enough, "Stop until we see that the estate is sufficiently clear of all liabilities to afford you the full amount you claim." The hon. Gentleman had asked, supposing a legacy of 10,0001038llSir E. Sugden
10311030 thought it most impolitic, unless under circumstances of the very greatest necessity, to create two new courts of justice. The learned Attorney-general said, in reply to the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that this bill differed from Lord Brougham's, inasmuch as it created hut two new judges, one for each court, whereas by the bill of the noble Lord four judges were created for one court. But that did not get rid of the objection to two new courts, instead of one. Whether there were four judges or but one, there was still an additional court of justice too much, which would of course require an additional bar and additional attornies; so that unless they took great care this country would become a lawyer-ridden country. The opening of two new courts would create such a rush of barristers and attornies into them that he feared much of the business of those courts would not be done in a manner creditable to the administration of justice. The learned Attorney-general said, he would give power to the Lord Chancellor to alter the practice in the Master's Office, and that the alterations would be satisfactory. He should, however, like to know what those
10311030Sir E. Sugden
 asked, if it were intended to make the two judges independent of the Lord Chancellor. He thought it would be derogatory to the dignity of their office if that were not done.Sir E. Sugden
 thought there was no analogy between the case of a Vice-Chancellor and that of a Puisne Judge. The committee had no idea of the immense amount of labour which the former would have to go through. He had not like other judges, the advice and opinions of other persons to help him. He had nothing to depend on but his own learning, ability, and industry. If the noble Lord placed the rank of these judges too low, and at the same time gave so low a salary, he feared there would be a difficulty in finding men of proper standing and character to accept the office. Such a course would be calculated to lower the character of the office. For his own part, he would declare, and the noble Lord would admit him to be a fair witness—that no human inducement would make him undertake the immense amount of care and labour appertaining to the office. If new courts, with single judges, were to be appointed, they should bear in mind the difference between the position of such functionaries and that of judges sitting in courts with perhaps, four or five others, and allow a fair remuneration.Sir E. Sugden
 said, the difference was, that his hon. and learned Friend sat for a place in Ireland, and it had been decided that he could do so. But it had not been decided that a Master in Chancery in England could not, as the representative of any English constituency.Sir E. Sugden
 inquired if any alteration were to be made in the offices of the courts, especially those of the six clerks?Mr. Aglionby
1049 said that on former occasions he had opposed similar attempts to give a retroactive operation to Acts of Parliament. When the noble Lord opposite had introduced a bill as to the residence of the clergy and pluralities, he had sought to give the measure a retroactive operation for three sessions, because he had given notice then by bringing forward a bill; but he (Mr. Goulburn) took the objection
1049Mr. Goulburn
 thought the money ought to be applied to compensate the officers of the Exchequer, instead of giving it in the shape of increased fees to the officer of the Court of Chancery. The present bill contained provisions for compensation to the officers of the Court of Exchequer.Mr. Goulburn
 thought it monstrous, that the salary of a public officer should be dependent on a division of profits with a broker.Mr. Briscoe
 did not think that they could withhold compensation in this case without violating the obligations they had come under when the patronage was bestowed on the Chief Baron. That being the case, he would vote for the amendment.Mr. J. Jones
 said, he agreed with his hon. Friend that the House ought not to deal niggardly in granting compensation to parties who were really entitled to it, He, for one, had never refused a fair compensation in such a case. Under the present bill, every person belonging to the Court of Exchequer, except Mr. Scarlett, would be entitled to compensation. The vacancy to which that gentleman had been appointed had taken place after the question had been brought under the consideration of the Parliament, and he concurred in opinion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that Mr. Scarlett was not entitled to compensation.Mr. Hume
 thought, that the noble Lord had risen to give the House the assurance, that though the jurisdiction was transferred, the emoluments ought not to be increased, for the transfer of the money brought with it the transfer of additional emoluments. He submitted to the Government, whether it would not be more creditable to appoint a fixed salary for their officers, than to allow these fees to continue, a system which had been abolished in so many cases. He thought, that the noble Lord ought to satisfy the public wish by bringing forward a measure to that effect.Mr. Hume
 said, whatever might be the opinions of the learned Members of the House, he must again protest against the admission of judges to seats in Parliament.Mr. Hume
 said, that it would save him the necessity of making an annual motion, if a clause were inserted in the present bill, providing that an account of the Suitor's Fund should every year be laid before Parliament.Mr. Hume
 said, that Lord Brougham had declared to the committee up stairs, at the time the former bill was under consideration, that Masters in Chancery should be excluded from seats in the House. He thought that a functionary, who was paid by the public, should give his time to the performance of his duties in Court, and not neglect those duties by taking part in the proceedings in that House. He did wish to interfere with the seat of the existing functionary, but his successor should certainly be excluded.Mr. Hume
ll hoped the noble Lord would not listen to the recommendation of the right hon. and learned Gentleman to reconsider this subject. Indeed after the lecture on economy delivered by the right hon. Member for Tamworth last night, he thought that the noble Lord could hardly be expected to listen to any suggestion of the kind coming from the other side of the House. The right hon. Baronet had reproached the Government, and reproached their party with extravagance; let the noble Lord take warning in time, and not fall into similar errors for the future. With respect to the salary proposed by the clause, he thought that it was quite sufficient; 5,000llMr. Hume
 said, that when the precept bill was first brought in he had had an opportunity of conversing with Lord Brougham on the subject. He had spoken to him shortly before he quitted London, and his Lordship then expressed to him his opinion that it was not necessary to saddle the public with two new judges, as he thought one enough. The Government, the noble Lord thought, ought to have profited by the experience which they had had in the creation of the Court of Bankruptcy and its four judges.Mr. Hume
 said, the Exchequer fund was somewhere about two millions and a half. Certainly under three millions.Mr. Richards
1039 said, he had little hopes of good from this reform, which originated with the lawyers. But was it not to lawyers that all the scandalous abuses and delays which disfigured the present system of administering justice were to be ascribed? It had been remarked, that
1039Mr. Wakley
 was of opinion, that a night ought to be set apart for the consideration of this important subject. He earnestly requested the noble Lord not to be led away by real or supposed information from America, that long imprisonment did not produce aberration of mind. Fatuity, disease, and death, were the consequences of such inflictions; and if they were introduced into the system of this country, capital punishments, instead of being diminished, would be increased. Death would be inflicted, though not by the hand of the executioner. It was impossible to introduce confinement for any long period, such as ten or fifteen years, with any regard to the common claims of humanity. Sometimes only three years' imprisonment was utterly destructive of the future health of the sufferer. The great business of the Legislature ought to be, to prevent rather than to punish crime, and instead of debating on systems of severity, the House ought to consider how punishments could be rendered less frequent, by improving the morals of the lower orders. He, therefore, hoped that the noble Lord would cause a careful inquiry to be made into the effect of the systems pursued in this country, and that he would not determine upon the course to be pursued, till he had investigated this matter fully and perfectly.Mr. Wakley
 reminded his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, that judges were not excluded from the Chamber of Deputies in France.Mr. Ewart
 said, as the clause then stood, a compensation amounting to three-fourths of the salary and emoluments was to be granted to the party during his life. Now, it might happen that, in the case of Mr. Scarlett, he might be called to the House of Lords, and in such a case it would be proper that the compensation should cease. He proposed, therefore, that the time during which the compensation then to be paid be discretionary with the Treasury.Mr. Hayter
 thought, that the fact of Mr. Scarlett having resigned another situation ought to come under the consideration of the Treasury. He hoped that the clause might be so altered as to give the Treasury a discretionary power to grant a limited compensation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1050 said, that the offices to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, were small appointments attached to the office of hereditary usher of the Court of Exchequer, which that officer had always had the power of selling, as much as any other part of his property; and the House would draw a distinction between a man holding property of that sort, which might be a subject of family arrangements, and a
1050The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 concurred to a certain degree in the policy of the hon. and Learned Gentleman. He would never be a party to dealing harshly or unfairly with persons who, without notice, were deprived of their offices by the power of Parliament; but he could not regard in the same light parties who had taken their offices with a full knowledge that they were to be abolished; and he should say that it was a dangerous principle for the House of Commons to sanction—that whatever the time at which the appointment was made, whatever might be the known intention of Parliament, if the act had not actually passed, and a life dropped and the vacancy was filled up, then the holder of the office should receive the same amount of compensation as if he had held it for forty or fifty years. With regard to the appointment of Mr. Brougham, he understood that that took place several years before the bill passed; the appointment, he was informed, was in March, 1831, and the bill passed in August, 1833. Now, he asked, was there a gentleman in that House who seriously believed that parties could not have been found to fill this office upon the understanding that they were not to receive compensation if Parliament abolished the office? He had no personal feeling on the matter; he was only desirous of ascertaining the opinion of the House on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ex post facto1045Hume.1044 then proposed to substitute the following clause for clause 56, which had been expunged:—"And be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for any officer of the Court of Exchequer, who was appointed to his office or employment in that court prior to the 14th day of March, 1840, whose office will be abolished or affected by the operation of this act, to make a claim for compensation within six months after the passing thereof, to the commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, and the Lord Chief Baron of the said court for the time being; and the said commissioners and the Lord Chief Baron shall proceed, in such manner as they may think proper, to inquire whether any compensation ought to be made to any such claimant, and, if any, what were the lawful fees and emoluments in respect of which the same should be allowed; and in every case in which such claim shall be established to the satisfaction of the said Commissioners and the Lord Chief Baron, they are hereby authorized and empowered to fix and determine, by an order under their hands, the amount of the annual compensation which shall seem to them to be just and reasonable for the loss sustained by such claimant, not being in any case, where his office is wholly abolished by, and he shall not be appointed to any other office under this act, less than three-fourth parts of the full net annual value of the lawful fees and emoluments of the office so abolished, and the amount of such annual value as aforesaid shall be ascertained and fixed by the said commissioners and the Lord Chief Baron, according to such an average of yearly receipts and disbursements, prior to the passing of this act, as they shall think proper; and the said commissioners and the Lord Chief Baron shall have full power to award, in any case in which they shall think fit, such annual sum by way of compensation, to any such claimant who shall be appointed by or under this act to any office or situation in the Court of Chancery, in addition to the salary attached to such office or situation, so long as he shall hold office under this act; and also, an annual sum by way of compensation, to become payable when he shall, with the sanction of the Lord Chancellor, have resigned such office; and all the compensations, fixed and determined as aforesaid, shall be issued and paid and payable by the accountant-general of the
ex post facto1045Hume.1044The Chancellor of the Exchequer
—Did I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that the purchasers, to whom he is willing to grant compensation, purchased their offices after the notice had been given of the intention to abolish them? He says the salaries of these offices are but small; but this is a question of principle, and I understand the case to be this:—After this notice had been given, two persons purchased offices with full notice that they were to be abolished. For them the right hon. Gentleman proposes compensation, but where is the distinction between that case and the case of the Lord Chief Baron exercising, in the case of a death, that duty which the law imposed upon him? If these purchases were made after the notice, on what principle does the right hon. Gentleman propose to deprive of compensation the person appointed by the Lord Chief Baron?Sir Robert Peel
1060 would take it so, and of these, under a system merely of imprisonment, a large number would periodically be restored to society, and it would be impossible for the legislature by any measures to abate the existing prejudice against the employment of persons who had been punished for crimes in preference to others who had never been found guilty. On the other hand, a well-regulated system of transportation would remove the convict from the association of his companions, and having expiated his offence, he would not carry about with him in the colony the prison mark. If the criminal could be induced, abroad, to re-
1060Sir R. Peel
10591058 said, that this was a subject of great importance at all times, but of peculiar importance at the present moment, when there was evidently a great disposition on the part of the House to proceed to the utmost possible extent to abolish capital punishment. Therefore, whatever system of secondary punishments might be devised, should be made as efficacious as possible, of course agreeably with an enlarged humanity, and with sound principles of criminal jurisprudence. He was a Member of the Committee to which the noble Lord had referred, and in the general recommendation of that Committee as to the evils which the continuance of transportation, and particularly the assignment system, were entailing upon a colony circumstanced like New South Wales now was—that colony having outgrown its original purpose of a penal system—in that opinion he entirely concurred. He recollected that a proposal was made in that Committee which went to a positive recommendation of immediately abolishing transportation. On that occasion he stated, that it was impossible, looking to the number of persons sentenced to transportation, for any committee safely to recommend the immediate abolition of transportation in the present condition of this country, and in respect to the present system of secondary punishments. He, therefore, did not mean, by concurring in the proposal with respec to the discontinuance of transpor-
10591058Sir Robert Peel
 did not feel justified in assenting to the proposition. Mr. Scarlett had certainly given up the situation referred to; but he rested the claim for compensation on other grounds.Sir W. Follett
 said, he should not object to a clause being hereafter introduced providing that the compensation should cease, should Mr. Scarlett become a Peer.Sir W. Follett
104810471046 trusted that the hope of the right hon. Gentleman would be rea-
104810471046Sir W. Follett
 could inform his hon. Friend opposite, that he had not voted for the exclusion of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets. If he had been in town when the decision alluded to was come to, he should hare voted against it. He considered it a most unwise decision. He thought that case, in which the holder of an old-established office, whose occupiers had so long sat in Parliament, was thus excluded, fell precisely within the range of the present question. And if his hon. and learned Friend brought forward any proposition to alter or rescind the decision of last Session, he should have his (Sir W. Follett's support.)Sir W. Follett
1042 said, he perfectly agreed with the noble Lord (J. Russell) that
1042Sir W. Follett
 said, that before the House went into committee, he wished to ask the noble Lord a question. On the 23rd of last month, the House passed a resolution, expressive of an opinion that the increasing number of convicts on board the hulks was an evil, and a strong desire to see a better system pursued. The House, it was true, was thinly attended on that occasion; but there were fifty-one for, and thirty against, the resolution, and he believed if there had been a fuller attendance, the decision would have been the same. A month having elapsed, and the noble Lord having apparently acquiesced in the resolution, in not having proposed its being rescinded, he wished to ask the noble Lord whether he had taken any steps, or whether the Government had any measure in contemplation for fulfilling the recommendation of the House; or, if not, whether he would give a pledge that with all due care the resolution should be fully and completely carried out?Viscount Mahon
 was anxious to understand the noble Lord correctly. What he did understand the noble Lord to say was, that the course to be taken by the Government was settled before he (Viscount Mahon) introduced his motion on the subject; and that that course would be followed without any alteration.Viscount Mahon
 wished to ask the noble Lord whether the opinion he had just expressed was intended to be acted upon by the Government, and whether it was proposed to make any immediate progress in building new penitentiaries, or whether they were merely the abstract opinions of the noble Lord himself, and which were not intended to be carried out in practice by her Majesty's Government?Viscount Mahon
llMirror of Parliament said, the hon. Gentleman had been kind enough to put into his hands a copy of the llMirror of ParliamentLord Stanley
109110901089lllllllll1088bonâ fidel1087"Leases expire, and are not renewed; and whole districts were everywhere to be found the tenantry of which were unrepresented."1086lsbonâ fidesl1085l"Rents of small holdings are sometimes four or five times the valuation.""It is a universal fact prevailing in every union which we visited, that much competition for small holdings is more active than for large. The consequence is, that the acreable letting value of small holdings is considerably higher than that of large."1084s10831082lsll1081lllsl1080"In general, electors rated at small sums, so far as we are able to ascertain, are persons
lsl1080lllllbonâ fidell1079lll1078l1077ll1076llllllbonâ fide1075 said, that in rising to propose the amendment on the first clause, of which he had given notice, he might, perhaps, be looked upon as taking upon himself an office which did not properly belong to him. This might be supposed to be more properly the office of some one possessing an intimate and local knowledge of Ireland, to which he had no pretensions, or of one commanding the support of a powerful party in that House. He was sensible of his total inadequacy to do justice to the subject, on either of those grounds. But, although, on the one side, he had no local acquaintance with Ireland, neither, on the other hand, was he mixed up with those religious and political animosities, which now, unfortunately, afflicted that country; and, if he had no right to reckon on the support of any great party in that House, still he hoped, that very circumstance would convince hon. Members, that his sole object was, to promote the public benefit, for he disclaimed most sincerely in what he was about to propose for the consideration of the House, the prospect of any party advantage. His only object was to assist in promoting the settlement of a question which he was convinced, could not without infinite detriment to the best interests of the country, or, indeed, without danger to the security of the empire, be left a subject of fierce party contest in that House, and in Ireland. The importance of the settlement of this great question, must be felt by both sides of the House. It must be equally evident, that any final settlement would be altogether impracticable, if both sides of the House insisted on carrying out to the utmost, each its own peculiar views. It was hardly necessary for him to state, that on bringing forward his amendment, he was actuated by no feelings of hostility towards the Government. He could assure his noble Friend, who so ably conducted the business of Government in that House, that nothing could be further from his mind than such a feeling. But, finding it impossible, consistently with his sense of public duty, to support the clause as it now stood, in the bill, he thought it better to endeavour to find some substitute for the plan there proposed, than to confine himself simply to negativing the clause. The
109110901089lllllllll1088bonâ fidel1087"Leases expire, and are not renewed; and whole districts were everywhere to be found the tenantry of which were unrepresented."1086lsbonâ fidesl1085l"Rents of small holdings are sometimes four or five times the valuation.""It is a universal fact prevailing in every union which we visited, that much competition for small holdings is more active than for large. The consequence is, that the acreable letting value of small holdings is considerably higher than that of large."1084s10831082lsll1081lllsl1080"In general, electors rated at small sums, so far as we are able to ascertain, are persons
lsl1080lllllbonâ fidell1079lll1078l1077ll1076llllllbonâ fide1075Viscount Howick
l"In Bandon any excess of rating above rent would exclude fifty-three out of 141. A 5llllllllllllllllllll"In Fermoy the number of 10lllllllllllllllllllss1096l1095l1094ll"And thenceforward no person claiming under any act or acts now in force, to be entitled to be registered and to vote as a Parliamentary elector for any county, in respect of any freehold or leasehold property in his actual occupation, shall be deemed to have a beneficial interest therein of the clear yearly value required by such act or acts except as herein after provided.""And thenceforward no person shall be entitled, as a freeholder or leaseholder, to be registered as a voter for such county in respect of any freehold or leasehold property, in his actual occupation, save as herein provided."1093l1092 could assure his noble Friend that it was quite needless in him to repudiate the notion that, in bringing forward this amendment, he could have been Suspected of being actuated by any motives of merely embarrassing the Government. He felt sure that all who knew his noble
l"In Bandon any excess of rating above rent would exclude fifty-three out of 141. A 5llllllllllllllllllll"In Fermoy the number of 10lllllllllllllllllllss1096l1095l1094ll"And thenceforward no person claiming under any act or acts now in force, to be entitled to be registered and to vote as a Parliamentary elector for any county, in respect of any freehold or leasehold property in his actual occupation, shall be deemed to have a beneficial interest therein of the clear yearly value required by such act or acts except as herein after provided.""And thenceforward no person shall be entitled, as a freeholder or leaseholder, to be registered as a voter for such county in respect of any freehold or leasehold property, in his actual occupation, save as herein provided."1093l1092Viscount Morpeth
alone1108lllllllll1107l1106ll1105lll1104ll1103llllltoties quotiesl1102lll1101"That after this act shall so come into operation in any county every person claiming under any act or acts now in force, to be entitled to be registered, and to vote as a Parliamentary elector for any county, in respect of any freehold or leasehold property in his actual occupation, shall be deemed to have a beneficial interest in such property of the clear yearly value required by such Act or Acts, if such property, or some part thereof, shall have been rated in the last rate made for the relief of the poor, at a net annual value which shall exceed any
1101 said, he conceived the amendments then before the House did not appear to be properly understood; for its effect would be to make a clear addition to the occupation franchise proposed in the bill, whether that franchise might hereafter be with or without a lease; and he did not understand therefore the ground on which the noble Lord opposed the amendment of his noble Friend, after having stated his willingness to accede to it, if it made an addition to the constituency. Now, the proposition of his noble Friend was an addition, and not, as had been argued, a substitute. The noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland complained, that the object of the present amendment was to disfranchise; on the contrary, it was proposed to remedy a sweeping disfranchisement, which some of the words of the noble Secretary for Ireland's bill would cause. It was introduced with a view of inserting more moderate words. The bill of the noble Lord destroyed the whole existing properly qualification franchise of Ireland, and substituted in its stead one by leasehold occupation, while the proposition of his noble Friend near him (Lord Ho wick) would preserve a certain portion of that which now was in existence. The noble Secretary for Ireland argued throughout as if the proposition of his noble Friend (Viscount Howick) was brought forward as a substitute for that of the Government, instead of being, as it distinctly was, an addition thereto. But let the noble Lord look to the whole of what was proposed by his noble Friend, the substance of his noble Friend's first proposition, that which was now before the committee, being contained in the addition which he meant to propose to the second clause, and then let the noble Lord consider how the whole would work. If that addition was inserted, the clause would run—
alone1108lllllllll1107l1106ll1105lll1104ll1103llllltoties quotiesl1102lll1101"That after this act shall so come into operation in any county every person claiming under any act or acts now in force, to be entitled to be registered, and to vote as a Parliamentary elector for any county, in respect of any freehold or leasehold property in his actual occupation, shall be deemed to have a beneficial interest in such property of the clear yearly value required by such Act or Acts, if such property, or some part thereof, shall have been rated in the last rate made for the relief of the poor, at a net annual value which shall exceed any
1101Mr. C. Wood
ll1109 wished to say a few words on this amendment. He hoped it would, not be considered any impertinent intru-
ll1109Sir C. Grey
 explained. The proposal of his noble Friend was, not to disfranchise but to retain the franchise, and increase it as much as possible, and it was the hon. Member, and not his noble Friend who misunderstood the meaning of the clause.Mr. C. Wood
1115O'Connell11141113"True, there are 52,000 voters on the register, I am on the register, my sons are on the register; but my father, my uncle, and my grandfather are there too; and from my knowledge of the country I take on myself to say, that there are not near 30,000 efficient votes on the register; and your Bill cannot at the most add 1,200 to the present number. It must require an exorbitant stretch of imagination to suppose that the county constituency can ever reach 30,000."1112s1111per sel1110 said—Sir, it was not my present intention to enter on the discussion of the question of qualification proposed by the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, or that proposed by my noble Friend opposite. So far as I am concerned it is of little importance
1115O'Connell11141113"True, there are 52,000 voters on the register, I am on the register, my sons are on the register; but my father, my uncle, and my grandfather are there too; and from my knowledge of the country I take on myself to say, that there are not near 30,000 efficient votes on the register; and your Bill cannot at the most add 1,200 to the present number. It must require an exorbitant stretch of imagination to suppose that the county constituency can ever reach 30,000."1112s1111per sel1110Lord Stanley
ss1116l said, that he had not intended to take any part in this discussion; but he had been driven from his intended silence by some of the observations of the noble Lord. The noble Lord had talked of the estimate he had made when the Reform Bill was introduced of the extent and probable increase of the county constituency, and had stated it correctly so far as he went. At that time he certainly had shown, that instead of 52,000 there were not above 26,000 or 28,000 available votes on the register, and that they were not likely to be increased by 2,000; but when was it that he said that? At that time the noble Lord had not inserted the clause for a 10ss1116lMr. O'Connell
sGreat cheering from both side of the House11211120"It is not for us to consider what Parliament intends—it is not for us to consider what the policy of the Legislature may be in regard to the franchise—we can look only to the letter of the act, and consider the meaning of the words which it contains."sl11191118l1117: Before the House divides I wish to say a few words on the proposition made by my noble Friend the Member for Northumberland (Viscount Howick); and I am exceedingly sorry, both from what he stated, and from what has been said by the noble lord (Lord Stanley) opposite, to find that there does
sGreat cheering from both side of the House11211120"It is not for us to consider what Parliament intends—it is not for us to consider what the policy of the Legislature may be in regard to the franchise—we can look only to the letter of the act, and consider the meaning of the words which it contains."sl11191118l1117Lord John Russell
1128ss11271126llll1125lllll1124l1123"The hon. Member for Kilkenny had made a calculation of the returns of the number of persons who polled at contested elections in eighteen of the counties of Ireland; and that number amounted to 15,211; there then remained fourteen counties unpolled. But it should be observed, that the contest took place in those counties where there was the greatest number of voters. Now, let any man calculate on these data; and he would fearlessly ask him, whether, in giving a constituency of 26,000 to Ireland, he had not placed the number infinitely too high?"1122 rose and said—Sir, the noble Lord has, on this occasion, pursued the course which he almost uniformly pursues when he has some very defective measure to defend, that of trying to divert the attention of the House from the subject properly under its consideration, and by some general declamation about popular rights in some charges against his political opponents, to raise a cheer in the behalf of those who sit behind him, under the cover of which cheer he himself retires from the discussion, and fancies that he has been triumphantly successful. The noble Lord
1128ss11271126llll1125lllll1124l1123"The hon. Member for Kilkenny had made a calculation of the returns of the number of persons who polled at contested elections in eighteen of the counties of Ireland; and that number amounted to 15,211; there then remained fourteen counties unpolled. But it should be observed, that the contest took place in those counties where there was the greatest number of voters. Now, let any man calculate on these data; and he would fearlessly ask him, whether, in giving a constituency of 26,000 to Ireland, he had not placed the number infinitely too high?"1122Sir R. Peel
ssl1130ss1129s said, he wished briefly to notice that speech of his to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded. The right hon. Baronet had quoted as if he had made the calculation of what would be the franchise after the Reform Bill, whereas the speech he read related to a calculation of the state of it before the Reform Bill, namely 26,000. On that point he (Mr. O'Connell,) could not be mistaken, whatever he might have been before, because he had published that statement in a letter, both in the newspapers and in a pamphlet. The hon. Baronet who had taken an active part in the Emancipation Bill, had done them the justice to say, that they made no bargain, nor any compact, but that was but doing them half justice, because they had expressly called upon the House to reject the Emancipation Act rather than disfranchise the 40ssl1130ss1129sMr. O'Connell
1131l said, that after what had fallen from the noble Lord (the Secretary for the colonies), he felt anxious to say a few words in explanation. He was surprised to hear the noble Lord state that the effect of the amendment would be to restrict the franchise in Ireland. He was convinced that it would, as it was his intention it should, have a precisely opposite effect. The noble Viscount (the Secretary for Ireland) concurred with him in the necessity of creating a new franchise, That noble Lord proposed, in order to counteract the indisposition on the part of landlords to grant leases, to bestow it on leaseholders of 81131lViscount Howick
"The same principle ran throughout the whole bill, and the whole measure was as conservative as the hottest Conservative could desire.""I will now give the House a few specimens of the number of persons entitled to vote by this measure." said, that he should be exceedingly sorry if the hon. Gentleman imagined that he had misrepresented him. He had described the hon. Gentleman as prophesying the future operation of the Reform Bill. He could not, of course, know what the thoughts of the hon. Gen-Gentleman were, he only spoke from his reported speeches. The hon. Gentleman said,—
"The same principle ran throughout the whole bill, and the whole measure was as conservative as the hottest Conservative could desire.""I will now give the House a few specimens of the number of persons entitled to vote by this measure."Sir R. Peel
 said, that in reference to what had fallen from the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, he had only to state, that he did not wish to say that the proposal of his noble Friend would restrict the franchise, nor would he say whether the franchise proposed by the amendment was a good one or not.Lord J. Russell
 said, that in consequence of what had taken place he was anxious to make it perfectly clear that the amendment he had brought forward, and which had been this night discussed, was intended to be an addition to another franchise, and not a substitution. He should, therefore, reverse the order in which he had proposed to move his two amendments, and not move that for the definition of the beneficial interest till he had submitted that relating to occupancy.Viscount Howick
 spoke of the political cowardice displayed by Ministers. He was glad to find by the result of the division this night, and by the honest, fair, undisguised muster of the Conservatives, that her Majesty's Government was no longer to be allowed to play the tricks with which it had for some time indulged the country. He asked why the noble Lord did not display a little of that moral courage he ought to possess, and not wince like a galled jade because his withers were a little wrung.Colonel Sibthorp
s gave notice, that in the next stage of the bill, he would propose a clause for the restoration of the 40sMr. O'Connell
1137 observed, that under the circumstances of the late division, it could not be expected that the noble Lord would be prepared to make any declaration as to the course he should pursue;
1137Sir R. Peel
 said, that he considered the introduction of the words of the amendment an important change in the bill, but he was not now prepared to say to what extent it affected it. He therefore proposed to postpone the farther proceeding until Monday. He had no objection to take Wednesday next, if other Gentlemen wished it.Lord J. Russell
 remarked, that his bill stood for Wednesday, but in the situation in which Ministers at present stood, he did not think it right to offer any opposition to their taking that day for their bill. The amendment just carried must make a material difference, and it was only fair to the noble Lord and his colleagues to allow them to-morrow to consider what course they would adopt. If, therefore, the noble Lord wished to re-commit his bill on Wednesday, he was quite ready to fix his own bill for some future day.Lord Stanley
 said, there was no doubt about it, that insurance companies were included.Mr. Labouchere
 wished to ask whether insurance companies were included in the objects of the committee appointed to inquire into all joint stock companies except banking companies?Mr. Godson
1073l said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, with reference to one of the orders of the day, namely, whether it was the intention of the Cabinet of which the noble Lord formed a part, on the 25th of June, 1832, to give the right of voting at elections of Members of Parliament for counties in Ireland to all persons occupying tenements for which they paid an annual rent of 101073lSir G. Grey
1158"A direct course from Jamaica to the Start passes more than thirty miles to the north of the commissioners' "imaginary berth," and it is evident to every practical man, that to escape the north-east trade, a steamer would invariably take a more northerly route. But, assuredly, the natural question is, "What difference in distance is there between the West-Indies and Falmouth, and the West-Indies and Dartmouth?" Answer, fifty-six nautical, or sixty-five statute miles, in lieu of the forty-seven given by the commissioners ! It is, therefore, as demonstrable as any problem in Euclid, that instead of two hours being gained by going to Dartmouth, this strange error, added to the unaccountable mistake of one hour and forty-eight minutes in the mail-coach distance, leaves an actual balance of one hour in favour of Falmouth."11571156 said, it was not his intention to occupy the attention of the House at any length, but painful as it must be to him to differ from the noble Lord, and his other right hon. Friend, from, in fact, the Government, of which he was a member, on a question affecting the vital interests of those he had the honour to represent, he should be unworthy of the honour the electors of East Cornwall had done him, if he hesitated, when not only an injury but an injustice was about to be inflicted on them, and when, out of the proposed measure, no public advantage would arise, for if there were a public good to follow from the removal of the packets from the port of Falmouth, however individual or private interests might be affected, he would undertake to say, there was not a man in the county of Cornwall but would cheerfully bear it. He said he should be ashamed of himself if he hesitated and allowed any consideration for one instant, to interfere with the honest and faithful discharge of his duty to his constituents. When he applied the term injustice to the proposed measure, he must beg his Friends around him to understand, that he did not mean to attribute intentional injustice, either to the Government, or to the Commissioners—in respect to the Government he had no complaint to make. His opinion was, that they could not act otherwise than as they had done. A great change was to be carried out as to the manner in which the foreign mails were to be conveyed; it involved the question, whether some other port might not, with advantage, be substituted for that of Falmouth? The question had been raised by the contractors for the carriage of the mails. The Government appointed commissioners to examine and report their opinion. That opinion was in favour of Dartmouth, and the Government, very properly, were preparing to carry into effect measures formed on that opinion, believing it to
1158"A direct course from Jamaica to the Start passes more than thirty miles to the north of the commissioners' "imaginary berth," and it is evident to every practical man, that to escape the north-east trade, a steamer would invariably take a more northerly route. But, assuredly, the natural question is, "What difference in distance is there between the West-Indies and Falmouth, and the West-Indies and Dartmouth?" Answer, fifty-six nautical, or sixty-five statute miles, in lieu of the forty-seven given by the commissioners ! It is, therefore, as demonstrable as any problem in Euclid, that instead of two hours being gained by going to Dartmouth, this strange error, added to the unaccountable mistake of one hour and forty-eight minutes in the mail-coach distance, leaves an actual balance of one hour in favour of Falmouth."11571156Sir Hussey Vivian
 was in favour of inquiry, and thought the attention of the committee should be directed to the claims of Bristol, and the southern and western parts of Ireland.Lord Ingestrie
1159Freshfield said, he could not concur in the vote of the hon. Gentleman, though he did in his reasoning. The hon. Gentleman confined the wording his motion to the channel harbours. [Mr. 1159FreshfieldMr. O'Connell
1165l11641163 rose for the purpose of submitting a motion, founded upon a petition which had been presented to the House at an early period of the Session, praying for au alteration of the site of the courts of law. The object of the motion, with which he should conclude was, to appoint a select committee, for the purpose of considering the expediency of removing the courts of justice from their present site to the neighbourhood of the inns of court. He knew no set of gentlemen in the kingdom less accustomed to associate together for the purpose of attaining any object than the solicitors. For many years they had submitted to great inconvenience, arising out of the present state of things, and their dislike of change induced them to forbear calling for an alteration, which public convenience and justice long since required; and nothing but a sense of the overpowering inconvenience to which they were now subjected could at last have caused them to petition the House on the subject. It could not be denied, that the attorneys of London were a class of persons the best informed, and the most likely lo form a correct opinion on the subject that could be found, for their duties rendered their attendance at the courts of justice constantly necessary. They must be aware of the inconvenience or want of accommodation they experienced, and how far the situation of the courts was calculated to afford facilities for removing the present impediments to the progress of the business of their clients. He had heard it said, that the solicitors called for an alteration for their own convenience; undoubtedly that was the case, but it should be recollected, that the convenience of the solicitors involved the advantage of the suitors. The petitioners truly represented that the present site of the courts of law was at a great distance from what they called the legal quarter of the town—that the great mass of professional men were engaged in the neighbourhood of the inns of court—that many barristers practised in all the courts, and that their chambers were in the inns of court—that constant communications were going on between solicitors and barristers, and that, therefore, from the present situation of the courts of law—many of them being separated from each other, whilst it was necessary for the bar and the solicitors to attend to all of them—attorneys were subjected to great in-
1165l11641163The Solicitor-General
 was glad to perceive, that common sense had at last found its way among the lawyers. He expressed his entire approval of the project detailed by the Solicitor-general, and had himself proposed precisely the same thing in February 1836, but could then obtain no attention.Mr. Hume
1166 presented a petition signed by 42,000 persons, praying, that Waterloo, Vauxhall, and Southwark bridges might be thrown open to the public. The worthy alderman then moved for the appointment of a Select Commit tee, to take into consideration the several plans for the improvement of the metropolis, concerning which reports were made in this House in the years 1836, 1338, 1839, and 1840, together with any other plans for the same object which they may deem worthy of consideration; and also the petitions presented to this House for the purchase of the interests of the proprietors of Waterloo, Southwark and Vauxhall bridges, in order to their being immediately opened to the use of the public free from toil; and to report their
1166Mr. Alderman Wood
 being connected with the county of Cornwall, hoped the House would listen to the few words he had to say in reference loan observation that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had spoken of an additional sum of money being expended in consequence of Falmouth being a packet station. He saw by the report, that the opinion of the committee, of which the bon. Gentleman was chairman, was, that Dartmouth was a most unfit place for a station, and that Plymouth or Falmouth would be preferable to it. He considered that the commission had acted with fairness, but while he would not impugn their competency, he must say, that even on their own showing it was evident they had been led into error, and that their decision had been arrived at hastily. He would refer in proof of this to a place well known to naval men by the name of St. Just's pool, which was an admirable harbour, and by the adoption of which a saving of several miles would be effected. It being evident, then, that sufficient information had not been obtained, the House should be cautious how it took away from Falmouth an advantage which it had enjoyed for a period of 105 years, in order to effect an alleged saving of a few minutes. From what occurred so often with respect to the large steamers, and the difficulties they experienced, he considered mail-coach conveyance, where practicable, was preferable to even the first-class steam-packets.Lord Eliot
1154 rose to put in his claim on behalf of Bristol, the advantages of which as a station for the West-India packets, if not superior to any other, which he did not contend it was, certainly en-
1154Mr. F. H. Berkeley
 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for a "Select committee on the port of departure and arrival of the West-India mails, to whom shall be referred the reports of the committee appointed by the Lords of the Admiralty to inquire as to the comparative advantages afforded by different ports in the channel for the West-India mail service." Until a recent period no ports but Falmouth had been thought of for this service; but lately Southampton and other ports had been set up in competition. He advocated the claims of the port of Falmouth over that of Dartmouth, and hoped that Dartmouth would not be the port chosen for this service, and take it from Falmouth, in order to save about twenty-four minutes time. He was anxious, however, to have a committee of inquiry to determine as to the relative merits of the rival ports. All naval men were surprised that Dartmouth should be selected as a port of departure. In making his motion the hon. Gentleman stated, that all he sought was a full, fair, and impartial inquiry, and he would rest satisfied with a select committee appointed by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, provided it were composed of intelligent men.My. Freshfield
 said, it had been distinctly understood by the company, at the time when the contract was made, that they should have the choice of the port from, which the packet should start, and if that had not been so he could assure the House that the contract would not have been signed. He looked upon Southampton as the most convenient port for embarking both passengers and letters, and hoped that Government would adopt it for the latter. The letters would arrive more speedily if brought by the packets to Southampton, than if landed at Falmouth, and then conveyed to town.Mr. Irving
1160 gave great credit to the Government for the manner in which they had acted upon this subject. If further inquiry were necessary he would prefer a practical commission on the spot to a committee of that House. He concurred in the wishes of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Dublin; but in conse-
1160Mr. Hume
WATERLOO, &c. BRIDGES.] presented a petition from the nobility, gentry, bankers, merchants, and other inhabitants of the metropolis and its environs, praying the House will adopt some means for opening Waterloo, Southwark, and Vauxhall bridges, free of tolls.—Laid on the Table.Sir Matthew Wood
 seconded the motion. There appeared to be a determination in the Board of Admiralty to abide by the decision of the commissioners, whatever that decision might be. It struck him that the only ground to come before the House was, that there was either something defective in the evidence, or that certain matters lay without the field of the inquiry of the commissioners, and that the Government had taken the matter into their own hands.Sir C. Lemon
1155 said, that long before the contract was entered into for the conveyance of the West-India mails complaints were made to the Government of the inconvenience of Falmouth as a port of departure, and memorials were sent in, praying that the preference might be given to Dartmouth. Of course, if this matter were thrown open to competition, every port would put in its claim to He selected as the best adapted to the purpose. The Government, however, had felt it to be their duty not to regard local interests, but the general good, and to endeavour to make the system as perfect as possible. They felt, however, that they had no power to control the parties who had entered into the contract as to the place of departure, except in so far as the public convenience was concerned. That was the reply which he had invariably given to all the applications which had been made to him upon the subject. For his own part, he did not care whether the packets went from Portsmouth, or Devonport, or Falmouth; and so he had told the hon. Gentlemen who represented the last two places. The question was, which was the most convenient port? which was the best place for the departure of the mails? The Government had kept that question always in view; and he must say, that if he had entertained any idea of jobbing, he should certainly have jobbed in favour of Portsmouth. In order to arrive at the most satisfactory arrangement, a commission was appointed to investigate the matter. It was felt that the persons composing that commission ought to be unconnected with the several ports under consideration; and amongst others Sir James Gordon, who had been engaged in the eastern survey, and Mr. Lawrence, the secretary to the Post-office, were nominated. When it was publicly known of whom the commission consisted, from no one quarter or person did he hear a single objection to the gentlemen appointed, or to the course which was to be pursued. That commission collected a large mass of evidence, amongst which were allegations in favour of all the different ports, but
1155The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 considered this not to be a mere local, but a national question. He should not object to put Dartmouth in comparison in point of fitness for the purpose of which it was recommended with any port in the country. The hon. and gallant Member, amidst cries of "Question," proceeded to argue on the superiority of Dartmouth harbour, which, though narrow in the extreme, was admirably safe and convenient, vessels of 2,000 tons having easy access thereto. He read a letter from lieutenant Engledue, of the Great Liverpool steam-ship, showing that Falmouth, on the contrary, was very deficient in depth of water, and that the pilots at the latter place had refused to take the Great Liverpool in, on the ground that there was not sufficient water. The Peninsular packets were unable to take their mails at Falmouth, but were obliged to keep a mile and a half off. The hon. Member read extracts from another letter addressed to himself, from a gentleman selected to give information before the committee, who stated, that he had showed the superiority of Falmouth over Plymouth and Southampton, but said not a word about Dartmouth, as that was unquestionably the best of the whole. When the lines of railroad were completed, Dartmouth would be much nearer than Falmouth. The hon. and gallant Member after apologising for departing from the question before the House, sat down amidst cries of "Divide."Colonel Seale
 advocated the plan of Southampton to be the port of departure. He had no doubt that the commissioners had acted according to the best of their judgment, but he owned it appeared to him to be a most inconvenient arrangement that the packets having sailed from Southampton, should be obliged to call at Dartmouth for the mail-bags. He would suggest that the bags should be put on board at Southampton, between which place and London the communication was now as direct and as rapid as the utmost facilities of railway transit could render it.Viscount Duncan
 said, that it was the intention of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests to open the whole of the grass part of the park to the public. It was also intended to open a road, by means of a bridge over the artificial water, from Hanover-gate to the grass plat; but it was not intended to make any bridge over the Regent's-canal to Primrose-hill, which would be accessible in the same manner, and as heretofore, over Macclesfield-bridge. With respect to the last question of the hon. Gentleman, he begged to state that it was the intention of the Government to lay before the House, in the course of the week, a plan of the Regent's-park, for the purpose of showing the contemplated arrangements.Mr. E. J. Stanley
 said, it was his intention to move the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Parliamentary Voters (Ireland) Bill, and as it stood somewhat low upon the list, he should propose, if the Gentlemen who had orders on the paper had no objection, that they should be read over, for the purpose of postponing them.Lord J. Russell
1168: In rising to move the Order of the Day for the consideration of the Parliamentary Voters' Bill, I beg leave to state the course which I propose to pursue: I asked the House to adjourn the farther consideration of the bill the
1168Lord J. Russell
11741173"No, no,"117211711170l1169 thought that his noble Friend having explained the course which he proposed to pursue, it might be convenient to the House that he should also state his intention in reference to the amendment of which he had given notice, and what course he should pursue in consequence of what had taken place on a former evening. He still continued of the opinion, which he then expressed, that the county franchises of Ireland might be most satisfactorily settled on the principle which he endeavoured, to state to the House—
11741173"No, no,"117211711170l1169Viscount Howick
l1179"I do not disguise from myself that in the
1179lllllll"There are not materials before us to form any calculation as to the probable amount of electors which the adoption of a franchise regulated by any given amount of rating combined with tenure would produce."1178l1177sl1176sine qua non,l1175 said, the very few observations I have to make on the present occasion, will be exclusively confined to a statement of the course I took on Monday night, when this bill was last under discussion, and the position in which we now stand with respect to any future proceedings on the subject. I understand that her Majesty's Government, as a Government, as the executive administration intrusted with the confidence of the Sovereign, and with the responsibilities of office, undertook the adjustment of this question; that they undertook, first to define the franchise, and next to amend the admitted abuses of registration; abuses which they themselves did not deny, and which they themselves acknowledged to be gross and indefensible; but they also took up this ground, that there was a risk, in improving the registration, of narrowing the franchise in Ireland; that there were evils in an undefined franchise, on account of the conflict of the judicial authorities, and that therefore the two questions ought to be settled together, that the franchise ought to be defined, and then that those abuses might be corrected. In attempting, however, to define the franchise, her Majesty's Government made a proposal for the subversion of the franchise. In the bill introduced by her Majesty's Government, the preamble recited, that doubts and difficulties existed as to the present franchise, and that it was desirable to clear them up; but the practical mode in which they solved those doubts and difficulties was to subvert the existing franchise, and to substitute another in its place—namely, to take occupancy, as tested by the rating, as the qualification
l1179"I do not disguise from myself that in the
1179lllllll"There are not materials before us to form any calculation as to the probable amount of electors which the adoption of a franchise regulated by any given amount of rating combined with tenure would produce."1178l1177sl1176sine qua non,l1175Sir Robert Peel
l1181ll1180sine qua non: I do not intend to enter into a discussion with respect to the franchise until that subject comes distinctly before the House; but then I wish to set myself right with respect to an observation that has fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. He has stated, that on the other evening it was distinctly understood that we decided the question of principle, and that we fixed upon a l1181ll1180sine qua nonViscount Morpeth
1182 said, that it ought to be the duty of any Government at all competent to manage the affairs of the country, to collect proper information on an important subject like the present, and lay it before the House, instead of bringing on such a measure as this without supplying any information whatever of the least value until the last moment, and
1182Mr. Sergeant Jackson
Laughter1183 observed, that if ever a feather were plucked from the Crown of Queen Victoria, it would not be by the people of Ireland, but it would he by the cowardly shrinking, and the political jugglery of those who said they had no information on the subject, when their hands were filled with papers. He complained of the proceedings on this subject as a political farce. The noble Lord below him (Viscount Howick) had satisfied himself by having a majority against his friends, and then backed out of it as well as he could. And all this the noble Lord did with the solitary consolation of having a single admirer. Now, he wished that noble Lord to be perfectly satisfied of this, that the people of Ireland believed that he was not the man to extricate his party, his own country, or theirs, out of the slightest political difficulty. He knew that it was impossible for his Friends to carry a bill, such as they wished to give to Ireland. It was impossible for hon. Gentlemen opposite to impose upon Ireland such a bill as they desired. He asked the right hon. Baronet, who now said, that he had not enough of information, would he give to Ireland the benefit of the Scotch Reform Bill? Would the right hon. Baronet do that? He paused for a reply. Would the right hon. Baronet grant that? The right hon. Baronet "made no sign"—he then would not do it. Would the right hon. Baronet—he meant no offence when he said it—stand by his colours? But how could one, who changed, and changed, and changed again, be expected to become stationary, either upon the faith of the
Laughter1183Mr. H. Grattan
l1186l1185"Is it safe for you," (said the noble Lord), "to trifle with the discontent of a whole nation? I thought the experience of the Catholic question had given the Government a lesson that would have prevented the repetition of a similar course.""I feel too strongly attached to the great principles of public liberty not to consider it absolutely necessary to fix the franchise in such a manner as that the great body of the people of Ireland may feel that their representatives in this House do really speak the feelings and represent the opinions of the majority of the people.""No, no."1184 rose and said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland whether, after the statement which had been made by the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, as well as by himself, respecting the general indisposition to grant new leases in Ireland, it would not be right, if it was intended to give the Irish people any right to send representatives into that House, to give them such a franchise as they could secure to themselves—a franchise entirely independent of the control of their landlords? Did the noble Lord expect any increase in the number of voters as a consequence of his bill in its present form? The noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire had spoken out honestly upon this point; for he had declared, that the landlords ought to possess a command of the votes
l1186l1185"Is it safe for you," (said the noble Lord), "to trifle with the discontent of a whole nation? I thought the experience of the Catholic question had given the Government a lesson that would have prevented the repetition of a similar course.""I feel too strongly attached to the great principles of public liberty not to consider it absolutely necessary to fix the franchise in such a manner as that the great body of the people of Ireland may feel that their representatives in this House do really speak the feelings and represent the opinions of the majority of the people.""No, no."1184Mr. Hume
 having suggested that the amendment of the hon. Gentleman could not be put in that form,The Chairman
 would propose, then, that the word "fourteen" be struck out, and the word "one" inserted.Mr. Hume
l1187lll said, the speech of his hon. Friend, whose presence he was glad to see on this occasion, proved that in bringing forward a bill of this kind, it was not easy to escape criticism. The bill had been called a revolutionary and democratic measure, but he had not expected to have heard it described as of a paltry character. The argument of his hon. Friend was, that every man rated according to an amount to be determined on by the bill, should be entitled to register without a qualification of tenure. In this attempt, he did not think his hon. Friend would meet with much support in that House. There were certainly those who wished to dispense with leases, but they wished to impose a much higher amount of rating than would be consistent with the views of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. The noble Lord the Member for Northumberland, though he did not state that amount, would probably not place it at less than 18l1187lllViscount Morpeth
 said, his hon. Friend's amendment would not carry out his object. He had not considered the peculiar difficulties which existed in Ireland, and that if his amendment were carried, one half of the Irish tenants would be prevented by their landlords from voting, as they would live under perpetual notices to quit. He would ask whether he was now, according to the forms of the House, at liberty to move an amendment, instead of the word "fourteen," to insert "for any time, for a period not less than, if he were resident in England, would entitle him to register and vote there." That would at once raise the question which he wished to try, of establishing a complete identity between the franchises of the two countries.Mr. O'Connell
: The hon. and learned Member cannot at present move his amendment, unless that of the hon. Member for Kilkenny be withdrawn.Lord J. Russell
 supposed that the hon. Member for Kilkenny wished to try the question of an occupation franchise against a leasehold franchise, and, if so, he would support him.Mr. C. Wood
 said, that would not be the case, as the word "lease" had already been read, and the hon. Member's amendment would make it a lease for a year.Mr. F. French
l1188 said, the question might be settled by those who were in favour of an occupation franchise simply by negativing the word "fourteen." He disliked the leasehold franchise of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, and much preferred
l1188Mr. Hawes
1189 said, his hon. Friend had misunderstood the question at issue. That question was, whether there should be a fourteen years' leasehold franchise in addition to the freehold franchise. Did the hon. Gentleman believe if he negatived this he would have any chance of obtaining the larger franchise he sought? If he did so he was grievously mistaken. Had he attended to the effect of such a franchise as the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland proposed. That noble Lord did not propose an extension of the franchise; not an addition to the franchise, but a complete transfer, a perfectly new distribution of power in Ireland. He proposed to disfranchise a large portion of those who already had the franchise, and enfranchise those holding under that tenure which had been so much objected to in England, and who would be more completely in the power of their landlords than those leaseholders who were the objects of his noble Friend's bill. The very power which his hon. Friend sought to defeat, he would most promote. The Government, on the contrary, had not sought a new distribution of power; they had taken the existing franchises, cleared them from the difficulties attending registration, and though the amount of rating required would disfranchise some, yet, on the whole, it would not, they believed, much diminish the constituency of that country, whilst the constituency would remain of that class and character best entitled to exercise the election franchise, and to whom it could be most safely confided. Whilst, if his hon. Friend's views were adopted, instead of having a large, popular, and independent constituency, he would have a constituency submitted to two dominations, both of which should be avoided—in quiet times to the domination of that fear which the interests of all dear to them would necessarily excite, and in
1189Mr. Pigott
1190 supported the amendment, as he thought the plan of the, noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, would reduce the constituency of that country to too low an amount. From the returns they had before them of thirty-one unions they were enabled to form something like an estimate of the number of voters which the noble Lord's plan would give to Ireland. The number of persons rated in these unions amounted to upwards of 76,000, from which a deduction had to be made for double holdings, female tenants, minors, and joint tenants, amounting to not less than one fourth of the whole, which would reduce the number to 57,000 odd. Of these, at the highest estimate, according to the evidence before them, not more than half would have leases, leaving the total number of persons entitled to register, 28,650. But neither in England, nor much less in Ireland, for obvious reasons, would all those register who were entitled to do so. In no case scarcely, did more than two-thirds of the whole register, which would give a total of 19,000 voters for a population of 1,600,000, being a proportion of one in eighty-four to the county population of Ireland, whilst in England, in 1832, the proportion was one in twenty-four, a proportion which had since increased. Looking also to the increasing indisposition to grant leases, both by Liberal and Conservative landlords, and the desire there existed amongst Irish landlords to overcome the evil of too great a subdivision of their property, he could foresee, that even this amount would be subject to continual diminution, and he, therefore, thought it much better to seek another ground for the franchise. Nor did he believe, that the more rural voters of Ireland had shown such submission to the dictates of their landlords, or had suffered their indomitable patriotism to be overcome, so as to warrant the fear which had been suggested by the learned Attorney-general for Ireland. The independence of the voters had not been broken down, nor would it be, to the extent that
1190Mr. Smith O'Brien
 begged to repeat what he had said last year, that the time had come when the franchise of Ireland must be based on something else than the possession of a lease. He would continue, by referring to Cork, the statement of his hon. Friend, the Member for Limerick, as to the independence of those persons who held their tenures from year to year. The tenant holding from year to year, had less to lose and less to fear by disobliging his landlord, than he who held under a short and perhaps expiring lease.Mr. D. Callaghan
 suggested, that the present was not the stage for his hon. Friend to press his amendment. The House was not prepared for it.Sir D. Norreys
 said, the House must have been prepared for it, as the noble Lord (Lord Howick) had given notice of an amendment proposing an occupation franchise only, and he (Mr. Hume) though prevented by the technicalities of the House from making precisely the motion which he wished, had determined, if the noble Lord did not introduce his amendment, to propose some substitute for it.Mr. Hume
Cheers thought the discussion an unfortunate one. The noble Lord (Lord Howick) proposed something the meaning of which he did not himself know; his hon. Friend, the Member for Lambeth, another thing; and, with all the clashing opinions on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, the bill must be altogether lost if the discussion was persisted in. It would be well if they could understand what they were to do. [CheersMr. Ward
1191 did not like this kind of lecture from his hon. Friend who last sat down. His hon. Friend talked about their understanding what they were to do Now, there had been a meeting on Monday of the Opposition Members, at which the policy of that side of the House was decided on, and no hon. Member belonging to that side would dare to act counter to it. But a man in Dublin, or any other part of the empire, knew just as much of what the Government meant to do, as he did. The fact was, the Government itself
1191Mr. Hume
, in allusion to the assertion of the hon. Member, that hon. Members sitting on the Opposition side would not dare to speak in opposition to a certain policy, could only say, that he really did not know what they were to oppose or support in the propositions of hon. Members opposite. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had acknowledged, after taking a hint from some one on the benches near him, that the amendment which he proposed would defeat the very object which he had in view. The hon. Member for Lambeth made another statement and proposition, whereupon up rose the right hon. and learned Attorney-general for Ireland, and told him that he did not know what he was about. Really, however well disposed to oppose hon. Members opposite, not being blessed with those extraordinary powers, which the hon. Gentlemen supposed themselves to possess, he could hardly make out what it was, that he had to oppose.Mr. Lucas
12031202ll1201ll12001199s1198llllll1197lsslsl"Look at the elections of England, look at the number of freeholders who have voted in England, compare the state of the two countries, and you will find the number in Ireland so large and extensive, compared to England, that there must be an abuse, and an abuse which it is right to correct."1196s1195ls1194ss1193sslls1192: The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and who wants something tangible, to oppose or support, was one of those—if not the principal one—who urged last Session with great force, (and no one is more able to place his arguments in a clear and distinct light), that, it was necessary, if you meant to pass a bill which should rest on a secure foundation, and prevent eternal disputes, to have a fixed and definite franchise—more fixed and more definite than that which was then submitted. Yet the same hon. Gentleman, acting I know not under what orders, and abiding by the dictates of I know not what superior authority, has contended that every thing combined to show that it was mos unadvisable that there should be a fixed and definite franchise; that it was most unwise to attempt to fix the franchise in any way whatever, and that the true plan was to propose some plan of registration,
12031202ll1201ll12001199s1198llllll1197lsslsl"Look at the elections of England, look at the number of freeholders who have voted in England, compare the state of the two countries, and you will find the number in Ireland so large and extensive, compared to England, that there must be an abuse, and an abuse which it is right to correct."1196s1195ls1194ss1193sslls1192Lord John Russell
"Mr. Wakley also trusted the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Monaghan would be adopted.""Mr. M. J. O'Connell hoped the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, would not be deterred from adopting the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Monaghan (Mr. Lucas). It would give him sincere pleasure to see hon. Gentlemen on both sides co-operating for the purpose of devising some remedy for what all must agree to be a great evil—the system of loose swearing, which arose from leaving the qualification, as at present, so much a matter of opinion.1204"Mr. Lucas said, he could not allow this bill to be brought in without expressing his entire dissent from the construction of the elective franchise now attempted to be made law. The words "beneficial interest" were so vague and uncertain in their meaning, that judges and juries would always find difficulty in arriving at consistent decisions, and the door would be left open for temptation to perjury among persons of all parties. The framers of the bill of 1836 had perceived this defect in the bill of 1835, and had endeavoured to
1204"Sir D. Norreys regretted that his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-general for Ireland had not taken this opportunity of grappling with the difficulties respecting the franchise, instead of substituting for the present definition one which would be equally uncertain and equally a matter of opinion. It might be worth while considering whether the Irish Poor-law Act lately passed might not afford a test less open to these objections. rose to explain. The noble Lord had retorted upon him a charge of inconsistency, which he hoped he had long since refuted. He trusted, however, that as it appeared not so, the House would indulge him for a few moments, that he might lay it at rest for the future. The noble Lord had said, that last year he was very anxious to define the franchise on unobjectionable grounds, though now he was quite of a contrary opinion. If he (Mr. Lucas) had suffered a change in any opinion of his, he had too much respect for the House to conceal it, and too much respect for himself to attempt to get out of it unworthily. The expressions attributed to him, and which he acknowledged were not, however, of such a nature as the noble Lord had represented them, and they had arisen in a discussion wholly incidental to the question before the House. He would read them to the House:—
"Mr. Wakley also trusted the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Monaghan would be adopted.""Mr. M. J. O'Connell hoped the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, would not be deterred from adopting the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Monaghan (Mr. Lucas). It would give him sincere pleasure to see hon. Gentlemen on both sides co-operating for the purpose of devising some remedy for what all must agree to be a great evil—the system of loose swearing, which arose from leaving the qualification, as at present, so much a matter of opinion.1204"Mr. Lucas said, he could not allow this bill to be brought in without expressing his entire dissent from the construction of the elective franchise now attempted to be made law. The words "beneficial interest" were so vague and uncertain in their meaning, that judges and juries would always find difficulty in arriving at consistent decisions, and the door would be left open for temptation to perjury among persons of all parties. The framers of the bill of 1836 had perceived this defect in the bill of 1835, and had endeavoured to
1204"Sir D. Norreys regretted that his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-general for Ireland had not taken this opportunity of grappling with the difficulties respecting the franchise, instead of substituting for the present definition one which would be equally uncertain and equally a matter of opinion. It might be worth while considering whether the Irish Poor-law Act lately passed might not afford a test less open to these objections.Mr. Lucas
ll1205O'Connell:: I wish to state to the House the course I mean to pursue in regard to the particular proposition now before us, and which I consider does not involve the whole question. That proposition is, whether the words "fourteen years," should be omitted, and "one year" substituted in their place, as the hon. Member for Kilkenny proposes. [Mr. ll1205O'Connell:Sir R. Peel
1206 explained the course he should pursue. After the decision that had been come to on the amendment of his noble Friend, it was a matter of perfect indifference to him whether or not the amendment of the hon. Gentleman was adopted or rejected. But having on that division voted for the occupancy in place of the leasehold, and as such was the tenour of the amendment before the House, he should, in case of a division, feel bound to vote in its favour. At the same time, no one was more sensible of the difficulties that surrounded the question. It was with the view of retaining a certain number of the most independent class of voters, that his noble Friend had proposed on Monday night to retain a certain number of voters who had been excluded by the Government. He had now the satisfaction to think, from the statement of the right hon. Baronet, that the mistake under which many hon. Members on that side of the House had appeared to labour—namely, that the
1206Mr. C. Wood
12171216ss1215Cries of "question"Shaw:1214"That the produce of the soil, out of which the tenant lives, shall be taken into account as an ingredient in the qualification?"1213Mirror of Parliament. Hansardss1212ssss1211s121012091208l1207lC. Wood: said, he thought that the statement of the hon. Member for Halifax was very much at variance with the intention expressed by the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, not to vote fur the bill. If the statement made by the hon. Member for Halifax be correct—if the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, and the hon. Member for Halifax intended only that their clause should be inclusive—and that it should not be exclusive of the franchise proposed by the Government, would it not, he asked, be their duty to vote for the proposal made by the Government. He wished the hon. Member for Halifax would reconcile his statement with that of the noble Lord, who had most distinctly announced to them that he intended his plan, not as a bare addition, but as a substitution for the plan of the Government; "substitution" was the word which the noble Lord had used over and over again. [Mr. 12171216ss1215Cries of "question"Shaw:1214"That the produce of the soil, out of which the tenant lives, shall be taken into account as an ingredient in the qualification?"1213Mirror of Parliament. Hansardss1212ssss1211s121012091208l1207lC. Wood:Mr. Sheil
s"I do not think that many vote with their priest, but they did vote with the laity against their landlords in some instances. I have known some instances in which such a thing has been done. I hope I may never see any others. I confess I think, that the 40s1218s"Is it not the case that the 401218sss"That is one great objection, (and added) there is another; which is, that in many cases the freeholder either pays a higher rate than the holding is worth, and so is in the power of the landlord; or by a scheme which has been devised, the landlord gives him a cottage and an acre and a half of land, letting it to the tenant from year to year, and thus he is in the power of the landlord for the adjacent land quite as much as if it constituted part of the freehold. Thus the 40ss"In point of fact, is there not a great objection to the 40ssss: I wish to say a few words upon the remark made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, in which he animadverted on a speech made by me on the last evening of this discussion, and complained of my not having given a correct version of what had been stated by the Roman Catholic advocates, in 1825. I repeat what I then said, that there was no species of compact between the Roman Catholic advocates, Protestant, or Roman Catholic, in which the abolition of the 40s"I do not think that many vote with their priest, but they did vote with the laity against their landlords in some instances. I have known some instances in which such a thing has been done. I hope I may never see any others. I confess I think, that the 40s1218s"Is it not the case that the 401218sss"That is one great objection, (and added) there is another; which is, that in many cases the freeholder either pays a higher rate than the holding is worth, and so is in the power of the landlord; or by a scheme which has been devised, the landlord gives him a cottage and an acre and a half of land, letting it to the tenant from year to year, and thus he is in the power of the landlord for the adjacent land quite as much as if it constituted part of the freehold. Thus the 40ss"In point of fact, is there not a great objection to the 40ssssSir Robert Peel
 said, the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary had charged him with ignorance. He knew that he had some failings in that particular. But, if he were ignorant of many things, he hoped the hon. and learned Member knew all he should. The hon. and learned Gentleman accused others of wishing to disfranchise the people of Ireland, but he it was who would really disfranchise them. He had made some mistake in the wording of his amendment, but he would take the sense of the House on the insertion of the word "fourteen."Mr. Hume
 would only say, that from his knowledge of his countrymen and their habits he would vote for the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny.Mr. W. Roche
12231222l1221lss1220sssssss1219 said, he hoped the House would allow him to trespass on its attention for a short time, as he had been strongly alluded to by the noble Lord, and the right hon. Gentleman. He should be sorry that his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, should persevere in his intention to divide the House. It was totally unnecessary, for if he would look into the clause he would see that it was an affirmative clause, and therefore that he might after the present one add the clause giving even tenants-at-will the right to vote, provided they varied the sum by only one shilling, so that it was totally unnecessary for him then to divide the House. It was not very material whether he took that immaterial division; for an immaterial division it would be, because as the right hon. Baronet and the Government would vote against him, he
12231222l1221lss1220sssssss1219Mr. O'Connell
llll observing that, as it seemed the wish of the whole House, according to the statement of Members on all sides, to give relief to Ireland; and as that relief would be greater if 5llllMr. Hume
ll would give a plain, straightforward answer to the inquiry. He had made the change from 5llViscount Morpeth
ll remarked that Ireland was placed in this predicament—that the change from 5llMr. O'Connell
 wished to address the House, but was prevented by cries of "question," and "divide."Mr. Slaney
 thought, that as they ad debated the clause thus far, it would be better to divide.Lord John Russell
 thought, that the very reason assigned by the noble Lord for proceeding to a division, ought to be a reason for adjourning, namely, that they had been discussing the clause the whole night, and had now arrived at twelve o'clock. He would not be taunted with moving an adjournment at this hour, on the bill of the noble Lord opposite (Stanley), and not moving it against that of the Government.Mr. O'Connell
1237 rose, and said it was highly important, when threats were held out on the other side that the bill should not be allowed to pass, that the House should
1237Mr. Hume
 believed he was in order in proposing to move that the Chairman do leave the chair.Mr. O'Connell
 said the last question put was, that the Chairman do report progress and since then it had been moved, that the Chairman do leave the chair.Mr. Bernal
Cries of "No, no: Then I will withdraw my motion. [Cries of "No, noMr. O'Connell
No, no.: Is it the pleasure of the House that the motion be withdrawn. [No, no.Mr. Bernal
 repeated that the question was, that the motion of the hon. Member for Dublin be withdrawn.Mr. Bernal
1239"Order."1238llll said the House was placed in a very awkward predicament, by the peculiar course pursued by the Government with regard to this bill. If this bill were lost, then the House would have to entertain the bill of the noble Lord opposite. He had voted in the first instance for the 51239"Order."1238llllMr. Wakley
1240lllll said—With respect to the conduct which the Government have thought fit to pursue, I am ready to answer for it. I do not know why the hon. Member attacks the Government. The hon. Member for Finsbury has stated, that one of the causes of the division of opinion that prevails in the House at the present moment is the course that has been taken by the Government. I don't well know what the hon. Member means. I do not think that if the Government adhered to the 51240lllllLord J. Russell
1241 supposed that it was the intention and desire of Members on both sides of the House to have a fair discus-
1241Mr. J. Jervis
"nec lex est justior ulla
Quam necis artifices arte perire sua." said, that, as the hon. Member for Dublin supported the bill for the sake of the clause, he (Sir T. D. Acland) was prepared to vote against the clause from his dislike to the bill. With respect to what had been said by the hon. Member opposite, he thought that after a debate of eight hours on the subject the House had a right to come to a decision on the question, in the only way in which hon. Members opposite would permit the decision to be come to—
"nec lex est justior ulla
Quam necis artifices arte perire sua."Sir T. D. Acland
 hoped that hon. Members opposite would allow the present motion to be withdrawn. He was prepared either now or at a future time to accord his opinion by voting against the clause, but after what had been stated by his noble Friend the secretary for the Colonies as to the course which the Government were prepared to pursue, he (Mr. Wood) thought that the House would place their conduct more fairly and intelligibly before the country by coming to a decision upon the direct question.Mr. C. Wood
l.l.1242 said—I feel that I and those who act with me, have in the course of the evening given decided proof that our main object is, to have a fair and decided expression of the opinion of the House on the merits of this clause. Indeed I thought that the amendment which the I noble Lord first proposed, had been decided upon that point. However, with the sense which I entertain of the importance of the clause, I think that a decision on the merits of the clause in the usual way would be more satisfactory, and I think that in the course of the evening we at this side of the House have given decided proofs of that opinion, because nothing would have been more easy for us than to have come to an indirect division on the clause either by uniting with the hon.
l.l.1242Sir R. Peel
 said this advantage was not so great as was supposed, as the only motion would be to move the recommittal of the bill.Mr. O'Connell
 had no objection at once to accede to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet. However, he could not say whether the bill would come on at five o'clock, without first having obtained the consent of hon. Members who had motions on the paper.Lord J. Russell
 wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, whether it was his intention to proceed with the Irish Court of Chancery Bill on Friday next? He wished the noble Lord to postpone, until a more distant period, the further consideration of the measure, as some officers connected with the Irish Court of Chancery were anxious to be in London during its progress.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 said, the Board of Admiralty had received information of the circumstance alluded to by the hon. Baronet, and although they believed that the occurrence of punishment on Sunday was not usual, they had issued an order to prevent a recurrence of it.Mr. More O'Ferrall
1167 begged to ask the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Treasury, whether it, were the intention of her Majesty's Government to throw open to the public that part of the Regent's-park which was now under grass; also, whether any communication was to be made between the Re-
1167Mr. Ewart
 said, that a rumour was in circulation, that a case of flogging on the Sabbath had occurred in the navy. He wished to ask whether such was the case, and whether, if so, the Admiralty had issued orders to prevent the recurrence of it, as had been done in reference to the land service by the Horse Guards.Sir R. Inglis
l.l1268sine qua non1267s.s.l.l.l.,12661265primâ facie12641263 said, that although he had originally given notice of his intention to take the sense of the House on the present clause, on which at last they were called to decide—although he had since taken no part in the discussion in which the essential principle of the bill contained in the clause now under consideration had been thoroughly stated and discussed; still he would have been content to observe silence, had it not been for the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down—had it not been for the manner in which the noble Lord had misrepresented the course pursued by him, and the objections urged against the principles asserted on his side in preference to those exhibited in the bill now under discussion, and in spite of the sneers of the noble Lord—notwithstanding the sneers of the noble Lord on what he was pleased to call the precious statesmanship which left altogether untouched the present evils and uncertainty of the Irish franchise, he ventured to tell the noble Lord that he, in common he believed with the great majority of the people of England, in common common with all on his side of the House, and in common with many on the other side, who from a powerful attachment to the Government and from political sympathy supported the noble Lord in his present course—he repeated, in the opinion of the vast majority of both sides of the House, and of an incalculable majority out of doors—the course which the Government, under the influence of the noble Lord, had pursued, in reference to the question of the Irish franchise, had been characterised by a spirit of recklessness and want of statesmanship, which did most certainly disentitle them to the confidence of the House, and which had shaken one of the very few and last remaining holds which they retained on the tolerance of the country. The noble Lord had misrepresented both the principle which the House had affirmed, and the objections, taken by his side of the House to the bill
l.l1268sine qua non1267s.s.l.l.l.,12661265primâ facie12641263Lord Stanley
12731272 would trespass upon the House with only a few sentences. The hon. Member for Halifax had said, that it was wrong to continue the irritation which prevailed in Ireland. He believed they were all of one opinion upon that point. The hon. Member had said, that the irritation would be continued by unnecessary discussions in that House upon questions interesting to that country. But the irritation would be much more increased if the people of Ireland were
12731272Mr. O'Connell
 spoke amidst loud calls of divide. It had been said that this division would decide the fate of the bill; if so, he believed it would decide the fate of Ireland. He wished to know if the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, intended to bring forward his bill, because if he did, those angry discussions which had been so much deprecated, would certainly take place. He verily believed—though he wished not for separation—that if they would preserve Ireland, they must yield to the people of that country equal rights and equal privileges with the people of England. Whatever might be the result of their proceedings, he hoped they would do justice to their own character.Mr. Grattan
 then put the question that he do leave the Chair. Agreed to. The House resumed.The Chairman
 objected to the measure being proceeded with in the then state of the House. Most of the Members connected with Ireland, on both sides of the House, had gone away, and some were out of town, and it would be improper to proceed with it in their absence.Mr. F. Shaw
 suggested that the Committee on the Bill be fixed for some; Wednesday at five o'clock.Mr. S. O'Brien
 consented to the postponement of the measure, which was postponed accordingly.Viscount Morpeth
 hoped, under the present circumstances in which the House was placed, and the hon. Member not having stated what his plan was, that he would postpone it for the present.Mr. Hume
 saw no necessity to defer the; measure, as there was no opposition to it.Mr. Ewart
 thought the question might as well be put then as at a future time.Lord John Russell
1274 rose for the purpose of preventing any possible future misrepresentation of his views on a point on which, since he had sat down, he had heard, that he had so expressed himself as to be open to misconstruction. He had been under-
1274Lord Stanley
 said, that having beard the noble Lord, he found himself unable, at the close of the discussion, to understand the grounds on which the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman were about to proceed to a division and vote against the clause. The noble Lord had declared that he would consent to no adjustment of the franchise which should not include a beneficial interest, and yet the noble Lord had also expressed his assent to that proposition of the noble Lord for conferring a franchise not founded on any beneficial interest, but on a holding rated at a certain amount. The noble Lord and right hon. Gentleman had given very few reasons against the clause, and he found himself completely in doubt and darkness as to the reasons that influenced the vote which they were about to give.Lord J. Russell
12841283Falkland,The Rivals,128212811280 said—I think the House cannot be at a loss as to the course I mean to pursue after the vote which has just been come to by the Committee. We have always stated, that the clause which has now been negatived by the House was the principal clause of the bill, and the foundation on which the superstructure of the bill was built. But, Sir, before I put any motion into your hands, I may perhaps be permitted by the committee to make a
12841283Falkland,The Rivals,128212811280Lord John Russell
1269l.l.l.l.l., in answer to the allegation of his noble Friend (Lord Morpeth), that the proposition of his noble Friend near him (Lord Howick) was one of extensive disfranchisement, referred to the returns furnished by the Government, to show, that judging from six unions which he had named on Monday, about one-third of the present 101269l.l.l.l.l.Mr. C. Wood
l. said, that he had given his vote for the 5l.Mr. Fielden
l.l.1271ll.1270 said, that after the speech of the hon. Member for Halifax he thought he should have seen the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth,
l.l.1271ll.1270Mr. Hume
l.l. said, the right hon. Baronet opposite was mistaken if he thought him the only Member on that (the Ministerial) side of the House who was unfavourable to a 5l.l.Mr. Slaney
l.l.1288l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.ll128712861285 was sure he should only state that which would be in conformity with the prevailing feeling of the House, when he gave his opinion that there would be no public advantage obtained from a prolonged discussion upon the motion which had just been made by the noble Lord opposite; and for his own part, he should have abstained altogether from any remarks upon the present occasion, if the noble Lord had not commenced his speech by preferring a complaint against himself and those with whom he was in the habit of acting, for their conduct in reference to this bill. The observations, however, which he should make, he could assure the House, should not be in a different tone and temper to those of the noble Lord. The complaint made by the noble Lord was, that he and his party had not distinctly expressed their objections to the clause of the noble Lord. He thought at least that the noble Lord
l.l.1288l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.ll128712861285Sir R. Peel
1289 was understood to say, that his complaint against the Government on this question was that they had not paid sufficient attention to the real state of the case, and the nature of the difficulties with which they would have to contend in disposing of it; that they had not proposed such a measure as, according to their own showing, would meet the evil they wished to remedy, nor had founded it upon such a statement of facts as should induce the house to adopt it. When the noble Lord told him, with regard to the leasehold qualification, that he had the authority of three persons very high in the Government of Ireland in favour of that feature, and appeared to think he ought to bow at once to such a weight of authority, he begged to say that, although he had a very high respect for the noble Lord, the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, and the other two noble and learned persons mentioned by his noble Friend, still he must not allow himself to forget his duty as a Member of Parliament, which required that he should look at the facts and reasonings on which the proposition was grounded, before he gave his adherence to it. When, therefore, he was told that one of the chief evils in the Irish registration arose out of the indisposition of the landlords of that country to grant leases, he could not, in common sense, come to any other conclusion than that the best way of guarding against that evil was by adopting a franchise upon occupancy. He could not shut his eyes to the fact which the commissioners appointed by ths Government itself laid before him. Several hon. Members had taken the same view of the points to which his noble Friend had adverted that he had done; and he must be permitted to say, that the vote which he had given did not by any means tend to show that he did not belong to the number of those who held, and always had held, tha ta conciliatory policy ought to be adopted towards Ireland. By his nearest connexions he had been educated in those principles under the guidance of which, he had, when in office, co-operated with his noble Friend, and now, when he regarded the results of those principles as
1289Viscount Howick
12621261l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.1260l.l,l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,"The beneficial interest (using that term to denote the clear annual profit actually accrueing to the occupier after paying all expenses of rent, taxes, and labour, every expense necessary to turn the produce into money) is thus stated by the different guardians:—Mr. Long, chairman of the Board, states (and Mr. Cooper, ex-officio guardian, concurred in the opinion stated by him) that the profit of the general class of tenements rated at 5l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.1259l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.12581257bonâ fide"I will not consent to any franchise which may produce the uncertainty which has arisen under the act for the constitution for the elective franchise for Members of Parliament. I will not consent to increase the necessity for appointing a committee of inquiry, to ascertain how far the carrying out of this bill depends on fictitious votes. I will leave it to the committee, however, and I will say, that it is incumbent on Parliament to define what the franchise shall be. I find that the present test is unsatisfactory, and I would depend on no test which involves the mere principle of valuation. I think that that must be a bad principle which holds out the temptation to take false oaths. That is entirely unsatisfactory, and I must say, that I expect the concurrence of the greater proportion of this House in the opinion, that whatever franchise is granted, ought to be a bonâ fide12561255bonâ fide,"Speaking generally, and on the information I have obtained from time to time, as the work proceeded in the several unions, I consider the valuations hitherto made as being, on the whole, satisfactory. I do not mean to say, that in any instance they are perfect—that was not to be expected, and can, I believe, only be attained after repeated revisions and corrections; but considering all circumstances, they are, I think, as nearly so as we could reasonably look for; and, whatever inaccuracies or defects there may be, will, I am persuaded, be gradually corrected by the respective boards of guardians, with or without the advice and admonitions of the commissioners, or else by direct intervention, under the provisions of the 66th section of the Poor Relief Act. The boards of guardians have, I am convinced, in general acted with perfect good faith, and have endeavoured to select and appoint competent valuators, and to obtain a fair valuation of the rateable property in their respective unions. They have, in some instances, been led to form erroneous notions of what the law, in strictness, requires in this respect, and perhaps in a majority of cases, have been influenced by kindly feelings, or by other motives, to promote an under valuation of the property; but this has, I believe, in the main, been all bonâ fide,1254 said, that often and thoroughly as this subject had been under discussion—often as all its main details had been brought under their consideration—yet feeling the present critical position of this measure—and after the determined and mortal opposition which had been announced—mortal, so far as intention was concerned, to the clause now in the hands of the chairman—a clause, he at once admitted, involving the vital principle of the measure—he did feel himself warranted in endeavouring (though happily he should not feel it necessary to do so at any great length) to draw the attention of the House to the position in which this question was at present placed. What he conceived the House to have decided by the assent it had given to the second reading of the bill, not by any overwhelming weight of numbers certainly—but still by a distinct vote, after a most full and minute discussion, was, that the right to the elective franchise in Ireland should be ascertained and tested by reference to a fixed amount of payment, as in the instance before the House, in accordance with the Poor-law valuations. In the earlier part of the discussions on this subject, some attempts were made to impugn the trustworthiness of those valuations, but the more they had been examined into, the more they were brought to light—the more reason there seemed to admit their general fidelity and conformity of construction one with another. He did not, of course, mean to stand up for their entire accuracy, and uniform accordance with the strict letter of the Poor Relief Act. They all seemed in a very nearly equal degree to be pitched at a rather lower standard than the precise wording of the act might require. But still, he thought, as it had been well observed by his hon. Friend, the Member for Halifax, they did not recede farther from uniformity and accuracy than would be found to be the case with almost every valuation of a similar nature, such as that drawn up for the purposes of poor relief in this country. They would gradually approach to greater accuracy and uniformity in proportion as the Poor-law proceeded and gained ground in Ireland. He would read to the House some observations of Mr. Nicholls from a paper which had been laid on the Table, and were much to the point on this part of the subject.
12621261l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.1260l.l,l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,"The beneficial interest (using that term to denote the clear annual profit actually accrueing to the occupier after paying all expenses of rent, taxes, and labour, every expense necessary to turn the produce into money) is thus stated by the different guardians:—Mr. Long, chairman of the Board, states (and Mr. Cooper, ex-officio guardian, concurred in the opinion stated by him) that the profit of the general class of tenements rated at 5l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.1259l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.12581257bonâ fide"I will not consent to any franchise which may produce the uncertainty which has arisen under the act for the constitution for the elective franchise for Members of Parliament. I will not consent to increase the necessity for appointing a committee of inquiry, to ascertain how far the carrying out of this bill depends on fictitious votes. I will leave it to the committee, however, and I will say, that it is incumbent on Parliament to define what the franchise shall be. I find that the present test is unsatisfactory, and I would depend on no test which involves the mere principle of valuation. I think that that must be a bad principle which holds out the temptation to take false oaths. That is entirely unsatisfactory, and I must say, that I expect the concurrence of the greater proportion of this House in the opinion, that whatever franchise is granted, ought to be a bonâ fide12561255bonâ fide,"Speaking generally, and on the information I have obtained from time to time, as the work proceeded in the several unions, I consider the valuations hitherto made as being, on the whole, satisfactory. I do not mean to say, that in any instance they are perfect—that was not to be expected, and can, I believe, only be attained after repeated revisions and corrections; but considering all circumstances, they are, I think, as nearly so as we could reasonably look for; and, whatever inaccuracies or defects there may be, will, I am persuaded, be gradually corrected by the respective boards of guardians, with or without the advice and admonitions of the commissioners, or else by direct intervention, under the provisions of the 66th section of the Poor Relief Act. The boards of guardians have, I am convinced, in general acted with perfect good faith, and have endeavoured to select and appoint competent valuators, and to obtain a fair valuation of the rateable property in their respective unions. They have, in some instances, been led to form erroneous notions of what the law, in strictness, requires in this respect, and perhaps in a majority of cases, have been influenced by kindly feelings, or by other motives, to promote an under valuation of the property; but this has, I believe, in the main, been all bonâ fide,1254Viscount Morpeth
Spectator1365hon. Member1364l.l.l.l.1363 was only prompted to address the House from the circumstance of his having so frequently professed the principles and proposed the measure which that night were recommended to the House on the authority of Government he was anxious indeed to express his opinion on the measure, for he had really been condoled with by different Members for his occupation being gone, or for having abandoned his office to the Government, but he should honestly feel satisfied if those Members were right, for most sincerely could he say that he never had any personal object in his advocacay of that measure; and should the Government fulfil their intentions announced that evening, and indeed propose what would meet the wants and wishes of the country, he certainly would offer them no opposition, but, on the contrary, as an humble individual, would give them his best support. He thought it, however, important to state what had satisfied him in the speeches of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and of his noble Friend the Secretary of the Colonies, that the budget did lay claim to the support of the country, and it was this—that they seemed to recognise two very important principles, one with regard to revenue, and the other with regard to commerce. The first principle was, that the revenue of this country must depend upon the condition of the consumers; and the second was, that the condition of the people or consumers now depended upon freedom of commerce. Now, these were sound principles, and although now somewhat newly recognised by a Government of this country, yet he trusted they would soon be embodied in our legislation. The principle with regard to revenue was upon the present occasion the most important. It had reference to the sources of our revenue which were derived, not from property or income, but expenditure or consumption, and thus depended upon the ability of the people to consume the articles that were taxed. If taxes were chiefly collected from property or income, then, perhaps, if more taxes were required, property or income might be further taxed with effect; it was clear, however, that when the taxes were placed upon general consumption, as they were in this
Spectator1365hon. Member1364l.l.l.l.1363Mr. Villiers
1357 had observed, that whenever Ministers proposed any great financial measure, it was always subsequent to some great and signal discomfiture. Such was the ease with respect to the penny postage question of last year. It was true that many members of the Government had always supported opinions in accordance with the resolutions before the House, but that was not the case with all the Members of the Cabinet. With regard to the subject of the Corn-laws, he only knew that last year the opinion of the noble Lord at the head of the Government was totally at variance with the moderate duty proposed to that House. They all knew it was so last year, and he should like to know whether any Member of the Cabinet would stand up and tell him that it was not so last week? Although the noble Lord thought this to be the most appropriate time for bringing forward the subject, to his (Mr. Hinde's) apprehension, a more unfortunate time could not have been selected. They were now making a great experiment in Canada, and what, he would ask, was likely to be the feeling excited in that country when the news of the present discussion should be read there? It was still more peculiarly unfortunate that the measure should be propounded at the moment when a nobleman was at the head of the government of that colony, whose opinions, before he left this country, were known to be strongly in favour of an alteration in the laws regarding the importation of corn, and who had ever been a most distinguished advocate for a modification of the Corn-laws. He was perfectly sure that the proposition would be received with anything but favour by the shipowners. It was precisely the same proposition that was brought forward by
1357Mr. Hodgson Hinde
 said, much weight had been attached to the petition read by the President of the Board of Trade; but by what process of reasoning had the right hon. Gentleman been led to attach so much weight to the views of those merchants who were interested in the removal of the duties, whilst he attached none to the views of those who were interested in their maintenance? The President of the Board of Trade saw very clearly the interest which the colonial merchants, the shipowners, and the landholders had, and he considered it to diminish the value of their opinion; but when he saw merchants whose interest it was that the duties should be taken off, applying to have them taken off, he thought their opinions entitled to the greatest respect. For his part he considered the opinions of the one class as much deserving attention as those of the other. He would remind the President of the Board of Trade that before the present time, measures of free trade had been adopted, and the greatest prosperity prophesied as the result, and yet it was now acknowledged that the greatest distress prevailed.Mr. W. Attwood
ss thought the reduction of duty on foreign sugar would be a bounty on slavery and the slave trade. If they reduced the duty on East and West India sugar from 24ssMr. James
1323 would not attempt to enter into the details of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech; but must be allowed to express his great and unmitigated astonishment, not that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have announced that the Corn-laws were intended to be brought under consideration—for he was not surprised at that announcement, although made by a Government at the head of which was a noble Lord who had made some very strong observations upon this very subject; he had lived too long in the world to be surprised at such conduct as this; but he could not help expressing his surprise, on behalf of himself and of his constituents, who, he could assure his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, look us deep an interest in this
1323Lord F. Egerton
1324: The noble Lord seems exceedingly angry and indignant at the "something" that is meant in the notice which I have given; it is not that the Corn-laws should be discussed: it is not that the Corn-laws should be brought forward by the Government; it is not that the question should be fairly and impartially decided—the noble Lord is angry at none of these; but he says that something in his imagination (and the noble Lord is gifted with a very powerful ima-
1324Lord J. Russell
13281327: I cannot see, that my noble Friend has any right to reproach me for the course which has been taken. I believe, that any other course would be altogether unusual—so far as I know, without precedent. I certainly conceive, I that when a Government has a proposition to make, although notice may be given of it for some time—very often for some weeks—it is not usual in the first instance to state particularly the nature of that proposition. And the reason is very obvious; for if the bare outline of a measure is announced, and not the reasons which can be urged in support of it, of course, those who oppose it, can urge every possible objection, before its supporters can show the grounds on which it
13281327Lord J. Russell
: I do not blame the right hon. Baronet for declining to enter into all the considerations connected with the proposition which my right hon. Friend has submitted to the House. Nothing can be more reasonable than that he should reserve his opinion for a few days, in order that he may enter into the calculations submitted by my right hon. Friend. Neither do I blame the right hon. Baronet for resorting, upon this occasion, to his usual book of consolation—Hansard. The right hon. Baronet always refers to it, and for many years it has furnished him with topics of consolation.Lord John Russell
13391338Hear, hear.1337: I do not think that the right hon. Baronet has made out any case against the Government with respect to the topics to which he has adverted. The right hon. Baronet has found fault with the estimates and expenditure of late years, and showed—what is perfectly true—that, though the revenue has not failed, the expenditure has exceeded the income. One would suppose that the right hon. Baronet, like the hon. Member for Kilkenney, found fault with the expenditure. Not at all; he was obliged to admit that he approved of it. It would, indeed, have been very remarkable if the right hon. Baronet had condemned the expenditure, the chief topic of blame against the Government with the other side of the House having been that the army and the navy, but particularly the latter, was not sufficiently large, or well enough appointed. It was true, that at one period the stores in some of the dockyards were too much reduced. I heard the other day from a gallant admiral, who presides over one of those establishments, that he once thought they were fearfully low. Means were taken to supply the deficiency; that, of course, created expense, and that was one reason why the expenditure had exceeded the income, and why there is a navy debt to be provided for. When the occasion arose—when we found foreign powers
13391338Hear, hear.1337Lord J. Russell
1371 wished to say one; word in answer to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, in reference to the length of time which would elapse before he proposed to bring forward the question of Corn-laws. Like the right hon. Gentleman, he had been looking in Hansard for a precedent and found one. On the 13th December, 1826, Mr. Secretary Peel moved the adjournment of the House to the 8th of February following, and stated that, "At their next meeting it was intended to lose no time in bringing forward the most important public business of the nation. Indeed, so fixed was this determination on the part of his Majesty's Government, that his right hon. Friend had empowered him to give notice, that on the Monday following the 8th of February he intended to submit to the House a motion which would specifically introduce the great question of the Corn-laws." Of course, the country was left in a state of agitation for nearly two months on the important question of Corn-laws. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Pusey), he begged to state, that he should endeavour, in the course of next week, to state specifically, when his right hon. Friend brought forward the question of the sugar duties,
1371Lord John Russell
 said, as the 31st of May would occur in Whitsun week, he should bring it forward on the next order day afterwards.Lord John Russell
CORN-LAWS.]  gave notice that on Monday, the,31st of May, he should move that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to consider the acts relating to the trade in corn.Lord J. Russell
 said, that he apprehended that the effect of the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in regard to the timber duties, would be to drive that particular trade into the hands of other nations. In this way the commercial marine of England would be destroyed, and the glory of the British navy would soon come to an end. It was quite impossible to get the necessary timber, especially masts and spars, without having recourse to Canada; and if they abolished the protecting duties, the timber trade in that country would of necessity be destroyed. The hon. Member complained that the report of the Import Duties Committee had been distributed without certain resolutions (which the committee had agreed to) being circulated along with it.Mr. Aaron Chapman
 said, that it was no doubt true that all the merchants of London had not signed the petition which had been presented on the Import duties; probably the West-India and East-India merchants had not; but with the exception of these classes that petition did mark in a remarkable manner the opinion of the merchants generally on the import duties. He had documents which would show the conviction of many of them that a revision of the import duties was essential; he would not enter upon details then, but he had derived the greatest possible satisfaction from the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Hawes
 said, his butler asked him, when he went home last night, whether the Ministry was dead, for he had heard a person crying about the streets, the death of the Administration; but though he knew their political execution ought to have taken place long ago, he did not think it probable, considering their charmed life. It was clear that the noble Lord, before he gave notice of his motion on the Corn-laws for a future and distant day, went to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and when they had put their heads together, said, "See what a deplorable state we are reduced to." The Chancellor of the Exchequer replied, "Let us touch upon the Corn-laws, and tell the people well take of some of their burdens." This was all very well, but the people would not forget how they had previously been pressed down by the cruel Poor-laws. This was a squib thrown up to dazzle them. What single measure for the benefit of the country had the present Government brought in? For his own part, he knew no instance of that kind; he knew of no circumstance which would save the country from the ruin which now hung over it, except that her Majesty would be graciously pleased to sign the death-warrant of one under whose counsels she ran the chance of losing the popularity which he would never wish to see hazarded. If Ministers were allowed to run on in their present course, they would render themselves hateful to the country, and the country a laughing-stock to the world. There was that which soon would make her who presided over the eoantry—and long might she preside over it—see the necessity for a change in her counsels, and no one could doubt, that whatever change might be made must be for the better.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, it was almost impossible to be surprised at anything that was done by the Government, but could any one; conceive it possible—he would ask was it, or was it not, the intention of the noble Lord to bring forward a discussion on the Corn-laws—could it be believed that any individual holding so important a station as the noble Lord could gravely come down to the House and give notice of so important a motion without that due preparation for which the House had a right to look?Colonel Sibthorp
1370Sandon said, his right hon. Friend had very clearly explained the apparent contradiction between the general petition, referring to general principles, and the petition having reference to a particular interest. It reminded him of the Grecian army, in which everybody put himself first, and all concurred in putting the commander second; and in this matter, there was a general approval of the principles of free trade, but everybody was anxious to preserve a little protection for himself. The worthy Alderman himself desired some protection for the shipping interest; the right hon. Baronet opposite for the sugar trade; and his hon. Friend opposite required that the Corn-laws should not be touched; and then, whilst all these protections were preserved, no relaxation could take place. The noble Lord had said, that the question of the Corn-laws had been expressly excluded from the Liverpool petition; but the hon. Member for Wigan had that night, he believed, presented a petition from Liverpool against the Corn-laws, signed by 53,000 persons. [Viscount 1370SandonMr. C. Wood
 begged to remind the noble Lord, that Monday, the 31st of May, was Whit Monday; and he wished to know whether it was his intention to bring forward his motion with respect to the Cornlaws on that day.Mr. Lucas
l.l.l.l.1313llllllll1312lllllllll.llll1311l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1310l admitted that it was quite impossible for any hon. Member to have heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, without concurring with him, if not in other parts of his observations, at least in this, that we had arrived at a most important crisis. By the course and conduct which had been pursued by the Government of the country for the last five years, we had arrived at a critical moment when it would be necessary to enter into a consideration and final determination whether that course and conduct was to be continued, or whether measures should not be taken to place the revenue of the country on a footing of safety, and one properly proportioned to its expenditure. The right hon. Gentleman had divided his speech into two portions; the first related to the state of the revenue at the present moment, and the next as to the means by which it was to be maintained and provided for in future. On the measures which the right hon. Gentleman had proposed, and to which he looked forward as the means of effecting hereafter an equalisation between the revenue and expenditure of the country, he should not now proceed to enter in detail, and for this reason, that the House was not called on by the vole of to-night to express any opinion upon the measures which had been propounded. He had not had any intimation that these measures would be under discussion that evening, and, after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, he was not prepared to express any opinion upon the matter as a question of finance. Indeed, the right hon. Gentleman himself had not given any defined statement on the subject. He had told them generally that the steps he proposed taking would produce that amount of revenue which is essential to the utility of his plans; but he had avoided showing in detail the manner in which the change was to be brought about. The right hon. Gentleman proposed to reduce the duty on foreign sugar, while the duty on colonial sugar was to remain at the present rate; and he stated that this change would produce an increase to the revenue of 700,000l.l.l.l.1313llllllll1312lllllllll.llll1311l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1310lMr. Goulburn
l.l.l. said, he might be permitted, perhaps, to question the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon a point which was not very clear to him. The right hon. Gentleman had informed the Committee, that there was a deficiency upon the last year of 1,800,000l.l.l.Mr. Goulburn
l. said, he must beg to be allowed to say one word before the Chancellor of the Exchequer answered the question which had just been put to him by the hon. Member for Newark; for he did not think that the right hon. Gentle man had been quite correct in the answer which he had given to the question which he (Mr. Goulburn) had recently put to him. The right hon. Gentleman said, that he intended to provide for 800,000l.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that he still thought some new credit would be required to meet the deficiency so occasioned.Mr. Goulburn
 could assure the hon. Member, who had assumed to be the representative of all Lincolnshire, that he should not neglect his duty to his constituents and the country when the question of the Corn-laws, come from whatever quarter it might, was brought before the House.Mr. Handley
135613551354hear, hear.13531352 did not rise for the purpose of addressing any lengthened observations to the House on either of those great questions which his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had announced for discussion, because there would be other opportunities for discussing those questions with the deliberation which each of them required, being three of the most important questions connected with the trade and revenue of the country. Some remarks had been made in the course of the debate which rendered him desirous to ask the indulgence of the committee for a few moments. His noble Friend the Member for Northumberland had asked whether the Government had brought forward the question of the corn-laws as an isolated question, or as a question depending on some general principles which they were disposed to recommend for the general adoption of that House and the country. He had no difficulty in giving a decided answer to that question. He thought, indeed, that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the Government, in proposing to the House to revise the duties on corn, did not do so in reference to that one question only, inasmuch as they had come to the conclusion that it was necessary for the great interests of the country to revise the other branches of the commercial system. They thought, however, that it would be impossible to do so with-
135613551354hear, hear.13531352Mr. Labouchere
1367 said, it was due to the
1367Mr. Labouchere
1359ll.l.1358lll said, that notwithstanding what had fallen from the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, he should not, on the present occasion, enter into the consideration of the general principles of commercial policy alluded to by him, but confine himself strictly to the question of the budget. There were two propositions made in that budget which in some measure involved that consideration, but they were introduced on their special merits; and in dealing with these even he should adhere to the rule which had been laid down by those who had preceded him on that side of the House, of not entering into a detailed consideration of these two subjects, but leave the discussion of them to a future occasion, when they should be brought before the committee, in the shape of resolutions, and the subsequent stages of their progress, From, what he had said, the committee; would gather that he was not at present prepared to offer any decided opposition to them, but reserved to himself the full right on a future occasion. As to the third proposition, as it had just been described by the President of the Board of Trade, it did not form an essential part of the budget. But it seemed thus far au essential part of it, that it was relied upon as the means of raising the money. He would only express his hope with respect to that question that this House would not so far forget its duty to the country, nor so far forget the confidence which the country reposed in it, as to allow a Minister of the Crown five weeks, or perhaps ten weeks, hence to propose au alteration in the Corn-laws as a means of raising a revenue, and until that five weeks elapsed allow itself to remain in ignorance as to what alteration was to be proposed. As he understood what a budget ought to be, the Chancellor of the Exchequer should declare to the House what the expenditure of the current year was to be, and what the ways and means. Now, on this point, that House was at present totally uninformed. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, after stating some parts of the revenue and expenditure as likely to contract or expand as he saw fit, concluded by anticipating a deficiency of 2,400,0001359ll.l.1358lllMr. Herries
 said, the principles of free trade had been a good deal talked about, but not acted upon.Mr. Brotherton
 begged to say, that although he knew and was delighted to find that 30,000 copies of the abridgment alluded to had been distributed, he had nothing to do with that distribution.Mr. Hume
l.ll.l.131813171316l.l.l.l.1315l.l.1314 said, there was much in the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer which had given him satisfaction, though there was much also which had caused him great regret. With regard to the reductions which were proposed to be made, it was an instalment of that which the people of England had long expected, and which the welfare of the whole empire required. But there was not one word of the right hon. Gentleman's speech of that night with respect to what appeared to him to be the first point for the House to consider, viz.,
l.ll.l.131813171316l.l.l.l.1315l.l.1314Mr. Hume
1366 alluded to the silence that
1366Mr. Pusey
 said, it would be a great convenience to the House to have such a statement.Mr. Pusey
l.1319 did not wish to make
l.1319Mr. Christopher
 said, in reference to what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite (Lord Sandon) about the Liverpool petition that one of its allegations was, that duties levied on the necessaries of life were highly detrimental to the great interests of the country. There could hardly be a plainer reference to the Corn-laws,. The meeting in question was composed of the most respectable gentlemen in Liverpool. It was called by the mayor, and each resolution, he believed, Was moved by a Liberal and seconded by a Conservative.Mr. Thornely
134413431342ll1341l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.1340 must certainly confess that be for one did not participate in the exultation which was displayed on that (the ministerial) side of the House, when the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer opened his budget. He could not discover in the materials of that budget those sources of satisfaction which appeared to give so much delight to the hon. Gentlemen around him; and when he heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer state, that it was his intention to set the finances of the country upon a fixed and permanent base; when he heard the right hon. Gentleman state that it was inconsistent with the character and institutions of a great country like England, that its expenditure should continually exceed its income;—when he heard the right hon. Gentleman, in such a tone of sincerity and confidence, declare to the House what would be the plan of policy for placing the finances of the country on a more secure and honourable foundation—he must confess he felt greatly disappointed by the announcement that at last was made. The
134413431342ll1341l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.1340Mr. Wakley
 hoped the right hon. Gentleman would now answer the questions which he had taken the liberty of putting to him.Mr. Gladstone
1362 said, that nothing was further from his intention than to press the right hon. Gentleman to give an immediate answer to the questions he had put; indeed, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would take time to consider them, because he would be able to give a much more definite and full reply. The right hon. Gentleman had referred to the information he had received from parties well conversant with the sugar trade as to the probable effect of his alterations, and he had asked two questions. The first was, what the right hon. Gentleman had calculated as the supply to be obtained from the East Indies, the West Indies, and the Mauritius? and the second was, what he calculated would be the consumption of the United Kingdom? The answer which the right hon. Gentleman had given related almost exclusively to the latter
1362Mr. W. E. Gladstone
l.ss wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman a few questions on the subject of the proposed alterations in the sugar duties. The right hon. Gentleman had announced, that he intended to reduce the duty on foreign sugars from 63l.ssMr. W. E. Gladstone
pro tanto while admitting the ability and ingenuity of the statement of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, respecting the principle on which, as he conceived, the financial affairs of the country ought to be conducted, altogether denied the position that by cheapness of food, pro tantoMr. Alderman Thompson,
1368Hawes. explained, that what he said was simply this—that at the time that petition was signed by the merchants they could not have had in contemplation the great and important measures affecting our colonial interests which were now proposed. He thought the President of the Board of Trade attached more importance to that petition with regard to the immediate measures before the House than it deserved. The right hon. Gentleman had referred to the signatures of Robinson and Co., but he had a petition which was signed by Mr. Robinson, in which was an allegation that nothing could be more wise or beneficial than the existing regulations of our colonial trade. [Mr. 1368Hawes.Mr. Alderman Thompson
l.dsdsdsl.1361Herries.1360 could not remain silent, after the personal reference made to him by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He could assure the House that he did not wish any hon. Member to give a definitive opinion upon matters of detail which must hereafter be carefully examined, and he thought, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman had taken exactly the proper line. All he had understood him to say was, that he was not so hostile to the proposed change as to object to consider its expediency. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) cared little whether the statement he had made earlier in the evening were or were not termed a budget. Right hon. Gentlemen on the other side might indulge their ingenuity and invention in finding a new name for it, the name was of little importance, but the real practical question arising out of it was, whether the House would raise the admitted deficiency by additional taxation, or by the means he had suggested? He was gratified to find that the individual who had more practical experience than any other Member, was not prepared to say, that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was wrong. It was somewhat extraordinary that the right hon. Member for Tamworth bad not dropped
l.dsdsdsl.1361Herries.1360The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he should request the hon. Gentle-tleman's indulgence for a few moments, he was making out from his papers a calculation, in order to answer the hon. Member's questions, when he was interrupted by another question from the right hon. Member for Cambridge.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the right hon. Gentleman did not appear exactly to understand the real nature of the case, and the distinction between paying Ways and Means Bills and Supply Bills out of funds of this description. The case which the right hon. Gentleman put referred to Supply Bills, and not to Ways and Means Bills, which were in question at present.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he intended to bring forward his proposition on Friday next.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that this was no new transaction; the same thing had taken place several times before. In the statement on the table of the House the right hon. Gentleman would observe, that Ways and Means Bills had been taken out of the savings' banks' funds on former occasions; and the same course was intended to be followed now.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l. said, that with a view to meeting this deficiency, he had moved a vote of Exchequer Bills, to the amount of 800,000l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
£1,197,601
£1,197,60147,443,399Actual
47,443,399Actual£48,641,000Estimate
£48,641,000Estimate
£1,197,601
£1,197,60147,443,399Actual
47,443,399Actual£48,641,000Estimate
£48,641,000Estimate1296214,345Showing an amount of expenditure below the estimate of
214,345Showing an amount of expenditure below the estimate of49,285,396Actual expenditure, as appeared from the returns
49,285,396Actual expenditure, as appeared from the returns£49,499,741Estimated expenditure
£49,499,741Estimated expenditure
214,345Showing an amount of expenditure below the estimate of
214,345Showing an amount of expenditure below the estimate of49,285,396Actual expenditure, as appeared from the returns
49,285,396Actual expenditure, as appeared from the returns£49,499,741Estimated expenditure
£49,499,741Estimated expenditurel.1,841,997Deficiency
1,841,997Deficiency47,443,399Actual revenue
47,443,399Actual revenue£49,285,396Actual expenditure
£49,285,396Actual expenditure
1,841,997Deficiency
1,841,997Deficiency47,443,399Actual revenue
47,443,399Actual revenue£49,285,396Actual expenditure
£49,285,396Actual expenditurel.l.l.l. said, that the vote which he was about to put into the hands of the Chairman was one of the usual votes of the Session for the issue of Exchequer bills necessary for the public service to pay off Exchequer bills now outstanding. The vote itself would in reality occasion no discussion; but he made it the occasion of addressing the House, with the view of laying before them, at as early a period as possible, a statement of the financial prospects of the year, and of those measures which her Majesty's Ministers proposed to recommend for the consideration of Parliament. He should detain the House while he endeavoured to bring the case before them in as few words and as clearly as possible. He should first call their attention to the statements which were made by him last year, of the expectations which he had of the income and expenditure for the year. There had been some alterations after the first statement, hut hon. Gentlemen would find that the expenditure of last year had been estimated at 49,499,741£1,197,601
£1,197,60147,443,399Actual
47,443,399Actual£48,641,000Estimate
£48,641,000Estimate
£1,197,601
£1,197,60147,443,399Actual
47,443,399Actual£48,641,000Estimate
£48,641,000Estimate1296214,345Showing an amount of expenditure below the estimate of
214,345Showing an amount of expenditure below the estimate of49,285,396Actual expenditure, as appeared from the returns
49,285,396Actual expenditure, as appeared from the returns£49,499,741Estimated expenditure
£49,499,741Estimated expenditure
214,345Showing an amount of expenditure below the estimate of
214,345Showing an amount of expenditure below the estimate of49,285,396Actual expenditure, as appeared from the returns
49,285,396Actual expenditure, as appeared from the returns£49,499,741Estimated expenditure
£49,499,741Estimated expenditurel.1,841,997Deficiency
1,841,997Deficiency47,443,399Actual revenue
47,443,399Actual revenue£49,285,396Actual expenditure
£49,285,396Actual expenditure
1,841,997Deficiency
1,841,997Deficiency47,443,399Actual revenue
47,443,399Actual revenue£49,285,396Actual expenditure
£49,285,396Actual expenditurel.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1322 expressed the great satisfaction which he felt at the reference which had been made to the subject of the Corn-laws by the right hon. Gentleman; and he trusted that when the House
1322Mr. H. G. Ward
l. said, that he lamented deeply the deficiency of 1,800,000l.Sir J. R. Reid
: Not when reading your speeches.Sir R. Peel
1336***1335"Therefore if, on looking at this question, he were to do so merely in a financial and commercial point of view—if he applied to it only the ordinary rules by which the House ought to be guided in discussing matters of this kind—rules which involved the extension of a due protection to the colonies, to the consumers of colonial produce, and to the trade of this country—he should have no hesitation in saying, that an abundant case had been made out for a reduction of the duty upon foreign sugar, to such an extent, as should admit of its importation into this country. But could they for a moment induce themselves to say, that the whole question of sugar and of the sugar trade, was one of that simple nature? Could they for a moment induce themselves to say, that this question was not one which they were bound to consider in connexion with many others? Could they bring themselves to believe, that they would be meeting the real wishes of their constituents, or that they would be doing their duty to their country, if in dealing with this question they excluded the consideration of other matters of a very important nature, which they were bound to bear in their minds when they attempted to deal with any thing affecting the interests of the sugar producing colonies……. His hon. Friend, the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Thornely) had advanced that argument, and in proof of its accuracy, had referred to the commodities of tobacco, cotton, and coffee, which were the produce of slave labour, but which were, nevertheless, imported in very large quantities into this country. He was not prepared to say, that upon this subject the course of legislation in England had been consistent, but he thought that a broad distinction was to be drawn between the importation of sugar and the importation of tobacco and cotton. It was to be borne in mind that the two latter commodities did not enter into competition with any similar articles raised by free labour in our own colonies. There was this distinction also, to be drawn with respect to coffee, that our colonies had never possessed the exclusive market of this country for the supply of it.
*13351334crassesssss1333l.l.l.l.l1332lllprimâ faciel.s1331l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1330l.l.l.ll.l.ll.l.l1329: The noble Lord anticipates that the proposal which he is about to make on the part of the Government on the subject of the Corn-laws may be prejudiced by the partial declarations which he has made, and that an interval must elapse before those declarations are fulfilled. The noble Lord has his own remedy against any such evil. The noble Lord may take the course which, I maintain, it is his bounden duty to take, to inform the country what is the proposition (principle and details) which, on the part of her Majesty's Government, he intends to submit, with respect to the Corn-laws. Of what avail, for the purpose of allaying the confusion which the noble Lord's startling announcement, on the subject of Corn-laws, must produce, is his declaration, that the change he means to submit is a moderate fixed duty, when no man is able to ascertain the amount of that fixed duty? Does not the noble Lord see, that to announce the intention of her Majesty's Government to deal with the question, and to promise the adoption of a fixed duty, without any indication of the probable amount, is to keep the country
1336***1335"Therefore if, on looking at this question, he were to do so merely in a financial and commercial point of view—if he applied to it only the ordinary rules by which the House ought to be guided in discussing matters of this kind—rules which involved the extension of a due protection to the colonies, to the consumers of colonial produce, and to the trade of this country—he should have no hesitation in saying, that an abundant case had been made out for a reduction of the duty upon foreign sugar, to such an extent, as should admit of its importation into this country. But could they for a moment induce themselves to say, that the whole question of sugar and of the sugar trade, was one of that simple nature? Could they for a moment induce themselves to say, that this question was not one which they were bound to consider in connexion with many others? Could they bring themselves to believe, that they would be meeting the real wishes of their constituents, or that they would be doing their duty to their country, if in dealing with this question they excluded the consideration of other matters of a very important nature, which they were bound to bear in their minds when they attempted to deal with any thing affecting the interests of the sugar producing colonies……. His hon. Friend, the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Thornely) had advanced that argument, and in proof of its accuracy, had referred to the commodities of tobacco, cotton, and coffee, which were the produce of slave labour, but which were, nevertheless, imported in very large quantities into this country. He was not prepared to say, that upon this subject the course of legislation in England had been consistent, but he thought that a broad distinction was to be drawn between the importation of sugar and the importation of tobacco and cotton. It was to be borne in mind that the two latter commodities did not enter into competition with any similar articles raised by free labour in our own colonies. There was this distinction also, to be drawn with respect to coffee, that our colonies had never possessed the exclusive market of this country for the supply of it.
*13351334crassesssss1333l.l.l.l.l1332lllprimâ faciel.s1331l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1330l.l.l.ll.l.ll.l.l1329Sir Robert Peel
135113501349134813471346ssss1345 was sorry that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tarn-worth, (Sir Robert Peel) was no longer in his place, because he was anxious to express to the right hon. Baronet, the great satisfaction with which he had listened to his eloquent description of the evils which he thought would arise from the uncertainty existing for some weeks in the public mind as to the amount of duty, that the Government would propose to remit upon the importation of foreign corn. The right hon. Baronet said, that persons would be speculating as to the amount of reduction that would be proposed, and that until that point was cleared up all transactions in the way of business would be at a stand still—all dealings between farmer and landlord, between merchant and manufacturer, would be suspended: in short, that the whole trade of the country would be thrown into a state of confusion and embarrassment. That was the description of the right hon. Baronet; but to what extent were the evils he pictured likely to be realized? His noble Friend (Lord John Russell) said, that his intention was to propose a moderate fixed duty. Then every gentleman in the country had the means of guessing within a comparatively few shillings what the amount of the reduction would be; and if an uncertainty as to a few shillings were to produce the results which the right hon. Baronet had described—if the right hon. Baronet had so strong a sense of the evils arising from an uncertainty to such an extent, then he claimed the voice of the right hon. Baronet in support of the argument which he advanced, as to the mischief resulting from the much greater uncer-
135113501349134813471346ssss1345Viscount Howick
1326 said, it was the duty of the Government to give more distinctly the materials upon which they called upon the House and the country to support them in their financial plan. The question had been very properly put by the hon. Member for Newark—what were the data upon which the Chancellor of the Exchequer founded his conclusions? To that no answer had been given; and, unless he supposed the right hon. Gentleman to proceed on mere guess as a basis for his statement, which, he was sure, could not be the case, that information ought to be given to the House. He
1326Viscount Sandon
1369 wished to bear his testimony to the fact that the petition presented in support of the general bearing of the Import duties committee was not to be taken as evidence of a general opinion in favour of the scheme of the Government. With regard to the petition which had been presented from Liverpool, he knew that at the meeting which took place before that petition was presented it had been distinctly understood that the Corn-laws were not to be touched upon; that was one point; besides which, one of the leading persons at that meeting, the proposer of one of the resolutions, was a great West-India merchant and importer of West-India sugar, and he protested strongly against the equalization of the duties. No doubt a general approbation had been given of the abstract principles of free trade—many merchants would come forward, and express their approval of the abstract principles—yet, when it
1369Viscount Sandon
 wished to ask the noble Lord opposite (Lord Stanley), whether it was his intention to proceed with his Registration of Voters Bill on Wednesday next?Mr. Smith O'Brien
 said, it was riot his intention to proceed with the bill on Wednesday. He should, for the present, postpone it for a fortnight, and he should take care that Gentlemen, on both sides of the House, should have ample notice of the time when he intended to bring it forward.Lord Stanley
"Mr. Handley approved of the manner in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had mentioned the Corn-laws, and said, that when the proper time came, he should be quite ready to second the right hon. Gentleman in dealing with the various details of this important subject."Morning Chronicle1404 rose, he said, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the case of a breach of privilege. He could not have supposed it possible, that any occasion could have arisen on which he could have felt justified in attempting to occupy their attention on a matter that was merely personal to himself; but when he was made the object of misrepresentation, as gross and unjustifiable as it was calculated to prejudice him out of doors, he had no other means of defence left to him but to throw himself on the kindness and indulgence of the House. It would be in the recollection of many hon. Members, that on Friday last, the hon. Member for North Lincolnshire had thought fit to make some re-
"Mr. Handley approved of the manner in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had mentioned the Corn-laws, and said, that when the proper time came, he should be quite ready to second the right hon. Gentleman in dealing with the various details of this important subject."Morning Chronicle1404Mr. Hundley
14111410 said, the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, had made a mistake in calling capital punishment the strongest arm of the Jaw for the prevention of crime. The question was, was it the strongest arm of the law? In his opinion that arm of the law was in reality the stronger which acted with a more speedy and certain result, and undoubtedly secondary punishments being inflicted with certainty when capital ones might be evaded, the former were more likely to terrify offenders, and to prevent the commission of crime. The noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman talked of the necessity of the present statute to prevent persons from setting fire to dockyards, but the recent attempt proved that the present law did not prevent that crime. Why was it that capital punishments did not check crime? Because they were generally regarded as too severe, according to the calculations of men of human-
14111410Mr. O'Connell
 deprecated the system of leaving too much discretion, in case of life or death, in the hands of the judges. Such a system was apt to produce an impression on the mind of the public that a prisoner was left for execution, not because he was guilty, but because such or such a judge had tried him. He could not agree to the doctrine that in legislating for this offence they should proceed on those vindictive feelings which might naturally be supposed to actuate the relatives of the injured female. Prevention, not vengeance, should be the primary object of the House; and the best method of preventing the offence, and of saving the feelings of relatives, was to make conviction and punishment more certain. The committee would recollect the case of the gipsies, who, about four years since, were convicted of robbery, accompanied with great personal violence, near Monmouth, and sentenced to transportation. Their innocence was afterwards clearly proved, the real criminals being detected, and they were brought back at the expense of Government. If the conviction of these gipsies had taken place a few years further back, they would have been executed, and what, then, would have been the feelings of the jury, the judge, and all parties whose duty obliged them to take part in the proceedings? Though lengthened imprisonment was calculated to produce death, it had this advantage, that it left time for full inquiry and examination.Mr. O'Connell
 thought the case under discussion was one of those which with the greatest propriety might be left to the discretion of the judge. He defended the character of the excellent and upright judge, who had been attacked that night by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. In the case alluded to by the hon. and learned Member, he was one of the grand jury, and he believed no one could have been present at the trial without agreeing that a clearer case was never made out.The Earl of Darlington
 observed, that there was one point of view in which the question had not been looked at. In cases of robbery and violence, rendering the offending party liable to death, there was often an inducement to commit murder us a mode of getting rid of the chief, or perhaps the only, evidence. To do away with the punishment of death, therefore, would be to remove one very frequent cause of murder being committed.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that that was a clause of great importance and very difficult to deal with. The offence of rape was the most atrocious crime in some cases, while in other cases, although the offence might be in a legal sense committed, no one would think of inflicting the capital punishment. He had devoted a great deal of his attention to the question to see if he could define a particular species of this offence, for which it would be right for the safeguard op society still to retain the capital punishment; but he had altogether failed in the attempt, and had come, therefore, to the conclusion, that it would be better to take away the punishment of death in all cases. He did not think the amendment now proposed would be of any avail; for it would still leave the offence undefined. Suppose a common prostitute violated without her consent by three or four men that would be rape in construction of the law; but no judge would leave that man, if convicted, for execution. He thought, therefore, that if they changed the law at all, they should abolish the punishment altogether.The Attorney-General
1434"And whereas, by reason of a grant of a charter of incorporation to the borough of Manchester, the coroner for the county palatine of Lancaster, acting within the division of Manchester, the clerk of the peace for the said county palatine, and the clerk of the justices of the peace appointed under an act passed in the 53rd year of the reign of King George the 3rd, for the more effectual administration of the office of a justice of the peace, and to the other justices of the peace acting within the said division of Manchester, have been deprived of their fees and emoluments arising from their respective offices within the said borough, and it is expedient that compensation be therefore made to them in like manner as if they had been officers of a borough before the passing of the said act of the 6th year of the reign of his late Majesty, who were removed from their offices under the provisions of that act; be it therefore enacted, that the said coroner, and clerk of the peace, and clerk to the justices shall be entitled to have an adequate compensation, to be assessed by the council, and paid out of the borough fund of the said borough, for the fees and emoluments of their several offices arising within such borough, and that all provisions of the said act of the 6th year of the reign of his late Majesty relating to the claim of any corporate officer for compensation, on account of being removed from his office, and to the manner of securing and determining the amount of such compensation, shall apply, except as hereinafter provided, to the said coroners, clerk of the peace, and clerk to the justices; provided always, that the statement to be delivered to the town-clerk by each such officer shall set forth the amount of
14341433"And whereas, questions are pending as to the validity of the charter of incorporation granted to the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of the borough of Manchester, in pursuance of the said act of the 6th year of the reign of his late Majesty, or of some subsequent act, be it declared and enacted, that the said charter of incorporation, and also the commission of the peace, and grant of a separate court of quarter sessions of the peace, issued or granted to the said borough, and all acts and proceed-
14331432 had resolutions to propose relative to the corporation of Manchester, which he wished to explain. A contest had been going on in Manchester with reference to the validity of the charter of incorporation, and he, although unconnected with the town, had been asked to arbitrate between the contending parties. He had consented to do so, when his attention was called to this bill, and it was suggested to him that the fairest mode would be, not to oppose the bill, but to get inserted in it clauses embodying the principle of his arbitration. In that way he had undertaken the clauses which he now wished to have inserted. In the first clause he should propose to confirm the charter of incorporation and the commission of the peace, and the grant of a separate Court of Quarter Sessions of the
1434"And whereas, by reason of a grant of a charter of incorporation to the borough of Manchester, the coroner for the county palatine of Lancaster, acting within the division of Manchester, the clerk of the peace for the said county palatine, and the clerk of the justices of the peace appointed under an act passed in the 53rd year of the reign of King George the 3rd, for the more effectual administration of the office of a justice of the peace, and to the other justices of the peace acting within the said division of Manchester, have been deprived of their fees and emoluments arising from their respective offices within the said borough, and it is expedient that compensation be therefore made to them in like manner as if they had been officers of a borough before the passing of the said act of the 6th year of the reign of his late Majesty, who were removed from their offices under the provisions of that act; be it therefore enacted, that the said coroner, and clerk of the peace, and clerk to the justices shall be entitled to have an adequate compensation, to be assessed by the council, and paid out of the borough fund of the said borough, for the fees and emoluments of their several offices arising within such borough, and that all provisions of the said act of the 6th year of the reign of his late Majesty relating to the claim of any corporate officer for compensation, on account of being removed from his office, and to the manner of securing and determining the amount of such compensation, shall apply, except as hereinafter provided, to the said coroners, clerk of the peace, and clerk to the justices; provided always, that the statement to be delivered to the town-clerk by each such officer shall set forth the amount of
14341433"And whereas, questions are pending as to the validity of the charter of incorporation granted to the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of the borough of Manchester, in pursuance of the said act of the 6th year of the reign of his late Majesty, or of some subsequent act, be it declared and enacted, that the said charter of incorporation, and also the commission of the peace, and grant of a separate court of quarter sessions of the peace, issued or granted to the said borough, and all acts and proceed-
14331432Mr. Wilson Fatten
14361435 disclaimed any imputation against the hon. Gentleman of having brought these cases forward on frivolous grounds, and that was not what he rose to complain of. What he complained of was, that the hon. Gentleman should have paid too much attention to communications which had been made to him subsequently to the periods to which he had referred. He had presented many petitions to that House against these claims, and the strongest which he had presented had been drawn up by a gentleman who was of decidedly conservative opinions. The case was now in this state—its opponents were absolutely asked to be bought off by a sum of money to be paid by the ratepayers of Manchester, in order to prevent the corporation question from going before the House of Lords. He could not speak in too strong terms of the petition which had been got up by the anti-corporators, out of all the signatures to which only 6,000 had been found to be genuine. He considered, then, that the ratepayers of the borough would be very forgetful of what was due to themselves if they were to be led into paying the money which they were called on to pay by the clauses brought forward by the hon. Member. The ratepayers had had immense expenses to encounter, and they were now called upon to make further sacrifices by the payment of money in quarters in which they were not bound to pay it. He had lately been at Manchester, and he had not met with a single individual who did not deprecate the idea of such clauses as those now proposed to be inserted in the bill before the House. The borough of Manchester would rather go on as it now did, and remain without a court of quarter sessions, and he must confess he had rather see that alteration than that it should petition Parliament in favour of those claims; and it was worthy of remark, that one of the gentlemen with whom the hon. Member had been in consultation upon the subject was a gentle-man who was himself personally interested in the question, and ought not, therefore, to have ventured to give the
14361435Mr. M. Philips
 observed, that whereas it had been said, that the corporation had had nothing to do with the recommendation of these clauses, it was a member of the corporation, and a rate-payer, who had called upon him at his Own house, upon the subject of them.Mr. W. Patten
 asserted, that no member of the corporation had ever been authorised by that body to make any application to any one in favour of the objects of the hon. Gentleman's clauses.Mr. Mark Philips
 said, that this was a public bill, and the object of it was to enable the borough, without having a gaol, to contract with the adjoining county for the maintenance of its prisoners. It gave the borough the power to do that, and to build one for itself if it thought proper to do so, providing for the rate which was to pay for it. But certain clauses were now proposed to be inserted in a public bill, which were intended only to apply to Manchester, and which would not apply to Birmingham, for instance, or to other places. He must, therefore, give such clauses his opposition. And he hoped the committee would let the bill pass in the shape in which he had introduced it, because it would thus allow the quarter sessions to proceed with the necessary business, and the counties of Lancaster and Warwick to be relieved from burdens from which they ought to be liberated.The Attorney-General
1437 trusted, that the House would not pass the bill without providing compensation for the officers who would have lost their places by the incorporation of Manchester, and thereby carry out the principle of the Municipal Reform Bill. With regard to the charter itself, the opinion of the judges had certainly been given, but it had not been given on the main question connected with that subject, which, be the fault where it might, in that he expressed no opinion, had never been brought before them. Let the com-
1437Mr. Cresswell
1438nisi prius said, that hon. Gentlemen seemed to be discussing anything but the clause really under consideration; and, with respect to that clause, he thought it the summit of human impudence. It was neither more nor less than an offer of compromise by the parties opposed to the corporation of Manchester, and went the length of saying, that if the whole of their expenses were paid, they would terminate all further litigation, and this notwithstanding they had been defeated at 1438nisi priusMr. C. Buller
 denied that there had been any decision by the Court of Queen's Bench or Exchequer Chamber, in favour of the charter of the corporation of Manchester, because the Judges had, in point of fact, decided nothing.Mr. Cresswell
 said, that the matter had been fully argued, both by his hon. and learned Friend and himself before the Exchequer Chamber, and that although his hon. and learned Friend had raised a score of objections, they were all over-ruled by a majority of the judges present. The parties, it was true, might appeal to the House of Lords; but their doing so would be fruitless.The Attorney-General
nisi prius would not say what the House of Lords might or might not do, but this he would say, that although the matter had been argued in the Exchequer Chamber, owing to the form of the bill of exceptions to the ruling of the judge at nisi priusMr. Creswell
 withdrew the first clause, and proposed to take the sense of the House on the second or compensation clause.Mr. W. Patten
 supported the claim of the coroner to compensation, and said, that if public officers, elected by the people for life, were to be deprived of their offices without redress of any kind, great injustice would be inflicted. If this were liberty, all he could say was, that the less they heard of it the better. He would suggest to the hon. Gentleman who moved the clause, whether it would not be better to make distinct propositions of each case, and propose that of the coroner first.Mr. Wakley
 said, he should be glad to adopt the suggestion, if he could do so, but he feared he could not.Mr. W. Patten
 said, that he was quite willing to entertain the case of the coroner, but with respect to the other cases, he would give them his strenuous opposition.Mr. M. Philips
 was perfectly ready to go seriatim through the case, and to commence with that of the coroner, provided the House allowed the clause to be read a second time.Mr. W. Patten
1439 knew nothing of the
1439Mr. Aglionby
 said, in several cases where additional coroners had been appointed, the Treasury decided that the old coroner was not entitled to compensation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that this was not only the opinion of the law-officers of the Crown, but likewise of the Court of Queen's Bench. Although coroners were elected by the people, still, if they became incapable of discharging the functions of their office by any means, the Lord Chancellor had power to appoint additional coroners to assist them, who would not only participate in their duties, but fees. This might, before long, be the case in the instance of the hon. Member for Fins-bury. With respect to the clause, it applied only to the coroner of Manchester, and he wished it to apply to all the other coroners likely to be affected by this bill.The Attorney-General
 observed, that in those cases where additional coroners had been appointed, the magistrates were empowered to award compensation to the party sustaining loss by the arrangement.Mr. Grimsditch
 again supported the claim of the coroner of Manchester, and said, that even if the Lord Chancellor were to exercise his power of appointing other coroners in Middlesex, he would not trouble the House with any claim for compensation.Mr. Wakley
 wished to know what was the question before the House?Mr. Hume
 replied, that the clause be read a first time.The Chairman
 suggested, whether it would not be better to alter the clause in such a way as would enable them to take the sense of the committee on the individual claim of the coroner?Mr. Gisborne
 replied, that he was anxious to do so if he could, but he feared he could not, unless they allowed the clause to be read a second time.Mr. W. Patten
1440 said, that the hon. Gentleman might strike out from the clause
1440Mr. Brotherton
 thought it would be better to drop the clause altogether, and bring it up in another form on the third reading of the bill.Mr. Gisborne
 said, he would endeavour to meet the views of hon. Gentlemen, by making each claim a distinct clause.Mr. W. Patten
 said that, although he wished justice to be done to all parties, still he could not see why the coroners and officers of other boroughs whom the bill would effect, should not be placed in as good a situation as the coroner of Manchester.The Attorney-General
 had no objection to adopt the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, but, with respect to the clerk of the peace of Lancaster, his claim stood on peculiar grounds, and, therefore, he could not risk losing a vote in favour of it.Mr. W. Patten
 thought the better way would be to withdraw the clause, and propose one generally for compensation.Mr. Jervis
 thought the committee ought to allow the clause to be read a second time.Sir C. Douglas
 said, if they proceeded in this way, the better course for the House to pursue would be, to reject any clause for compensation.Mr. Hume
 had no objection to the claim of the coroner, but he must oppose the claims of the other parties. He wished a division on the clause as it stood.Mr. M. Philips
 said, that such being the case, he must adhere to the clause.Mr. W. Patten
 complained, that the clause had not been printed, and moved "That the Chairman do report progress." He had understood, that it had been decided that the clerk of the peace for the county of Warwick was not entitled to compensation.Mr. Hume
 could not vote for the clause until it had properly come under consideration.Mr. M. Philips
 said, that by voting for this clause for the compensation of coroners the House would only affirm, that coroners were entitled to compensation. Hon. Members would afterwards have an opportunity of considering the application of the clause to this particular case.Mr. Jervis
 must persist upon principle against proceeding with this clause until it had been previously printed.Mr. Hume
 thought the hon. Member for Warwick, would best gain his object by withdrawing his clause for the present.The Attorney-General
 said, he would have the clause printed, with a view to its being brought up with the report.Sir C. Douglas
1443 then moved the clause of which he had given notice, ex-
1443Lord Francis Egerton
1444 said, he should be under the necessity of opposing the clause, as he considered that entirely to exempt Bolton from the operation of the bill would be highly objectionable. If it were sought by that bill to deprive the inhabitants of Bolton of the right to question the validity of the charter, such a proceeding would be manifestly unjust; but no such thing was attempted to be done. The inhabitants of Bolton would still have the power to take any steps they might think fit to question the validity of the charter. The consequence of exempting Bolton from the operation of the bill would be, that they would not be able to make any arrangement with the county of Lancaster for the custody and maintenance of their prisoners, and the county of Lancaster would suffer great injustice in consequence.
1444The Attorney-General
lper se, could assure the Attorney-general that Bolton was peculiarly situated; it was divided into three townships, Great Bolton, Little Bolton, and the northern part. Great Bolton being only within the borough, all the expense relating to that could be taken out of the poors'-rate. But with regard to the other portions, they were obliged to levy a second rate, which was objected to. The parties agreed to levy in a friendly manner, for the rate, in order to try the question; but after carrying the proceedings to a certain point, the corporation party had given up the contest. The bill would go to legalise the levying of rates other than those authorised by the Municipal Act, and on that ground he claimed the exemption sought. The Queen could grant a charter, but she could not grant the power of levying money. He did not oppose the charter lper se,Mr. Bolling
l1445ll said, that the petition alluded to by his hon. Colleague had been got up under false pretences. The town had been placarded with bills stating that a gaol was to be built at the cost of 20,000l1445llMr. Ainsworth
 supported the motion of the noble Lord, and hoped the noble Lord would press the question to a division.Mr. Grimsditch
sll said, that he had been requested to oppose the proposition of the noble Lord. The expenditure of the borough would be diminished by the bill, in one item to the extent of reducing a charge of 18sllMr. M. Philips
1424 was surprised at the charge made against juries by implication in the observations of the hon. and learned Mover of the clause. He, in a twenty
1424Mr. Law
 could not understand upon what principle they distinguished between murder and an attack with intent to murder. Would they keep the prisoner waiting for his trial till they ascertained whether the victim would die? Would they try a man to day for the minor offence, when the next day his crime might be murder? He should certainly vote against the clause.Mr. Elliot
1427 said, that he could not agree to that clause either. The law as established four years ago drew a distinction between burglary with violence to the person, and many offences amounting to burglary which were comparatively of a trifling nature, but all of which had been indiscriminately punished with death. The consequence was, that in more than 300 cases of all that had occurred the punishment of death had not been inflicted, and, indeed, there were very few in which it had. Within the last year seven persons had been tried for that offence, but of them four had been convicted—a sufficient proof that this was not one of that class of offences in which juries had exhibited a reluctance to convict. He need not enlarge upon the heinous nature of the offence—breaking into a house in the dead of the night and committing violence upon the inmates. At first the abolition of the capital punishment might not increase the amount of crime, but he was by no means sure that they could reckon
1427Lord John Russell
 said, there could be no second opinion as to the atrocity of the offence, or as to its being deserving of the most severe punishment. The only question to be considered was, as to the alleged repugnance of juries to convict. For his own part, he could not find that any repugnance existed which was likely to prevent a verdict of "guilty" in cases of attempt to murder which had been supposed; for, in the year 1839, the number of persons committed for trial for offences of that kind were thirty-four, out of whom twenty-two were convicted and twelve only were acquitted, whilst in the same year there were forty-six persons committed for trial for murder, of whom as many as thirty-three were acquitted, and only thirteen convicted. On that account he did not think it necessary, on the point involved in the clause, to alter the present law.Lord J. Russell
1431: I cannot but think
1431Lord J. Russell
 said, if the House looked to the moral enormity of the offences proposed to be exempted from the clause, there could be no doubt that the more atrocious cases of the kind were as deserving of death as any crime; but if they looked at the great object of prevention, he was convinced that the commission of the offence would not be so effectually prevented by the present state of the law. The noble Lord, in allusion to one of the cases mentioned by Mr. Godson, said, that in one, where the crime had been perpetrated by three men, the judge had suggested that the Crown should interfere. In subsequent instances of the kind other judges had pursued the same course. This being the state of the case, and being likely to continue, he must express his opinion that merely retaining the punishment of death on the statute book, when that punishment was not likely to be inflicted, could not tend to prevent the offence, though it might operate to prevent conviction. He should vote against the amendment.Lord John Russell
 suggested, that it would be better lo have the paragraph that had been complained of read.Lord J. Russell
 said, that he should not answer the first question put by the hon. and gallant Gentleman; and, with respect to the civil contingencies, he said that it was not his intention to proceed with them that evening.Lord John Russell
, in reply to a question proposed to him by an hon. Member on the Opposition benches, said that he did state the other night that he would be prepared on Friday next to state the amount of duty that he proposed to fix on corn. He should be ready to do so.Lord John Russell
 understood the noble Lord would propose a resolution in opposition to the proposition of his right hon. Friend.Lord J. Russell
 said, he could not consent to the clause as amended. He thought it would be a most dangerous act to abolish the punishment of death in cases where persons were convicted of setting fire to her Majesty's dockyard in time of war.Lord J. Russell
 said, there were no capital convictions which so little satisfied the public mind as those for rape, or in which doubts were so frequently expressed of the guilt of a prisoner after his execution. It was a great hardship to throw upon a judge the responsibility of the discretion which was at present given him. The Legislature should take that responsibility on themselves.Mr. C. Buller
 wished to ask the noble Lord opposite whether it were true, as reported at the west end of the town, that the hon. Member for Windsor had resigned the situation that he held under the Government? and next, whether it were the intention of the noble Lord to bring forward the civil contingencies that evening?Colonel Sibthorp
1423 had hoped to have the noble Lord's concurrence, especially after having heard him say that the enormity of criminality was not to be considered so much as the best means of deterring the evil-disposed from its perpetration. He with equal regret and surprise, perceived that principle was lost sight of in the speech of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth. The principle of all punishment should be to prevent crime. The clause exempted all attempts short of murder from capital punishment. The question then was, whether the abolition of capital punishment left society with a sufficient protection. The knowledge that the capital punishment would not be inflicted, would in his opinion, prevent the commission of murder, while the knowledge that it existed for the attempt to kill as well as the act itself, would be no doubt, in most instances, an inducement to the crime. Therefore, there was all the protection possible for society in the clause, while the capital punishment was inflicted for murder. But there was another ground in favour of the clause—namely the uncertainty of conviction, and the uncertainty of execution. Of forty-five indictments preferred for the crime in question during the last three years, only twenty procured a conviction; and of this twenty only two were executed—or one in ten. Therefore it was clear, that certainty of conviction and certainty of punishment was not obtained under the law as it stood; and the natural inference followed, that
1423Mr. F. Kelly
 agreed with the noble Lord as to the heinous nature of the offence, and should be the last man to make any proposal which, in his opinion, could diminish that protection which the community had a right to expect from the law; but he proposed this measure because it would rather increase than diminish that protection. He would not repeat the arguments which he had before urged, and which had not been answered by the noble Lord; but he begged to point out to the noble Lord the evidence of a determination on the part of the people to make considerable advances on this subject: that was to be found in the decision which had taken place to-night, when the whole weight of the Government had only been sufficient in rather a full House to obtain a majority of 122 over 110. He entreated the House to consider whether by continuing these punishments it would not increase and extend crime.Mr. Kelly
 then said, that he should not proceed farther with the bill at present. He had introduced it with no other intention than that of ameliorating the criminal laws of the country, and he thought it due to the many hon. Gentlemen who had supported him to say that, had it not been opposed in its principal clauses by the whole weight of the Government, he should have been enabled to carry it. But when he found the public opinion, and the opinion of so many hon. Members in the House, were opposed by the whole power of Government, it would be vain for him to continue, and he felt that he would best consult the convenience of the House and the interests involved in the bill itself by not proposing to carry it further that evening. The noble Lord had himself brought forward a bill for the amendment of criminal punishment, in which in some cases capital punishment was abolished. Should the noble Lord go on with that bill with the expedition which he had it in his power to command, and use that influence which would show a prospect of its being carried immediately, he should not further trouble the House with his present bill. Although the Government would not thus go the length which he could wish, they would still do much. He should beg leave to move, that the Chairman report progress.Mr. F. Kelly
 said, the hon. Member had mistaken him, if he thought that he was not conscious that he had received the warmest and most effective support from the other side of the House. He felt that if the bill, or any similar bill, should ever be brought into that House, it would be at least supported by a great majority of those who sat on the other side of the House.Mr. Kelly
 was altogether opposed to the clause. He advised his hon. Friend to withdraw his amendment, and the question could be taken on the clause itself.Captain Polhill
 begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman, that it was from that the Ministerial side of the House that the bill had been supported, and that it had met its opposition from the other side. He hoped that, under some Government, a bill carrying out the full principle of the hon. and learned Member, would be made the law of the land.Mr. Aglionby
 said, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member behind him, when he talked of his not having had the presumption to introduce such a subject, he could only say that it was not his good fortune to be possessed of the hon. and gallant officer's modesty. The hon. and gallant Member might get a meeting of his constituents at the "Cat and Gridiron," or any where else, on any evening he pleased; but the hon. and gallant Member would find it a tedious and difficult matter to go through the constituency of Lincolnshire, in order to set himself right with them. The hon. and gallant Member might moreover have so many strong and overwhelming claims upon his constituents, as to induce them to overlook such a dereliction of duty as he was represented to have been guilty of. He could tell the hon. and gallant Member that he did not, and he thought he might add that the House did not, participate in the feelings which had induced the hon. and gallant Member to interfere on the present occasion. He had, according to the forms of the House, concluded with a motion; but as he was quite satisfied that the only reparation he could obtain, at all commensurate with the injury done, had now been afforded, he begged leave to withdraw it, thanking the House for their patient attention.Mr. Handley
 thought the House should not lightly recognize the principle, that the object of the law was the punishment, and not the prevention, of crime. He declared it to be his opinion, that man had no right to take the life of man, and that the sacred precepts as strongly condemned the executioner as the murderer.Mr. Brotherton
sdsl1428 said, that, in his support of this measure, he was actuated by no false philanthropy—but he was convinced that, by making men accustomed to blood, they also made them more regardless of shed-
sdsl1428Mr. Hume
 having been present when the hon. Member spoke on Friday night, could confirm the accuracy of his statement as to the words that fell from him on that occasion, and also say, that the paper did not contain a report of his words; but totally misrepresented him. But admitting such to be the case, he put it to the hon. Member whether he had not served his object in giving publicity to his denial, and refuting the charge that had been made against him. He put it to the hon. Member whether he would take up the time of the House in bringing editors or printers before it. He would submit to the hon. Member, that at a time like the present this should not be done. He trusted that the hon. Member would be satisfied with the vindication which he had now so amply obtained.Mr. Hume
 submitted to the hon. Member—Mr. Hume
1409 thought the noble Lord was bound to show that a further diminution of the application of capital punishments would have the effect he apprehended before the committee could be expected to share in those apprehensions. Did the hon. Gentleman who opposed the clause mean to say that protection to life and property had been in a degree taken away
1409Mr. Hume
 cited some cases to show the unwillingness of juries to convict persons indicted for commiting one offence in company; and also a case in which two men, after having been tried for a rape and acquitted, were tried for murder; and the prejudice which the former charge excited against them procured their conviction, and they were executed; but circumstances afterwards transpired which showed that they were innocent of the murder. He was one of the counsel in the case, and he had no doubt of their innocence. He should support the clause as it stood.Mr. Godson
 supported the clause, because he believed that capital punishment should be reduced to the minimum consistent with the safety of the public.Mr. Monckton Milnes
 thought, that the apprehension of death was a powerful motive to deter men from the commission of crime, but in inflicting it he would distinguish between such as were perpetrated for the sake of gain, and such as were the result of violent passions, visiting the latter much more severely than the former.Mr. Slaney
 hoped the clause would pass into a law. He entirely concurred with his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, and differed from the hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Oxford. However he did not concur in the apprehension of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, with respect to some recent cases, especially that of Misters. He (Mr. Sergeant Talfourd) was convinced that that criminal, though persisting in declaring his innocence to the last, was guilty of the crime for which he had been indicted. He was at Shrewsbury at the time of the trial, though not professionally, and there was no doubt on his mind that Misters was properly convicted, if not properly executed. There could be no doubt of the justice of the verdict; but in cases of that kind the sympathy of the public went with the sufferer, and not with the law; for if Misters had been sentenced to transportation for life, instead of to hanging, no one would have protested against the severity of his doom. The fact was, the punishment of death threw a sort of sanclity around the memory of the sufferer who was suddenly sent into eternity, and in the contemplations associated with the awful transit from this life into the other an interest was naturally created in behalf of the criminal. But such feelings would end with the capital punishment, and in most cases the operation of the law would be supported by the concurrence of the public.Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
"Housebreaking.-—Executions 55, impunity produced 423; so that each execution led to seven acquittals."Arson, &c.—Executions 104, impunity produced 168; so that each execution led to more than one acquittal."Attempts to murder, &c.—Executions 101, impunity produced 393: so that each execution led to nearly four acquittals.Robbery.—Executions 268, impunity produced 1,101; so that each execution led to four acquittals."Burglary.—Executions 308, impunity produced, 1,064; so that each execution led to three acquittals."Coining.—Executions 13, impunity produced 29; so that each execution led to two acquittals."Stealing in a dwelling-house.—Executions 52, impunity produced 363 so that each execution led to seven acquittals."Sheep-stealing.—Executions 74, impunity produced 237; so that each execution led to three acquittals."Horse-stealing.—Executions 68, impunity produced 103; so that every execution led to more than one acquittal."Forgery.—The executions were 221, and the impunity produced 215; so that every execution led to nearly one acquittal. 1413If we compare the number executed for each crime with the additional number who would have been convicted if the juries had convicted in the same proportion 'before' as they have done 'since' the mitigation of the law, we shall arrive at the impunity produced by capital punishment in each particular case as follows:1,264Total
1,264Total55Housebreaking
55Housebreaking104Arson and other wilful burning
104Arson and other wilful burning101Attempts to murder, &c.
101Attempts to murder, &c.268Robbery
268Robbery308Burglary
308Burglary13Coining
13Coining52Stealing in a dwelling-house
52Stealing in a dwelling-house74Sheep-stealing
74Sheep-stealing68Horse-stealing
68Horse-stealing221Forgery
221Forgery
1,264Total
1,264Total55Housebreaking
55Housebreaking104Arson and other wilful burning
104Arson and other wilful burning101Attempts to murder, &c.
101Attempts to murder, &c.268Robbery
268Robbery308Burglary
308Burglary13Coining
13Coining52Stealing in a dwelling-house
52Stealing in a dwelling-house74Sheep-stealing
74Sheep-stealing68Horse-stealing
68Horse-stealing221Forgery
221Forgery"The total number executed for the above crimes from the year 1810 down to the mitigation of the law was 1,242, so that every execution appears to have produced rather more than three acquittals. The executions for each crime separately were as follows: 4,096 Total.—168—Arson and other wilful burning.—393—Attempts to murder, &c.—1,064—Burglary.—1,101—Robbery.—423—Housebreaking.—29—Coining.—363—Stealing in dwelling-house.—237—Sheep-stealing.—103—Horse-stealing.by 215 for Forgery."If the convictions for the following crimes, from the year 1810 down to the end of the year in which the law was mitigated in each case, had been in the same proportion to the commitments that they have been since, they would have exceeded the actual number convicted"PROOFS OF THE TENDENCY OF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT TO PRODUCE IMPUNITY.1412 said, if the legislature con-
"Housebreaking.-—Executions 55, impunity produced 423; so that each execution led to seven acquittals."Arson, &c.—Executions 104, impunity produced 168; so that each execution led to more than one acquittal."Attempts to murder, &c.—Executions 101, impunity produced 393: so that each execution led to nearly four acquittals.Robbery.—Executions 268, impunity produced 1,101; so that each execution led to four acquittals."Burglary.—Executions 308, impunity produced, 1,064; so that each execution led to three acquittals."Coining.—Executions 13, impunity produced 29; so that each execution led to two acquittals."Stealing in a dwelling-house.—Executions 52, impunity produced 363 so that each execution led to seven acquittals."Sheep-stealing.—Executions 74, impunity produced 237; so that each execution led to three acquittals."Horse-stealing.—Executions 68, impunity produced 103; so that every execution led to more than one acquittal."Forgery.—The executions were 221, and the impunity produced 215; so that every execution led to nearly one acquittal. 1413If we compare the number executed for each crime with the additional number who would have been convicted if the juries had convicted in the same proportion 'before' as they have done 'since' the mitigation of the law, we shall arrive at the impunity produced by capital punishment in each particular case as follows:1,264Total
1,264Total55Housebreaking
55Housebreaking104Arson and other wilful burning
104Arson and other wilful burning101Attempts to murder, &c.
101Attempts to murder, &c.268Robbery
268Robbery308Burglary
308Burglary13Coining
13Coining52Stealing in a dwelling-house
52Stealing in a dwelling-house74Sheep-stealing
74Sheep-stealing68Horse-stealing
68Horse-stealing221Forgery
221Forgery
1,264Total
1,264Total55Housebreaking
55Housebreaking104Arson and other wilful burning
104Arson and other wilful burning101Attempts to murder, &c.
101Attempts to murder, &c.268Robbery
268Robbery308Burglary
308Burglary13Coining
13Coining52Stealing in a dwelling-house
52Stealing in a dwelling-house74Sheep-stealing
74Sheep-stealing68Horse-stealing
68Horse-stealing221Forgery
221Forgery"The total number executed for the above crimes from the year 1810 down to the mitigation of the law was 1,242, so that every execution appears to have produced rather more than three acquittals. The executions for each crime separately were as follows: 4,096 Total.—168—Arson and other wilful burning.—393—Attempts to murder, &c.—1,064—Burglary.—1,101—Robbery.—423—Housebreaking.—29—Coining.—363—Stealing in dwelling-house.—237—Sheep-stealing.—103—Horse-stealing.by 215 for Forgery."If the convictions for the following crimes, from the year 1810 down to the end of the year in which the law was mitigated in each case, had been in the same proportion to the commitments that they have been since, they would have exceeded the actual number convicted"PROOFS OF THE TENDENCY OF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT TO PRODUCE IMPUNITY.1412Mr. Ewart
 believed that there had been no execution during the last three years for this kind of offence, and the consequence was, that juries were willing to convict, acting upon the belief that the capital punishment would not be inflicted.Mr. Ewart
 supported the clause, contending that the uncertainty of capital punishments encouraged desperate characters.Mr. W. Roche
"That in cases of rape, and of unlawfully and carnally knowing and abusing any girl under the age of 10 years, whenever either of the said offences shall be committed by any two or more persons, and such person or persons shall be convicted of either of the said offences, such person or persons so convicted shall be subject to the sentence of death, and shall suffer death, as in and by the said statute of the 9th year of the reign of his late Majesty George 4th is provided." proposed the following addition:
"That in cases of rape, and of unlawfully and carnally knowing and abusing any girl under the age of 10 years, whenever either of the said offences shall be committed by any two or more persons, and such person or persons shall be convicted of either of the said offences, such person or persons so convicted shall be subject to the sentence of death, and shall suffer death, as in and by the said statute of the 9th year of the reign of his late Majesty George 4th is provided."Sir C. Douglas
 consented. Amendment withdrawn.Sir C. Douglas
Morning Chronicle declared that he was perfectly surprised that his hon. Friend below him should have brought forward this matter. Humble as he was, he had been often very much misrepresented, and yet he never had the presumption to intrude upon the House on any occasion. He could not suppose that any one would believe that theMorning ChronicleSir De Lacy Evans
 entirely concurred with the noble Lord's objection. When a similar proposition was made to the House, he (Sir R. H. Inglis) opposed it on the same ground, and the justice of his view with regard to the paramount necessity of protecting the property of the Crown was, he thought, confirmed by the attempt which was made, two months afterwards, to set fire to one of her Majesty's dockyards.Sir R. H. Inglis
 hoped, that in the resolution, words would be introduced declaring against this country having anything to do with slave-grown sugar.Sir R. H. Inglis
1417 thought, that hon. Gentlemen should consider this question very seriously before they came to the conclusion which the hon. and learned Gentleman recommended by his example. What punishment would they think the ruffian deserved who should ill-use one of their daughters, or any one dear to them. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had said, that long imprisonment was lingering death, and much more cruel in its effect than hanging? Would it not be more humane, then, to punish with speedy death than to protract the suffering of a culprit? He thought it would be better to let the law remain as it was; but if the House would not go to that extent with him, let them at least concur
1417Sir R. Inglis
 objected to the clause being debated on the ground of expediency rather than on that of morality. He could not agree with the principle that the sole end of punishment should be to deter from crime. Those who argued that because juries would not convict for capital crimes capital punishment should be abolished argued from one abuse to another. In his opinion, such a circumstance was not sufficient to justify the alteration proposed in the law. He would give the public a stronger and a higher sense of the obligation of an oath or a declaration, and then there would be no more preference on the part of juries of theoretical opinions to the dictates of conscience. He called on the House, therefore, not to prostitute the law to the theoretical scruples of juries, and he should, under the circumstances, oppose the clause.Sir R. Inglis
 said, it would never have entered into any other person's head than that of the hon. Member for Cockermouth, to think of this bill as a party question.Sir R. H. Inglis
1419: If the House was of opinion that the punishment of death in ordinary cases of rape should be done away with, inconvenience might arise from making any particular and specific exceptions. As to the distinction that had been drawn with respect to the possibility
1419Sir Robert Peel
 could not consent to the remission of the punishment of death in such cases. He would rather have it left to the discretion of the judges as to whether or not there were any circumstances calling for any deviation from the ordinary course.Viscount Dungannon
 explained, and repented his opinion that a farther mitigation of the capital code would be dangerous to the safety of life and property. As for the case of Misters, his noble Friend near him had been on the grand jury which found the bill against the prisoner, and it was quite impossible to come to any other decision, so strong was the evidence they had received. Great modifications had already been made in the punishment of forgery, stealing from dwelling-houses, sheep-stealing, horse-stealing. He rejoiced at the mitigation; but if this were extended to the malefactor who set a house on fire, or committed murder, or wounded with intent to kill, a most dangerous encouragement would be held out by the House of Commons to the desperate characters who infested the country.Viscount Dungannon
 also took the same view. He approved of the mitigation of crimes to which capital punishments had been hitherto applied, but he thought if the Legislature, from motives of mistaken clemency, were to proceed much farther, they would make a most fatal inroad on the security of life and property in this country.Viscount Dungannon
 could not see the justice or the propriety of permitting the man who deliberately attempted murder to escape the severest punishment that could be inflicted by the law. He could not comprehend the distinction between the attempt, with the intention to kill, and the successful issue of that attempt, and he should therefore oppose the clause.Viscount Dungannon
 believed that juries paid a little more regard to their oaths than the hon. Member gave them credit for. His objection was as strong to this clause as to the one which preceded it. Midnight burglary was one of the most heinous offences, and he could not understand how this mistaken philanthropy would afford the community protection against it.Viscount Dungannon
 said, that the prerogative of the Crown had been always sufficient to provide for secondary punishment when it was shown to be necessary, and therefore there existed no good reason for the abolition of capital punishment. Supposing the case of a man who, having been convicted of wounding with intent to murder, perpetrated a second offence of the same nature against his gaoler. How would the lion, and learned Gentleman deal with that case? The highest secondary punishment having been inflicted for the first offence, the law could inflict no additional punishment for the second. On the ground that there were many cases which could not be properly dealt with if the punishment of death were abolished, he was willing to leave that punishment on the statute books, trusting for any necessary mitigation of it to a wise exercise of the prerogative of mercy.Viscount Mahon
 meant to propose a resolution, by which the sense of the House might be taken in opposition to the proposition of the Goverment.Viscount Sandon
 said, that on Friday night, previous to the House going into Committee of Ways and Means, for the purpose of fixing the duties on sugar, he meant to propose a resolution, by which the sense of the House might be taken in opposition to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman; and he would take an early opportunity of apprising the House of the words of the resolution.Viscount Sandon
 said, when the lands were advertised, there was not considered to be enough in Van Diemen's Land ready for sale to make it worth employing an agent in this country. It was more than probable that some would appear for sale in the next advertisement.Mr. V. Smith
1456 said, that the clause provided that justices of the peace should meet in Session for the purpose of dividing
1456Mr. Wakley
 assured the hon. Member he had no desire to act discourteously or harshly towards the coroners, and, seeing nothing objectionable in the hon. Member's proviso, he would not oppose it.Mr. Pakington
1457 said, that the clause proposed to make it incumbent on every co-
1457Mr. Barneby
 would accede to the introduction of some such provision.Mr. Pakington
"Provided also, that nothing in this act contained shall extend, or be construed to extend, to any existing coroner of any county of which the duties have been discharged during.—number of years, unless the consent of the coroner has first been obtained in writing." objected to giving the justices such power. They were constantly boasting of the necessity of having the judges independent, and here they were proposing to make the coroner, who was a judge, dependent upon the magistrates. It would be impossible for him to do justice if he were placed in such a situation. Nothing could be more unfair than the manner in which coroners were elected; and he rejoiced that the hon. Member had brought the subject before the House. What he complained of was, that the bill left the justices to deal with the present coroners as they thought fit. He should, therefore, move, that the following proviso be added to it:—
"Provided also, that nothing in this act contained shall extend, or be construed to extend, to any existing coroner of any county of which the duties have been discharged during.—number of years, unless the consent of the coroner has first been obtained in writing."Mr. Wakley
 did not think the hon. Member for Finsbury had any reason to complain of the powers given by this clause to the justices.Mr. Pakington
 contended, that as many of the coroners had vested interests, it should not be left to the caprice of magistrates, by contracting the range of their duties, to curtail their emoluments, without granting some compensation.Mr. O'Connell
1458 said, that certainly it was a fair principle to give compensation where existing interests were affected. He did not think that the question of compensation ought to stand in the way of the public good; on the contrary, where the public convenience required that vested interests should be interfered with, it was only just to grant compensation. The
1458Sir R. Peel
 assured the committee that the coroners had no intention whatever to urge claims for compensation. The object of his proviso was to secure the independence and integrity of their courts from the interference of the justices. He therefore hoped the hon. Gentleman would not give the committee the trouble of dividing against it.Mr. Wakley
 expressed his readiness to introduce a clause at another stage of the bill to give compensation to parties affected by the operation of the measure.Mr. Pakington
 thought a public officer had a perfect right to ask for compensation for losses suffered by an alteration in the state of the law, but he bad no right to ask for a power to decide whether or not a great public improvement should take place.Sir R. Peel
 suggested, that as the committee were agreed upon the principle of the amendment, it would be better to leave it to the hon. Gentleman to introduce a compensation clause than to divide upon the question now.Mr. O'Connell
 recommended that the clause should be so framed as to give power to the Privy Council, upon the representation of the magistrates, to decide upon the division of a county into districts, and that the Privy Council should have the power of awarding compensation.Sir R. Peel
 hoped that it would not be understood that he had said one word against the division of counties into districts under coroners; no one would give more support to such a measure. But what he complained of was that the magistrates should have power, without reference to the coroner, to make the alteration. Satisfied that if the course recommended by the hon. Baronet were followed, justice would be done, he would withdraw his amendment.Mr. Wakley
 opposed the amendment.Mr. Hume
, moved to add to the clause after the word "election," the words "have been rated for six months to the relief of the poor in any parish in such district."Mr. Hume
 said, that this was an amendment to which it was quite impossible he could give his consent. The proposal, however, was not new, inasmuch as it had been made to him on bringing in the bill by the hon. Under-secretary for the Home Department. He (Mr. Pakington), thought, that so far from being an improvement, this addition to the clause would destroy the whole principle of the bill, the object of which was to simplify the mode of the election of coroner, to lessen the expenses of such election, and to put an end to the extensive frauds by personation and otherwise which were practised on those occasions. If the amendment were agreed to, it would amount to universal suffrage in those elections. He (Mr. Pakington) had no wish to narrow the franchise, and he had only adopted the county franchise for the sake of a criterion as to who should and who should not have a right to vote; and it was with that view that he had introduced as a constituency the constituencies of the boroughs in the particular districts. On the whole, the amendment was so objectionable that be must divide the committee against it.Mr. Pakington
 supported the amendment, and denied that its adoption could lead to universal suffrage in the election of coroners. It would only give to the poorer classes a voice in the election of a public officer who of all others was most nearly connected with them.Mr. F. Maule
1461 said, he was sorry to be obliged to oppose the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He (Mr. Jervis) was clearly of opinion that the
1461Mr. J. Jervis
 should vote for the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, because it was impossible to retain the present franchise without encouraging fraud and perjury.Mr. Warburton
 was much surprised that hon. Members opposite should argue from the abuse of the franchise for its further extension. He congratulated the hon. Members on the accession of the Government in the person of the hon. Under-secretary of State to the principle of household franchise.Colonel C. Wood
 opposed the amendment.Mr. Wilbraham
 agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Cheater, and he should therefore oppose the amendment.Mr. Hamilton
. supported the amendment.Mr. Brotherton
 doubted, that the bill would secure a good constituency, though he believed it was well intended as a remedy for abuse. The existing evil, however, was of such enormous magnitude that, even if the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny were lost, some other founded on the clause before the House would be adopted. Under these circumstances he suggested a compromise to the effect of extending the right of voting to boroughs not now returning Members to Parliament.Mr. Wakley
 objected to the amendment, the effect of which, he said, would be most disfranchising.Mr. Wakley
 proposed an amendment, with a view of adding to the class of voters at present embraced by the bill, those who would have been included as the clause stood when proposed by the hon. Member for Droitwitch.Mr. Warburton
 opposed the amendment.Mr. J. Jervis
 said, that he should vote for the amendment, because he did not like to disfranchise the old freeholders. He thought that it was an extremely good proposition to qualify by the registration.Mr. Aglionby
 said, he should vote for the clause so amended.Mr. T. Egerton
 said, that if this clause were struck out he should not think it worth while to go on with the bill.Mr. Pakington
 said, he should vote against the clause, as did Mr. Godson.Mr. Estcourt
 supported it.Mr. J. Jervis
 believed that residence in the district was absolutely necessary to curtail the expense of electing coroners. The office was interesting to those who inhabited the districts in which the coroner was to act, and therefore the inhabitants of the districts ought to vote. He trusted the Committee would maintain the vote to which they had already come.Mr. F. Maule
 was opposed to the clause.Mr. Darby
 proposed as an amendment, that coroners should be empowered to compel the attendance of witnesses by fine and imprisonment.Mr. T. Egerton
ls suggested that the object would be sufficiently attained by raising the fine from 40lsMr. Pakington
 conceived that the powers already possessed by coroners were amply sufficient for this purpose; but, as some lawyers were of a different opinion, he was glad that the hon. Member for Droitwich had introduced this amendment.Mr. Wakley
1467 thought, that the power of enforcing the attendance of witnesses at an early stage of the inquiry ought to be given. As he was now satisfied that the coroner had sufficient power to compel the attendance of witnesses, he therefore suggested that the clause should be postponed. He thought that the fine
1467The Solicitor-General
 had held 2,000 coroners' inquests, and had experienced no difficulty in obtaining the attendance of important witnesses. If a witness refused to attend on a warrant being issued, and committed a contempt of court, he (Mr. Wakley) would have no hesitation in committing him.Mr. Wakley
 would like to see the hon. Member for Finsbury try the adoption of that course. If he did so with reference to him (Mr. Jervis) he would bring an action against him.Mr. Jervis
 hoped the hon. Member would put the question to the test, as it would save the public much expense, and settle an important point. If he committed a contempt of the coroners' court, he (Mr. Wakley) would commit the hon. Member immediately.Mr. Wakley
 proposed to strike out of the clause all that related to witnesses.Mr. Grimsditch
 said, that he proposed that the words "being a barrister or attorney" be struck out of the clause.Lord G. Somerset
 said, that he had introduced the clause reluctantly into the bill; but he did so because it was much pressed upon him by those coroners who had communicated with him on the subject.Mr. Pakington
 said, that although he thought coroners should have the power of appointing deputies, be could not agree that the consent of the justices would be either convenient or necessary. He, therefore, meant to propose an amendment in the clause to dispense with such consent.Mr. Maclean
 said, it was a principle of the law of this country, that no judicial officer should appoint a deputy, and he did not think coroners should have a power which a judge did not possess. He thought the clause should be withdrawn.Mr. Godson
 said, that he meant to support the amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford.Mr. Wakley
 said, that he had not put his amendment.Mr. Maclean
1468 then expressed a hope that the noble Lord (Lord G. Somerset) would
1468Mr. Wakley
 did not think his amendment at all interfered with that of the hon. and learned Gentleman.Lord G. Somerset
 agreed, that it would be more convenient to dispose of the amendment of the noble Lord, and afterwards consider that of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford.The Solicitor-General
 said, that if the clause were to pass in its present shape, it would be impossible for the county coroners to exercise their duties, and all they wanted was to be placed in as good a situation as the coroners for boroughs, and particular franchises or liberties.Mr. Wakley
 consented to withdraw his amendment.Lord G. Somerset
 proposed to withdraw the clause, in order that the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford might be discussed on the bringing up of the report.Mr. Pakington
 opposed the withdrawal of the clause, and said, that if coroners were to be allowed to appoint their own deputies, without any restriction, the result would be, that unqualified persons would be found presiding at inquests.Viscount Dungannon
 thought, that instead of getting rid of the clause, they should try to amend it. In cases of illness, or unavoidable absence, coroners should have the power of appointing deputies, but, then, these deputies should be either barristers or attorneys.Mr. F. Maule
 complained, that the hon. Gentleman bad not treated him fairly, and he therefore should press the proposition of his hon. Friend for withdrawing the clause.Lord G. Somerset
 spoke in vindication of the course which he had pursued, and said, that he intended to have spoken on the amendment of the noble Lord, had he not withdrawn it.Mr. F. Maule
 said, that it was also his intention to have addressed the committee on the amendment of the noble Lord, but that it was withdrawn before he had an opportunity of doing so.The Solicitor-General
 remarked, that all this was most extraordinary to him; but he would now give notice, that on the bringing up of the report he should renew his amendment.Lord G. Somerset
d.ddds thought, that the coroners' mileage should be 1d.dddsMr. C. Hamilton
 seconded the amendment. He mm quite sure the sum proposed did not, at least in Yorkshire, cover the coroners' expenses.Sir G. Strickland
ds suggested, that if it ware to be 1dsMr. F. Maule
 said, that the present remuneration of coroners was so low, that in many cases they were out of pocket. This state of things was highly improper, as it might have a tendency to make coroners evade their duties, on which the safety of the public in some degree depended.Mr. Wakley
 proposed, that words be added for the purpose of restricting the charge of mileage to cases in which inquests were held beyond two miles from the coroner's usual residence.Mr. Fox Maule
 opposed the proviso, as likely to operate most unjustly in densely populated districts.Mr. Wakley
 also opposed the amendment. A coroner might have many inquests to attend in one day within that range, and he would be obliged to resort to the usual modes of conveyance, without the chance of reimbursement.Mr. Pakington
 ultimately agreed to insert the word "additional," before "charge of mileage," and the proviso was then added.Mr. Fox Maule
 said, he could not agree to the clause, and he would divide the committee against it.Mr. Barneby
 replied, that sums had not yet been so applied. It was considered by the ecclesiastical commissioners desirable not to do so until some general plan was laid down.Lord John Russell
"That it is the opinion of this House that it is practicable to supply the present inadequacy of the revenue, and to meet the expenses of the country, by a judicious alteration of the protective and differential duties, without materially increasing the public burdens, and at the same time to promote the interests of trade, and to afford relief to the industrious classes; and that this House will consider such a course as best calculated for the maintenance of the public faith and the general welfare of the country." wished to state that, in the event of the House not going into Committee on the sugar duties, and the resolution, of which they had just heard the notice given, being put from the Chair, he should move an amendment to it in nearly the following terms, but which to-morrow he would give more correctly:—
"That it is the opinion of this House that it is practicable to supply the present inadequacy of the revenue, and to meet the expenses of the country, by a judicious alteration of the protective and differential duties, without materially increasing the public burdens, and at the same time to promote the interests of trade, and to afford relief to the industrious classes; and that this House will consider such a course as best calculated for the maintenance of the public faith and the general welfare of the country."Lord John Russell
 said, the subject had undergone a great deal of consideration on the part of the ecclesiastical commissioners, but they had not yet adopted any general principle for the application of the funds, and therefore none had been applied.Lord J. Russell
 observed that as a great deal of excitement prevailed out of doors, on the question of the new Poor-law, he wished her Majesty's Government to state on what day the bill would be again brought on.Captain Polhill
 was not satisfied with the answer. He said for himself he was not satisfied with it, and he was sure the House would not be satisfied with it.Captain Polhill
"Resolved, that considering the efforts and sacrifices which Parliament and the country have made for the abolition of the slave trade and of slavery, with the earnest hope that, by our exertions and example, we might be able to lead to a mitigation and final extinct ion of those evils in other countries, this House is not prepared, especially considering the present prospect of a supply of sugar from British Possessions, to adopt the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government, for the reduction of the duty on foreign sugar." stated, that he had been requested by the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, in his absence, which was unavoidable, to state the terms of the resolution that it was his intention to move, upon the motion for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Ways and Means on Friday, to consider the Sugar Duties, they were as follows:—
"Resolved, that considering the efforts and sacrifices which Parliament and the country have made for the abolition of the slave trade and of slavery, with the earnest hope that, by our exertions and example, we might be able to lead to a mitigation and final extinct ion of those evils in other countries, this House is not prepared, especially considering the present prospect of a supply of sugar from British Possessions, to adopt the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government, for the reduction of the duty on foreign sugar."Sir G. Clerk
 then observed, that, as far as the matter had gone, he was to understand that no portion of the funds for the augmentation of poor benefices, had been applied iii the different dioceses in which the benefices became vacant.Viscount Dungannon
 wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies whether any of the surplus funds which had fallen into the hands of the Church commissioners had been applied to the augmentation of poor benefices.Viscount Dungannon
 had observed, that in the sales of land ordered by the commissioner in this country in our Australian colonies, there was none ordered for sale in Van Diemen's land. He wished to know whether it was intended, or was it any mistake?Viscount Mahon
 replied, that it was on the orders of the day for Monday; but he could not say whether it would then come on.Viscount Morpeth
 wished to ask the noble Lord if it was his intention to persevere with the bill for the amendment of the Poor-laws.Mr. Waller
1494 said, that motions relating to matters still in course of negotiation with foreign governments were so entirely unusual, and so much inconvenience to the public service would attend the production of the correspondence now moved for, that he was sure the House would not support the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who, in fact, required the production of the most confidential portion of the correspondence between the Governors of Upper and Lower Canada and the
1494Lord J, Russell
1495 said, that if the papers he moved for were laid upon the Table they would prove the reverse of what the noble Lord the Secretary for the Foreign Department had stated. That noble Lord had asserted, that the American government, had not persisted in demanding an answer to their communication of the 22nd of May, 1838, whereas, Mr. Forsyth distinctly stated, in the correspondence which was before the world, that Mr. Stevenson would not be instructed to press for an answer, because Mr. Fox had told him, that he expected an answer direct from this country in a few days. What he wanted was, to have on the Table of the House those papers which would convince
1495Mr. Hume
 said, that the production of the correspondence in question would not enable the hon. Gentleman to attain the object he had in view. The American government had asked for redress for the burning of the Caroline, and to that demand her Majesty's Government had deliberately, and not through any neglect, thought it proper not to give a formal and final answer. But his noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had since informed the American Minister at the Court of London, that the British Government had justified the destruction of the Caroline; upon which the American Minister made a communication to his government, which communication had not yet transpired. His noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) was therefore perfectly justified in the statement he had made on a former occasion.Lord John Russell
 said, that since the 22nd of May, 1838, when the American Government sent a communication to Lord Palmerston, requesting satisfaction up to the present, or, at least, up to the period at which he (Mr. Hume) last introduced the question to the notice of the House, no answer had been given, verbally or by letter, to that communication; so that the House had been entirely misled and abused by the allegation of the noble Lord, that in answer had been given.Mr. Hume
1496 understood the noble
1496Sir Robert Peel
 said, that the statement made in answer to Mr. Fox was, that the attorney-general of the United States government had proceeded to the place at which the trial of Mr. M'Leod was expected to take place, and would there act according to certain instructions he had received from the American government, which he (Lord John Russell) did not deem it necessary to state to the House; that the Attorney-general had not himself taken any steps in the matter; but that the counsel for M'Leod having stated, that one of his defences was, that the act had been authorised by the British Government, applied to have the case removed to a federal court, and that that application was granted. He trusted that the American government would, when in a federal court, do that which he was told they could only do in a federal court.Lord John Russell
 hoped the noble Lord would not refuse those documents which had already appeared in the American papers. Surely no inconvenience would arise from their production.Mr. W. S. O'Brien
ex parte1497 hoped the noble Lord would refuse them, as he thought that the application for or granting of just so much information as another country published would be very derogatory to the British Parliament. The statements already pub-
ex parte1497Sir Robert Peel
 could not understand the object of pressing for papers which hon. Gentlemen had already read, after the declaration of the noble Lord.Sir D. L. Evans
 thought, that at a time when this country, as well as the United States, were deploring the loss of the able chief magistrate of that country, it was highly indelicate to press such a motion us this just as the new governor was under-taking the management of the United States. He believed that there was a strong feeling on both sides of the Atlantic for the preservation of the amicable relations between the two countries. The great commercial body was particularly anxious on the subject, and was particularly desirous that the greatest deliberation should attend the conducting of those negotiations. He trusted the motion would not be pressed.Mr. P. Howard
1498in limine observed, that according to the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, this country should not possess the same information as was possessed by other countries. They only asked for the papers relating to the arrest of Mr. M'Leod, and why the British Parliament should not have them as well as the Congress of the United States, he was at a loss to conceive. Whether that information were withheld or not, he wished to know if the Government intended to allow the trial of Mr. M'Leod to be proceeded with; because the feeling throughout the country was this—that our national honour was compromised by the detention in prison of Mr. M'Leod. The guilt or innocence of Mr. M'Leod had nothing to do with the question, as it was notorious that the Government would escape from the dilemma by the proof of Mr. M'Leod's not having been present at the destruction of the Caroline. But Mr. M'Leod had been arrested and detained in prison, and if they had a right to detain him, they had a right to try him, and if to try him, to execute him, should he be found guilty. What he wanted to know, therefore, was, whether, in the event of such a verdict, the Government intended to allow Mr. M'Leod to be executed? Because, if not, they should have stopped the matter 1498in limineMr. T. Duncombe
 observed, that the question was; not whether Mr. M'Leod—respecting whose arrest and imprisonment he (Sir R. Peel) would give no opinion whatever—ought to be released or not, but whether these papers, the production of which the noble Lord had told them, would be prejudicial to the negotiations which were now being carried on in an amicable spirit between the two countries, should lie laid upon the Table of the House.Sir R. Peel
 said, he believed it was true, that the Lord Chancellor would, in the course of the present Session, bring forward a bill to regulate the proceedings of the Court of Bankruptcy, and he hoped when it was before the House, it would be such as to meet with general approbation. With regard to the appointment of Mr. Vizard as Solicitor to the Home-office, he (the Attorney-General) had taken no part, directly or indirectly, in that appointment, but, at the same time, he felt bound to say, that he knew of no person who could more efficiently perform the duties of that office than that person, who was a gentleman of the highest honour and integrity.The Attorney General
ll1501 said, that in meeting the motion of the hon. and gallant Member with a direct negative, he should occupy the attention of the House for as short a time as possible, whilst he stated the grounds upon which he considered the appointment of Mr. Vizard, as Solicitor to the Home Department, was justified. For some time past a great increase of business had fallen to the share of the Home Department, arising out of a great number of new acts of Parliament Which had been passed of late years, as, for instance, the Municipal Corporations Act. For the convenience of the. public applications and questions relative to the construction of these enactments had been submitted to that department, and the points involved in those applications were such, that although it was not considered necessary to refer them to the law officers of the Crown, still it was considered absolutely necessary that they should be referred to some one competent to give a legal opinion upon them. For some time the Home Department availed itself of the services of the Solicitor to the Treasury, but at length it was represented to his noble Friend, that such matters did not properly fall within the duties contracted for by that Gentleman; and that he could not, consistently with the due discharge of his regular duties, undertake them in addition. It was then found that almost every other department of Government had a solicitor of its own to conduct its
ll1501Mr. F. Maule
1493 said, it was true, that there had been a considerable increase of disease amongst the convicts; but he had been given to understand, that that had occurred not only at the hulks, but also amongst the military. He could assure the noble Lord and the House, that there was no place in which greater attention was given, or where there was greater capability of attending to the convicts when overtaken with sickness, than in the hulks. It was impossible to prevent epidemics at times coming amongst those unfortunate people. He should be quite ready to furnish the noble Lord and the House with any information which they might desire on this or any other point. With reference to the evidence taken by coroners, the noble Lord must be aware, that that rested entirely on their discretion, and that their notes were private. He believed, that there was no authority which could compel a judge to give up his private notes; so there was no authority to compel a coroner
1493Mr. F. Maule
 could not, while negotiations were in progress, enter into any account of what had been done recently.Lord J. Russell
 said, a truce had been entered into, and by the last accounts, that truce had not been put an end to, but he could not say, that hostile operations might not be recommenced.Lord J. Russell
 said, that it was true that Sir H. Pottinger had received the appointment of Plenipotentiary to China, and was about to depart immediately for that country, Captain Elliot having beeen recalled.Lord J. Russell
 said, that it was his intention to persevere with the bill, and that he should bring it on, on the 17th of May.Lord J. Russell
 could not say whether there had been any arrivals yesterday, but the previous arrivals had not enabled him to furnish any additional information.Lord J. Russell
 said, that the Government had received information of certain preliminary arrangements which had been entered into by the Plenipotentiaries of the two Powers. Those preliminary arrangements, however, did not appear to have been ratified by the Emperor of China—indeed it did not appear that they had been finally settled between Captain Elliot and the Plenipotentiary appointed by the Chinese government. That arrangement was generally disapproved of by her Majesty's Government, but no further steps could be taken until they received further accounts, stating more particularly what that treaty contained.Lord J. Russell
 said, that the amendment would be moved as he stated yesterday.Lord J. Russell
 gave notice, that, to-morrow evening, on the motion that the House go into a Committee on Ways and Means beingLord J. Russell
 said, that at the present hour, when hon. Members were all so anxious to get home to dinner—he should not trouble the House by a division, but comply with the suggestion of his right hon. Friend.Colonel Sibthorp
1500ldsllll1499 rose to call the attention of the House to the appointment of Mr. William Vizard as Solicitor to the Home department. He had intended to bring the matter forward on the proposal of the miscellaneous estimates, but when he found the vacillating conduct of the Government with respect to the time of moving those estimates, he felt it his duty to the country to introduce this as a substantive motion, and he was supported strongly in taking the sense of the House on this appointment by the correspondence laid on the Table. First, he must remark on the period selected by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home department for making the application to the Treasury for this appointment. That application was made on the 6th of August, 1840—Parliament was prorogued on the 11th, and the answer was not given till the 13th, two days after that prorogation This of itself did seem extraordinary. No doubt the secret appointment of this individual had taken place before, but it was kept from the public till Parliament was up. The next thing was, that the noble Lord thought the best way of paying i this gentleman was by professional bills; why the noble Lord should fix on this method of payment, would probably never come before the House; but the Treasury thought this mode of proceeding would not be satisfactory to the public, and they,
1500ldsllll1499Colonel Sibthorp
 wished to learn from the right hon. Gentleman why the present mode of ascertaining the Value of Exports and Imports was preserved, and what was the difference between the Official and the Declared Value.Mr. G. Palmer
 said, that information brought by recent arrivals, had appeared in the papers of that day.Mr. Goulburn
 suggested to his hon. and gallant Friend, that the question could be more conveniently brought forward when the time came for voting the money to be paid to the officer of whose appointment he complained. Without intending to say anything in the slightest degree disparaging to Mr. Vizard, he did not consider that sufficient grounds had been made out for the appointment by the hon. Gentlemen opposite, and he (Mr. Goulburn) would rather have the opinion of the Attorney-general on important points relating to the municipal law and other matters of a like nature, than the opinion of any solicitor whatever. He would, however, advise his hon. and gallant Friend not to press his motion for the present, but reserve it until the estimates were brought forward, though, if his hon. and gallant Friend did divide, he should vote with him.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that with regard to the manner of making out the official value in the Customs, as calculated in the returns, he believed, that the data on which they were calculated had been the same for the last 150 years. Those data did not represent actual value, but quantities. With regard to the declared value, it was stated on the declaration of the exporting merchant, or broker on oath.Mr. Labouchere
 would give notice, that on that day he should submit a motion to the House, the object of which would be to arrest the further progress of that measure.Mr. Walter
 wished to know if there were any despatches from Egypt to the effect that matters were adjusted between the Pacha and the Porte, according to the plan to which England was pledged.Mr. Hume
1492 said, he wished to know whether a report that had been circulated was correct, namely, that the Government had recalled Captain Elliot, and appointed Sir
1492Mr. Hume
1502, before the House came to
1502Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether there had been any recent arrivals from China which would enable the noble Lord to give the House any information as to the present state of our relations with that country?Sir R. Peel
Gazette referred to the GazetteSir R. Peel
 was desirous of knowing, considering the distance of the scene of operations, whether hostilities had already been discontinued?Sir R. Peel
 said, that, he supposed the Chancellor of the Exchequer would move that the Speaker do leave the Chair, and upon that question his noble Friend (Lord Sandon) would move his amendment. The question would then be, that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question. In case that proposition were affirmed, the House would then go into committee; in case it were negatived, the noble Lord would then move his amendment.Sir R. Peel
 said, that, of course, the noble Lord would first bring forward the general question, which would enable his (Sir R. Peel's) noble Friend to take the sense of the House on the sugar duties. If the noble Lord were to withdraw his motion, his noble Friend would not have an opportunity of submitting his resolution, as many might object to vote for his noble Friend, if his proposition were merely volunteered and not introduced, in consequence of the course adopted by the Government. He was sure the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) would adhere to the announcement which he had already made as to his plan of financial policy,—Subject at an end.Sir R. Peel
 said, it seemed to him that that was an extremely inconvenient course, as it would lead to two debates and two divisions. If it was meant to take the sense of the House upon which of the two resolutions should be adopted, it appeared to him that, instead of his noble Friend moving the ways and means, the noble Member for Liverpool should be allowed precedence, and upon that motion that his noble Friend could move his resolution, upon which the sense of the House could be taken.Viscount Howick
 wished to know in what manner the amendment was to be moved?Viscount Howick
 wished to put a question to the Under-secretary of State for the Home Department. He had seen in the public papers accounts of the increased mortality in the hulks, and that great numbers of convicts had died; and it was stated, that the governor had attributed the cause of the disease to the accumulation and crowding together of the convicts by the direction of the noble Lord. He wished to know whether the Government had received any official information regarding this? He also wished to know whether any evidence could be given of the former coroner's inquests which had been ordered to be given to that House two months ago?Viscount Mahon
 said, he sup-posed the noble Lord considered the agriculturists of this country no longer entitled to protection. When the proper time came for discussing this subject he should be ready to meet the noble Lord. It was not for him to say, whether the noble Lord had taken this course at his own suggestion, or whether, on the other hand, he had adopted the advice of a sage and potent councillor known in cases of deep emergency with a significant toss of the shoulders to give strange advice, or whether it were in consequence of the return of an hon. Gentleman to that House in the cause of humanity, to whom the electors of Nottingham had done so much honour; whether, from any or either of these causes, or whether from all taken in conjunction, he cared not, but this he would prophesy, that the noble Lord would not by devices or tricks of this sort annihilate the landed interest.The Earl of Darlington
79 said, that the speech of the noble Secretary for the Colonies was the finest and most statesmanlike speech he had heard for twenty years. He had no doubt, that the noble Lord opposite had brought forward this resolution with the expectation of catching the votes of all the philanthropists, and of all those more closely concerned with the West Indies. He happened to be one of those who had a personal and private interest in this matter, being a proprietor of a pretty extensive estate in the island of Jamaica. If the noble Lord opposite expected to get his vote on the present occasion he would be disappointed. He had never yet opposed
79Mr. James
sssss8180 said, circumstanced as I am, I think the House will naturally expect that I should feel it my duty to address a few observations to them; and, undoubtedly 3 I should have felt that obligation, even if my hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth had not taken upon himself the rather unusual course of forestalling the opinions and statements of a Member of this House, putting them in his own language—language which I altogether disclaim—and striving to cast upon them some degree of ridicule. To that I have been subject for many years, and I feel that it has not done me any injury, in my own opinion or in the opinion of others. With respect to the principle first stated by my hon. Friend, I shall persevere in its assertion, if the hon. Member meant this—that I have ever been the determined enemy of slavery, whether it assumed its most hateful form of the slave-trade which had ravaged the whole western world, involving the murder and bloodshed of thousands of our fellow-creatures, or other forms scarcely less detestable, as it existed in the West India islands, and as it now exists in the Brazils, where human existence is at the lowest ebb of degraded misery: if the hon. Member meant this, that I have ever expressed my abhorrence of these practices, have ever been their determined opponent, as contrary to the laws of God and of man: if that were what the hon. Member meant, I shall ever stand by that principle, and the hon. Member states that which I claim as an honour, let who will, think it a subject of ridicule. "But," said my hon. Friend, "what right have we to force our virtuous principles upon other states, to pass an act of uniformity for Spain and the Brazils, and whatever Other countries may choose to carry on
sssss8180Dr. Lushington
42" Rome, it is thine alone, with awful sway, To rule mankind, and make the world obey, Disposing peace ond war thy own majestic way."4140393826,708,00025,756,000
26,708,00025,756,0008,667,0003,217,00020,802,0003,343,000Foregn from within limits of Company's charter
8,667,0003,217,00020,802,0003,343,000Foregn from within limits of Company's charter18,041,00022,539,00015,729,00022,506,000British Possessions
18,041,00022,539,00015,729,00022,506,000British Possessionslbs.lbs.lbs.lbs.
lbs.lbs.lbs.lbs.1839.1838.1839.1838.
1839.1838.1839.1838.HOME CONSUMPTION.IMPORTED.COFFEE.
HOME CONSUMPTION.IMPORTED.COFFEE.
26,708,00025,756,000
26,708,00025,756,0008,667,0003,217,00020,802,0003,343,000Foregn from within limits of Company's charter
8,667,0003,217,00020,802,0003,343,000Foregn from within limits of Company's charter18,041,00022,539,00015,729,00022,506,000British Possessions
18,041,00022,539,00015,729,00022,506,000British Possessionslbs.lbs.lbs.lbs.
lbs.lbs.lbs.lbs.1839.1838.1839.1838.
1839.1838.1839.1838.HOME CONSUMPTION.IMPORTED.COFFEE.
HOME CONSUMPTION.IMPORTED.COFFEE.37**d*" That considering the efforts and sacrifices which Parliament and the country have made for the abolition of the slave trade and slavery, with the earnest hope that their exertions and example might lead to the mitigation and final extinction of those evils in other countries, this House is prepared, &c."36353433lss i. e.32lllllll"In the cotton mills alone, about 95,000lss i. e.32lllllll31s30lllsldsd.sds" I have examined ' M'Queen's Statistics of the British Empire,' published in 1834, in which he gives a prospective statement of what may be expected in the West-India colonies in the year 1840. He there places the number of prædial labourers as likely to work for wages at much too high, and places the wages they are likely to receive at much too low. An attentive inquiry leads me to the conclusion, that, comprising all who work, we may estimate the effective field labour done, as equal to that of one-third of the prædial population, or about 90,000 persons, working five days in the week, at 130lllsldsd.sdsds29lll" By all accounts, the change for the better is universal and rapid, and apparently without any material drawback. The worst that can be said is, that the women are working much less than they used to do; that the boys and girls, between ten and fifteen, are mostly at school, and are afterwards brought up to domestic service, or to some trade, instead of performing the light work of the estates: and that the men will not always work ' when their pockets are full.' But while they are at work, they work as well, or better, than they used to do, and they work enough to enable them not only to eat and drink what they like best, and to dress as well as their masters, but in a great many cases to purchase their acre of land, at a cost of 15ll28" The transition from slavery to freedom, sudden as it was, settled kindly upon Antigua.
28" They work under verbal agreements from day to day; and the ordinary rate of wages is about Is. sterling for a day of eight or nine hours; not so high as in Jamaica. Task-work is hardly anywhere resorted to. The labourers are perfectly quiet and peaceable; and though the police magistrates (who are most of them planters), do not give them a high character for industry, or regularity, or duty to their superiors, the main fault imputed to them comes, I think, to little more than this, that they have no abstract love of field labour, and no such solicitude for their master's interests as should induce them to work harder on his account than they need to do on their own. It seems, however, to be universally admitted, that they are raising their scale of comforts, and improving in their habits and tastes; and that they supply themselves with the means of satisfying their new wants, by fair working at no extravagant rate of wages."27" Our accounts from Jamaica, as far as they relate to the sugar crops, are unfavourable. The crop of 1839 fell considerably below the average of the four years of apprenticeship,
27l26" Mr. Grant, senior stipendiary magistrate in Manchester, states a fact which contains much promise in it; a machine for peeling coffee, ' which will not only effect a great saving of manual labour, but will expedite the process of manufacture, perform the operation more effectively, and save the heavy and expensive buildings required for the rude and cumbrous machine now in general use,' has been invented by a Mr. John Humble, of St. Ann's. He has had to contend, according to Mr. Grant, with ' strong prejudices and ridicule, and opposition and apathy, before he could obtain a practical trial for his invention.' I presume, therefore, that it has been tried at last, and that the result of the trial has been satisfactory, but no further particulars are given. If there is one thing which the West-India planters should desire to see more than another, it is a man making his fortune by some patent invention for the abridgment of labour."25ssss.ss24sss232221l.20191817 rose and said: Sir, in rising to move that you do now leave the chair, I think it incumbent on me, owing to the notice given by the noble Lord, owing to the discussions that have taken place out of doors, owing to the attitude that has been assumed by various parties, both political and commercial, with respect to the question, to state to the House the general reasons that have influenced the Government in the adoption of the course they have recommended. Sir, I agree with the petition presented a little while ago from certain inhabitants of Bath, that this is a question not to be looked at merely as a commercial and financial one; because if it were of that character, I should willingly leave it in the hands of my right hon. Friend near me, by whom it would be treated with by far more knowledge of the subject, and far
42" Rome, it is thine alone, with awful sway, To rule mankind, and make the world obey, Disposing peace ond war thy own majestic way."4140393826,708,00025,756,000
26,708,00025,756,0008,667,0003,217,00020,802,0003,343,000Foregn from within limits of Company's charter
8,667,0003,217,00020,802,0003,343,000Foregn from within limits of Company's charter18,041,00022,539,00015,729,00022,506,000British Possessions
18,041,00022,539,00015,729,00022,506,000British Possessionslbs.lbs.lbs.lbs.
lbs.lbs.lbs.lbs.1839.1838.1839.1838.
1839.1838.1839.1838.HOME CONSUMPTION.IMPORTED.COFFEE.
HOME CONSUMPTION.IMPORTED.COFFEE.
26,708,00025,756,000
26,708,00025,756,0008,667,0003,217,00020,802,0003,343,000Foregn from within limits of Company's charter
8,667,0003,217,00020,802,0003,343,000Foregn from within limits of Company's charter18,041,00022,539,00015,729,00022,506,000British Possessions
18,041,00022,539,00015,729,00022,506,000British Possessionslbs.lbs.lbs.lbs.
lbs.lbs.lbs.lbs.1839.1838.1839.1838.
1839.1838.1839.1838.HOME CONSUMPTION.IMPORTED.COFFEE.
HOME CONSUMPTION.IMPORTED.COFFEE.37**d*" That considering the efforts and sacrifices which Parliament and the country have made for the abolition of the slave trade and slavery, with the earnest hope that their exertions and example might lead to the mitigation and final extinction of those evils in other countries, this House is prepared, &c."36353433lss i. e.32lllllll"In the cotton mills alone, about 95,000lss i. e.32lllllll31s30lllsldsd.sds" I have examined ' M'Queen's Statistics of the British Empire,' published in 1834, in which he gives a prospective statement of what may be expected in the West-India colonies in the year 1840. He there places the number of prædial labourers as likely to work for wages at much too high, and places the wages they are likely to receive at much too low. An attentive inquiry leads me to the conclusion, that, comprising all who work, we may estimate the effective field labour done, as equal to that of one-third of the prædial population, or about 90,000 persons, working five days in the week, at 130lllsldsd.sdsds29lll" By all accounts, the change for the better is universal and rapid, and apparently without any material drawback. The worst that can be said is, that the women are working much less than they used to do; that the boys and girls, between ten and fifteen, are mostly at school, and are afterwards brought up to domestic service, or to some trade, instead of performing the light work of the estates: and that the men will not always work ' when their pockets are full.' But while they are at work, they work as well, or better, than they used to do, and they work enough to enable them not only to eat and drink what they like best, and to dress as well as their masters, but in a great many cases to purchase their acre of land, at a cost of 15ll28" The transition from slavery to freedom, sudden as it was, settled kindly upon Antigua.
28" They work under verbal agreements from day to day; and the ordinary rate of wages is about Is. sterling for a day of eight or nine hours; not so high as in Jamaica. Task-work is hardly anywhere resorted to. The labourers are perfectly quiet and peaceable; and though the police magistrates (who are most of them planters), do not give them a high character for industry, or regularity, or duty to their superiors, the main fault imputed to them comes, I think, to little more than this, that they have no abstract love of field labour, and no such solicitude for their master's interests as should induce them to work harder on his account than they need to do on their own. It seems, however, to be universally admitted, that they are raising their scale of comforts, and improving in their habits and tastes; and that they supply themselves with the means of satisfying their new wants, by fair working at no extravagant rate of wages."27" Our accounts from Jamaica, as far as they relate to the sugar crops, are unfavourable. The crop of 1839 fell considerably below the average of the four years of apprenticeship,
27l26" Mr. Grant, senior stipendiary magistrate in Manchester, states a fact which contains much promise in it; a machine for peeling coffee, ' which will not only effect a great saving of manual labour, but will expedite the process of manufacture, perform the operation more effectively, and save the heavy and expensive buildings required for the rude and cumbrous machine now in general use,' has been invented by a Mr. John Humble, of St. Ann's. He has had to contend, according to Mr. Grant, with ' strong prejudices and ridicule, and opposition and apathy, before he could obtain a practical trial for his invention.' I presume, therefore, that it has been tried at last, and that the result of the trial has been satisfactory, but no further particulars are given. If there is one thing which the West-India planters should desire to see more than another, it is a man making his fortune by some patent invention for the abridgment of labour."25ssss.ss24sss232221l.20191817Lord John Russell
dsdsss said, that in fulfilment of the promise he made on a former evening, he now begged to state, that in proposing that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House upon the subject of the Corn-laws, he intended to propose a fixed duty on wheat of 8dsdsssLord J. Russell
 begged to explain that he had certainly no intention to throw ridicule upon the opinions of his right hon. Friend, and if his words were susceptible of any such interpretation, it was contrary to his wish.Mr. Hawes
77Loud cries of Order, Order.76lllll75s7473sldsll72ss" His next proposition was that the duty on East Indian sugar should be lowered 5sss71Goulburn: was not at all surprised at the turn which the debate had taken, after the speech which had been made by the noble Lord in the opening of the discussion. He was not at all surprised, that the statesmanlike views which the noble Lord had taken of the commercial policy of the country, had been, by Gentlemen opposite, suddenly-narrowed down to a question of mere East and West India interests. Neither was he surprised when the hon. Member who had just sat down declared himself an advocate of free trade in all cases in which no existing interests, no vested interests were endangered. But though not surprised at what he heard, he must confess he was struck with the boldness of the hon. Members inconsistency. But the other day he was assailing the West Indian monopoly, in conjunction with him (Mr. Hawes), to day he was its advocate, because it now was a useful ally to the additional monopoly in the East. The hon. Member then grounded his claim to the admission of East Indian Rum to the English market, upon equal terms, on the principles of free trade, and the interests of the consumer. Both are now forgotten in his advocacy of the East Indian interest. When, however, the question of free trade was fairly brought before the House, he always expected that a serious effort would be made to divert the attention of the House, from those interests which immediately affected the condition of the working classes of the country, to those of the monopolist. In that expectation he had not been disappointed; it was sufficiently apparent in the speech which the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, intended as an answer to the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies. Hon. Gentlemen opposite might as well be told at once, that this was no sugar debate. If indeed it were, certain right hon. Gentlemen opposite could scarcely be expected to take a hostile part in it; for, in the year 1828, the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge had assented to propositions infinitely more favourable to the introduction of slave-grown sugar than the present. [Mr. 77Loud cries of Order, Order.76lllll75s7473sldsll72ss" His next proposition was that the duty on East Indian sugar should be lowered 5sss71Goulburn:Mr. Hawes
78 said, he was anxious to seize the first opportunity of stating the course which a painful, but imperative sense of duty compelled him to pursue. The forms of the House, so essential to the regulation of its proceedings, were too often perverted to party purposes, and seized upon by Parliamentary tacticians to trim their sails so as to catch the popular gale. He (Mr. Handley) could have wished this question had been brought forward in a manner more convenient for discussion in that House, and more intelligible out of doors. He could not, however, disconnect the sugar duties from the other great interests embraced in the plan of the Chancellor of the Exchequer who had made the Timber Duties, the Sugar Duties, and the Corn-laws matters of financial arrangement. If however, he could have entertained a doubt on the subject, it had been removed by the straightforward course pursued by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, who had placed a resolution on the notice paper of the House, dealing with protective duties without distinction. But he had in his speech furnished him with a conclusive argument; for the noble Lord had asked him with what face could they address themselves to the Timber Duties, and the Sugar Duties, if they had shrunk from considering the great question of the Corn-laws? The converse of this proposition was also true; for how could he (Mr. Handley) give his consent to a proposal for diminishing the protection afforded to Canada, now so closely connected with us by the ties of sympathy for those emigrants who had left our shores at our instigation. How could he sacrifice the protection of the West-Indian planter, now struggling in the infancy of a new, a fearful, but glorious experiment, with the enormous wages paid to the emancipated labourer; and, when he came to the question of the Corn-laws, turn round, and exclaim, "Thus far shall thou go, but no further: you now touch upon hallowed ground?" But, to crown
78Mr. Handley
89"And whereas, by reason of the granting of charters of incorporation to the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses, of the borough of Birmingham, in the county of Warwick, and to the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of the boroughs of Manchester and Bolton, in the county of Lancaster, and of a grant of a separate Court of Sessions to each of the same boroughs, the coroner for the county of Warwick, acting within the hundred of Hemlingford, and the coronor for the county of Lan-
89 moved to insert the following clause:—
89"And whereas, by reason of the granting of charters of incorporation to the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses, of the borough of Birmingham, in the county of Warwick, and to the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of the boroughs of Manchester and Bolton, in the county of Lancaster, and of a grant of a separate Court of Sessions to each of the same boroughs, the coroner for the county of Warwick, acting within the hundred of Hemlingford, and the coronor for the county of Lan-
89Sir C. Douglas
 said, that finding the hon. Baronet would not omit the word "Manchester" from the clause, he felt bound to oppose it altogether.Mr. M. Philips
706968" Sir,—In reference to the intention which has been expressed on the part of her Majesty's Ministers to propose a reduction of duty upon foreign sugars imported into Great Britain. I am commanded by the Court of Directors of the East India Company to call the immediate attention of the Board of Commissioners for the Affairs of India, to the fact, that consequent upon the recent equalization of the duties upon East India sugar with those upon sugar from the West Indies, an impetus has been given to the production of East India sugar, which, if unchecked, will assuredly and without delay, yield to the consumers of this country an ample supply, and enable India to take more of the manufactures of Great Britain in return. But, if in the early stage of the great measure of equalisation, from which so much benefit both to India and to England, is justly anticipated, an alteration be made in the duties upon foreign sugar with the view of bringing a large supply of it into competition in the home market with the sugars of the British possessions, the Court apprehend nothing less than a total defeat of the hopes and expectations under which they so long sought, and at length successfully accomplished, that act of justice for India. The Court desire me further to, submit that the effect of any such change will be most seriously detrimental to capitalists, both European and native, who have been
6867" But be that as it might, he believed that the people of this country required the great
67"He found also, that while this diminution was going on in the supply from the West Indies, the quantity imported from the East Indies and the Mauritius had considerably increased; so much so, that last year there was imported from those distant regions, no less a quantity than 1,131,000 cwt.; that fact undoubtedly justified a hope, that we might look to that quarter for a very considerable supply of this necessary article of consumption."" He was not prepared to say, that upon this subject the course of legislation in England been consistent, but he thought that a broad distinction was to be drawn between the importation of sugar and the importation of tobacco and cotton. It was to be borne in mind, that the two latter commodities, did not enter into competition with any similar articles raised by free labour in our own colonies.""He owned he was not able to make up his mind that that was a course which he ought to recommend to the House. He did not believe it was a course that would be agreeable to their constituents, when they came to understand all the facts of the case."66" If on looking at this question, he were to do so, merely, in a financial and commercial point of view. If he were to apply to it only
66" He must admit, that there were circumstances connected with the subject—circumstances which had led numerous bodies of persons, interested in the great branches of trade to petition Parliament, which, at the present moment rendered it natural and proper, even more than at any other time, that the question should be seriously considered by the House of Commons."6564ssls63sssssssssll62llllllllllll61dsdsdsdsdsds60sssss59dss58" That if our colonies could not supply sugar sufficient for our consumption, then, but not before, the public must make up their mind as to the distinction to be maintained between free and slave-labour sugar."" The laws in this country having deprived the planter in Jamaica of that means (meaning slave labour) of raising his produce, I conceive that this is a question taken out of the category of free trade."57ds56lll5554 rose, to second the resolution moved by the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool—a resolution which not only disapproved of the specific measures proposed by her Majesty's Ministers, but declared that they ought not to be taken into consideration by the House; and he thought that the House would be of opinion that this was the fit and proper way to deal with a proposal which would involve in ruin the most valuable of our foreign possessions, would violate the plighted faith of the country, and which disregarded the most sacred dictates of humanity. He would not have ventured to have obtruded himself on the attention of the House, were it not for the relation in which he stood towards a part of the empire whose interests would be most seriously affected by these measures; and under these circumstances he ventured to hope for the kind indulgence of the House. He (Mr. Hogg) was not versed in parliamentary tactics, but he certainly had expected that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies would have heard what the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool had to propose, and the reasons he had to urge in its support, before he (Lord J. Russell) would have addressed the House. The resolution of which the noble Lord opposite had given notice, indicated the consciousness of coming defeat, and to prevent that defeat being converted into utter discomfiture, the noble Lord had deemed it necessary to
706968" Sir,—In reference to the intention which has been expressed on the part of her Majesty's Ministers to propose a reduction of duty upon foreign sugars imported into Great Britain. I am commanded by the Court of Directors of the East India Company to call the immediate attention of the Board of Commissioners for the Affairs of India, to the fact, that consequent upon the recent equalization of the duties upon East India sugar with those upon sugar from the West Indies, an impetus has been given to the production of East India sugar, which, if unchecked, will assuredly and without delay, yield to the consumers of this country an ample supply, and enable India to take more of the manufactures of Great Britain in return. But, if in the early stage of the great measure of equalisation, from which so much benefit both to India and to England, is justly anticipated, an alteration be made in the duties upon foreign sugar with the view of bringing a large supply of it into competition in the home market with the sugars of the British possessions, the Court apprehend nothing less than a total defeat of the hopes and expectations under which they so long sought, and at length successfully accomplished, that act of justice for India. The Court desire me further to, submit that the effect of any such change will be most seriously detrimental to capitalists, both European and native, who have been
6867" But be that as it might, he believed that the people of this country required the great
67"He found also, that while this diminution was going on in the supply from the West Indies, the quantity imported from the East Indies and the Mauritius had considerably increased; so much so, that last year there was imported from those distant regions, no less a quantity than 1,131,000 cwt.; that fact undoubtedly justified a hope, that we might look to that quarter for a very considerable supply of this necessary article of consumption."" He was not prepared to say, that upon this subject the course of legislation in England been consistent, but he thought that a broad distinction was to be drawn between the importation of sugar and the importation of tobacco and cotton. It was to be borne in mind, that the two latter commodities, did not enter into competition with any similar articles raised by free labour in our own colonies.""He owned he was not able to make up his mind that that was a course which he ought to recommend to the House. He did not believe it was a course that would be agreeable to their constituents, when they came to understand all the facts of the case."66" If on looking at this question, he were to do so, merely, in a financial and commercial point of view. If he were to apply to it only
66" He must admit, that there were circumstances connected with the subject—circumstances which had led numerous bodies of persons, interested in the great branches of trade to petition Parliament, which, at the present moment rendered it natural and proper, even more than at any other time, that the question should be seriously considered by the House of Commons."6564ssls63sssssssssll62llllllllllll61dsdsdsdsdsds60sssss59dss58" That if our colonies could not supply sugar sufficient for our consumption, then, but not before, the public must make up their mind as to the distinction to be maintained between free and slave-labour sugar."" The laws in this country having deprived the planter in Jamaica of that means (meaning slave labour) of raising his produce, I conceive that this is a question taken out of the category of free trade."57ds56lll5554Mr. Hogg
" That, considering the efforts and sacrifices which Parliament and the country have made for the abolition of the Slave-trade and slavery, with the earnest hope that their exertions and example might lead to the mitigation and final extinction of these evils in other countries, this House is not prepared (especially with the present prospects of the supply of sugar from British possessions) to adopt the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government for the reduction of the duty on foreign sugar."5352lll51l3,986,5981839
3,986,59818393,393,4411838
3,393,4411838£3,456,745In 1837
£3,456,745In 1837
3,986,5981839
3,986,59818393,393,4411838
3,393,4411838£3,456,745In 1837
£3,456,745In 1837l4,748,6071839
4,748,60718393,876,1961838
3,876,1961838£3,612,735In 1837
£3,612,735In 1837
4,748,6071839
4,748,60718393,876,1961838
3,876,1961838£3,612,735In 1837
£3,612,735In 183750dsdsds49dsdsdsdsdsdsdsdssdsdsdss48sdsll4746454443 rose to move the amendment of which he had given notice. He said it was not in his power, nor did he feel it his duty, to follow the noble Lord into all the various topics which he had thought proper to bring before the House. Indeed he had been for some days labouring under indisposition, and on that ground must beg the House would excuse an imperfect discharge of the duty, which he had undertaken. But under any circumstance he should not have felt it necessary to enter into the wide field of discussion which the noble Lord had thought proper to traverse. He would not be led from the proper subject of that evening's debate, from which the noble Lord found it more convenient to escape, as soon as he could, to other and more exciting topics. He could not but observe on the novelty of the present proceeding. The Chancellor of the Exchequer came down with a distinct proposition, and when a notice of an amendment upon that proposition was given, another Member of the Government, in anticipation of defeat, gave notice beforehand of another amendment; an amendment which could only be put to the House, in case the proposition of the Government was rejected. In general, it was not the practice of those who expected to win the battle, to secure for themselves, at least so ostentatiously, a way of retreat. For his part he should confine himself to the distinct proposition before the House, the proposition, on which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had called on them to express an opinion, viz., a reduction of duty on foreign sugar, and would not eater into the question of that more general proposition which was involved in the amend-
" That, considering the efforts and sacrifices which Parliament and the country have made for the abolition of the Slave-trade and slavery, with the earnest hope that their exertions and example might lead to the mitigation and final extinction of these evils in other countries, this House is not prepared (especially with the present prospects of the supply of sugar from British possessions) to adopt the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government for the reduction of the duty on foreign sugar."5352lll51l3,986,5981839
3,986,59818393,393,4411838
3,393,4411838£3,456,745In 1837
£3,456,745In 1837
3,986,5981839
3,986,59818393,393,4411838
3,393,4411838£3,456,745In 1837
£3,456,745In 1837l4,748,6071839
4,748,60718393,876,1961838
3,876,1961838£3,612,735In 1837
£3,612,735In 1837
4,748,6071839
4,748,60718393,876,1961838
3,876,1961838£3,612,735In 1837
£3,612,735In 183750dsdsds49dsdsdsdsdsdsdsdssdsdsdss48sdsll4746454443Viscount Sandon
 wished to know from the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, whether he had received any despatches relative to a murder, which, it appeared, was committed by persons armed with muskets, who fired out on some individuals from an Orange lodge at Toronto?Mr. O'Connell
 was desirous of knowing whether the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary-at-War, had received any communication from the East-India Company with respect to the spiritual wants and instructions of Roman Catholic soldiers in India, and whether the right hon. Gentleman had any hopes of procuring a remedy for the evils complained of on this subject?Mr. O'Connell
107Hume.Hear! hear!106105s said, that he was anxious o state to the House the reasons which would govern his vote upon the present occasion, but he could not, in the first instance, help remarking, that from the course which the debate had taken, whether owing to party tactics or to the forms of the House, it would be ill understood n the country. At the same lime two separate debates were going on, one incident to the announcement made by his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, on the subject of the Corn-laws, and the other solely relating to the resolution on the sugar duties, and the proposals as to corn, timber, and sugar, which was immediately before the House, and upon which his noble Friend, the Member for Liverpool, had confined himself to a dry defence of those duties. He hoped the House would allow him to say a few words on the larger question. The noble Lord was now taking the first step in a long course, he was now proposing the first of a series of measures, all intimately connected with each other, and which deeply affected not only the interests of the colonies and of agriculture, but, in his belief, were calculated to be seriously prejudicial to the manufacturing interests also. On the first subject, that of corn, he did not think, often as he had in that House represented the strong feelings on that subject, that he ever knew a more determined feeling of resistance to exist than existed at the present to the proposition of the noble Lord. It was a feeling in which all ranks and conditions of men shared, and persons of every shade of political feeling. Those who represented the agricultural interests ought at once boldly to say, "We will hear and accept of no compromise—we will not accept the proposition of the noble Lord," for he believed, that a fixed duty the agriculturists were generally determined to resist; and as to the fixed duty of 8107Hume.Hear! hear!106105sMr. Heathcote
126Cheers.Cheers.125ll" You are mistaken. I will show you, that under my Administration the commerce and manufactures of the country have flourished in an unprecedented manner. In the ten years (added his Lordship) between 1830 and 1840, the exports increased from 38,000,000ll124lllll123" I am strongly of opinion that all our colonies would be able to compete with the world, and to become exceedingly prosperous, if they themselves had free trade offered to them; and, having granted that boon to them, I think it would be wholly unnecessary to support them by any protection in their commodities in this country. At the same time I must be understood, that they must be colonies that are placed in all respects upon an equal footing with those countries which produce similar commodities. I cannot conceive, having thirty years ago abolished the slave trade, and now abolished slavery itself, that any question of free trade can arise between Jamaica and Cuba—Cuba with abundance of rich and fresh soil, not only having the advantage of employing slaves, whatever that may be, but notoriously importing the enormous amount of 40,000 or 50,000 slaves every year; they have, in fact, the slave trade and slavery; and, as the laws of this country have deprived the planter in Jamaica of that means of raising his produce, I conceive that that is a question, like several others, that is taken entirely out of the category of free trade."122" Slave labour is cheaper when the system is worked with a frightful recklessness of human suffering, which appears to obtain in Cuba, where males alone are imported, with the deliberate purpose of getting the qnickest and largest returns from their thews and sinews, and of killing them off by unmitigated labour."121lHansard120 said, there had been a great inclination on the other side of the House to widen the field of debate, and introduce the general question of free trade; but he would recall the attention of hon. Members to the fact, that the real question before the House was the amount at which the sugar duties should be fixed. The noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, had skilfully diverted the attention of the House from the real question, in his speech of the other evening. A speech characterised by greater ability—a speech more delightful to listen to, as an exercise of genius, he had never heard. He said that, not only because it was a speech of the most ample argument—of the greatest possible eloquence—of the most powerful appeals, but because he felt how untenable and baseless a case, resting on no foundation of argument or policy, the noble Lord had to deal with. The noble Lord had endeavoured to mystify his hearers, by setting before them all the marvels which free trade was to work, whereas, the real point for the House to determine was the duty on sugar. The hon. Member for Wigan had told the House, that last year, when the reduction of the sugar duties was discussed, the President of the Board of Trade asked but for one year more to secure the safety of the great experiment of emancipation, and said, that if it failed,
126Cheers.Cheers.125ll" You are mistaken. I will show you, that under my Administration the commerce and manufactures of the country have flourished in an unprecedented manner. In the ten years (added his Lordship) between 1830 and 1840, the exports increased from 38,000,000ll124lllll123" I am strongly of opinion that all our colonies would be able to compete with the world, and to become exceedingly prosperous, if they themselves had free trade offered to them; and, having granted that boon to them, I think it would be wholly unnecessary to support them by any protection in their commodities in this country. At the same time I must be understood, that they must be colonies that are placed in all respects upon an equal footing with those countries which produce similar commodities. I cannot conceive, having thirty years ago abolished the slave trade, and now abolished slavery itself, that any question of free trade can arise between Jamaica and Cuba—Cuba with abundance of rich and fresh soil, not only having the advantage of employing slaves, whatever that may be, but notoriously importing the enormous amount of 40,000 or 50,000 slaves every year; they have, in fact, the slave trade and slavery; and, as the laws of this country have deprived the planter in Jamaica of that means of raising his produce, I conceive that that is a question, like several others, that is taken entirely out of the category of free trade."122" Slave labour is cheaper when the system is worked with a frightful recklessness of human suffering, which appears to obtain in Cuba, where males alone are imported, with the deliberate purpose of getting the qnickest and largest returns from their thews and sinews, and of killing them off by unmitigated labour."121lHansard120Mr. Colquhoun
 thought the debate and the vote would be considered as embracing the whole principle of removal of restrictions from the trade and commerce of the country, and he was decidedly favourable to that principle. He could not, at the same time, conceal from himself the difficulties which the Government had created, by bringing forward the subject under the circumstances in which they were placed. He did not, indeed, join in the impntation that had been cast upon Ministers for making this a party manœuvre, but at the same time he did think that having been defeated upon other questions, and the reins of Government having dropped from their hands, they ought to have paused before they threw measures before the country, which necessarily excited much of passion and hostility between the different interests—when they were unable to carry them out. They had no right to consider themselves the exclusive advocates of free trade, and he had stated, on the vote of confidence, two years ago, that he had the most confident expectation that his right hon. Friend (Sir. R. Peel) would carry out, as far as he could the principles of Mr. Huskisson. Although such a thing could scarcely be expected by hon. Gentlemen opposite, yet, foreseeing what was about to happen, he did think it would be well if his right hon. Friend would state the principles of the course he intended to pursue. With reference to the particular question before the House, he thought it was only reasonable that the West Indians should have that amount of protection that would carry them through the experiment that was in progress, but he did not wish to continue an absolute prohibition upon foreign sugars; and he should wish to see the differential duty diminished, although not to the extent now proposed. He considered that, however, to be the question of degree proper to be discussed in the committee. He would again express his confidence in the soundness of the general principle of relaxing, as far as possible, all restriction on trade and commerce.Mr. Lascelles
"Seeks she the distant world.""For, not of conquest greedy, nor of gain,"God and good angels guide her in her course,138137"That was a principle which every bigot might appeal to in support of the grossest act of intolerance. They might as well pass an act of uniformity to settle a matter of faith or ceremonial as enforce their own opinion on such a subject by Act of Parliament.""That his right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, might perhaps maintain, that slavery was in itself sinful."136135ds134 said, he had listened to the able speech of the noble Lord and to that of the right hon. Gentleman on a former occasion, and it appeared to him that the subjects they had stated to the House had been classified by them under three heads—namely, that a deficiency existing in the finances of the country, they proposed to fill up the gap by affording relief to the consumer in this country, by lowering the prices of commodities, by affording relief to our commerce, and by the extension of foreign trade. With regard to the first item, he confessed that matters of finance were foreign to his inclination to enter upon, and the present state of the finances of this country, he thought, would puzzle more able financiers than he was. But he alluded to the subject, in order to relieve himself from a responsibility which he thought the noble Lord, in his opening speech, had endeavoured to throw upon that (the Conservative) side of the House. "It is true," said the noble Lord," that we are labouring under a deficiency; but this has arisen from causes over which we have no control, and in which you participate, as you voted for all the large expenses we incurred. We had Canada to support." It was true that they had not thought it a proper opportunity (and perhaps they might be blamed) when difficulties had arisen, to occupy themselves in picking holes in the Administration, under whose guidance these difficulties had risen. But he protested for- himself, and those about him, against the share of responsibility which the noble Lord had cast upon them. "Canada," said the noble Lord, "was a subject of disturbance and of difficulty five years ago." He did not altogether
"Seeks she the distant world.""For, not of conquest greedy, nor of gain,"God and good angels guide her in her course,138137"That was a principle which every bigot might appeal to in support of the grossest act of intolerance. They might as well pass an act of uniformity to settle a matter of faith or ceremonial as enforce their own opinion on such a subject by Act of Parliament.""That his right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, might perhaps maintain, that slavery was in itself sinful."136135ds134Lord F. Egerton
 said, Government had received some despatches, but he expected further intelligence everyday.Lord J. Russell
119lss118117116115114113112s.111110109: the hon. Member for Lincoln, Sir, appears to me to have justly appreciated the true subject and the real character of this debate, and to have judged perfectly right in giving to it a much wider range than that of the mere question of sugar duties. In particular, I rejoice that by doing this he has called forth the speech which we have just heard from the hon. Member for Wakefield; a speech which I listened to with the greatest satisfaction, as well for its excellent sense as for its frankness. The propositions laid before the House by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, as the hon. Member for Lincoln has truly stated, are comprehensive both in their present import and in their future promise; they open the prospect of a revision of our commercial tariff in all its chief defective points; and the number of separate protected interests which the hon. Member for Lincoln has enumerated, in his anxiety to find a ground of justification for protection to the landed interest, sufficiently demonstrate how great is the need for a searching legislative interference. I wish, Sir, in a few words to express my accordance with the general scheme proposed by her Majesty's Government for the raising of additional revenue during the present year by a revision of our tariff, and by the lightening of duties simply differential and protective. I think that the proposition which has been made to us for supplying the existing deficiency in the revenue by a new arrangement of our commercial system, instead of the imposition of additional taxes on the people, is a wise, an advisable, and a comprehensive proposition. Even if there were no pressing exigencies arising out of an ill-supplied Treasury—if we had at this moment a surplus instead of a deficiency—I should still hold that a reduction of those duties, which are simply protective and differential, and which enhance the cost of living in England without enriching the public purse, is a duty which we owe to the country. But when I find the same course of conduct recommended by considerations of immediate urgency—when I discover that the same amended tariff, which is calculated to enlarge our commerce, and to extend our means of giving employment to the people, may also be made to relieve them from the necessity of new positive payments over and above the heavy burthens which they now endure—I must
119lss118117116115114113112s.111110109Mr. Grote
160159158"We had advantages for sugar refining which no other country possessed; and if the system of duty was reasonable, foreign sugars would be brought here, and that which all must admit would be desirable would be attained, namely, England would become the great market for all the sugars of the world."157llllll156155154153ad valorem152llbonâ fidel151ll" When I was President, I brought this proposition before the Cabinet, of which I was a Member, and received its assent to the principle; the only difference between us being as to the time of bringing it forward as a question of revenue."150ssss149148147dsdsdsdsds146433209,3154,186,310Average
433209,3154,186,310Average7¾4815·28188,2353,764,710158,6723,606,0381840
7¾4815·28188,2353,764,710158,6723,606,03818404½3917·16208,5964,171,938199,9873,838,6271839
4½3917·16208,5964,171,938199,9873,838,627183973318·42220,9164,418,334197,3294,089,4531838
73318·42220,9164,418,334197,3294,089,453183853118·38217,4124,349,053222,0074,127,4461837
53118·38217,4124,349,053222,0074,127,446183794016·85196,1453,922,901246,4053,676,4961836
94016·85196,1453,922,901246,4053,676,49618369½3319·21221,0574,421,145233,4294,116,1581835
9½3319·21221,0574,421,145233,4294,116,15818352½2918·31207,7204,154,411190,4924,013,9191834
2½2918·31207,7204,154,411190,4924,013,91918347½2917·99201,0794,021,595241,4573,780,1381833
7½2917·99201,0794,021,595241,4573,780,13818338¼2819·00209,3564,187,135212,5083,974,6271832
8¼2819·00209,3564,187,135212,5083,974,627183282320·11218,2124,364,243130,7314,233,5691831
82320·11218,2124,364,243130,7314,233,56918310¼2519·94213,6974,273,945126,9934,147,3501830
0¼2519·94213,6974,273,945126,9934,147,3501830d.s.lbs.cwts.cwts.
d.s.lbs.cwts.cwts.Stated in tons.Stated in cwts.
Stated in tons.Stated in cwts.Total.Molasses converted into its equivalent wgt. in crystallized sugar.Sugar.
Total.Molasses converted into its equivalent wgt. in crystallized sugar.Sugar.Average Price of Sugar, according to the London Gazette.Average consumption of each person in the United Kingdom.Quantities retained for home consumption.Years.
Average Price of Sugar, according to the London Gazette.Average consumption of each person in the United Kingdom.Quantities retained for home consumption.Years.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.
Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.
433209,3154,186,310Average
433209,3154,186,310Average7¾4815·28188,2353,764,710158,6723,606,0381840
7¾4815·28188,2353,764,710158,6723,606,03818404½3917·16208,5964,171,938199,9873,838,6271839
4½3917·16208,5964,171,938199,9873,838,627183973318·42220,9164,418,334197,3294,089,4531838
73318·42220,9164,418,334197,3294,089,453183853118·38217,4124,349,053222,0074,127,4461837
53118·38217,4124,349,053222,0074,127,446183794016·85196,1453,922,901246,4053,676,4961836
94016·85196,1453,922,901246,4053,676,49618369½3319·21221,0574,421,145233,4294,116,1581835
9½3319·21221,0574,421,145233,4294,116,15818352½2918·31207,7204,154,411190,4924,013,9191834
2½2918·31207,7204,154,411190,4924,013,91918347½2917·99201,0794,021,595241,4573,780,1381833
7½2917·99201,0794,021,595241,4573,780,13818338¼2819·00209,3564,187,135212,5083,974,6271832
8¼2819·00209,3564,187,135212,5083,974,627183282320·11218,2124,364,243130,7314,233,5691831
82320·11218,2124,364,243130,7314,233,56918310¼2519·94213,6974,273,945126,9934,147,3501830
0¼2519·94213,6974,273,945126,9934,147,3501830d.s.lbs.cwts.cwts.
d.s.lbs.cwts.cwts.Stated in tons.Stated in cwts.
Stated in tons.Stated in cwts.Total.Molasses converted into its equivalent wgt. in crystallized sugar.Sugar.
Total.Molasses converted into its equivalent wgt. in crystallized sugar.Sugar.Average Price of Sugar, according to the London Gazette.Average consumption of each person in the United Kingdom.Quantities retained for home consumption.Years.
Average Price of Sugar, according to the London Gazette.Average consumption of each person in the United Kingdom.Quantities retained for home consumption.Years.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.
Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.dsdss145**dss*144143l142141140139 said, Sir, I confess that if the only question before the House, and the only motives which actuated it in the decision to which it was about to come, were those referred to by the noble Lord who has just sat down—and that the case was, that all of us being agreed that we had arrived at a crisis of great commercial and financial difficulty, and upon the course which ought to be pursued the only difference of opinion which existed was, whether or not there were special circumstances applicable to the sugar trade, which ought to exempt it from the application of principles which were allowed to be just and necessary in their application to other branches of industry and commerce,—if, I repeat, that were the state of the question, I should feel — I would not say no interest, but—not the same interest which I now feel as to the ultimate decision of the House on the question before it. But,
160159158"We had advantages for sugar refining which no other country possessed; and if the system of duty was reasonable, foreign sugars would be brought here, and that which all must admit would be desirable would be attained, namely, England would become the great market for all the sugars of the world."157llllll156155154153ad valorem152llbonâ fidel151ll" When I was President, I brought this proposition before the Cabinet, of which I was a Member, and received its assent to the principle; the only difference between us being as to the time of bringing it forward as a question of revenue."150ssss149148147dsdsdsdsds146433209,3154,186,310Average
433209,3154,186,310Average7¾4815·28188,2353,764,710158,6723,606,0381840
7¾4815·28188,2353,764,710158,6723,606,03818404½3917·16208,5964,171,938199,9873,838,6271839
4½3917·16208,5964,171,938199,9873,838,627183973318·42220,9164,418,334197,3294,089,4531838
73318·42220,9164,418,334197,3294,089,453183853118·38217,4124,349,053222,0074,127,4461837
53118·38217,4124,349,053222,0074,127,446183794016·85196,1453,922,901246,4053,676,4961836
94016·85196,1453,922,901246,4053,676,49618369½3319·21221,0574,421,145233,4294,116,1581835
9½3319·21221,0574,421,145233,4294,116,15818352½2918·31207,7204,154,411190,4924,013,9191834
2½2918·31207,7204,154,411190,4924,013,91918347½2917·99201,0794,021,595241,4573,780,1381833
7½2917·99201,0794,021,595241,4573,780,13818338¼2819·00209,3564,187,135212,5083,974,6271832
8¼2819·00209,3564,187,135212,5083,974,627183282320·11218,2124,364,243130,7314,233,5691831
82320·11218,2124,364,243130,7314,233,56918310¼2519·94213,6974,273,945126,9934,147,3501830
0¼2519·94213,6974,273,945126,9934,147,3501830d.s.lbs.cwts.cwts.
d.s.lbs.cwts.cwts.Stated in tons.Stated in cwts.
Stated in tons.Stated in cwts.Total.Molasses converted into its equivalent wgt. in crystallized sugar.Sugar.
Total.Molasses converted into its equivalent wgt. in crystallized sugar.Sugar.Average Price of Sugar, according to the London Gazette.Average consumption of each person in the United Kingdom.Quantities retained for home consumption.Years.
Average Price of Sugar, according to the London Gazette.Average consumption of each person in the United Kingdom.Quantities retained for home consumption.Years.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.
Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.
433209,3154,186,310Average
433209,3154,186,310Average7¾4815·28188,2353,764,710158,6723,606,0381840
7¾4815·28188,2353,764,710158,6723,606,03818404½3917·16208,5964,171,938199,9873,838,6271839
4½3917·16208,5964,171,938199,9873,838,627183973318·42220,9164,418,334197,3294,089,4531838
73318·42220,9164,418,334197,3294,089,453183853118·38217,4124,349,053222,0074,127,4461837
53118·38217,4124,349,053222,0074,127,446183794016·85196,1453,922,901246,4053,676,4961836
94016·85196,1453,922,901246,4053,676,49618369½3319·21221,0574,421,145233,4294,116,1581835
9½3319·21221,0574,421,145233,4294,116,15818352½2918·31207,7204,154,411190,4924,013,9191834
2½2918·31207,7204,154,411190,4924,013,91918347½2917·99201,0794,021,595241,4573,780,1381833
7½2917·99201,0794,021,595241,4573,780,13818338¼2819·00209,3564,187,135212,5083,974,6271832
8¼2819·00209,3564,187,135212,5083,974,627183282320·11218,2124,364,243130,7314,233,5691831
82320·11218,2124,364,243130,7314,233,56918310¼2519·94213,6974,273,945126,9934,147,3501830
0¼2519·94213,6974,273,945126,9934,147,3501830d.s.lbs.cwts.cwts.
d.s.lbs.cwts.cwts.Stated in tons.Stated in cwts.
Stated in tons.Stated in cwts.Total.Molasses converted into its equivalent wgt. in crystallized sugar.Sugar.
Total.Molasses converted into its equivalent wgt. in crystallized sugar.Sugar.Average Price of Sugar, according to the London Gazette.Average consumption of each person in the United Kingdom.Quantities retained for home consumption.Years.
Average Price of Sugar, according to the London Gazette.Average consumption of each person in the United Kingdom.Quantities retained for home consumption.Years.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.
Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.Statement of the quantities of Sugar and of Molasses converted into its Equivalent weight in Crystalised Sugar, that were retained for Home Consumption in the United Kingdom, together with the average Consumption of each Person in the United Kingdom, and the average price of Sugar according to the London Gazette, in each year from 1830 to 1840.dsdss145**dss*144143l142141140139Mr. Labouchere
133s132lllll said, that in giving the vote which he should do upon this important question, he thought it his duty, as he stood upon somewhat peculiar grounds, to assign his reasons. He had voted against that most extravagant grant of 20,000,000133s132lllllMr. Walter
131l130129ssdsdsdssdsdssdsdssds128127: Sir, the personal attack upon the Government which you have just heard from the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, I shall leave some member of that Government to reply to, but I can say for myself and my constituents that we heard with the greatest pleasure the announcement of her Majesty's Ministers, comprising as it does a series of measures, fraught with benefit to the whole community, but more particularly to the manufacturing interests, which have long been labouring under a distress unprecedented alike for length and severity, and which are now reduced to a state of despair, from which they can be relieved only by some such measures as those brought forward by her Majesty's Ministers. I had hoped that the very comprehensiveness of the measures would have secured their general reception. That the avoiding the imposition of new taxes whilst the revenue was failing, would be considered as one great recommendation, and that the securing to the people an increased supply of the comforts and necessaries of life, would have still farther conciliated public favour. I had flattered myself that they would have been accepted even by the monopolists themselves, as a compromise at least, however they might disregard the wants, the feelings, and the necessities of the great body of the people. That the East and West India interests, for instance, would have said, "Although we may be in some degree injured in our individual capacities, yet, if we are to be saved from
131l130129ssdsdsdssdsdssdsdssds128127Mr. Greg
97 assured the hon. and
97Mr. Macaulay
180179178pereant qui ante nos nostra dixerint177lsssdsdsdsdssdsdsGazettess176ss175174ssss173sssss172171170169168167ssds166sdss165164ssldsdsLondon Gazettedsd.163dssssdsdssds162161: Sir, it will be a consolation to the House, at this late hour of the night, to be informed, that I shall discard altogether from my consideration a large portion of those topics which the right hon. Gentleman has introduced in the course of his speech. It is not indeed my intention to insinuate, even in the remotest degree, that the right hon. Gentleman has endeavoured to escape from the discussion of the question actually before the House, by a diversion to matters extraneous and irrelevant, for I am quite sure, that the right hon. Gentleman is altogether incapable of such a subterfuge; but still I cannot help expressing my astonishment at the number and variety of topics falling under that description, and at their total want of bearing on the question really in debate. Sir, I am not here to contest or to discuss with the right hon. Gentleman, the principles of trade—I decline them altogether—they are not upon the present occasion legitimately before the
180179178pereant qui ante nos nostra dixerint177lsssdsdsdsdssdsdsGazettess176ss175174ssss173sssss172171170169168167ssds166sdss165164ssldsdsLondon Gazettedsd.163dssssdsdssds162161Mr. W. E. Gladstone
" Nec cursum oceano, neque famam, terminat astris."103Resigns, and leaves them Providence's care."But the mild bishop, with a serious air,The wretch he starves, and piously denies;"God cannot love, quoth Bond, with tearless eyes,102101ssssss10099ss98 resumed the debate, and said, that this question was looked upon by some as a subject of party struggle, and that the measures introduced by her Majesty's Government were attributed, not to financial considerations, but to political motives. He looked to results and not to motives. One thing only would he state, that when, last year, he brought this very question forward, he did understand it to be the intention of the President of the Board of Trade to submit to the pressure of the existing monopoly for one year and no longer. For his part, however, he felt, that the people of this country would not enter into such questions, but that they would judge of the measures upon their merits. They would merely ask whether the measures were conducive or not to the prosperity of the country. He was sure, at least, that that was the only consideration which would have any weight in that great commercial district with which it was his lot to be more particularly acquainted, a region of gigantic manufacture, unequalled in the history of the world, which extended itself from South Lancashire over Western Yorkshire, and linked together by one vast chain of manufactures, the Irish Sea and the German Ocean. He believed, that the alterations contemplated by the Government would be gladly hailed by the manufacturers of that most important district of the empire, and that they would not attend to any insinuations as to the motives of Ministers which might emanate from the other side of the House. But they would enquire by what means hon. Gentlemen opposite would meet the deficiency in the revenue, which they were the first to reprobate. He should like to know what they had to substitute for the measure before the House. Were they prepared to substitute for it a tax upon property? If not, how did they propose to pay the interest on our enormous debt, or to satisfy the commercial wants of the country? The country expected to hear from them, or from their leader, some statement of the measures by which they were prepared to meet the emergency, and to protect the country in a crisis
" Nec cursum oceano, neque famam, terminat astris."103Resigns, and leaves them Providence's care."But the mild bishop, with a serious air,The wretch he starves, and piously denies;"God cannot love, quoth Bond, with tearless eyes,102101ssssss10099ss98Mr. Ewart
258 said, he had to move a resolution to the effect that a sum, the produce of the sale of York House, with the interest accruing thereon, now vested in Exchequer bills, should be expended in the purchase of a royal park, to be laid out for the accommodation of the public in the neighbourhood of Spitalfields. The particular site fixed upon was that piece of land called Bonner's-fields, containing 290 acres. With the exception of a small portion of this land, which was to be reserved for the purpose of building villas, the whole was to be thrown open to the public. This piece of ground was situated in the immediate neighbourhood of the populous district of Bethnal-green, and he had no doubt, considering the immense benefit that would be conferred on the population of the whole of the eastern part of the metropolis, the House would not hesitate to sanction the Commissioners of Woods and forests in carrying out the resolution he had announced. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving that her Majesty's Commissioners of Woods and Forests be authorised to complete the contract for the sale and disposal of the Exchequer bills raised by the sale of York House, and to apply the proceeds towards providing a royal park near Bonner's-fields and Old Ford-lane, to be opened
258Mr. E. J. Stanley
l.l.,l., said, 100,000l.l.,l.,Mr. Stanley
 merely moved the resolution for the purpose of founding a bill upon it, which might become matter of discussion at a future period. The proposed park was projected entirely with the object advocated by the hon. Member who had just sat down, namely for the recreation of the lower classes. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member for East Surrey would not oppose the vote on the present occasion, as he would have ample opportunity of objecting to the measure which was to be founded upon it.Mr. Stanley
 said, the bill which the hon. Member wished to introduce, proposed not only to abolish church-rates, but to make other provision for the repair of churches. If such was the object of the hon. Gentleman's bill, he (Lord John Russell), could see no objection to its being laid on the Table, under the arrangement the hon. Gentleman proposed; because he thought there could be no division of opinion as to the propriety of abolishing church-rates, were other means provided in lieu of them for the repairs of the church. He, for one, therefore, should not object to the first reading of the hon. Member's bill, reserving to himself the right of opposing it, either in part or whole, should he see occasion to do so, on the second reading.Lord John Russell
 said, that after the opening observations made by the hon. Member for Leicester, he, for one, was quire ready to allow the introduction of the hon. Members' bill this evening, reserving the discussion upon it till the second reading. As, however, this arrangement, had been opposed by some hon. Members, he, considering the circumstances in which the House was placed, could not, if the question were pressed to a division, go so far as to vote in favour of the motion of the hon. Member for Leicester.Lord J. Russell
255 also explained. The right hon. Gentleman had imputed to him that he had stated, that in the present crisis of affairs it was necessary that nothing should be done. What he stated, was, that they were in a crisis which demanded great exertion, but the additional revenue that would be derived from sugar under the circumstances of the quantity announced by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to be
255Mr. Goulburn
 said, that however right and proper the proposition might be, he thought at that Hour, twenty-five minutes past twelve o'clock, it was rather late to consent to so large an expenditure.Mr. Kemble
257256Great laughter. said, that no person who addressed that House more rarely addressed the House than he did. It was not his intention to have said a word on this subject, had it not been for the rather unnecessary attack made upon him by the right hon. Baronet, the Judge Advocate. He could not understand upon what principle it was, that the Judge Advocate had singled him out from among all the other persons similarly situated. And, above all, why he should have singled him out to justify the opinions, in answer to questions before a committee expressed by the witness, to whom the right hon. Baronet had alluded, Mr. M'Queen. He wished the evidence of that gentleman had been read by every Member of that House. That evidence gave a true and just account of what the West-Indies had been and what they were likely to become, and if any man had any regard for the rights of property, if any man had any regard for the changes which the slave population was likely to undergo in those colonies in the event of such measures as those contemplated by her Majesty's Government being carried into effect, he was sure such a man must hesitate before he could allow such measures to pass that House. This question had not been argued upon proper principles. It was assumed that they were to give admission to foreign sugars where so ever they came from, whether from the Brazils, from Cuba, from Manilla, or from the eastern islands: but he would say, that if they permitted such sugars to come into their markets at any duty he cared not what— [257256Great laughter.Mr. Irving
 could not be brought to think, that upon a question of such vast importance as the present, the way proposed of dealing with it was a proper one for the House to adopt. He did not think the hon. Member entitled to bring forward a measure for changing the law of the land, after the unanimous decision of the Court of Exchequer upon a writ of error, without, at least, laying some ground for such a course. Nor did he think the House would act properly in allowing the hon. Member for Leicester to lay on the Table such a measure, without making a statement of the views he wished the House to adopt. At the same time, he thought it impossible that in the present state of the House, the subject could be fairly discussed; and, therefore, he should move as an amendment, that the Order of the Day for the adjourned debate on the motion for going into committee of ways and means, be now read.Dr. Nicholl
 said, that although he should have been prepared to vote in favour of his hon. Friend's motion, if pressed to a division, yet, after the declaration which had just been made by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonial Department, he did not think that there would be any use in so doing, and therefore he should, under the circumstances, recommend his hon. Friend not to press his motion at present, but rather to fix another early day when the subject might be brought forward without interruption.Mr. Hume
 seconded the motion.Mr. Hume
195194193192191190189 said: Unwilling as I am to stand in the way of my hon. Friend (Mr. Gisborne), who has the right in point of strict regularity to address the House, the House will feel that it would be difficult for me, after what has been said in this debate, not to take, if possible, the first opportunity of offering myself to your attention. It happened that I was not in my place last night. Had I been here, although at that hour, and in the state of the House, I should have had some difficulty in commanding attention, I should, notwithstanding, have trusted that for the very few minutes I felt it necessary to offer myself, I should have experienced that courtesy which in the midst of the most exciting political discussion an assembly of English gentlemen were ever ready to afford to any person whose personal feelings may be naturally excited. I am glad, however,
195194193192191190189Mr. Macaulay
206llllllll205llddsds204ds203dsssdsdsss.l202201200199198197196 said, that reluctant as he felt at all times to trespass on the indulgence of the House, he felt, that he was under peculiar disadvantage in having to follow the right hon. Gentleman, to whose eloquence the House must always listen with pleasure. His only consolation, however, in doing so, was the strength of the cause which he advocated — a strength, of which no greater proof could be given than by the weakness of the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman against it, and in support of his own consistency. The right hon. Gentleman had only repeated arguments, every one, of which had been used by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, on the introduction of the measure, and which had been so completely answered by the right hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets. The whole scope and end of those arguments went to prove that the Opposition were inconsistent in their conduct, because they consented to receive slave-grown produce, and at the same time opposed the proposition of the noble Lord, on the ground that it encouraged slavery,
206llllllll205llddsds204ds203dsssdsdsss.l202201200199198197196Sir George Clerk
 was understood to say amidst much noise, that he had certainly not meant to do any injustice either to his noble Friend or the right hon. Gentleman, and he believed, that he had correctly represented their cheers and their opinions, though if they disavowed his interpretation he must accept their disavowal.Sir George Grey
216dss215ss214lllld213212llll211210ls209s.ss.ss.208l207 observed that the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had commenced his speech by reproaching those who had spoken on the Ministerial side of the House for endeavouring to draw attention from the subject legitimately under the consideration of the House, and to divert it to wider and more extended topics. The right hon. Baronet had himself fallen into the very error for which he blamed his adversaries; for instead of confining himself to the question of the Sugar Duties, he had, in the course of his not very brief speech, entered into a dissertation upon the principles of free trade, of which he professed himself in the abstract an ardent admirer, although he made such large deductions subsequently for what he termed friction and disturbing
216dss215ss214lllld213212llll211210ls209s.ss.ss.208l207Mr. Ward
" So far as any question could be important to the maintenance of social harmony, to the promotion of satisfaction among the great body of dissenters, there was not a single question, excepting that of the Irish church, which so much pressed for an immediate practical settlement, as this of church-rates."187 said, that he would still adhere to his intention of consulting the convenience of the House, as far as possi
" So far as any question could be important to the maintenance of social harmony, to the promotion of satisfaction among the great body of dissenters, there was not a single question, excepting that of the Irish church, which so much pressed for an immediate practical settlement, as this of church-rates."187Mr. Easthope
 said he hoped that the House would believe that he was very reluctant thus for one moment to engage its attention, contrary to the general sense of its Members; but he should be neglecting his duty to his constituents, and the numerous petitioners who had entrusted their cause into his hands, if he had consented to withdraw his motion without doing everything within his power to obtain a full and early discussion, at the earliet possible time that he could. As it was clear that he could not proceed further with any advantage, he would withdraw his motion for the present, giving, at the same time, notice that he should again bring the subject forward on this day fortnight.Mr. Easthope
186 said, he was quite aware of the inconvenience which must necessarily result to the House from any impediment being thrown in the way to delay the resumption of the important debate which stood adjourned from last night, and he was anxious not to be the means of offering any such interruption. But he was sure, that the House would feel, that after the great number of petitions which had been presented, praying for the abolition of church-rates, and, considering the very great excitement which prevailed throughout the country on that subject, it would be impossible for him to forego occupying some portion of the time of the House with the motion of which he had given notice, unless the House, in consideration of his forbearance, would allow him to bring in his bill without further remark at present, it being understood, that it should be fully discussed on the motion for the second reading. Unless the House would consent to this arrangement—reluctant as he was to occupy its time on au occasion like the present—it would be utterly impossible for him, consistently with his duty to his constituents, and to the petitioners on the question, to give way. In the hope, however, that no opposition would be thrown in the way of the arrangement which he had proposed with the view of consulting the convenience of the House, he should now briefly move for leave to bring in a bill to abo-
186Mr. Easthope
 seconded the amendment, as he could not concur in the expediency, under any circumstances, of bringing in such a measure as that now proposed. On the present occasion, he was sure, that there were not six Members in the House, who expected, that any other subject than the adjourned debate upon the order of the day for going into committee of ways and means, would have taken place this evening.Sir R. H. Inglis
254253lllllll252" Can you give the committee any information about the importation of colonial produce into this country from the West Indies and the Mauritius, and also the consumption thereof in Great Britain and Ireland, and the re-exportation of British Sugar, refined or raw, to other countries?— Yes, I can, I have those returns here. In 1839, the whole quantity of sugar imported into Great Britain from the West Indies and the Mauritius was 3,435,257 cwt.; from British India, 519,126 cwt., making altogether 3,954,383 cwt. The consumption of this country last year, deducting the quantity exported, refined and raw, was 3,834,847 cwt., leaving an apparent surplus of 119,536 cwt., but from which remains to be deducted 10,470 cwt. exported in a raw state, and 22,000 cwt. in a refined state, making together 32,470 cwt., leav
lllllll252251Cheers.250249248ss247246leges sine moribus.Quid prosunt245244243242241240239dsds238lsdsll237l236235234233llsssds232d.s231230229dssdssdsds228" That no man could support himself by his business. At this moment the depression has deepened to such an alarming degree, that confidence is altogether shaken, and trade literally paralysed. Feilden's (that is the hon. Member for Oldham) began to work short time last week, four days per week. In South Lancashire that time is general. Short time to workmen who can but just live on full time wages, is slow-wasting famine, with pestilence on its heels."227226Hear! hear!225224223222221220219218d217Cheers. stated, that he had been anxious to explain the grounds of his vote, because they had not been exactly stated by any one on his side of the House. He had heard different Members complain of the terms of the motion. His right hon. Friend the Secretary at War had this night said, that it meant nothing; the hon. Member for Nottingham had wished, that it had included some expression of sympathy for the distresses of the people at home. For his own part, feeling, he hoped strongly such sympathy, he could have desired, in the present instance, that the question had been simply put to the issue upon the encouragement which the proposed admission of slave-grown sugar would give to slavery and the slave-trade. He should have given a vote with more satisfaction, if the parenthesis in the motion had been omitted, which looked to any supply of sugar from other quarters. He should have given that vote with more satisfaction, also, if there had been no references in it to the specific source of the measure in question, if, in short, it had been an abstract proposition without reference to any government whatever. He looked at this question as one of the highest principle. He should be ashamed of himself, or of any one whom he had called his Friend, if he could have made the slave-trade a party question. [254253lllllll252" Can you give the committee any information about the importation of colonial produce into this country from the West Indies and the Mauritius, and also the consumption thereof in Great Britain and Ireland, and the re-exportation of British Sugar, refined or raw, to other countries?— Yes, I can, I have those returns here. In 1839, the whole quantity of sugar imported into Great Britain from the West Indies and the Mauritius was 3,435,257 cwt.; from British India, 519,126 cwt., making altogether 3,954,383 cwt. The consumption of this country last year, deducting the quantity exported, refined and raw, was 3,834,847 cwt., leaving an apparent surplus of 119,536 cwt., but from which remains to be deducted 10,470 cwt. exported in a raw state, and 22,000 cwt. in a refined state, making together 32,470 cwt., leav
lllllll252251Cheers.250249248ss247246leges sine moribus.Quid prosunt245244243242241240239dsds238lsdsll237l236235234233llsssds232d.s231230229dssdssdsds228" That no man could support himself by his business. At this moment the depression has deepened to such an alarming degree, that confidence is altogether shaken, and trade literally paralysed. Feilden's (that is the hon. Member for Oldham) began to work short time last week, four days per week. In South Lancashire that time is general. Short time to workmen who can but just live on full time wages, is slow-wasting famine, with pestilence on its heels."227226Hear! hear!225224223222221220219218d217Cheers.Sir R. H. Inglis
 begged to know what was the estimated value of the proposed park?Sir R. Peel
 was understood to complain in explanation that the right hon. Baronet, had attributed to him sentiments which he entirely disowned. The right hon. Gentleman had interpreted his cheers, as if he had agreed in the right hon. Gentleman's exposition of the sentiments of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, which was not the case.Viscount Sandon
Cheers.308Laughter.307306"I frequently saw in a labourer's hall, his neat little sideboard (with glasses &c, thereon), as also a table, chairs, benches, &c.; his bedroom usually contained a good hard wood turned post bedstead, with its proper supply of bedclothes, &c. I lately saw a labourer, when two of his acquaintances called upon
306l.l.305304"The negroes are all eager to buy land, and have comfortable cottages; most of them are better dressed on holidays, marriages, and funerals, than the generality of the peasantry of Europe; they will not wear coarse cloth. The generality sleep on as good beds as persons of a higher order in Europe; a sideboard, with a display of decanters and glasses, invariably decks the apartment of the head men. The negro is in everything an imitator, and his wants increase as he sees his own class advance in refinement. There is more champagne drunk by the negroes than by any other class in the colony. He likes salt fish, ham, and salt pork, better than fresh meat; but it is the prevailing taste of three-fourths of the white and coloured population: though he prefers plantain and "foo-foo" (a paste made by beating the plantain in a mortar)—he only follows the example of the white manager and overseer, who, in nine instances out of ten, consider such vegetable additions better adapted to the salt food than bread. The increasing importations of flour prove, however, that bread, though nearly double the price in England, is universally eaten. There is hardly an estate on which bread is not made for sale; it must be the purest white, or it will not be bought—brown or inferior bread is unknown. Men who could buy rum at half the price of gin, prefer the high price of the latter. Set them to celebrate a wedding, or a festal day, and they run into expenses, with ready money at command, which a substantial yeoman of England could not afford. Many of them keep horses, not a few gigs, and are seen, in the country districts, driving their families to church, with the female part of the family dressed in Sunday finery—parasols and umbrellas—which, but for the black hue of the wearers, would lead you to suppose yourself in England. People with such tastes cannot be said to have few wants."303"The real difficulty with regard to the prosperity of the proprietors appears to me to consist in the means possessed by the labourer of comfortable subsistence independent of labour for wages. He may have recourse to the latter for the sake of money, or handsome clothing, or luxury, but he is hardly ever reduced to it from absolute necessity. The social order of things prevailing in other countries is thereby severed in this, and it is here no favour to give employment, but an assumed and almost acknowledged favour to give labour."302"He was of opinion that the right hon. Secretary would find himself as unfortunate in the use of the words ' immediate abolition,' as he had already found himself in the words ' extinction of tithes.'"301 could assure the House, that he should strictly follow the example of the hon. Gentleman who had
Cheers.308Laughter.307306"I frequently saw in a labourer's hall, his neat little sideboard (with glasses &c, thereon), as also a table, chairs, benches, &c.; his bedroom usually contained a good hard wood turned post bedstead, with its proper supply of bedclothes, &c. I lately saw a labourer, when two of his acquaintances called upon
306l.l.305304"The negroes are all eager to buy land, and have comfortable cottages; most of them are better dressed on holidays, marriages, and funerals, than the generality of the peasantry of Europe; they will not wear coarse cloth. The generality sleep on as good beds as persons of a higher order in Europe; a sideboard, with a display of decanters and glasses, invariably decks the apartment of the head men. The negro is in everything an imitator, and his wants increase as he sees his own class advance in refinement. There is more champagne drunk by the negroes than by any other class in the colony. He likes salt fish, ham, and salt pork, better than fresh meat; but it is the prevailing taste of three-fourths of the white and coloured population: though he prefers plantain and "foo-foo" (a paste made by beating the plantain in a mortar)—he only follows the example of the white manager and overseer, who, in nine instances out of ten, consider such vegetable additions better adapted to the salt food than bread. The increasing importations of flour prove, however, that bread, though nearly double the price in England, is universally eaten. There is hardly an estate on which bread is not made for sale; it must be the purest white, or it will not be bought—brown or inferior bread is unknown. Men who could buy rum at half the price of gin, prefer the high price of the latter. Set them to celebrate a wedding, or a festal day, and they run into expenses, with ready money at command, which a substantial yeoman of England could not afford. Many of them keep horses, not a few gigs, and are seen, in the country districts, driving their families to church, with the female part of the family dressed in Sunday finery—parasols and umbrellas—which, but for the black hue of the wearers, would lead you to suppose yourself in England. People with such tastes cannot be said to have few wants."303"The real difficulty with regard to the prosperity of the proprietors appears to me to consist in the means possessed by the labourer of comfortable subsistence independent of labour for wages. He may have recourse to the latter for the sake of money, or handsome clothing, or luxury, but he is hardly ever reduced to it from absolute necessity. The social order of things prevailing in other countries is thereby severed in this, and it is here no favour to give employment, but an assumed and almost acknowledged favour to give labour."302"He was of opinion that the right hon. Secretary would find himself as unfortunate in the use of the words ' immediate abolition,' as he had already found himself in the words ' extinction of tithes.'"301Mr. Vernon Smith
333s."Sir,—Since the development of the Ministerial plan, the bare allusion to which excited such a panic in the trade, the market has become much calmer."332331l.,l.l.,330329328l.327326325324d.d.s.,s.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.s.d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.s.Cheers.s.s.s.s.323"He never gave a vote with a greater conviction of its propriety than the vote he should give against the motion of the hon. Member for Wigan. He thought the motion did not go far enough. The hon. Member ought to bring in a bill to repeal the Slavery Emancipation Act. They sent, at a great expense, a naval force to the coast of Africa to watch the transportation of slaves, and, if possible, to prevent it; but if the slavers unfortunately evaded the watchfulness of the cruisers, what was it proposed to do? They held out a bribe to the slavers the moment they arrived in the Brazils, by purchasing the sugar grown there by the labour of those very slaves. This was a most absurd outrage to common sense."322321s.s.s.s.s.s.s.320"I have been reading a work on the subject, and I have had a conversation with a well informed gentleman regarding the valley of the Ganges, and the mode of sugar cultivation in India, and all I can say is, that we never have yet got more than 28,000 tons from that quarter."319"There are 20,000 tons of sugar exported up to this day, and we expect that there is about the same quantity yet to export."s.s.318s.d.s.s.d.,s.s.d.,s.d.s.s.s.l.s.s.l.,s.317s."Oh, I will give you an easy solution of the matter. If sugar should fall as low as 58s.l.,s.317s.d.s316315314Cheers from the Opposition and Ministerial Benches.Ministerial cheers re-echoed from the Opposition.313Hear," from the Chancellor of the Exchequer.s.quer.312Hear, hear," from the Chancellor of the Exches.311l.310"I will not go into committee—I refuse to discuss your plan in committee—I reject the motion for going into committee for the purpose of adopting it, and, declaring that I do reject it, I meet you in front, and tell you in the terms of the resolution which I have sub-
310l.l.309: Sir, although I am
333s."Sir,—Since the development of the Ministerial plan, the bare allusion to which excited such a panic in the trade, the market has become much calmer."332331l.,l.l.,330329328l.327326325324d.d.s.,s.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.s.d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.s.Cheers.s.s.s.s.323"He never gave a vote with a greater conviction of its propriety than the vote he should give against the motion of the hon. Member for Wigan. He thought the motion did not go far enough. The hon. Member ought to bring in a bill to repeal the Slavery Emancipation Act. They sent, at a great expense, a naval force to the coast of Africa to watch the transportation of slaves, and, if possible, to prevent it; but if the slavers unfortunately evaded the watchfulness of the cruisers, what was it proposed to do? They held out a bribe to the slavers the moment they arrived in the Brazils, by purchasing the sugar grown there by the labour of those very slaves. This was a most absurd outrage to common sense."322321s.s.s.s.s.s.s.320"I have been reading a work on the subject, and I have had a conversation with a well informed gentleman regarding the valley of the Ganges, and the mode of sugar cultivation in India, and all I can say is, that we never have yet got more than 28,000 tons from that quarter."319"There are 20,000 tons of sugar exported up to this day, and we expect that there is about the same quantity yet to export."s.s.318s.d.s.s.d.,s.s.d.,s.d.s.s.s.l.s.s.l.,s.317s."Oh, I will give you an easy solution of the matter. If sugar should fall as low as 58s.l.,s.317s.d.s316315314Cheers from the Opposition and Ministerial Benches.Ministerial cheers re-echoed from the Opposition.313Hear," from the Chancellor of the Exchequer.s.quer.312Hear, hear," from the Chancellor of the Exches.311l.310"I will not go into committee—I refuse to discuss your plan in committee—I reject the motion for going into committee for the purpose of adopting it, and, declaring that I do reject it, I meet you in front, and tell you in the terms of the resolution which I have sub-
310l.l.309Lord Stanley
261l.l.d.s.260: In rising to offer a few remarks upon the important subject now under consideration, I can assure the House, that it is not ray intention to trespass upon their patience for any length of time, or to enter into any of those commercial details, which have been already so fully and so well stated by those most conversant with the subject, but there is one point to which I could wish to draw the attention of the House, namely, that there has been a most unjust imputation thrown upon the West-India proprietors, and upon hon. Members on this side of the House, of being influenced in their opposition to this measure, solely by a wish to preserve their own monopoly, and to deprive the poorer classes of this country of the blessing of cheap sugar, which this measure of her Majesty's Government professes to extend to them, at the same time that it augments the revenue. To be sure, these great advantages are not to be obtained without some slight sacrifice, it is confessed even by those who introduce this measure, that it must, in some degree, affect the West Indian interests, and it is even admitted, that it may incidentally give some encouragement to the slave-trade, but what are these minor evils when compared with the immense good, that it is to effect. Now, Sir, I think it is a bad maxim, "to do a great good, do a little ill," but when the adage is reversed, and it is proposed "to do a little good, do a great ill." I think, there is nobody that will not agree with me, as to the badness of the maxim, and this is, I think, precisely the proposition that is made by her Majesty's Government, with the sole exception, that, I think, the good, small as it is, is most problematical. What is the ground taken by hon. Members opposite? We are told not to waste our sympathies upon the negroes, but to turn our compassion to our own suffering artisans at home, and the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, has drawn an affecting picture of the poor man obliged to turn away from the shop, because his scanty means were insufficient to purchase the slight luxury of sugar, possibly for a sick wife or child. God forbid, that I, or any Member of this House, should view with indifference the sufferings or privations of the poor, or treat with levity any proposition to alleviate those sufferings, or remove those privations; but, in this case,
261l.l.d.s.260Mr. Cholmondely
s.s.287s.s.s.286 said, that if he could have brought himself to believe, that the measures which her Majesty's Government had introduced were for the benefit of the country, he should have contented himself with a silent vote on this occasion, but, thinking that they were measures injurious to the best interests of the empire —thinking that there was no necessity for such a measure as the reduction of the sugar duties, thinking that the distress in the manufacturing districts was not the consequence of the existing Corn-laws, and that it would not be relieved even were those Corn laws to be altered, he felt it necessary to state the reasons why he must vote against that Government which he had hitherto supported. The hon. Member for Sheffield had declared, that there must be something in the air of Lincolnshire which induced all its Members to rise in arms against the Government as soon as the slightest attempt was made to meddle with the Corn-laws. He would tell the hon. Member for Sheffield, that the reason why he and his colleagues now voted against the Government was, that there were in Lincolnshire not only
s.s.287s.s.s.286Lord Worsley
300299298 would promise not to detain the House long whilst he made a few observations on the question under discussion, and stated the reasons which would induce him to take the course which he intended to pursue. He had observed, on the part of Gentlemen at the other side of the House, a great disinclination to meet distinctly the resolution of his noble Friend. A great part of the evening had been occupied by hon. Members, at the other side of the House, in pouring out the vials of their wrath on the head of his hon. Friend, the Member for Newark, which he (Mr. S. Herbert) considered to be a just tribute, wrung from them in spite of themselves, to the pungency of his hon. Friend's remarks, as well as to the force of his reasoning. But the character and principles of his hon. Friend stood too high to give any reason to fear, that either could be endangered by any such attacks.
300299298Mr. Sydney Herbert
283282281280 should have been content to leave the question for decision, on the arguments that had been adduced, if the House saw fit to close the debate; but, it having been understood that it was the pleasure of the House that it should continue open another night, he hoped he might be excused for not giving a silent vote upon the subject. It had been repeatedly contended on the other side of the House that the question was argued on that (the Opposition) side, on distinct and separate grounds, some objecting generally to the whole financial plan opened by the Government; and others, to that particular part of it which was the subject of the present motion, but this remark held good as applied to those who made it as well as those against whom it was addressed. He blamed neither side for adopting that line of argument, because it was a natural and necessary consequence of bringing forward a part of a measure for discussion, while the whole was pending. Upon the narrower question immediately before the House, although he even might, he would suppose for the sake of argument, be inclined to accede to the proposition, without reference to the score of humanity, he did not think that the present was a moment in which it should be made. The consequence of it would be the renewal of an agitation in the West Indies which had only just begun to subside, and the disruption of a state of society which was beginning again to assume a placid and settled form in those islands. Looking at the question on broader grounds, it seemed to him that as a measure of finance the exposition of the budget was wholly of an indefinite character. Every one saw that there was a great and alarming deficiency in the revenue of the country, and that this deficiency was an increasing one. But what had been the cause of it? It was created very much by a measure similar in some degree
283282281280Mr. Williams Wynn
294293292bonâ fide.l. said, he trusted the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, would take his assurance of meaning him no personal offence in saying, that a part of what fell from him was calculated to excite feelings akin to disgust. He meant the allusion to a right of property in slaves. Laws of men recognised that right, but it was utterly denied by the laws of God. As for the 20,000,000294293292bonâ fide.l.Mr. John O'Connell
"There are many questions on which the declaration of the King's Government in their favour or otherwise is decisive of their fate; we find this to have been the case with respect to the question of reform. I believe it will also be found the case with respect to this question. The moment the Kings Government arrays itself against any restriction, its fate is sealed, for it is impossible to restore respect to authorities so treated."297296 did not think he should have troubled the House at this protracted period of the debate, but that he could not allow it to close without returning his thanks to the hon. Member for Newark. He had often heard it said, that a man's best friends were those who told him his faults. The hon. Member for Newark had been so kind as to perform that friendly office. He had said to hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House, "You are an infatuated set, and that infatuation arises from the laxity of your principles." That was pretty good in substance, and the manner was so bland ! There was no appearance of a bigotted religionist, dealing out his anathemas of religious rancour against all those who differed from him. It was quite evident from the mildness of his tone and the modesty of his deportment, that it was a gentleman addressing a liberal assembly, among whom he felt that there were many who were his equals, and not a few who were his superiors. The hon. Gentleman made some remarks with respect to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary-at-War (Mr. Macaulay). Last night when
"There are many questions on which the declaration of the King's Government in their favour or otherwise is decisive of their fate; we find this to have been the case with respect to the question of reform. I believe it will also be found the case with respect to this question. The moment the Kings Government arrays itself against any restriction, its fate is sealed, for it is impossible to restore respect to authorities so treated."297296Mr. Gisborne
285s.,l.284 said, that he had always taken part against slavery and the slave-
285s.,l.284Mr. W. Evans
291290l.l.289l.l.l.l.l,Hearl.288 heard with great satisfaction the speech of the noble Lord who had just addressed the House. For his own part, he would not have troubled the House on the present occasion, had he not been deeply interested in the question under discussion. To that question he meant to confine himself. In the first place, he begged to call the attention of the House to the fact, that all the evidence which had been brought before them—whether that on which the right hon. Member for Devonport, had relied, or the testimony of Mr. Joseph Gurney,
291290l.l.289l.l.l.l.l,Hearl.288Sir A. Grant
295 after adverting to a letter which he had received from Mr. Horsley Palmer, explanatory of his views on the question before the House, stated, that he felt bound to admit that he had received the utmost courtesy from many of the Members of her Majesty's Government during the various official interviews he had had with them, but while he acknowledged this, he did not hesitate to add that a more reckless, a more inconsiderate, or, more injudicious Government he never heard of or saw. He merely wished to impress this upon their minds, as he believed that this would be the last time he should have the honour to address them in their official situations. A short period ago, he requested them to reconsider the decision they had come to. They paid no attention to his request. He conceived, from the experience he had had, and at his time of life, he was entitled to give that advice. He did not hesitate to add that their sun was setting, and that it would soon set to rise no more. It was not his intention to detain the House more than another minute. He would not go into details, they were so well known; but his anxious hope, wish, and request was, that with respect to the commercial interests of the country, the House would kindly decide upon this important question, because in the meantime trade was at a complete stand still. He said this as an old merchant, who had no object in stating what was not the fact. He did entreat the House to come to a decision. It was absolutely impossible for Gentlemen who were not, like himself,
295Sir J. R. Reid,
279278277276275274273l.272s.s.d.s.271270269268267266265264263262: Sir, though this debate has already been protracted to so great a length, I hope that, in consideration of the interest I have long taken in the abolition of slavery, the House will excuse me if I am unwilling to give a silent vote in favor of a measure, which the hon. Gentleman, who has just sat down, like others who have preceded him, has asserted to have a direct tendency to encourage both slavery and the slave-trade. In reference to this objection, which has been urged against the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government, I must in the first place observe, that no hon.
279278277276275274273l.272s.s.d.s.271270269268267266265264263262Viscount Howick
343 was anxious to allude to one statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Birmingham. The hon. Member had stated, that the Earl of Cardigan had given the lie direct to one of his officers. That statement he would take upon himself to say was not founded in fact. On only one occasion, and then not at the head of his regiment, but in the dinner room, had something of the nature alluded to taken place. But the hon. Member had no right to bring that forward, because the matter had been arranged in a manner satisfactory to the feelings of both parties. The officer, who had received a reply in a moment of irritation, which he (Lord G. Lennox) admitted ought never to have been given, had subsequently received a satisfactory explanation from the Earl of Cardigan— an explanation which was equally honourable to the noble Earl who had given it, and to the officer who had received it. The hon. Member had alluded to the returns of the number of punishments which had taken place in the regiment since it had been under the command of the Earl of Cardigan. He (Lord George Lennox) knew not what those punishments were, but he did know when regiments returned to the United Kingdom, after an absence of twenty years in India, soldiers were in the habit of squandering their money, and that the discipline of regiments returning from foreign stations was, generally speaking, more lax than that of regiments which had passed the same period at home. After all, the only reason urged by the hon. Member for his motion was, that the Earl of Cardigan had flogged a man on a Sunday, for all his other acts had been approved by the Horse Guards, and if anything wrong had been done they were the proper people to be blamed. No
343Lord G. Lennox
 said, that he did not wish to prolong this discussion, nor did he wish to conceal his unqualified disapproval of Lord Cardigan's conduct in case of the soldier that was flogged on Sunday; but, from a conversation which he had with Lord Cardigan upon the subject, he was sure that his Lordship's conduct in that transaction arose from an error in judgment; and Lord Cardigan had authorised him to express to the House his deep regret that he should have been led by an error of judgment to the commission of such an act—and to express the hope that no Member of that House would attribute to him the wish to be guilty of any act of an inhuman character from any other motive than erroneously believing it to be in the fulfilment of his duty. With respect to the charge of having given the lie to an officer, he did not admit that any such occurrence had taken place. Something had certainly occurred in a room which required an explanation at the time between Lord Cardigan and an officer of the regiment, but the matter was satisfactorily settled by that explanation. If it had not been so settled, and that a complaint had been made to the Horse Guards of Lord Cardigan having given such an offence, there could be no doubt that Lord Hill would have seen justice done by bringing the matter before a court-martial. He again expressed to the House, on the part of Lord Cardigan, that noble Lord's deep regret for the error into which he had fallen.Sir H. Vivian
 said, that before the order of the Day for resuming the Debate was read he hoped for the indulgence of the House for a moment, while he entered into a short explanation on a subject that referred to those who were most near and dear to him, as introduced by a noble Lord opposite (Lord Howick) the night before in the course of his speech, and he was sure, under such circumstances, the House would not refuse him their attention. He had given notice to the noble Lord of his intention to make this appeal to the House, but although the noble Lord had been in his place in the course of that evening, he had, for some reason or other, left the House. He trusted, therefore, that, although he might not be strictly regular in the course he was pursuing, the House would permit him, when the noble Lord appeared again in his place, to give that explanation which it never refused where private character was involved.Mr. Gladstone
d.ss.356l. was quite ready to admit the existence of the great distress alluded to by the hon. Member, but he did not think, that to distress other classes would be the best way to relieve it. The hon. Gentleman had stated the facts, but not the whole facts, for he forgot to state all the causes which conduced to that deplorable state of things; more especially those connected with the general condition of trade and commerce all over the world, in consequence of various recent events. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had as he understood, received a statement of the distress in Bolton, from an eminent manufacturer of that town; but he had since been informed, that that Gentleman was busy building new mills at an expense of no less than 70,000d.ss.356l.Mr. Hamilton
 must be allowed to say that, when the rank of the officer was said to be the ground for attack, he could not help recollecting that officers who did not stand in so favourable a position, who had purchased their commissions and spent the prime of their lives in foreign countries, were dismissed the service without any display of that cherishing leniency which had been vouchsafed to Lord Cardigan. It was hard that such men, placed under the command of an officer whose temper seemed to be incorrigible, should be driven to acts which deprived this country of their service, and visited them with a sentence of disgrace by court-martial. He should support the motion.Mr. W. O. Stanley
 expressed a hope that the hon. Member would not press his motion that evening.Lord J. Russell
373They are no security for my bond."" Ships are but boards, sailors are but men,372371: Having presented to this House petitions from the Ship-Owners Society of London, being requested by the ship-owners of Liverpool and of South Shields, as well as by my own constituents, to support these petitions, and most strenuously to oppose the measure proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, now the subject of debate, and having, also, in the course of this debate, been personally alluded to by my hon. Friend, the Member for the city of London, and my hon. Friend, the Member for Halifax, I trust I may be allowed to occupy for a short time the attention of the House on the observations I am about to offer on the question of the sugar duties, as that appears to me likely to affect the interest with which I am most connected, viz. the shipping interests of this country. My hon. Friend, the Member for London, has expressed his astonishment that there should be any opposition on the part of that interest to the importation of Brazil sugar, inasmuch as he is of opinion, that any additional import from thence would give increased employment to British tonnage, my reply to this is short and I tell my hon. Friend, that, as by law every pound of sugar imported into Great Britain for home consumption when brought from our
373They are no security for my bond."" Ships are but boards, sailors are but men,372371Mr. A. Chapman
362361 said, that having been throughout his life engaged in commerce, he hailed with great satisfaction the plan of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and with still greater satisfaction the speech and the plan of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, which showed the vast and comprehensive mind of the noble Lord in dealing with the real interests of this country. The hon. Member for Beverley had said that those connected with the East India interest were almost unanimously against the plan of the Government; but he, being the deputy chairman of the East India and China Association, and intimately acquainted with almost all the East India merchants, could tell the House that he knew not of a single exception to the full concurrence which that body felt in the principles avowed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. Member had said, too, that the unanimous opinion of the East India directors was against the proposition. He knew not whether that was or was not the case; but, as to the value of their opinion, he begged to remind the House that when they strenuously opposed the opening of the trade of that vast empire
362361Mr. Hastie
375374 said, that the extreme length to which this debate had been protracted, had, at all events, as it appeared to him, answered the purpose of rendering the principle at issue intelligible. He had listened to the proposition which had been made by the Government, as well as to the arguments which had been brought forward in opposition to it, but he thought, that the question appeared to have been discussed upon two entirely different grounds. First, it had been attempted to be placed upon what was called a high and noble ground, and it was laid down as a broad and general principle that we should not permit the introduction of slave-grown sugars under any conditions. The hon. Member for Antrim had fairly and truly said, that he believed that a monopoly must be sustained; he said, that it was no matter whether they admitted the slave-labour sugar of Cuba, or the free-labour sugar of our own colonies, but that it was to the importation of other sugar than their own, and to an interference with their monopoly, that the West-India proprietors really objected. The hon. Member had thrown down the flimsy veil which had been attempted to be cast around this subject, and he had put the question fairly before the country when he said, that it was one of monopoly only. The noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, said last night, that he could not place the question upon the same high ground as that on which the hon. Member for Oxford and other hon. Gentlemen had attempted to place it. He had said distinctly, that to do so would be to insulate ourselves from the commercial relations of the world, and he had placed the whole of the opposition to the Government measure upon the object, not of principle, but of money. It might well be a ground for complaint, that by the resolution of the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, a declaration of principle was effected, but was not actually made. It might be argued, that the effect of that resolution was, that so long as it was convenient to turn out one Government it must be all humanity; but there was nothing in that resolution, or in the speech of the noble Lord last night, which would prevent them from abandoning those principles which they now contended for, when, at a future time, their object was to
375374Sir E. L. Bulwer
, in reply, said, he had not asked for an unconstitutional inquiry, nor for an inquiry by that House, nor for a court-martial. Why, then, did the right hon. Gentleman infer, that he had? It was all very well for the right hon. Gentleman to shuffle and twist about, but no man should put words into his mouth. Every one who had spoken, had admitted that the noble Earl had committed a great outrage. If flogging on Sundays were to be permitted, they would soon have hanging on Sundays. But flogging a man within an inch of his life, was almost the same as hanging him. He denied, that be should have looked over this affair, if a poor man had been the person inculpated in it. He denied, that he was an enemy to the aristocracy. He was often blamed for supporting the aristocracy. For his own part, he made no difference between aristocrats and democrats, when any of them were in the wrong. He must say, he felt surprised, that the noble Earl had obtained promotion while so many other men had been passed for. All he asked, was an inquiry into the matter, because he disapproved of the system, because the flogging was given on a Sunday, and, therefore, a great outrage on public feeling, and because he thought it would do the noble Earl himself no little good.Mr. Muntz
" That a humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty to institute an inquiry into the conduct of the right hon. the Earl of Cardigan, during his command of the Eleventh Hussars, with the view of ascertaining how far such conduct has rendered him unfit to remain in her Majesty's service."339338 was very sorry that he could not comply with the noble Lord's request, as he was extremely anxious to bring the subject before the House with as little delay as possible, and particularly to do so before a dissolution could take place. He begged on the outset to disclaim all personal feeling towards the noble Lord whom his motion had regard to; in fact, he knew nothing personally of the noble Lord, never having even seen him. He would not have brought forward the subject at all, but that he had been urged by many parties to do so for some weeks past. Why they selected him, he knew not, unless it was that they were aware of his being unconnected with any party, and independent of all men. He had waited for some weeks in hopes that some older Member of that House would take the matter in hand, but, finding that such was not the case, and feeling that it ought not to be put off any longer, he was obliged to take it up himself. He hoped that in doing so the House would not consider that he was the Friend of disorder, or the enemy of discipline. On the contrary, no man had a higher sense of the necessity of preserving the discipline of the army than himself. But he was assured that the present questions had nothing to do with the discipline of the army. They were altogether of a private nature, but at the same time of such a character as to have disgusted a very large portion of the community. The immediate cause of his motion was, the flogging of a man on the Sabbath-day, but he would not have considered even that a sufficient justification for his interference, was it not that that was but the last of a series of misdeeds on the part of the noble Earl, which made it impossible to believe, that there was not something more culpable than neglect on his part. He understood
" That a humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty to institute an inquiry into the conduct of the right hon. the Earl of Cardigan, during his command of the Eleventh Hussars, with the view of ascertaining how far such conduct has rendered him unfit to remain in her Majesty's service."339338Mr. Muntz
 rose to make the motion of which he had given notice, in reference to the conduct of the Earl of Cardigan, as Colonel of the 11th Hussars.Mr. Muntz
l.l.,367l.l.,l.,366De mortuis nil nisi bonum.365364363—Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down lays claim to the attention of the House from his long acquaintance with commercial affairs; on this ground also I may equally ask attention myself. The hon. Member for Sal-ford has stated, that no one has ever been more disposed than himself to put down slavery, and to discourage it by every means in his power, and yet he shall vote against the motion of the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool. The hon. Member for Hertfordshire states, that he considers the measures proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer of vast financial importance, and therefore he shall vote for the House going into the consideration of them in the committee; but that no one is more averse than he is to do anything to encourage slavery, and that as to the Corn-laws, nothing will induce him to consent to the alteration proposed in them. So different, indeed, has been the line of argument taken by hon. Members in the course of the debate, that it is difficult to guess upon what principle they will go into the division. The noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, and all those who have spoken from this side of the House, as if from authority, for four whole nights of debate, with the exception only of that able and statesman-like
l.l.,367l.l.,l.,366De mortuis nil nisi bonum.365364363Mr. G. Palmer
"The commanding officer of the 11th Hussars should feel, that he has an arduous duty to perform; that he has not only to command and form for service a body of soldiers nearly newly raised, and entirely re-mounted and equipped, but a corps of officers either recently returned from service in a tropical climate, in which the habits and customs of the service, must differ from those in European service, or who have been but a short time in the army. He should view their errors with indulgent moderation, particularly if he should not have reason to believe, as the General commanding in chief feels confident he will not, that the errors are to be attributed to wilful disobedience, insubordination, or disrespect of his authority. He should never forget, that those placed under his command are so by the grant to them of the commissions of our gracious Sovereign as well as to himself, are officers in the service of her Majesty, gentlemen of education as well as himself, under the protection of her most gracious Majesty, of the authorities of the army and of the law, as long as they perform their duty, and conduct themselves as officers and as gentlemen ought. He must recollect, that it is expected from him not only to exercise the military command over this regiment, but to give an example of moderation, temper, and discretion, blended with the zealous activity and ability for which he is noted, which will tend to form others to be able hereafter to perform the high duties, which, in the course of their professional life, each of those placed under his command, may be called upon hereafter to perform." considered it his duty —his painful duty —to support the motion. He considered the conduct of Lord Cardigan calculated to promote, not only disaffection, but disgust, in the ranks of the British army. The case at Hounslow was wholly unprecedented within his memory, and he had served thirty years in the army. It proved the commander wanting in judgment and discretion, and, therefore, unfit for such a position in the service as he held. No one had been bold enough during that debate, to say, that the 11th Hussars had not been found fault with by the Horse-guards. He should read Sir J. Macdonald's address to the regiment:—
"The commanding officer of the 11th Hussars should feel, that he has an arduous duty to perform; that he has not only to command and form for service a body of soldiers nearly newly raised, and entirely re-mounted and equipped, but a corps of officers either recently returned from service in a tropical climate, in which the habits and customs of the service, must differ from those in European service, or who have been but a short time in the army. He should view their errors with indulgent moderation, particularly if he should not have reason to believe, as the General commanding in chief feels confident he will not, that the errors are to be attributed to wilful disobedience, insubordination, or disrespect of his authority. He should never forget, that those placed under his command are so by the grant to them of the commissions of our gracious Sovereign as well as to himself, are officers in the service of her Majesty, gentlemen of education as well as himself, under the protection of her most gracious Majesty, of the authorities of the army and of the law, as long as they perform their duty, and conduct themselves as officers and as gentlemen ought. He must recollect, that it is expected from him not only to exercise the military command over this regiment, but to give an example of moderation, temper, and discretion, blended with the zealous activity and ability for which he is noted, which will tend to form others to be able hereafter to perform the high duties, which, in the course of their professional life, each of those placed under his command, may be called upon hereafter to perform."Colonel Salwey
" But the General commanding-in-chief feels, that he should only deceive the officers of the 11th Hussars, if he did not apprise them of his opinion, that the proceedings of the late general court-martial, and the various disputes amongst themselves, complaints and instances of disobedience, insubordination, and disrespect, towards the commanding officer recorded therein, as well as in the correspondence with the Adjutant-general, at the Horse-guards, must attract the serious attention of his Royal Highness, their colonel, her Majesty the Queen, her servants, and the public in general; and it is impossible, that it should not be felt, that the 11th Hussars is not in the state in which a regiment ought to be, in order to afford ground for confidence that it would, in quarters, or in the field, at home or abroad, render the efficient service which might be expected from a body of non-commissioned officers and soldiers so well trained and disciplined in the performance of their duty as light cavalry, in such good order, and uniformly so well conducted in their barracks and quarters; and this on account of the lamentable disputes and differences among the officers, their disrespect to their commanding officer, their disobedience and insubordination." said, he had found the passage to which he alluded, and whether it made entirely for, or partly against him, he thought it but fair to read it to the House: —
" But the General commanding-in-chief feels, that he should only deceive the officers of the 11th Hussars, if he did not apprise them of his opinion, that the proceedings of the late general court-martial, and the various disputes amongst themselves, complaints and instances of disobedience, insubordination, and disrespect, towards the commanding officer recorded therein, as well as in the correspondence with the Adjutant-general, at the Horse-guards, must attract the serious attention of his Royal Highness, their colonel, her Majesty the Queen, her servants, and the public in general; and it is impossible, that it should not be felt, that the 11th Hussars is not in the state in which a regiment ought to be, in order to afford ground for confidence that it would, in quarters, or in the field, at home or abroad, render the efficient service which might be expected from a body of non-commissioned officers and soldiers so well trained and disciplined in the performance of their duty as light cavalry, in such good order, and uniformly so well conducted in their barracks and quarters; and this on account of the lamentable disputes and differences among the officers, their disrespect to their commanding officer, their disobedience and insubordination."Mr. Warburton
346, after the apology offered by Lord Cardigan for the case of flogging (which he had always considered the noble Earl's lightest offence), should not say a word on that subject. He remembered quoting, on a former night, Sir J. Macdonald's address to the officers of the eleventh hussars, in which he characterised the conduct of the noble Lord in some such words as these, "that it rendered the regiment unfit for service at home or abroad." He (Mr. Warburton), then expressed an opinion that if the conduct of the noble Earl was such as to reduce the regiment to a state of disorder, it was fitting, that the Horse-guards should institute an inquiry. For what did the public contribute to the cost of a regiment, if it were not, that either at home or abroad, it should be in a soldier-like condition? But were the public to pay for a regiment whose conduct had been characterised in such terms, and yet all inquiry stopped into the demeanour of the lieutenant-colonel by the commander-in chief? He could not understand that doctrine. On the last occasion he addressed the House, a gallant Member opposite, and the right hon. Secretary at War, denied, that he quoted the words of the address correctly. If he had known the present motion were coming on that evening, he should have taken care to bring the document with him. The words which he intended to have read amounted he believed, to this, that the discipline of the regiment had been materially affected by the conduct of the commanding officer. In justice to the public, then, and to the officer responsible for the discipline of the
346Mr. Warburton
355l.l.,354l.l.ds.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.353352l. in resuming the debate, said, that being connected with the manufacturing districts he wished to be allowed to state in a few words the reasons for the vote which he intended to give upon this question. He had always been opposed to the slave-trade and to slavery, and had given his vote for the grant of 20,000,000355l.l.,354l.l.ds.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.353352l.Mr. Brotherton
 inquired, whether it was true, as had been stated, that Captain John Williams Reynolds had got two or three years' leave of absence with the understanding, that he should not be again called on to serve under Lord Cardigan, on condition of withdrawing his request to be allowed to sell out of the regiment. He also wished to know if leave of absence had been granted to Dr. Sandon, of the 11th Hussars?Mr. Hume
l.£5,732,791Making by protection an additional tax on the consumer, on these three articles of
£5,732,791Making by protection an additional tax on the consumer, on these three articles of£478,728d.d.d.The quantity of coffee consumed was 28,723,735 lbs.,† the protection duty of 3d.d.d.
£478,728d.d.d.The quantity of coffee consumed was 28,723,735 lbs.,† the protection duty of 3d.d.d.£296,188s.,*The quantity of molasses consumed was 423,126 cwts.,s.,*
£296,188s.,*The quantity of molasses consumed was 423,126 cwts.,s.,*
£5,732,791Making by protection an additional tax on the consumer, on these three articles of
£5,732,791Making by protection an additional tax on the consumer, on these three articles of£478,728d.d.d.The quantity of coffee consumed was 28,723,735 lbs.,† the protection duty of 3d.d.d.
£478,728d.d.d.The quantity of coffee consumed was 28,723,735 lbs.,† the protection duty of 3d.d.d.£296,188s.,*The quantity of molasses consumed was 423,126 cwts.,s.,*
£296,188s.,*The quantity of molasses consumed was 423,126 cwts.,s.,*387**£4,957,875d.,s.d.s.d.s.*The quantity of sugar consumed was in cwts. 3,594,834d.,s.d.s.d.s.*
£4,957,875d.,s.d.s.d.s.*The quantity of sugar consumed was in cwts. 3,594,834d.,s.d.s.d.s.*
£4,957,875d.,s.d.s.d.s.*The quantity of sugar consumed was in cwts. 3,594,834d.,s.d.s.d.s.*
£4,957,875d.,s.d.s.d.s.*The quantity of sugar consumed was in cwts. 3,594,834d.,s.d.s.d.s.*s386 Hear," and same confusion.ss.sGazette385s.,s.384" That of all kinds of slave labour, that of imported slaves has been demonstrated to be most costly and least productive."1. That upon the evidence of facts to which the attention of this convention has been directed, it is satisfactorily established, as a general axiom, that free labour is more profitable to the employer, and consequently cheaper than slave-labour."383382381380379sl.,l,Member:378Hon.l.,47,218,1781841In the year ending 5th January.
47,218,1781841In the year ending 5th January.47,685,2231840In the year ending 5th January.
47,685,2231840In the year ending 5th January.47,503,53347,607,2091839In the year ending 5th January.
47,503,53347,607,2091839In the year ending 5th January.45,873,5051838In the year ending 5th January.
45,873,5051838In the year ending 5th January.48,340,9551837In the year ending 5th January.
48,340,9551837In the year ending 5th January.46,828,43246,870,8281836In the year ending 5th January.
46,828,43246,870,8281836In the year ending 5th January.££
££Yearly Average.
Yearly Average.
47,218,1781841In the year ending 5th January.
47,218,1781841In the year ending 5th January.47,685,2231840In the year ending 5th January.
47,685,2231840In the year ending 5th January.47,503,53347,607,2091839In the year ending 5th January.
47,503,53347,607,2091839In the year ending 5th January.45,873,5051838In the year ending 5th January.
45,873,5051838In the year ending 5th January.48,340,9551837In the year ending 5th January.
48,340,9551837In the year ending 5th January.46,828,43246,870,8281836In the year ending 5th January.
46,828,43246,870,8281836In the year ending 5th January.££
££Yearly Average.
Yearly Average.377376 said, he was anxious to state the opinion which he entertained upon the subject now before the House. It was a subject to which he had given a great deal of attention, and he had endeavoured to make himself fully acquainted with it. He assured the House, that no man had ever entered upon an enquiry with a greater desire to ascertain the truth than he had done in reference to this question, the duties on Customs' imports. Ever since he had had the honour of holding a seat in that House (which was a period of more than thirty years) he never had given a vote the tendency of which was not to free the commerce of the country from its shackles and restrictions, and thereby to give the talents and capital of England their full scope and operation. It was on that true Radical principle, that he, as an advocate of free trade, had acted, and he would also say, that he had never given a vote which did not go equally to the extension of popular rights, and to shake off the oppression of the aristocracy. Four nights of the debate had now passed, and he was pleased to think, that the information which had been elicited would be of great importance to many hon. Members who had not sufficiently considered the subject before; but, above all, it would afford highly important information to the country at large;—it would shew what
l.£5,732,791Making by protection an additional tax on the consumer, on these three articles of
£5,732,791Making by protection an additional tax on the consumer, on these three articles of£478,728d.d.d.The quantity of coffee consumed was 28,723,735 lbs.,† the protection duty of 3d.d.d.
£478,728d.d.d.The quantity of coffee consumed was 28,723,735 lbs.,† the protection duty of 3d.d.d.£296,188s.,*The quantity of molasses consumed was 423,126 cwts.,s.,*
£296,188s.,*The quantity of molasses consumed was 423,126 cwts.,s.,*
£5,732,791Making by protection an additional tax on the consumer, on these three articles of
£5,732,791Making by protection an additional tax on the consumer, on these three articles of£478,728d.d.d.The quantity of coffee consumed was 28,723,735 lbs.,† the protection duty of 3d.d.d.
£478,728d.d.d.The quantity of coffee consumed was 28,723,735 lbs.,† the protection duty of 3d.d.d.£296,188s.,*The quantity of molasses consumed was 423,126 cwts.,s.,*
£296,188s.,*The quantity of molasses consumed was 423,126 cwts.,s.,*387**£4,957,875d.,s.d.s.d.s.*The quantity of sugar consumed was in cwts. 3,594,834d.,s.d.s.d.s.*
£4,957,875d.,s.d.s.d.s.*The quantity of sugar consumed was in cwts. 3,594,834d.,s.d.s.d.s.*
£4,957,875d.,s.d.s.d.s.*The quantity of sugar consumed was in cwts. 3,594,834d.,s.d.s.d.s.*
£4,957,875d.,s.d.s.d.s.*The quantity of sugar consumed was in cwts. 3,594,834d.,s.d.s.d.s.*s386 Hear," and same confusion.ss.sGazette385s.,s.384" That of all kinds of slave labour, that of imported slaves has been demonstrated to be most costly and least productive."1. That upon the evidence of facts to which the attention of this convention has been directed, it is satisfactorily established, as a general axiom, that free labour is more profitable to the employer, and consequently cheaper than slave-labour."383382381380379sl.,l,Member:378Hon.l.,47,218,1781841In the year ending 5th January.
47,218,1781841In the year ending 5th January.47,685,2231840In the year ending 5th January.
47,685,2231840In the year ending 5th January.47,503,53347,607,2091839In the year ending 5th January.
47,503,53347,607,2091839In the year ending 5th January.45,873,5051838In the year ending 5th January.
45,873,5051838In the year ending 5th January.48,340,9551837In the year ending 5th January.
48,340,9551837In the year ending 5th January.46,828,43246,870,8281836In the year ending 5th January.
46,828,43246,870,8281836In the year ending 5th January.££
££Yearly Average.
Yearly Average.
47,218,1781841In the year ending 5th January.
47,218,1781841In the year ending 5th January.47,685,2231840In the year ending 5th January.
47,685,2231840In the year ending 5th January.47,503,53347,607,2091839In the year ending 5th January.
47,503,53347,607,2091839In the year ending 5th January.45,873,5051838In the year ending 5th January.
45,873,5051838In the year ending 5th January.48,340,9551837In the year ending 5th January.
48,340,9551837In the year ending 5th January.46,828,43246,870,8281836In the year ending 5th January.
46,828,43246,870,8281836In the year ending 5th January.££
££Yearly Average.
Yearly Average.377376Mr. Hume
357 said, as I am not in the habit of frequently occupying the time of the House, I trust, that on the present occasion, they will indulge me for a few minutes, as on a question of so much importance, I am not disposed to give a silent vote. Her Majesty's Ministers on their own responsibility have proposed certain great financial changes, which, in their judgment, will materially benefit all classes in the country. No one, I think, can doubt that our commercial tariff admits of, and requires, great improvement. And consequently it will be right, that a subject so important to us all, brought before as as it is by a responsible Government, should meet with full enquiry and consideration, in order that we may ascertain what improvements can be made, and how far such improvements can be carried out. The question is so vast in all its bearings, and so interesting to all, that it requires the fullest and most open investigation; that the country may he enabled to draw its own conclusions on the measures now proposed. And feeling Sir, that a committee of the whole House will be the most satisfactory method of enquiry, as it will place the whole case before the country, I shall decidedly give my vote in opposition to the amendment proposed by the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool. I have almost invariably supported her Majesty's present Government, feeling that they were deserving of the confidence of this country and that I was best serving the country, by giving them my zealous support. On
357Mr. Alston
349 had not expected those questions to be put, and, therefore, he was unable to give so detailed an answer as might otherwise have been expected. He could state, however, from a conversation he had lately had with the Adjutant-general, that the facts with respect to Captain Reynolds stood thus. When the regiment came from India, Captain J. Reynolds applied for leave to go to the Military College. The application was referred to Lord Cardigan; but as the regiment was then not in a high state of discipline, and short of captains, leave of absence was refused. Subsequently, however, the discipline of the regiment being improved, and there being no want
349Mr. Macaulay
342casus omissus,ex post facto341340 hoped to be able, in a few minutes, to state to the House sufficient grounds for dissenting from the motion of the hon. Member. His first objection was a very obvious one. It was a constitutional objection. He believed that the hon. Gentleman himself would admit, that while there was no prerogative of the Crown which that House was not entitled to offer its advice upon, yet it was neces-
342casus omissus,ex post facto341340Mr. Macaulay
345 said, that his right hon. Friend, in resisting this motion, concluded in a way which would seem to justify inquiry; for he insisted, that the delicacy of feeling and high spirit of British officers should be kept sacred by that House and the country. Seeing, then, that these had been injured—so far as they had any means of judging of the fact—he maintained that a case was made out for in-
345Mr. Ewart
360ad valorem359358 said, he was anxious to
360ad valorem359358Mr. Harland
 rose to confirm what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite (Lord George Lennox) as to an officer having been obliged to quit the service for not having taken notice in proper time of an offence given to him by a civilian, although he went out with his opponent, and they fired four shots each. The way in which he was removed from the service was, that it was intimated to him that he had permission to sell out and quit the service.Colonel Verner
347 advised the hon. Member for Bridport, when next he ventured to state the substance of a memorandum, not to come without a book. He
347Sir A. Dalrymple
ss370s.ss369l.ssd.s.368 said, that in the few observations which he had to male he meant strictly to confine himself to the question more immediately before the House, viz.— the proposal for the reduction of the sugar duties. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had been
ss370s.ss369l.ssd.s.368Mr. Clay
 retained the opinion he had formerly expressed, that it would have been for the advantage of the service if an inquiry had taken place at an earlier period by order of the Commander-in chief. Still he was not prepared to concur in the motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham, on the ground stated by his right hon. Friend, the Secretary at War— that although that House had undoubtedly the right of advising the Crown as to the exercise of its power over the army, as of all its other prerogatives, still that right should be exercised with the greatest caution, and only in extreme cases. He did not think there was sufficient ground for exercising their power in the present instance. He could not, however, help adding, that he greatly regretted that his right hon. Friend, the Secretary at War, had pushed his opposition to this motion so far as to make a statement not at all called for by the circumstances of the case, and which, if unnoticed, might lead to very serious inconvenience— namely, that no officer of the British army ought to be removed from his commission, unless he were guilty of some offence of which a court-martial would take cognizance. That was a proposition to which he entirely demurred; and, he was quite sure, the hon. and gallant Officer opposite, who was formerly Secretary at War (Sir H. Hardinge), would concur with him in thinking, that the Crown had the prerogative, and sometimes exercised it, of removing officers from their commissions, even when no distinct and specific offence could be charged against them. An officer might show himself generally unfit for command — incapable of performing the important duties of his situation—and it would then become the duty of the advisers of the Crown to remove him. That necessity was not removed by the circumstance, that the officer might have purchased his commission, for the Crown had the means of obviating that difficulty, by giving him permission to sell out. That was a course which it was by no means unusual for the Horse-guards to adopt, where an officer was unfit for the duties of his command.Viscount Howick
414"I can assure the hon. Member that, if I had conceived that the statement which I made on a former occasion would have been considered by him or any other hon. Gentleman as an attack upon the character of those with whom he is connected, I certainly would not have failed to communicate my intention to him beforehand."413412"It was impossible also to forget who was before that time the owner of the Vrieden-Hoop estate, in Demerara. It was clearly shown, that the rate of overworking and of mortality on that estate was remarkably high even for Demerara, where, unfortunately, both those evils had prevailed in an eminent degree. In three or four years an enormous quantity of sugar was produced on the estate, and the number of slaves who died was no less than eighty one, being above one-seventh of the whole number."411410 rose and said, that although he was conscious of the presumption with which he might be chargeable in delaying for a few minutes the important business of the evening, in order to draw attention to a matter of a purely personal nature, still his only apology must be, that he himself was the cause of the interruption. The personal discussion to which he referred did not relate to himself, but to his father, one whom he was bound to love most dearly and with whom he felt it the highest honour to be connected. He found that in the debate of the preceding evening, the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland had thought fit, in the discharge of his parliamentary duties, to throw out some imputations which, if di-
414"I can assure the hon. Member that, if I had conceived that the statement which I made on a former occasion would have been considered by him or any other hon. Gentleman as an attack upon the character of those with whom he is connected, I certainly would not have failed to communicate my intention to him beforehand."413412"It was impossible also to forget who was before that time the owner of the Vrieden-Hoop estate, in Demerara. It was clearly shown, that the rate of overworking and of mortality on that estate was remarkably high even for Demerara, where, unfortunately, both those evils had prevailed in an eminent degree. In three or four years an enormous quantity of sugar was produced on the estate, and the number of slaves who died was no less than eighty one, being above one-seventh of the whole number."411410Mr. Gladstone
: Taking into consideration the difference in the power of the machinery employed, I beg leave most unequivocally, distinctly, and broadly, to deny that part of the noble Lord's statement.Mr. Gladstone
 begged, in explanation to state, that the assertion he had made the other evening was, that the mismanagement of the Hill Coolies on the estate of the hon. Gentleman's relative in British Guiana, had been the main ground on which the proposition of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had been resisted, for the introduction of the Hill Coolies into the Mauritius. He hoped he should also be allowed to state that the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had misrepresented another part of his argument, with respect to the effect of this measure on the slave question. All he meant to urge was, that he could see nothing in the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool which pledged them to the abolition of the foreign slave-trade, and therefore he saw no inconsistency in opposing it.Mr. Vernon Smith
433CheersCheers432431430429428"I find the Corn-laws operating to our prejudice here, just as they do in every part of the European continent. (Lord Byron says) 'that when a man would do a deed of worth he looks at Greece, then turns to tread, so sanctioned, on the tyrants head. Here as well as in Europe, when a nation would do anything illiberal, it points to the English
428427ll426425424423:— Sir, I am always very unwilling to trespass on the indulgence of the House, but most especially
433CheersCheers432431430429428"I find the Corn-laws operating to our prejudice here, just as they do in every part of the European continent. (Lord Byron says) 'that when a man would do a deed of worth he looks at Greece, then turns to tread, so sanctioned, on the tyrants head. Here as well as in Europe, when a nation would do anything illiberal, it points to the English
428427ll426425424423Sir Hussey Vivian
 understood the noble Lord to speak now in a sense very materially different from what he was reported to have spoken the other night. If he meant to argue, that the cultivation of sugar under slavery was less favourable to human life than the rearing of cotton, he would entirely concur with him; but that was not certainly the conclusion which one would have drawn from reading the speech made two nights ago by the noble Lord. His statement then was, that upon the particular estate in question an enormous quantity of sugar was produced beyond the average of the other estates in the island, and that, in consequence, the mortality had been greatly increased. That was the statement of which he complained, and which he most unequivocally denied.Mr. Gladstone
461460lllll459l458457456455 was struck with one observation which had fallen from the hon. Member for Sheffield, that it was very seldom one remedy was found sufficient to effect a cure of two complaints; but that in this instance her Majesty's Government had happily devised a plan that met the complicated evil they had to deal with. Why, all quack medicines partook of this universally healing virtue. The hon. Gentleman had observed, that the peculiar characteristic of the present measure was, that it would not only keep up the revenue, and replenish the coffers of the Exchequer, but that it would also increase the commerce of the country and keep in the Government. He thought the hon. Gentleman, when speaking on behalf of the Government, might have given those who sat on the Opposition side of the House, credit for having a sympathy for something better even than that of political power. With regard to the question immediately before the House, he observed, that there were two points which, during four nights' debate, and thirty hours' discussion, had been pretty nearly established. It seemed to have been proved to the satisfaction of the majority of the House, and he should say of the majority even of the other (the Ministerial) side of the House, that the supply of sugar from our own colonies was sufficient for the consumption of this country. That was a point much discussed, and he believed established. He thought also, that another point was established, namely, that in case the proposition of the Government were adopted,
461460lllll459l458457456455Mr. D' Israeli
 said, he had stated most distinctly in that House, and he now repeated, that the all but unanimous opinion of the people connected with India approved of a moderate differential duty, not prohibitory in its effect. He thought he had a right to make this statement, as, from having the honour of being chairman of the body referred to by his hon. Friend, he was brought much in contact with its members.Mr. Hastie
447 after assuring the House that he felt the full value of their time, in that protracted state of the debate, and would not trespass upon it at any length, expressed his entire concurrence in the principle on which the budget was founded— that principle being the increase of the revenue by reducing the actual burden of taxation upon the people. He rejoiced at the declared intention of Ministers to revise the Corn-laws, and he was certain that that intention would be received among his constituents, as well as throughout the whole country, with the greatest satisfaction. Great commercial and manufacturing cities, in particular, were deeply interested in that question; for that odious tax— that tax upon bread— was a palsy upon honest industry, and a greivous evil to the working classes. He could not but applaud the policy which prompted Ministers to draw closer the commercial ties between England and the Brazils. As regarded the cry raised against Ministers respecting the slave-trade, he considered that it had no validity in it, for he felt certain that a close treaty and extended commercial connexion between England and the Brazils, would be far more likely to produce the extinction of the slave-trade than armed intervention; for that had hitherto, without materially reducing the traffic in skives, decidedly added to the horrors inflicted on the unfortunate captives. That, however, he
447Mr. Fitzharding Berkeley,
469468llll467"I should think, that to make sugar an article of very general consumption, the price should be from 50s. to 60s. including the duty. That would be from 5½d. to 6½d. per pound. I think the consumption would go on to almost any extent at those prices."466ll: Sir, It is not often that I address the House, and it is always with reluctance that I rise to occupy its attention, and when I consider the late period to which this debate has been protracted, that reluctance is not decreased. However, a Lord of the Treasury, the hon. Member for Sheffield, having alluded to a cheer which I gave during the speech of the hon. Gentleman, I cannot avoid addressing a few observations to the House. The cheer which I gave, was when the hon. Member alluded to the condition of the negroes, and contrasted it with that of the working population of this country. Sir, I deplore as much as any man, the distresses of any of our fellow subjects, but I think the observations of the hon. Member would have been more appropriate, at the time when the grant of 20,000,000469468llll467"I should think, that to make sugar an article of very general consumption, the price should be from 50s. to 60s. including the duty. That would be from 5½d. to 6½d. per pound. I think the consumption would go on to almost any extent at those prices."466llMr. Kemble
454Ironical cheers453pro tanto452451450Ironical Cheers449 regretted, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Warwickshire, as a distinguished philanthropist, had not exercised a little more of that charity in which, for more distant objects, his nature so much abounded, in judging of the motives which had induced the Queen's Government to lay their present propositions before the House. If his hon. Friend would give their conduct a somewhat more impartial consideration, he would find ample reasons, in the existing state of the commerce and the finances of the country, for the course they had adopted, and would, he was sure, not have concluded with the imputation of motives so discreditable and disingenuous as those in which he was most sorry to see his hon. Friend had too wantonly indulged. His right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, at a period of great commercial depression and considerable financial difficulty, had either to propose new taxes, or to avail himself of the principles developed in the Committee on Import Duties, which, at the same time that they would give a stimulus to our manufacturing interests, would replenish the Exchequer, without adding to,— but, on the contrary, with an alleviation of the burthens of the people. Now, in regard to one of the articles on which a reduction of duties was proposed— viz. the subject matter of the present debate— he regretted to find, that the exciting question of slavery had been brought to bear upon the good feelings and passions of the public. He, for one, yielded to none in his detestation of the slave-trade, and of slavery; and at a period when hon. Gentlemen opposite, and those who preceded them on those benches in the advocacy of Tory politics, were not over strenuous in their assistance, the party to which he was attached had achieved this proudest conquest of humanity, and in pursuance of the great principles which characterized the policy of Mr. Fox, and had continued the cardinal point of action with the party down to the administration of Earl Grey, would continue faithful to the end, and would continue to watch over the happiness, and new-born liberty of the negro population. But he was bound also to advocate the relaxation of commercial imposts, and to give, so far as he could by legislation, a wider base and a more extended action to our commerce. He was bound to watch with equal solicitude over the comforts and the happiness of our own population; and in the action of an humanity not less extended
454Ironical cheers453pro tanto452451450Ironical Cheers449Mr. J. Parker
421420l419 said, with much satisfaction that he had given way to the hon. Member for Newark (Mr. Gladstone), to afford him an opportunity of entering into explanation of matters that involved his personal feelings, although his address to the House was more of a reply to the speech of the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, than an explanation. After the ample discussion which this subject had already undergone, he should detain the House but a very short time, but he felt that it was necessary he should seek to justify the vote he was about to give. In the course of the debate very
421420l419Mr. P. Howard
"H. GANGER.""FLETCHER, ALEXANDER & Co."RAWSON, NORTON & Co.422"FINDAY, HODGSON & Co. (as far as
422"GARDNER, UIIQUHART & Co."WALKINSHAW & Co."J. COCKBURN & Co."We, the undersigned, members of the East-India and China Association, having seen a statement in the public papers, purporting that Mr. Hastie, as deputy chair-man of the East-India and China Association, stated last night, 'that there was not a member of that body who did not fully concur in the principle announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer,' do declare, that they entirely dissent from the statement as above, as the proposed alteration would be ruinous to the existing East-India and colonial interests, and they further consider, that any alteration in the duties of sugar should be prospective. said, he dissented entirely from the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He wished to say a word respecting a statement made by his hon. Friend, the Member for Paisley (Mr. Hastie), who had stated, that the majority of the East India merchants were in favour of the Ministerial plan. He had now before him a document, signed by some of the first houses connected with the East India trade, who totally dissented from the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, respecting the sugar duties, and differed from his hon. Friend. It was as follows:—
"H. GANGER.""FLETCHER, ALEXANDER & Co."RAWSON, NORTON & Co.422"FINDAY, HODGSON & Co. (as far as
422"GARDNER, UIIQUHART & Co."WALKINSHAW & Co."J. COCKBURN & Co."We, the undersigned, members of the East-India and China Association, having seen a statement in the public papers, purporting that Mr. Hastie, as deputy chair-man of the East-India and China Association, stated last night, 'that there was not a member of that body who did not fully concur in the principle announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer,' do declare, that they entirely dissent from the statement as above, as the proposed alteration would be ruinous to the existing East-India and colonial interests, and they further consider, that any alteration in the duties of sugar should be prospective.Alderman Copeland
439438"The Emperor listened with much attention to every part of my statement, and particularly to tins hi which I endeavoured to show, that upon reasonable notice, the Powers of Europe would not only be justified, but bound in morality and sincerity, to exclude from their ports colonial produce grown within the dominions of states which refused to adopt the principle of abolition. That to do so must at once be effectual; and to do less was to make themselves parties, in breach of their promises, to the crimes and scandal to which their demand for colonial produce gave occasion, and which they ought preferably to supply from those countries where the culture was not carried on by newly-imported slaves."437"I have only to observe, that I opened to the Prince of Benevento the idea of a concurrent system for repressing the slave-trade, and a league against the import of colonial produce, grown by states dissentient from the general policy.""We must be prepared for a reluctance on the part of certain Powers to adopt the limited measure, (abolition of slavery at the end of five years) and it becomes necessary to consider how the interest of those Powers may be made to operate in support of their duties; how they can be deprived of the unjust advantage of profiting by the sacrifices and forbearance of other States, which, from a sense of moral duty, forsake this species of commerce. Nothing seems more likely to have this effect than for the Powers, acting in concert to prohibit the importation, into their respective dominions, of colonial produce, grown within the territories of Powers refusing to enter into the proposed concert."436435"Evidence the more important, as it is in a great measure not that of individuals whose own interests arc in question, and liable, therefore, to be warped by their judgment, but the evidence of men placed in official situations, and giving their calm and deliberate opinions."434 said, that on that, the sixth night of this protracted debate, he should not venture to address the House, well knowing how many there were, on both sides, whose practical knowledge and experience would ensure that attention which he could only hope to gain from its kind indulgence; indeed, he felt it would be very presumptuous on his part to rise at all, if he intended to enter at large into the general question, after the powerful, argumentative, and convincing speech of his noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire, two nights before; a speech which he had a right to designate as perfectly unanswerable. For, not only had the Government allowed that speech to close that evening's debate, but had allowed two nights to pass without making any attempt to reply to it, excepting to one point to which the right hon. and gallant Officer, had alluded, and which on reflection he (Sir C. Douglas) was sure the gallant Gentleman, would think he had better have let alone. It was true that he had on a former occasion referred to the committee on Import duties, which sat last year of which he was a Member. When some observations which had been made by a noble Lord (Ashburton), in another place were brought under discussion. With respect to the expressions used by that noble Lord, it was not for him (Sir
439438"The Emperor listened with much attention to every part of my statement, and particularly to tins hi which I endeavoured to show, that upon reasonable notice, the Powers of Europe would not only be justified, but bound in morality and sincerity, to exclude from their ports colonial produce grown within the dominions of states which refused to adopt the principle of abolition. That to do so must at once be effectual; and to do less was to make themselves parties, in breach of their promises, to the crimes and scandal to which their demand for colonial produce gave occasion, and which they ought preferably to supply from those countries where the culture was not carried on by newly-imported slaves."437"I have only to observe, that I opened to the Prince of Benevento the idea of a concurrent system for repressing the slave-trade, and a league against the import of colonial produce, grown by states dissentient from the general policy.""We must be prepared for a reluctance on the part of certain Powers to adopt the limited measure, (abolition of slavery at the end of five years) and it becomes necessary to consider how the interest of those Powers may be made to operate in support of their duties; how they can be deprived of the unjust advantage of profiting by the sacrifices and forbearance of other States, which, from a sense of moral duty, forsake this species of commerce. Nothing seems more likely to have this effect than for the Powers, acting in concert to prohibit the importation, into their respective dominions, of colonial produce, grown within the territories of Powers refusing to enter into the proposed concert."436435"Evidence the more important, as it is in a great measure not that of individuals whose own interests arc in question, and liable, therefore, to be warped by their judgment, but the evidence of men placed in official situations, and giving their calm and deliberate opinions."434Sir Charles Douglas
487486485484483482481Goulburn480479478477476lllCheerslll475llllllllll474l473472l471ll470: I cannot but regret, that some of the leading members of that political party to which the hon. Gentleman belongs have not been present in the House during the latter part of the speech of the hon. Member for Surrey, for if the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Pembroke, and the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, who assisted in the year 1830, in driving from office the Government of the noble Duke, whom they now have joined, if they had been present, they would have made such observations to the hon. Gentleman as would have enabled him to have given a very different description of the state of the country at that period, from that which he has painted: and they would have refreshed the hon. Gentleman's memory with a few particulars which he has wholly omitted. They would have reminded him of the state of the funds, which, I think, a Gentleman so much connected with the city, should have recollected; they would have brought to
487486485484483482481Goulburn480479478477476lllCheerslll475llllllllll474l473472l471ll470The Chancellor of the Exchequer
465l464463ad valorem462 The remarks of the right hon. Member for Dundee, appear to have been lost on the hon. Member who last addressed the House, as he has not alluded to the statement made by that right hon. Baronet, of the advantages to the West India colonies from the removal which has taken place this Session, of the duties and restrictions on the importation of materials employed in the sugar manufactory. But the House will, I hope, not have been inattentive to those remarks, which, coming from such high authority, have, I must own, very much reconciled me to the absence of a proposal to reduce the duty on the import of West-Indian productions into this country. I entirely concur in the observations of the hon. Member for Maidstone, as to the importance of not neglecting our commercial intercourse with the independent republics of South America, but I must wholly dissent from his opinion regarding our commerce with Brazil. The hon. Gentleman considers it as of small importance, inasmuch as the population consists in so large a proportion of slaves. But Sir, are there none but slave-holding states who seek British manufactures in the interior of South America? I can assure the hon. Gentleman, that whole nations exist there, some of them native and aboriginal Indians, others of Spanish or Portuguese descent, who desire the productions of Europe, and that if these are not furnished by us, they will be furnished by our European rivals. I have met with German colonies in various parts of the South American continent, and heard Swabian accents on the rivers of those countries, and I have learnt from British merchants there, and Englishmen in those services, and from persons high in authority, that as this country refuses to receive the produce of Brazil, Brazil is entering into,
465l464463ad valorem462Sir H. Verney
445444"The British dominion are as much en-tilled to the monopoly of the markets of the British West Indies, as the latter are entitled to those of the former, and whenever that monopoly is given up, it will be the highest absurdity not to open all the British port to foreign raw sugar."443442441440 denied that any kind of improper influence had been used to obtain credit for the Report on Import Duties. The description of the witnesses which had been found fault with by the hon. Member, who had just sat down, was perfectly correct. No witness could have been more free from motives to give partial and interested evidence than Mr. M'Gregor, Mr. Deacon Hume, and Mr. Porter,— they were not merchants, nor landlords, nor theorists in matters of political economy, and it was because they were witnesses, in every respect, so unexceptionable, their evidence had produced so great an effect throughout the country. As to the evidence being of a party character, the hon. Member should have remembered, that Mr. Deacon Hume had been thirty years in office under a Tory Government. What, in point of fact, had made the Report on Import Duties a document of such vast and universal influence in leading public opinion to a right judgment on the effects of protecting and differential duties, was its own intrinsic merits. The facts contained in it were so clearly set forth, and so amply supported by experience, that the conclusions they led to, were, at the same time, quite easy of comprehension and wholly irresistible. These facts, when brought forward by unbiased witnesses, and applied in detail to all the circumstances by which the price of commodities are increased, produced a conviction which other persons had failed to produce. It had frequently been attempted in this House and out of this House, to show how many millions a-year the public paid in consequence of protecting duties; but the reasoning necessary to be employed to establish this case being unavoidably abstruse and difficult to be made intelligible, the public went on paying these millions in ignorance of the cause which made them so much out of pocket. What, therefore, the report has chiefly effected; and whatever has made it take such hold on the mind of the nation, is the explanation it afforded of the operation of every protecting duty to raise
445444"The British dominion are as much en-tilled to the monopoly of the markets of the British West Indies, as the latter are entitled to those of the former, and whenever that monopoly is given up, it will be the highest absurdity not to open all the British port to foreign raw sugar."443442441440Sir Henry Parnell
en masse446 said, that he had been anxious to have followed the hon. Member for Lincoln on the previous evening, because he had been much surprised to hear him announce his intention of voting against the amendment; more particularly, because, when he had the honour of making a motion two years ago for the extinction of the apprenticeship clause, that hon. Gentleman had made a most brilliant and effective speech in his support which no Gentleman had thought proper to answer, and upon a division, the motion was carried by ninety-six to ninety-three. Not only that, but the hon. Gentleman attended, immediately after the division, a meeting of the Anti-slavery Committee in Palace-yard, and again made a second speech, which was rapturously received. For his part, he thought that the distress and difficulty of the West-Indian interest was entirely occasioned by the proprietors themselves, by their obstinate opposition to the abolition of slavery, and to their unchristian conduct during the apprenticeship. To them he would not shew the slightest favour; but if he would not show them favour he would not deny them justice. He would grant that to any man — the lowest of mankind, or the bitterest of enemies; and therefore, as they had, since the abolition of slavery, endeavoured to redeem their former conduct by their present exertions, to better
en masse446Sir Eardley Wilmot
417Gladstone: No, no416415 was convinced, that the House would think it imperative on him to answer the statements of the hon. Member; and in doing so, in the first place, he would state to the House what it was he did say. On a former evening, on which he had made the statement, he thought— and he appealed to the Gentlemen who were in the House at the time— he thought the hon. Member for Newark, in the course of his speech, did bring this heavy charge, not only against the Govern-
417Gladstone: No, no416415Viscount Howick
418 was very glad the hon.
418Viscount Howick
 who was in possession of the chair, said, that the subject appeared to him to be pretty nearly exhausted, and therefore he should not trouble the House with any observations upon it, more particularly as he understood there were twelve or fourteen gentlemen on the other side of the House who were very anxious to speak.Sir E. Knatchhull,
509 said, that he would not detain the House many minutes in explaining his reasons for the vote which he intended to give upon the question now before the House. He was willing to admit that the measure of the noble Lord was calculated undoubtedly to be a considerable benefit to the consumer in this country; and he thought it had been well put by the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
509Mr. Smythe
521 declared himself a decided friend to what was termed the agricultural interest, and said, that unless it had been proposed to make some alteration in the commercial system of the country generally, and establish a more equal adjustment between the landed and manufacturing interests, he did not think it would have been either fair or politic to ask the agricultural interest to abandon the protection they enjoyed; but finding, that a great change was to be made in our fiscal regulations, that must materially benefit not only the landed interest, but all classes and interests in
521Mr. E. G. Cavendish
 was as anxious as any man for the abolition of slavery, and though he was impressed with the belief that this measure would give relief to the overtaxed people of this country, he should not support it if he thought it would in any manner retard the progress of negro emancipation. He was decidedly of opinion that the measure of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the reduction of duties on foreign sugars would have no influence on the state of the free black negro of the West Indies, He had formed that opinion from some documents which he held in his hand. He found that,Mr. W. Williams
532531530529 said, that the hon. Member for Canterbury who had spoken early in to-night's debate, had at least been candid in his admissions. He had admitted the deficiency in the revenue, the distress of the working classes, and the depression of our commerce. He had also admitted that the measures proposed by the Government were calculated to supply the deficiency in the revenue, and at the same time to relieve the consumer and to promote the extension of our foreign trade. But he objected that we should be acting inconsistently with respect to our East-Indian possessions, if, after having lately conferred upon them the boon of equalizing the sugar duties, we were now to inflict upon them the hardship of exposing them to foreign competition. Now he (Mr. Strutt) contended that there was in neither case either a boon or a hardship. He considered the equalization of the sugar duties to have been an act of mere justice to the East Indies, and he maintained that the present measure was equally an act of mere justice to the British consumer. But the more favorite ground taken by the opponents of this measure had been, that it would have a tendency to encourage slavery in foreign, countries, and this was the argument set forth in the resolution. He admitted that this was a most important question, but it was one which they must discuss on general principles. It might answer the
532531530529Mr. Strutt
526525524l.l.523522 said, Sir, I must intrude for a few moments upon the time of the House, if it be merely to notice the speech of the right hon. the Master-general of the Ordnance on a previous night. The gallant Officer left the House so immediately after his speech (which was, I must add, far more to the question, and far more marked by real argument, than any speech from the other side of the House), that I have not had the opportunity of noticing it, and only do so now in his absence, lest a division coming on may deprive me of the opportunity. The gallant General read an advertisement respecting the meeting in Palace-yard of some societies, of whom he spoke as "banded by selfish motives to oppose the Government," and as "gladly seizing a public pretence to work their self-interested views, and to gratify party feeling against her Majesty's Ministers." Sir, I am proud to avow myself a member of the committees of three of those societies: I am a member of the committee of the Colonial Society; of the Society for the Protection of Agriculture; and a member of the West-Indian Committee, and I can only corroborate the gallant General's assertion of their union, whilst I must declare, that for the first time in my life, I have heard from his lips, that union for self-preservation, that the joining of men
526525524l.l.523522Captain Mathew
560d.s.s.559s.d.s.s.s.TimesTimes,558s.ds.s.d.s.s.s.557d.556"Voila le commencement de la fin;"555 said, that it appeared rather presumptuous in a young Member like him to offer himself to their notice, at so late an hour. He had understood in the beginning, that the debate was to be a sugar debate—a sugar debate, and nothing else; but as so many hon. Members had digressed from the subject, and he had taken such a large dose of the philosophy of others in its course, he trusted, that he would be permitted to administer a little dose of his philosophy to the House on the present occasion. When he heard the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies make the statement of the duties he intended to propose, upon the importation
560d.s.s.559s.d.s.s.s.TimesTimes,558s.ds.s.d.s.s.s.557d.556"Voila le commencement de la fin;"555Mr. Muntz
540l.539Question.538Opposition Cheers.537s.s.d.s.Ironical Cheers.536fiat,535l. differed from the proposal of the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool (Viscount Sandon) upon six distinct grounds. He opposed it, first, because he believed, that if the House of Commons affirmed the resolution of the noble Lord opposite, however paradoxical it might appear to the new-born philanthropists opposite, it would tend to perpetuate slavery in every country in the world in which slavery now existed, for if we declared that the free labour of the West Indies, with the advantages of fifty per cent, protection, and 20,000,000540l.539Question.538Opposition Cheers.537s.s.d.s.Ironical Cheers.536fiat,535l.Mr. Winston Barron
520519 said, that he should have been content to have given a silent vote on the present occasion, had not the great maritime borough which he represented, felt the deepest possible interest in the decision to which the House might arrive on the momentous question now before them. He was forcibly reminded of the intense interest his constituents entertained on this topic, from having a short time since, when coming forward as a candidate, witnessed the conversion of his opponent (the connection of the right hon. Baronet opposite, and he believed as good a monopolist as any of the Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House,) to the doctrine of free trade in corn. He had seen that Gentleman, unable to resist the intreaties of the distressed artisans, and the universal wish of the electors, declare that he could not refuse to grant them cheap bread. When he recollected, that in the year 1828, Mr. Dawson had either, with a wonderful degree of prescience, or at any rate by some happy accident, proved a marvellous true prophet of the conversion of the right hon. Baronet on the question of Catholic Emancipation, he confessed he had been led to entertain some hopes that such might also prove the case on the present occasion. Whatever hopes, however, he had entertained, had been entirely destroyed by the tone adopted by some of the Gentlemen on his side of the House, who represented peculiarly the agricultural interest, and also had boldly stated that they objected to any alteration in the sugar monopoly because it might indirectly affect the question of the Corn-laws. Now this appeared a weak and dangerous line of argument. How could they say to the people, "We oppose the present measure, which may be calculated, in itself, to benefit the community, not on its own merits, but because it may load to the downfall of another
520519Mr. Tufnell
 said, that the present measure was a very important one, not only on account of the increase of national income which it was proposed to make up by means of it, but on account of the encouragement which it was expected it would give to the industrious resources of the country. He thought, therefore, that when the suffering millions of England, Scotland, and Ireland, were all concerned in the issue of this debate, the subject should be most impartially and patiently discussed by the House. The fact was, we had arrived at a very alarming crisis as respected our manufacturing and commercial condition; and unless some change were speedily adopted, the most sad and ruinous consequences must ensue. As an independent Member, he must say the advisers of the Crown were unjustly accused of a want of integrity and sincerity. It appeared to him, that had they acted with less integrity and less reliance on the justice of their cause, they would not at once have developed all the measures now before Parliament. He agreed with those who said this was not a party, but a national question. He trusted the nation at large would be appealed to; that they would lay aside their party feelings, that they would be enabled to resist corruption and intimidation, and that they would perform their duties fearlessly on a question which involved the happiness of all, even from the sovereign on her throne to the humblest of her subjects.Mr. Briscoe
l. was understood to say, that he regretted the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, had brought forward the question of timber duties, more especially when Lord Sydenham had informed him, that any alteration would be productive of great discontent in Canada. He thought that a judicious alteration of the sugar duties might open new fields for our manufactures, but he was not prepared to vote for the proposals of Government on this point. In regard to the Corn-laws, he did not think that the existing distress of the manufacturers was attributable to the present system of duties on foreign grain. Indeed, the year in which the export of manufactured goods was greatest, was a year in which there was no import of corn, and during six years, when wages were most depressed, there was an average excess of exports of upwards of 11,000,000l.Mr. Trotter
511510 said, as the attention of this House had been repeatedly called to the distress in the borough of Bolton, and as the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, had thought proper to allude
511510Mr. Ainsworth
554553l..s.s."I can scarcely trust myself, whilst I write the following:—It is almost, nay, it is actually incredible; but nevertheless, it is true—absolute fact—which can be proved by incontrovertible evidence:—Not six miles from this place, on the edge of the Moors, a cow dying of dysentery, is considered by the poor weavers and their families as a honey-fall—a Godsend! She is called by them a 'green tail.' I will not trust my own description of this horrid fact, I will merely transcribe the notes of a friend, which notes I know are true. In the course of our inquiry into the state of the labourers, one of our questions was—'how often do you get butcher's meat?' In the neighbourhood of Dean Head and Seammonden, the general reply was,' never nob but when th' green tail butcher gets a ka-ah' (cow). This expression, of course, required explanation, which was in the followig terms;— 'When a farmer had gotten a sh—tering ka-ah, and wen t' doctor sed shu'd dee, they sent for'th green tail butcher, to sell her tull him: then a lad wur hired to drive her past sich and sich hauses; they all knew wat hit meant; an then began ta make a collecshun i' their folds; an if 5l..s.s.552"The distress existing amongst the mechanics of Sutton-in-Ashfield is now unparalleled, and appears yet increasing; and although the poor-rates are very heavy, so as to be bringing the trades people (who can do very little business) to a level with the operatives, the families of the poor are nearly naked, and their meagre looks show they are suffering hunger. The houses exhibit such squalid poverty and misery, as none but eye-witnesses can conceive. Instances there are, not a few, where one bed of chaff or straw serves for a man, his wife, and three children; and that bed without any blanket or warm covering. In short, the sufferings are such as, whatever the cause, should, if possible, be removed."d.s.d.s."There are, in the townships of Haithwaite Marsden, and Scammonden, thousands of persons employed in weaving what are called kesenets, a mixture of cotton and wool; they travel on foot, in all weathers, for the material —sometimes as far as ten and eleven miles, and sometimes are disappointed in obtaining any; when they do, they carry it home on their backs, and weave at it for fourteen, sixteen, and eighteen hours per day. When wove, they carry it back again, and, after all their toil, this (White) independent labourer cannot average more than from 3d.s.d.s.551"I send you these few lines, which I can testify on oath. A few days ago, my son had a gathering in his finger; he was ordered a bread poultice, which after being on one day, it was thrown out of the door, four poor children came by, picked it up, quarrelled which should have it, and eat it as voraciously, as if they had not tasted food for a week."s.s."Friend—We take the liberty of sending you the condition of the frame-work knitters and shoemakers of Loughborough, earning from 4s.s.d.s.d.d.s.s.550d.d.s.s.s."They are principally employed in the making of stockings. Their average earnings not more than 7d.s.d.d.s.s.550d.d.s.s.s.d."Sir, It may be interesting to you to know that only last week four large manufactories in this place, worked by Messrs. John and Robert Peel, have been abandoned, and nearly five hundred people thrown out of employment without the most distance chance of their being resumed. These once flourishing works have sunk under the general decline of the profits of this great branch of business, notwithstanding the rate of wages has to the last been materially lower than in the Lancashire districts. Surely, this is only a sign of the times, and calls for a speedy remedy.—I remain, Sir, your obedient servant"—549"We could not bring ourselves to believe, till assurred that it was so by the secretary, that after deliberately vouching for these facts, the committee could have concluded abruptly its labours, leaving forty thousand individuals who were so destitute as to be grateful for the relief afforded by one penny farthing per head per week, with whose miseries they had just become personally acquainted—we could not believe that at such time, and under such circumstances, they would abandon these their Christian brethern to their fate without one word of hope. …. We very respect fully remind you, Sir, that every minister of the borough was a member of that committee, and is responsible for its acts; and we represent to you, that when they found in the wealthiest country in the world such a mass of
549"They found in the distribution of the half of the sum collected above forty thousand individuals in such a state of destitution, as to be eager and grateful recipients of the amount of relief afforded, being less than one penny farthing per head each for five weeks. That these individuals were reduced to this extreme suffering and degradation, by causes over which they had no control, and from which therefore they possessed in themselves no means of escape. That not more than one family in five, could by any possibility make provision for the vicissitudes of trade."548"The worst districts of the metropolis have not been investigated, but the part selected was in the parish of Marylebone, not far distant from the centre of fashion, wealth, and splendour. The number of houses visited was 315: number of families inhabiting them, 915; number of families in which there were children, 578; number of children, 1,575. Out of the 578 families with children, 308 have but 1 room; 140 families have but 2, and there are 796 children who sleep in the same room as their parents. In Calmel-buildings, Marylebone, are 26 houses; average number of rooms in each house is, nearly 9; number of inhabitants, 882—consisting of 163 married couples, with 345 children; 66 widowers or
548s."John Helyard, No. 1, Smart-street, Bethnal-green, weaver, with five children, the eldest seven years and a half; only one room, for which be pays 2s."That that union had relieved 6,000 destitute persons since January, and it was impossible to give an idea of the misery and distress of the able-bodied working men who came to him, by hundreds, actually famishing."547"These destitute objects have become so exasperated and so reckless of life he was afraid they would commit murder.""Miller, the relieving officer of the West London Union, said 'That he is frequently obliged to make his escape the back-way to avoid the violence of the poor waiting in front.' It was impossible the present state of things could continue.'"We have never known an instance of parents putting their infant families to death, to save them from the protracted sufferings of starvation. It is not in Jamaica that unfortunate mothers outrage nature by the destruction of their new-born offspring, to avoid the cruel persecution of a hard-hearted and destroying morality; nor is it under our laws that wretches commit suicide to escape the refuge which is provided for worn-out and aged industry. We have no corn-laws to add to the wealth of the rich, nor poor-laws to imprison, under pretence of maintaining, the poor. We cannot, as the English Parliament does, boast of a pauper law which has taken millions from the necessities of the destitute, to add to the luxuries of the wealthy."546545 said, that, judging by certain significations, and by the silence which had been studiously observed by hon. Gentlemen opposite, he thought that he was justified in assuming that there was a great anxiety on that side of the House, that this debate should be brought to a speedy conclusion, an anxiety not merely arising from the weakness of their case, but an anxiety also arising from an expectation which they seemed to entertain, that perhaps at the conclusion of this debate, those sweets of office which were not now within their grasp, might be within their reach Knowing their anxiety, he would not now interpose between them and their fondest wishes, did he not feel confident that the longer this debate was prolonged, the better the people of England would understand the conduct and motives of the other side of the House, yes, the better would they understand, not only the conduct and motives of the House, but the better would they appreciate the resolution of the noble Viscount (Viscount Sandon) which was in opposition to their going into committee for the purpose of considering the best means, and the best way of meeting the exigencies of the case, in preference to imposing any additional burden upon the people; and not only would they appreciate the conduct of hon. Members on both sides of the House, but they would also set a value on the resolution of the noble Lord, which, he had no hesitation in saying, since he had had the honour of sitting in Parliament, was for its unparalleled inconsistency, its most barefaced duplicity, ay, and he would say its matchless hypocrisy, unrivalled in the records of the annals of the House. His immediate object in rising was, if possible, to catch a little of that sympathy which appeared to exist in the breasts of hon. Members opposite, for the population of foreign states. He wished to seek a little of that sympathy for the sufferings and distresses of our own fellow countrymen, which he would venture to prove to the House most distinctly. But before he proceeded to do so, he begged to be allowed to congratulate hon. Members opposite, on the fidelity with which they could keep a secret. Speaker after speaker on that (the Ministerial) side of the House had made the most urgent and he might say the most pathetic appeals to know, in the event of their defeating her Majesty's Ministers
554553l..s.s."I can scarcely trust myself, whilst I write the following:—It is almost, nay, it is actually incredible; but nevertheless, it is true—absolute fact—which can be proved by incontrovertible evidence:—Not six miles from this place, on the edge of the Moors, a cow dying of dysentery, is considered by the poor weavers and their families as a honey-fall—a Godsend! She is called by them a 'green tail.' I will not trust my own description of this horrid fact, I will merely transcribe the notes of a friend, which notes I know are true. In the course of our inquiry into the state of the labourers, one of our questions was—'how often do you get butcher's meat?' In the neighbourhood of Dean Head and Seammonden, the general reply was,' never nob but when th' green tail butcher gets a ka-ah' (cow). This expression, of course, required explanation, which was in the followig terms;— 'When a farmer had gotten a sh—tering ka-ah, and wen t' doctor sed shu'd dee, they sent for'th green tail butcher, to sell her tull him: then a lad wur hired to drive her past sich and sich hauses; they all knew wat hit meant; an then began ta make a collecshun i' their folds; an if 5l..s.s.552"The distress existing amongst the mechanics of Sutton-in-Ashfield is now unparalleled, and appears yet increasing; and although the poor-rates are very heavy, so as to be bringing the trades people (who can do very little business) to a level with the operatives, the families of the poor are nearly naked, and their meagre looks show they are suffering hunger. The houses exhibit such squalid poverty and misery, as none but eye-witnesses can conceive. Instances there are, not a few, where one bed of chaff or straw serves for a man, his wife, and three children; and that bed without any blanket or warm covering. In short, the sufferings are such as, whatever the cause, should, if possible, be removed."d.s.d.s."There are, in the townships of Haithwaite Marsden, and Scammonden, thousands of persons employed in weaving what are called kesenets, a mixture of cotton and wool; they travel on foot, in all weathers, for the material —sometimes as far as ten and eleven miles, and sometimes are disappointed in obtaining any; when they do, they carry it home on their backs, and weave at it for fourteen, sixteen, and eighteen hours per day. When wove, they carry it back again, and, after all their toil, this (White) independent labourer cannot average more than from 3d.s.d.s.551"I send you these few lines, which I can testify on oath. A few days ago, my son had a gathering in his finger; he was ordered a bread poultice, which after being on one day, it was thrown out of the door, four poor children came by, picked it up, quarrelled which should have it, and eat it as voraciously, as if they had not tasted food for a week."s.s."Friend—We take the liberty of sending you the condition of the frame-work knitters and shoemakers of Loughborough, earning from 4s.s.d.s.d.d.s.s.550d.d.s.s.s."They are principally employed in the making of stockings. Their average earnings not more than 7d.s.d.d.s.s.550d.d.s.s.s.d."Sir, It may be interesting to you to know that only last week four large manufactories in this place, worked by Messrs. John and Robert Peel, have been abandoned, and nearly five hundred people thrown out of employment without the most distance chance of their being resumed. These once flourishing works have sunk under the general decline of the profits of this great branch of business, notwithstanding the rate of wages has to the last been materially lower than in the Lancashire districts. Surely, this is only a sign of the times, and calls for a speedy remedy.—I remain, Sir, your obedient servant"—549"We could not bring ourselves to believe, till assurred that it was so by the secretary, that after deliberately vouching for these facts, the committee could have concluded abruptly its labours, leaving forty thousand individuals who were so destitute as to be grateful for the relief afforded by one penny farthing per head per week, with whose miseries they had just become personally acquainted—we could not believe that at such time, and under such circumstances, they would abandon these their Christian brethern to their fate without one word of hope. …. We very respect fully remind you, Sir, that every minister of the borough was a member of that committee, and is responsible for its acts; and we represent to you, that when they found in the wealthiest country in the world such a mass of
549"They found in the distribution of the half of the sum collected above forty thousand individuals in such a state of destitution, as to be eager and grateful recipients of the amount of relief afforded, being less than one penny farthing per head each for five weeks. That these individuals were reduced to this extreme suffering and degradation, by causes over which they had no control, and from which therefore they possessed in themselves no means of escape. That not more than one family in five, could by any possibility make provision for the vicissitudes of trade."548"The worst districts of the metropolis have not been investigated, but the part selected was in the parish of Marylebone, not far distant from the centre of fashion, wealth, and splendour. The number of houses visited was 315: number of families inhabiting them, 915; number of families in which there were children, 578; number of children, 1,575. Out of the 578 families with children, 308 have but 1 room; 140 families have but 2, and there are 796 children who sleep in the same room as their parents. In Calmel-buildings, Marylebone, are 26 houses; average number of rooms in each house is, nearly 9; number of inhabitants, 882—consisting of 163 married couples, with 345 children; 66 widowers or
548s."John Helyard, No. 1, Smart-street, Bethnal-green, weaver, with five children, the eldest seven years and a half; only one room, for which be pays 2s."That that union had relieved 6,000 destitute persons since January, and it was impossible to give an idea of the misery and distress of the able-bodied working men who came to him, by hundreds, actually famishing."547"These destitute objects have become so exasperated and so reckless of life he was afraid they would commit murder.""Miller, the relieving officer of the West London Union, said 'That he is frequently obliged to make his escape the back-way to avoid the violence of the poor waiting in front.' It was impossible the present state of things could continue.'"We have never known an instance of parents putting their infant families to death, to save them from the protracted sufferings of starvation. It is not in Jamaica that unfortunate mothers outrage nature by the destruction of their new-born offspring, to avoid the cruel persecution of a hard-hearted and destroying morality; nor is it under our laws that wretches commit suicide to escape the refuge which is provided for worn-out and aged industry. We have no corn-laws to add to the wealth of the rich, nor poor-laws to imprison, under pretence of maintaining, the poor. We cannot, as the English Parliament does, boast of a pauper law which has taken millions from the necessities of the destitute, to add to the luxuries of the wealthy."546545Mr. T. Duncombe
514513s.s. regretted, that the three questions of the sugar, timber, and corn duties had been combined, for he could trace no necessary connection, or even similarity between them. The measure regarding sugar had been so well argued, that he would offer no observations upon it. In regard to the question of the timber, although the importation of foreign timber had caused great loss to the growers of English timber, and to himself as one of them, he believed that this country did not produce timber sufficient for its own wants, and certainly not sufficient to meet the wants of Ireland; and considering, therefore, that benefit would be derived to the public at large, by allowing better timber to be imported than hitherto was the case, he should vote also in favour of that measure. In respect to the Corn-laws, he felt himself bound to take a different course. It had been stated by the right hon. and gallant Member for Cornwall, as an instance of the successful competition of foreign manufactures, that fire arms could be purchased in Belgium one-third cheaper than in England. Are we to infer then, that it is intended that the average price of corn in England should be reduced one-third in amount? If the price of home-grown corn was reduced one-third of the present average price, if it was reduced from 60514513s.s.Mr. Hodges
518"qui facitper alium facit per se."517516515 said, that his position did not call upon nor enable him to enter minutely, like the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, into the statistics of manufactures; but whether they are progressing, stationary, or declining, it must surely be admitted, that in proportion as new and extensive outlets are afforded them, they will largely and incalculably advance, and consequently bring
518"qui facitper alium facit per se."517516515Mr. William Roche
528527 thought it his duty to offer to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Government his thanks for their proposition on the present occasion; and, although he could not hope to add any novelty in the way of argument after six or seven nights of debate, he wished briefly to state his sentiments, He quite agreed with the other side of the House
528527Sir Benjamin Hall
s.s.508507506 was of opinion that those who opposed the measure of the Government, had not taken a fair and regular course. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not pledged the House to any particular course by the proposition he had made, because the question in detail was to be considered in committee. The noble Viscount, however, had proposed a measure by which he called upon the House to refuse to accede to any reduction of the duties on foreign sugar for two reasons, viz., first, that our example in abolishing slavery in our own colonies had not been followed by its final extinction in foreign countries, and secondly, that a sufficient supply of sugar for home consumption could be furnished by the West Indies. The latter assertion had been most flatly and positively contradicted by a remonstrance which had been presented to that House from five West-Indian agents, who had stated that the supply would not be sufficient even for the ensuing year. He believed that those who opposed the measure of the Government were distressed to find argu-
s.s.508507506Sir C. Grey
534533l. had never felt greater confidence in any course than in that which was now recommended by Government, and upon this subject he believed there existed a perfect identity of feeling between himself and his constituents. No constituency in the kingdom had been more distinguished for the interest taken in the cause of negro emancipation, and two days ago, with the utmost satisfaction he had received from the Secretary of the Anti-Slavery Society, in Manchester, a communication stating that only two individuals connected with that body had hesitated to come forward in favour of the proposition of Ministers. He had heard with great surprise the statements of the right hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and believed him to be mistaken as to the sentiments of the operatives of the country. Those who required sympathy generally bestowed it with the greatest sincerity, and it seemed almost insulting the feelings of the operatives to talk of their dining on a dish of herbs. They had already too long had no better fare, not as a matter of choice, but of grievous necessity. The very existence of many hundred thousands might be said to be wrapped up in this discussion. He had originally been connected with a House in the Brazil trade, and it was his belief, after full inquiry, that the official return on this point, stating it at 2,600,000534533l.Mr. M. Phillips
562 said, it certainly was a misprint, which was owing to no inadvertence on the part of the Colonial office. A similar return had been printed for the House of Lords, which was correctly printed, and as the printer had printed the return for that House from the return ordered for the House of Lords, it had not
562Mr. Vernon Smith
***"The statesmen, and merchants, and farmers, and philanthropists of the United States, have long been in the way of regarding the Corn-laws of Great Britain and the slave laws of America, as belonging to the same class of statutes. ***589588587586585584 said, that he had listened to the speech of the right hon. Member with great interest, for, knowing that he
***"The statesmen, and merchants, and farmers, and philanthropists of the United States, have long been in the way of regarding the Corn-laws of Great Britain and the slave laws of America, as belonging to the same class of statutes. ***589588587586585584Mr. Villiers
608"Be in no fear that the farmers would be ruined by a repeal of the Corn-laws. With free trade, in twenty-five years, Manchester, and all the surrounding towns within seven miles of its Exchange, would be one great city. With free trade, England, Ireland and Scotland would be one great grazing and dairy farm, studded with thriving towns. With free trade, Northern Europe and Northern America would be our corn fields, France and Spain, and Portugal, our vineyards. With free trade, the nations would convert the sword into ploughshares, and spears into pruning-hooks, and men would learn the art of war no more !607"One of the disadvantages we sustain in competing with the foreign manufacturers is, that we are much more heavily taxed. Half of our income is devoted to the support of our public establishments—the army and navy, and the supplies, of ships in the dock-yards. The cost of provisions enters into every one of these, and, in proportion as the price of bread is reduced, are savings effected in all these items. Can any one doubt that we are paying more to every public servant than would be necessary if provisions were lower? What is the great amount of our local burdens—the poor-rates and county rates—composed of, but the cost of supporting a certain number of persons in public institutions and gaols? Every local tax must consequently be increased, by whatever increases the cost of provisions."s.s.s.s.s.,s.s.d.s.s.,s.d.,s.d.s.s.d.s.s.606s.s.605s.,s.s."It seems perfectly clear that the duty, to be an effectual protection an the one hand, and not an undue burden on the other, must vary with the price of corn."604l.603 did not pretend to follow the hon. Member who had last addressed the House through his elaborate speech, for if he did so, he should be obliged to speak upon many subjects foreign to the question before them. The hon. Member in the course of his speech, had touched upon almost every topic which could be entertained by the House; but in the observations which he should feel it necessary to make, he should confine himself within a narrower compass, and he trusted the House would afford him a patient hearing. Allusion had already been made to the great length to which the debate had been carried, and he could assure the House that he regretted that the debate should have been so long protracted. Not that he was unwilling the question should be fully and deliberately discussed and thoroughly investigated in all its bearings, for the judgement of the country—but he lamented that eight nights had been occupied in that discussion, as he was of opinion that great public interests of the country must have felt themselves affected during that period. He thought that some responsibility attached to her Majesty's Ministers for not having used the influence which they possessed with their supporters, in order to put an end to the debate at an earlier period. There were many subjects alluded to by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last upon which he joined issue. However, when the hon. Member said, he thought that the time was come for stating what hon. Gentlemen intended, he agreed with him. He thought that the time had come when the Ministers of the Crown ought to state what their intentions were. The hon. Gentleman said he was opposed to all protection. Now, in that respect, he could not agree with the hon. Member. The hon. Member stated that the manufacturers were ready to support that proposition. Was that the case? He would ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer if it were possible? He would ask that right hon.
608"Be in no fear that the farmers would be ruined by a repeal of the Corn-laws. With free trade, in twenty-five years, Manchester, and all the surrounding towns within seven miles of its Exchange, would be one great city. With free trade, England, Ireland and Scotland would be one great grazing and dairy farm, studded with thriving towns. With free trade, Northern Europe and Northern America would be our corn fields, France and Spain, and Portugal, our vineyards. With free trade, the nations would convert the sword into ploughshares, and spears into pruning-hooks, and men would learn the art of war no more !607"One of the disadvantages we sustain in competing with the foreign manufacturers is, that we are much more heavily taxed. Half of our income is devoted to the support of our public establishments—the army and navy, and the supplies, of ships in the dock-yards. The cost of provisions enters into every one of these, and, in proportion as the price of bread is reduced, are savings effected in all these items. Can any one doubt that we are paying more to every public servant than would be necessary if provisions were lower? What is the great amount of our local burdens—the poor-rates and county rates—composed of, but the cost of supporting a certain number of persons in public institutions and gaols? Every local tax must consequently be increased, by whatever increases the cost of provisions."s.s.s.s.s.,s.s.d.s.s.,s.d.,s.d.s.s.d.s.s.606s.s.605s.,s.s."It seems perfectly clear that the duty, to be an effectual protection an the one hand, and not an undue burden on the other, must vary with the price of corn."604l.603Sir E. Knutchbull
641640639l.l.,pointing to Lord Stanley and Sir James Grahaml,l.l.l.primâ facie638"Before I disturb the trading interests of Canada by great alterations in the existing timber-duties, I will ascertain the state of feeling in that country on political questions, and confer with the Governor-general as to the political effects of a commercial measure."637"An hon. Gentleman had spoken in favour of a fixed duty; abstractedly, that might look well enough; but, when they regarded the circumstances of the country and the wants of the people, they would see the impossibility of adopting such a principle. If a high permanent duty were imposed, then, in periods of scarcity, the poor would be exposed to sufferings, the infliction of which no claims for protection on the part of the home corn-grower would ever justify". "A permanent fixed duty was out of the question."I proposed, in 1814, a graduated scale, and it is not likely I should now recommend a principle utterly inconsistent with it."636635634grande decus columenque rerum633s.632631l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.630629d.s.d.s.628primâ facieThese are imperial arts, and worthy thee.""To tame the proud—the fetter'd slave to free,—627Disposing peace and war, thy own majestic way."To rule the world, and make mankind obey,Rome, it is thine alone with awful sway626625s.624d.d.s.s.623l.l.622"Sol occubuit, nox nulla secuta est.""That the only method of destroying the slave-trade, and putting an end to slavery, is by destroying the demand for slave-grown produce, and thus doing away with the demand for slaves; that this can only be accomplished by establishing to the world, and through the medium of the West Indies, the superior cheapness and productiveness of free-labour; that the prosperity of the West Indies can only be continued and ensured by an extensive and systematic system of immigration, and by the temporary continuation of the present protective discriminating duties on sugar.""In one word (says Mr. Greg) this country is not called on to exclude foreign slave-grown cotton, because it never has been excluded. It is called on to exclude slave-grown sugar, because it has never been admitted."621"If ever the negro population of the West Indies shall become squatters and cultivators of waste ground, instead of labourers for hire, slavery and the slave-trade will then have received the last and greatest encouragement which it is possible for them to receive.""Few things can be more certain than that the ceasing of the sugar cultivation in our colonies, and the consequent destruction of the capital now invested therein, would lead to the complete abandonment of them by the white population, who would carry to more hopeful lands their knowledge, their energy, and all their capital. Not only would emancipation singularly fail, so far as the moral condition of the negro is concerned, but the effects which it was expected to operate on slavery in other countries, and the anticipated good consequences that were expected to flow from our example, would be wholly lost.""That the planters have no right to demand, and, moreover, to expect, that the British nation can permanently or long continue the payment of the enormous prices which have of late been charged for two of the most indispensable articles of general consumption, and that the welfare of our own population, as well as that of the negro population, requires some alteration in this respect; that, with relation to the interests of our manufacturers, we ought to consider that the Brazils were large consumers of our fabrics, but would not long remain so if this country continued to refuse the reception of their principal articles of produce in exchange; and that we ought not to endanger the interests of one class of the community to promote those of another."620"Esteemed Friend—Herewith I send thee a pamphlet of William Greg" (the brother, I believe, of the hon. Member for Manchester; a gentleman of great ability, and, as I am told, of great authority on the West India question), "which I commend to thy attentive perusal. I do not hear that either Sir F. Buxton or any of his adherents ever attempted an answer, merely remarking that such reasoning is cold philanthropy."Brotherton."That there was not a man living in Porto Rico, Cuba, and the United States, who did not believe that ruinous prices must arise in 1840 in the British West Indies; and that if the first commencement of the experiment of free labour in those colonies should prove disastrous, it would create such an unfavourable impression through the world as no subsequent efforts would be able to remove."619Bullerq."That unless the power of combined labour be ensured, either by immigration or some other means, against the termination of slavery in 1840, the capital invested in those expensive works and machinery set up for the cultivation of sugar must perish; and in his opinion, unless the system under consideration be established before 1840, the most mischievous consequences must ensue."618617616** this, Sir, is not the first time that I have felt the extreme embarrassment of being called upon to address you when every argument and every topic which could be converted into the semblance of an argument have been exhausted. And, I should have been perfectly content to relinquish all claim on the attention of the House, if I did not feel convinced, that the whole House, without reference to party distinctions, will acknowledge, that it is not fitting, that I should permit this debate to close without the expression of my sentiments. If it be the general opinion of the House, that I have no alternative but to address them on this occasion, I am sure the same feeling will also induce hon. Gentlemen to grant me, whilst I do address them, their indulgent attention. Sir, I shall first apply myself to the proper subject of debate—the question which is involved in the resolution which has been moved by my hon. Friend. That resolution implies an opinion on the part of this House, that, considering the sacrifices which we have made for the abolition of the slave-trade and of slavery, it is not expedient to sanction the proposal for introducing into the market of the United Kingdom sugar which is the production of slave labour. And, Sir, after all the ability
641640639l.l.,pointing to Lord Stanley and Sir James Grahaml,l.l.l.primâ facie638"Before I disturb the trading interests of Canada by great alterations in the existing timber-duties, I will ascertain the state of feeling in that country on political questions, and confer with the Governor-general as to the political effects of a commercial measure."637"An hon. Gentleman had spoken in favour of a fixed duty; abstractedly, that might look well enough; but, when they regarded the circumstances of the country and the wants of the people, they would see the impossibility of adopting such a principle. If a high permanent duty were imposed, then, in periods of scarcity, the poor would be exposed to sufferings, the infliction of which no claims for protection on the part of the home corn-grower would ever justify". "A permanent fixed duty was out of the question."I proposed, in 1814, a graduated scale, and it is not likely I should now recommend a principle utterly inconsistent with it."636635634grande decus columenque rerum633s.632631l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.630629d.s.d.s.628primâ facieThese are imperial arts, and worthy thee.""To tame the proud—the fetter'd slave to free,—627Disposing peace and war, thy own majestic way."To rule the world, and make mankind obey,Rome, it is thine alone with awful sway626625s.624d.d.s.s.623l.l.622"Sol occubuit, nox nulla secuta est.""That the only method of destroying the slave-trade, and putting an end to slavery, is by destroying the demand for slave-grown produce, and thus doing away with the demand for slaves; that this can only be accomplished by establishing to the world, and through the medium of the West Indies, the superior cheapness and productiveness of free-labour; that the prosperity of the West Indies can only be continued and ensured by an extensive and systematic system of immigration, and by the temporary continuation of the present protective discriminating duties on sugar.""In one word (says Mr. Greg) this country is not called on to exclude foreign slave-grown cotton, because it never has been excluded. It is called on to exclude slave-grown sugar, because it has never been admitted."621"If ever the negro population of the West Indies shall become squatters and cultivators of waste ground, instead of labourers for hire, slavery and the slave-trade will then have received the last and greatest encouragement which it is possible for them to receive.""Few things can be more certain than that the ceasing of the sugar cultivation in our colonies, and the consequent destruction of the capital now invested therein, would lead to the complete abandonment of them by the white population, who would carry to more hopeful lands their knowledge, their energy, and all their capital. Not only would emancipation singularly fail, so far as the moral condition of the negro is concerned, but the effects which it was expected to operate on slavery in other countries, and the anticipated good consequences that were expected to flow from our example, would be wholly lost.""That the planters have no right to demand, and, moreover, to expect, that the British nation can permanently or long continue the payment of the enormous prices which have of late been charged for two of the most indispensable articles of general consumption, and that the welfare of our own population, as well as that of the negro population, requires some alteration in this respect; that, with relation to the interests of our manufacturers, we ought to consider that the Brazils were large consumers of our fabrics, but would not long remain so if this country continued to refuse the reception of their principal articles of produce in exchange; and that we ought not to endanger the interests of one class of the community to promote those of another."620"Esteemed Friend—Herewith I send thee a pamphlet of William Greg" (the brother, I believe, of the hon. Member for Manchester; a gentleman of great ability, and, as I am told, of great authority on the West India question), "which I commend to thy attentive perusal. I do not hear that either Sir F. Buxton or any of his adherents ever attempted an answer, merely remarking that such reasoning is cold philanthropy."Brotherton."That there was not a man living in Porto Rico, Cuba, and the United States, who did not believe that ruinous prices must arise in 1840 in the British West Indies; and that if the first commencement of the experiment of free labour in those colonies should prove disastrous, it would create such an unfavourable impression through the world as no subsequent efforts would be able to remove."619Bullerq."That unless the power of combined labour be ensured, either by immigration or some other means, against the termination of slavery in 1840, the capital invested in those expensive works and machinery set up for the cultivation of sugar must perish; and in his opinion, unless the system under consideration be established before 1840, the most mischievous consequences must ensue."618617616**Sir R. Peel said,*
663662661660659658657656655654653652651650649648647646Oh645644643642***:663662661660659658657656655654653652651650649648647646Oh645644643642***Viscount Palmerston spoke as follows
667666665664 said, that it might be for the convenience of the House if he stated the course which he intended to pursue in respect of the resolution, he had placed on the books, in case it should be negatived by the House. He proposed that resolution, in the first place, that he might record the principle of the budget of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer: and, in the next place, because he thought that the first discussion would turn entirely and totally on the question of the sugar duties. He thought that it might be desirable that they should have some question on which a more general debate could be taken; but as this debate had been so protracted, and so many subjects had been entered into in discussing it, he did not think it necessary to raise a debate on the resolution itself. He should content himself, therefore, after the division, by merely moving the resolution. Certainly some things had been said in the debate on which he wished to say a few words, and he thought it might be for the convenience of the House that he should then do so. In respect to the statement which had been made by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman had misapprehended what he (Lord J. Russell) had stated to the House in regard to the meaning of Mr. Huskisson. Some words had, he believed, fallen on a former occasion from his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, which might have been misunderstood, but he did not think that he had ever stated that the merit of supporting Mr. Huskisson was due the party to which he (Lord J. Russell) belonged, and did not properly belong to those who were then Mr. Huskisson's colleagues, and to the party who at the time surrounded him. The only statement that he (Lord J. Russell) remembered to have made of the sort was at the commencement of the present Session, before Easter, when he said that he was quite willing to give the credit of these principles—not to Mr. Huskisson only, but also to those who then acted as his colleagues; and he was quite satisfied, for his own part, that the whole merit of having first proposed those principles of commercial policy should rest with the colleagues of Mr. Huskisson and himself, and that they (the Liberals) should only
667666665664Lord John Russell
 moved to leave out from the word "considering" to the end of the amendment, in order to add the following words:—Lord John Russell
Cheers615614613612611610nusquam tuta fides.609 had never experienced deeper disappointment at any speech that he had ever heard in that House, than at the speech of the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, particularly when at the end of that speech the right hon. Baronet so cruelly denied that information, for which, in the earlier part, he had given the House some reason to hope. The right hon. Baronet complained of the discursive nature of this discussion, and promised to confine himself within a narrow compass; if the right hon. Gentleman meant by the term narrow, that he would keep on the outside of the question before the House, and would not discuss the question of the sugar duties, he had completely performed the promise he had made. He did not mean to pursue the same course; he hoped, that there would be other opportunities of discussing the Corn-laws, when the right hon. Baronet would be able to dilate upon the dreadful state to which England would be reduced when this country should be converted into smiling pastures and flourishing towns, and when the din of war should be no more heard. But the right hon. Baronet had not been content with making his own statements; he had gone deeply into authorities, and he had taunted those on that (the Ministerial) side with inconsistency. He wondered, that the word did not choke the right
Cheers615614613612611610nusquam tuta fides.609Mr. Charles Buller
 said, that in the return of the communications made by the colonial agents to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, on the subject of the sugar-duties, printed for the use of the Members of that House, there was either an inaccuracy in the copy or else a misprint. They were made to say, that there would not be a sufficient supply of sugar during the next year, but the rest of the paper plainly showed, that this must be a misprint, and that it ought to have been that the supply would be sufficient. He should not have noticed this had not the right hon. Gentleman opposite made that misstatement the foundation of his argument last evening. Under these circumstances he would ask the hon. Gentleman opposite if in the original document the West India agents had not stated, that there would be an adequate supply of sugar during the next year?Mr. Goulburn
 moved, that the debate upon this amendment be adjourned. The motion fell to the ground for want of a seconder.Mr. Fielden
583582s.581580l."I can have no hesitation in saying, that, in my opinion, the hest and wisest course that we can pursue is to enforce the prohibitory duties against slave-trade-grown sugar—that is against the sugars of Cuba and Brazil. It seems to me one of those questions in which ordinary rules are to be disregarded, and in which considerations of political advantage must be made to yield to the superior law of moral duty. We cannot admit the produce of Cuba and Brazil into home consumption without giving a vast impulse to the growth of sugar in those countries; or, in other words, without giving the strongest encouragement to the slave-trade."579"But, lastly, in making this republication, I have one peculiar object in view—an object which I deem to be of the highest practical importance to the future prosperity of the cause of freedom, and especially to my own plan for the extinction of the slave trade— I mean the maintenance of the present prohibitory duties on slave-grown coffee and sugar. If, under the difficulties of the present crisis, as it regards the quantity and price of those articles, the duties in question should be relaxed or extinguished, a market of immense magnitude would immediately be opened for the produce of the slave-labour of the Brazils, Cuba, and Porto Rico. The consequence would be, that ruin would soon overtake the planters of our West-Indian colonies, and our free negroes would be deprived of their principal means of obtaining an honourable and comfortable livelihood; but far more extensive, far more deplorable, would be the effect of such a change on the millions of Africa. A vast new impulse would be given to slave-labour, and therefore to the slave-trade; and both the number and energy of those who delight to prey on the vitals of Africa would be indefinitely increased. True, indeed, it is, that the high price of sugar is an inconvenience of no small magnitude to the population of great Britain and Ireland; and if that price should be still somewhat increased, the inconvenience would be more severely felt than it is at present. But the following letters contain, I trust, some clear and indisputable evidences that these difficulties are in their nature temporary. The present diminished produce of sugar and coffee in the West Indies is the result of that unsettlement which took place immediately after the date of full freedom."578577576l.,l.l.l.575l.l."Now, Sir, although I never was an advocate for a large sinking fund, or a large surplus revenue, I certainly think that a surplus of 300,000l.l.574l.l.l.l.573 was well aware of the difficulty of arresting the attention of the House after so long a debate, especially at the close of a speech in which the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had displayed almost more than his usual brilliancy of rhetoric. He was aware, that both the House and the country were weary of the subject, and that the constituencies of the empire who looked for something more than a long protracted debate, were expecting with impatience the decision to which the House was to arrive. It would have been unnecessary for him to trouble the House on this question, after the unequalled and unanswerable speech of his noble Friend the Member for North Lancashire, had he not wished to recall hon. Gentlemen to the real matter in debate, and place the issue on a proper footing. The propositions announced to the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, were founded upon the present financial emergency, and it was necessary in the first instance to examine what was the nature of that emergency, which required the application of such remedies, and then to look at the remedies themselves, and see how far fitted they were to meet the object for which they were intended, and also how far they were free from other objections which might render them inexpedient. The House had been informed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the noble Lord, that the finances of the country were in a deplorable condition. That, then, was the difficulty in which the country was placed, and the question was how did it come to be placed in that difficulty? After four years of administration by the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues— after four years of embarrassment, a crisis at length arrived—things had come to a dead lock, and the right hon. Gentleman called on the House for assistance. The right hon. Gentleman a few evenings before, had challenged a comparison between his own administration and those of his predecessors, and had most incautiously and unaccountably told the House, in answer to a remark of the hon. Member for Surrey respecting the necessity of maintaining a large surplus, that no former Chancellor of the Exchequer, any more than himself, had ever taken any heed about a surplus. He was strangely deceived if Mr. Huskisson had not always declared himself strongly
583582s.581580l."I can have no hesitation in saying, that, in my opinion, the hest and wisest course that we can pursue is to enforce the prohibitory duties against slave-trade-grown sugar—that is against the sugars of Cuba and Brazil. It seems to me one of those questions in which ordinary rules are to be disregarded, and in which considerations of political advantage must be made to yield to the superior law of moral duty. We cannot admit the produce of Cuba and Brazil into home consumption without giving a vast impulse to the growth of sugar in those countries; or, in other words, without giving the strongest encouragement to the slave-trade."579"But, lastly, in making this republication, I have one peculiar object in view—an object which I deem to be of the highest practical importance to the future prosperity of the cause of freedom, and especially to my own plan for the extinction of the slave trade— I mean the maintenance of the present prohibitory duties on slave-grown coffee and sugar. If, under the difficulties of the present crisis, as it regards the quantity and price of those articles, the duties in question should be relaxed or extinguished, a market of immense magnitude would immediately be opened for the produce of the slave-labour of the Brazils, Cuba, and Porto Rico. The consequence would be, that ruin would soon overtake the planters of our West-Indian colonies, and our free negroes would be deprived of their principal means of obtaining an honourable and comfortable livelihood; but far more extensive, far more deplorable, would be the effect of such a change on the millions of Africa. A vast new impulse would be given to slave-labour, and therefore to the slave-trade; and both the number and energy of those who delight to prey on the vitals of Africa would be indefinitely increased. True, indeed, it is, that the high price of sugar is an inconvenience of no small magnitude to the population of great Britain and Ireland; and if that price should be still somewhat increased, the inconvenience would be more severely felt than it is at present. But the following letters contain, I trust, some clear and indisputable evidences that these difficulties are in their nature temporary. The present diminished produce of sugar and coffee in the West Indies is the result of that unsettlement which took place immediately after the date of full freedom."578577576l.,l.l.l.575l.l."Now, Sir, although I never was an advocate for a large sinking fund, or a large surplus revenue, I certainly think that a surplus of 300,000l.l.574l.l.l.l.573Mr. Herries
s.,s.,s,5715705699,243,465Total tax since abolition
9,243,465Total tax since abolition5,192,1617713,764,7101840
5,192,1617713,764,71018403,471,15111704,171,9381839
3,471,15111704,171,93818392,743,04851204,418,3341838
2,743,04851204,418,33418382,679,93441304,349,0531837
2,679,93441304,349,05318372,549,88501303,922,9011836
2,549,88501303,922,90118361,326,3430604,421,1451835
1,326,3430604,421,14518351,280,9432604,154,4111834
1,280,9432604,154,4111834£d.d.s.s.£
£d.d.s.s.£Amount of tax or premium to West-India Interest.Difference of price.Quantity consumed.Years.
Amount of tax or premium to West-India Interest.Difference of price.Quantity consumed.Years.
9,243,465Total tax since abolition
9,243,465Total tax since abolition5,192,1617713,764,7101840
5,192,1617713,764,71018403,471,15111704,171,9381839
3,471,15111704,171,93818392,743,04851204,418,3341838
2,743,04851204,418,33418382,679,93441304,349,0531837
2,679,93441304,349,05318372,549,88501303,922,9011836
2,549,88501303,922,90118361,326,3430604,421,1451835
1,326,3430604,421,14518351,280,9432604,154,4111834
1,280,9432604,154,4111834£d.d.s.s.£
£d.d.s.s.£Amount of tax or premium to West-India Interest.Difference of price.Quantity consumed.Years.
Amount of tax or premium to West-India Interest.Difference of price.Quantity consumed.Years.568"I shall hail with pleasure the day when every monopoly and restriction can, advantageously for the rest of the empire, be done away with, thank God ! we are now emancipated as well as our labourers; and we can walk abroad, bold and erect, and claim the benefit of the freest principles; and if we are honestly and fairly allowed to trade with all the world without restriction, we fear no competition from any quarter in the colonial market of the mother-country; and when that is effected, the agriculture of Trinidad will successfully compete with that of every other country depending upon slave-labour."567***"It was" he said, "his unalterable conviction that we could not uphold the Corn-laws now in existence, together with the present system of taxation, and at the same time, increase the national prosperity and preserve public contentment. That those laws might be repealed without affecting the landed interest, whilst, at the same time, the distress of the people might be relieved, he never had any doubt whatever. A general feeling prevailed, that some change must be effected, and that speedily. Nor were there any individuals more thoroughly persuaded of it than those who moved in the humbler walks of life."*"Our Corn-laws, however expedient to prevent other evils in the present state of the country, are in themselves a burden and a restraint upon its manufacturing and commercial industry. Whilst the products of that industry must descend to a level of the general market of the world, the producers, so far as food is concerned, are debarred from that level."566l.l.d.,s.922,8626028,723,7351840
922,8626028,723,7351840559,4316021,842,2641831
559,4316021,842,2641831407,544017,993,0401824
407,544017,993,0401824255,184708,118,7341812
255,184708,118,7341812161,2457⅞11,170,1041807
161,2457⅞11,170,1041807£d.d.s.s.lbs.
£d.d.s.s.lbs.Net revenue.Rate of duty per lb.Quantity retained for home consumption.Years.
Net revenue.Rate of duty per lb.Quantity retained for home consumption.Years.COFFEE—TAXATION AND CONSUMPTION.
COFFEE—TAXATION AND CONSUMPTION.
922,8626028,723,7351840
922,8626028,723,7351840559,4316021,842,2641831
559,4316021,842,2641831407,544017,993,0401824
407,544017,993,0401824255,184708,118,7341812
255,184708,118,7341812161,2457⅞11,170,1041807
161,2457⅞11,170,1041807£d.d.s.s.lbs.
£d.d.s.s.lbs.Net revenue.Rate of duty per lb.Quantity retained for home consumption.Years.
Net revenue.Rate of duty per lb.Quantity retained for home consumption.Years.COFFEE—TAXATION AND CONSUMPTION.
COFFEE—TAXATION AND CONSUMPTION.565d.s.564563: The department with which I have the honour to be connected, will afford me a justification for interfering in this debate; it has been protracted beyond the ordinary period of the duration of our debates, but not to a period incommensurate with the importance — the incalculable importance, of a subject upon which, in the exercise of their appellate jurisdiction, the people of England must ultimately decide. I shall not trespass upon the indulgence of those who surround me, or upon the forbearance of those to whom I am opposed, at any inappropriate length. I shall confine myself to the resolution of the noble Lord, and do my best to avoid the example of those who have wandered far away from it, and who have indulged in dissertations not more mysterious to their auditors than to themselves. I shall, Sir, in the first instance, address myself to that branch of the question in reference to which, the people of England, the virtuous and humane people of England, feel a deep and a most honourable concern. If, Sir, to the progress of the slave-trade, by an exorbitant differential duty between colonial and foreign sugar, any effectual impediment were interposed—if, notwithstanding that exorbitant differential duty, the slave-trade were not successful to an extent which has been stated, with too much justice, in the course of this debate, to cast a stain upon Christian Europe,— if to slave-grown sugar every port upon the continent were not thrown widely and indiscriminately open,—if with the produce of slave-labour in many forms—coffee, cotton, tobacco—our own markets
s.,s.,s,5715705699,243,465Total tax since abolition
9,243,465Total tax since abolition5,192,1617713,764,7101840
5,192,1617713,764,71018403,471,15111704,171,9381839
3,471,15111704,171,93818392,743,04851204,418,3341838
2,743,04851204,418,33418382,679,93441304,349,0531837
2,679,93441304,349,05318372,549,88501303,922,9011836
2,549,88501303,922,90118361,326,3430604,421,1451835
1,326,3430604,421,14518351,280,9432604,154,4111834
1,280,9432604,154,4111834£d.d.s.s.£
£d.d.s.s.£Amount of tax or premium to West-India Interest.Difference of price.Quantity consumed.Years.
Amount of tax or premium to West-India Interest.Difference of price.Quantity consumed.Years.
9,243,465Total tax since abolition
9,243,465Total tax since abolition5,192,1617713,764,7101840
5,192,1617713,764,71018403,471,15111704,171,9381839
3,471,15111704,171,93818392,743,04851204,418,3341838
2,743,04851204,418,33418382,679,93441304,349,0531837
2,679,93441304,349,05318372,549,88501303,922,9011836
2,549,88501303,922,90118361,326,3430604,421,1451835
1,326,3430604,421,14518351,280,9432604,154,4111834
1,280,9432604,154,4111834£d.d.s.s.£
£d.d.s.s.£Amount of tax or premium to West-India Interest.Difference of price.Quantity consumed.Years.
Amount of tax or premium to West-India Interest.Difference of price.Quantity consumed.Years.568"I shall hail with pleasure the day when every monopoly and restriction can, advantageously for the rest of the empire, be done away with, thank God ! we are now emancipated as well as our labourers; and we can walk abroad, bold and erect, and claim the benefit of the freest principles; and if we are honestly and fairly allowed to trade with all the world without restriction, we fear no competition from any quarter in the colonial market of the mother-country; and when that is effected, the agriculture of Trinidad will successfully compete with that of every other country depending upon slave-labour."567***"It was" he said, "his unalterable conviction that we could not uphold the Corn-laws now in existence, together with the present system of taxation, and at the same time, increase the national prosperity and preserve public contentment. That those laws might be repealed without affecting the landed interest, whilst, at the same time, the distress of the people might be relieved, he never had any doubt whatever. A general feeling prevailed, that some change must be effected, and that speedily. Nor were there any individuals more thoroughly persuaded of it than those who moved in the humbler walks of life."*"Our Corn-laws, however expedient to prevent other evils in the present state of the country, are in themselves a burden and a restraint upon its manufacturing and commercial industry. Whilst the products of that industry must descend to a level of the general market of the world, the producers, so far as food is concerned, are debarred from that level."566l.l.d.,s.922,8626028,723,7351840
922,8626028,723,7351840559,4316021,842,2641831
559,4316021,842,2641831407,544017,993,0401824
407,544017,993,0401824255,184708,118,7341812
255,184708,118,7341812161,2457⅞11,170,1041807
161,2457⅞11,170,1041807£d.d.s.s.lbs.
£d.d.s.s.lbs.Net revenue.Rate of duty per lb.Quantity retained for home consumption.Years.
Net revenue.Rate of duty per lb.Quantity retained for home consumption.Years.COFFEE—TAXATION AND CONSUMPTION.
COFFEE—TAXATION AND CONSUMPTION.
922,8626028,723,7351840
922,8626028,723,7351840559,4316021,842,2641831
559,4316021,842,2641831407,544017,993,0401824
407,544017,993,0401824255,184708,118,7341812
255,184708,118,7341812161,2457⅞11,170,1041807
161,2457⅞11,170,1041807£d.d.s.s.lbs.
£d.d.s.s.lbs.Net revenue.Rate of duty per lb.Quantity retained for home consumption.Years.
Net revenue.Rate of duty per lb.Quantity retained for home consumption.Years.COFFEE—TAXATION AND CONSUMPTION.
COFFEE—TAXATION AND CONSUMPTION.565d.s.564563Mr. Sheil
 had understood from the document printed for the use of the Members of that House, that the supply would not be adequate. At the same time he must confess that, from the context of the document, the reading had appeared to him to be rather ambiguous. It seemed to him, upon reflection, that the West India agents might be speaking with reference only to the West Indies. It was notorious that the supplies from the West Indies would not be sufficient.Sir C. Grey
"That Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair:—Amendment proposed, to leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the question, in order to add the words, ' considering the efforts and sacrifices which Parliament and the country have made for the abolition of the slave-trade and slavery, with the earnest hope that their exertions and example might lead to the mitigation and final extinction of those evils in other countries, this House is not prepared (espesially with the present prospects of the supply of sugar from British possessions) to adopt the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government for the reduction of the duty on foreign sugars,' instead thereof: — Question put, ' That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question.' " rose amid cries of "question," and solicited permission to explain upon a single point. The noble Lord had adverted to the proceedings of the House, and to the appointment of a noble Friend (the Marquess of Londonderry) to the embassy to Russia. The House had come to no vote on that occasion; but a motion had been made for the production of the appointment, which, in fact, had not taken place. He had been no party to the withdrawal of his noble Friend from the appointment, the retirement had been the act of his noble Friend, and of his noble Friend alone. If the House had proceeded to present an address to the Crown on the subject, it had been his (Sir R. Peel's) firm intention to have retired from office. He begged to repeat that the act of his noble Friend had not been counselled or suggested by him."That Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair:—Amendment proposed, to leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the question, in order to add the words, ' considering the efforts and sacrifices which Parliament and the country have made for the abolition of the slave-trade and slavery, with the earnest hope that their exertions and example might lead to the mitigation and final extinction of those evils in other countries, this House is not prepared (espesially with the present prospects of the supply of sugar from British possessions) to adopt the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government for the reduction of the duty on foreign sugars,' instead thereof: — Question put, ' That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question.' "Sir R. Peel
677 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the report of the naval and military commission. That commission had sat for two years, at the close of which period they furnished their report. It was not for him (Lord George Lennox), to impugn, nor did he mean to impugn, the report of that commission. But what he complained of was, that the
677Lord G. Lennox
678 having been a member of the naval and military commission, was anxious to say a very few words upon the question. He could assure the noble Lord, and the House, that the members of that commission were actuated by a sincere desire to do justice to that distinguished corps, the Marines, and to further promotion in it. The noble Lord had complained of the small amount of the promotions in the corps, compared with those in other branches of the service; but that, he could assure him, was the result of accidental circumstances. It would be found impossible to equalize promotions by any arrangements. He would only repeat, that the commission was most anxious to do justice
678Sir H. Vivian,
 thought, that after the report which the commission had made, it would not be advisable to take the course proposed by the noble Lord. He was of opinion also, that a committee of the House of Commons was not the proper tribunal before which such a subject should be investigated. He must, therefore, give his vote against the motion; but he hoped that vote would not be regarded as a proof that he took no interest in the welfare of the marine corps.Viscount Ingestrie
: as it appears to be the intention of the noble Lord— notwithstanding the division of the other night—to cling with an unparalleled tenacity to office, after the sense of the House of Commons has been unequivocally declared against him, may 1 ask, on what day he intends to bring forward the question of the corn-laws?The Earl of Darlington
 opposed the clause, on the ground that it was inconsistent with the principle of the bill.Mr. Hope
679 said, that while the pay of the other branches of the service had been liberally increased, the marines had remained unnoticed. He believed, indeed, that the recommendations of the commission had been carried into effect with regard to almost every other department, except that of the Royal Marines. Considering the brilliant services which that body of men had performed for the country, he must say that it savoured something of ingratitude, that it should be necessary to drive at those in power continually, in order to get justice done to them. For the first time they had heard of two marine officers having received a brevet rank, those officers having been in the action of the Shannon and the Chesapeake. But this neglect had
679Captain Boldero
 was prepared to assent to the motion, with the exception of that part of it which called for a return" of all subjects sent to the several colleges and hospitals, and schools of anatomy; specifying the number of each, and the date thereof." That part of the motion, he should oppose.Mr. Fox Maule
683 said, he would be happy to give every information in reference to the appointments under the act, and as to the salaries of the officers who had to carry it into effect. He would also feel happy in laying before the House such general information in regard to the number of complaints as it was in his power to give; but he could not give the hon. Gentleman opposite either the returns in regard to the operation of the act as connected with the science of anatomy, or those specific complaints made against individuals for the infringement of the act. He thought that the act had worked admirably, especially in one respect; for no one could
683Mr. Fox Maule
 replied, and intimated that, as the House was then so exceedingly thin, he should not put it to the trouble of a division.Lord G. Lennox
 cordially agreed with the hon. Member, as to the propriety of rewarding Captain Spry and the other marine officer of Commodore Napier's ship. He trusted that his noble relative would not press the motion to a division, as he hoped the notice taken of the subject would be sufficient to induce the Lords of the Admiralty to do their utmost to benefit the service.Lord A. Lennox
: On Friday the 4th of June.Lord J. Russell
 moved, that this House, at its rising, do adjourn to Monday.Lord J. Russell
 said, that there certainly had been suggestions made to the Government in regard to the carrying the act into effect; but he believed that he left the Home-office immediately after these suggestions were made, and had not consequently given them his consideration. He agreed with the hon. Member for Fins-bury, that it would have the worst effect on the operation of the measure, if they were at the present time to institute an inquiry of the nature proposed by the hon. Gentleman opposite. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would refrain from taking this step, as it might for the future prevent the act from being carried into effect in the mode in which it was at present; and it would also interfere with the adoption of any further suggestions which might be given.Lord John Russell
676 had omitted to state why the question was not put when the hon. Member rose a second time. The hon. Member did not rise until after the voices
676The Speaker
 felt, that he could give the best answer to the question of the hon. Member, and he could state, that if the motion had been seconded, he should certainly have put it from the Chair. After the hon. Member had put the question, he (the Speaker) asked who seconded the motion, and he paused two or three seconds for an answer. No hon. Member in his view seconded it, and he had then proceeded to read the question to the House. As he was reading the question he saw the hon. Member for Finsbury rise, but he did not understand him to say a single word, or to second the motion. He appealed to hon. Members near him whether he was in error, and they concurred with him that the hon. Member had not addressed the House. He concluded, therefore, that the motion was not seconded, and he certainly did not see the hon. Member in the gallery; he had only heard that since the adjournment, and was not aware of it at the time. If he had been aware of it, of course it would have been his duty to put the question.The Speaker
 believed that every one of the recommendations of the commission had been carried into effect. The number of promotions given by the Board of Admiralty to the marines in proportion to the amount of the force employed was unexampled. He looked upon the motion of his noble Friend as totally uncalled for, inasmuch as the Board of Admiralty had complied with all the suggestions made by the commission, except on the single point of prize-money. It was impossible to do more in the way of increasing superannuations and retirements, without forcing to retire men who were every way competent to do the duties of active service, which would be impolitic in the extreme.Mr. C. Wood
681 moved for returns of the number of inspectors appointed under 2 and 3 William 4th., c.
681Mr. Maclean
 said, he had taken this course in consequence of the petitions which he had himself presented on this subject, containing complaints which he believed to be correct. He concurred that if this act was effectually carried into effect it would be a considerable boon, in. putting a stop to the scenes which he had spoken of. But if it were not carried out in true sincerity—if private arrangements were made which ought not to be made, dissatisfaction would be produced, and the best way to put an end to that dissatisfaction would be by the production of the information he sought for, in consequence, he repeated, of the information which had reached him. He therefore hoped no time would be lost in laying the particular return now objected to upon the Table of the House.Mr. Maclean
 was willing at the present moment to take what he could get; but on a future occasion he should move for the whole of this information, and for the appointment of a committee to consider the subject. He would not now press that part of the return which was objected to.Mr. Maclean
 trusted that the production of the necessary documents would put it out of his power to bring the question again before the House; but unless this was done, he would consider himself bound to renew his motion.Mr. Maclean
 believed, that the Anatomy Bill had worked well, and that no complaint had been made against it from any of the schools.Mr. Warburton
675 said, it would be in the recollection of hon. Members, that, yesterday morning, after; he resolution of the noble Lord had been put to the House, he had proposed an adjournment of the debate; that motion had been seconded by the hon. Member for Finsbury, and since he had come to the House that evening, he had been told, that the hon. Member for Ashton, who was in the gallery at the time, had also seconded it. Now that motion ought to have been entertained. He had been asked by his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, to withdraw his motion, on the understanding that at some future time he should have an opportunity of stating his opinions on the subject. What he complained of was, that his motion for adjourning the debate had been disposed of without his consent. The Speaker had never asked him if he would take the sense of the House. The right hon. Gentleman had not put it to the House if they would divide on it. He thought he had a right to complain. It was a question affecting the privilege of his constituents. He thought it probable, that the House might have rejected his motion, but he complained of its having been rejected without a division. His hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny could bear testimony that he had been asked to withdraw his motion, on the understanding that he should have an opportunity given him, on some future occasion, of speaking on the subject of the previous debate; and he had risen to speak when the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, had proposed his amendment. He had risen more than a dozen times during the debate to make known his sentiments, but had not been able to attract the Speaker's notice. He did not complain of that. He knew how difficult it was for the Speaker to see every Member who rose. But yesterday morning, between three and four o'clock, he had risen to move the adjournment, as he wished to enter into explanations as to the
675Mr. Fielden
 not having had an opportunity of speaking during the debate, would send the speech he intended to make to the newspapers. And he would tell them more, that what he had sent he had written before, and if hon. Members would write beforehand what they intended to speak, they would save a great deal of the time of the House. That would enable hon. Members and the public to see what were his sentiments on the subject.Mr. Fielden,
 was understood to ask why, when he had risen a second time to press his question, it was not put?Mr. Fielden
 thought that no complaint could be brought against the Government the course it had pursued with reference to the marine corps. Formerly he had thought this branch of the service much neglected; but since the appointment of the naval and military commission, it seemed that full justice had been done to them. There were, however, one or two recent instances in which he thought promotions should have been made. He alluded particularly to the case of Captain Spry and another old marine officer, who had served together in Commodore Napier's ship, the Powerful, during the late hostilities on the coast of Syria, and had partaken of all the glory which attached to the British arms on that occasion. These old officers, one of whom had served for thirty-five years, were left without promotion, although most of the naval officers who served in the Powerful had been raised to higher rank. He thought the case of these veterans highly deserving the notice of the Admiralty.Mr. Hume
 hoped his hon. Friend would not press his amendment, as it would endanger the whole bill.Mr. Philip Howard
 begged to correct his hon. Friend who had just spoken. It was due to the medical men, whose petitions he (Mr. Duncombe) had presented, to state, that very great dissatisfaction existed as to the operation of the Anatomy Act. He was only sorry that the Undersecretary of State (Mr. F. Maule) did not feel it consistent with his duty to give the whole of the returns for which the hon. Member for Oxford had moved. Some of the petitions stated that certain hospitals carried on a regular trade in bodies, and he thought that the time had arrived when some inquiry ought to be instituted into the working of the Act.Mr. T. Duncombe
s.s.l."That under the provisions of the Act for amending the representation of the people of England and Wales, it is incumbent on the clerk of the peace of every county to write or print the register of electors annually, and to furnish copies of the same at the most reasonable price. That by a return made to this House on the 4th day of May, 1840, it appears that the register of electors for the county of Hertford is charged at 89s.s.l. rose to call the attention of the House to the petition of Samuel Cousins (presented 23d March), and to move,—
s.s.l."That under the provisions of the Act for amending the representation of the people of England and Wales, it is incumbent on the clerk of the peace of every county to write or print the register of electors annually, and to furnish copies of the same at the most reasonable price. That by a return made to this House on the 4th day of May, 1840, it appears that the register of electors for the county of Hertford is charged at 89s.s.l.Mr. Thomas Duncombe
682 said, it was a mistake to suppose that the secretary had power to
682Mr. Wakley
 could easily understand that the Speaker was in doubt and difficulty as to what was passing in the House. There was certainly noise and confusion in his (Mr. Wakley's) part of the House, as well as near the Chair. He recollected the Speaker asking who seconded it, and he (Mr. Wakley) had risen from his seat, and said, "I do Sir," but he could easily believe that the Speaker did not hear him, for there was considerable noise in his part of the House, and several hon. Members cried "Don't second it."Mr. Wakley
 was happy to find that the principle of his clause met with the general approbation of the House, but finding that if he were to press it to a division it would endanger the passing of the bill itself, he begged leave to withdraw it.Mr. Rickford
 moved a clause to empower tenants to enfranchise.Mr. Rickford
 said, he had voted with the noble Lord formerly, when he proposed an address to the Crown upon this subject; but the Queen having been pleased to appoint a commission, he would not concur in doing anything which would have the appearance of sitting in judgment on the proceedings of that commission.Sir A. Dalrymple
 concurred in the view taken by the last speaker. It would be most inconvenient, and contrary to the practice of the constitution, to interfere with the commission. The hon. and gallant Member referred to the report of the commission, to show that great promotions had taken place since the Order in Council in 1837; that officers who were unfit for duty had been allowed to retire upon their full pay; and that the recommendations of the commission had been carried out as respected inefficient officers, every one of whom had been provided for. For his own part, though he should resist the motion, he held the marines in the highest estimation, and would do all in his power to serve them.Sir C. Adam
680 was understood to state, that all the marine officers who served on
680Sir C. Adam
: Sir, I give notice that, on Monday next, I will move that the House shall resolve itself into a Committee of Ways and Means, with a view to move the usual annual Sugar Duties therein.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was ready to support the noble Lord in any motion which would benefit the corps of Royal Marines. He would, however, recommend him to withdraw the present motion, in the hope that what had been said would influence the treatment of that body.Captain Pechell
 saw the hon. Member for Finsbury rise, but did not hear him say a single word.Sir R. H. Inglis
 asked, whether the Government intended to proceed with the Registration of Voters Bill (England?)Mr. H. Hind
s715ssssss.: It appeared extraordinary, during the whole of the eight nights' debate, that the noble Lord should never have thought fit to make the explanation just given. He must say, however, that the noble Lord did not appear to be quite so accurate in his recollection of what took place on that occasion as he usually was. The noble Lord was not answering any speech or argument when he made the statement alluded to. It was at the commencement of the debate when opening the plan of the Government, that the noble Lord, in stating what he apprehended would be the result of the Government measure, informed the House, that the average prices of Brazilian sugar had been from 21s715ssssss.Lord Stanley
: You did speak in reply.Lord Stanley
 rose to offer a few words to the House, whenThe Attorney-General
 thought that an adjournment was quite unnecessary; and in reply to what the right hon. Baronet had said with regard to the want of responsibility on the part of the Accountant-general, he said it was true that that officer would not be bound by recognizance; but if there were any defalcation in the property under his control, there was no doubt of his liability to make it good.The Attorney-General
 referred, in answer to the Dublin Wide streets bill, as a proof that, in the present Session, attention had been paid to the wants of Ireland.Mr. E. J. Stanley
 opposed the motion.Mr. Stewart
 supported the clause.The Attorney-general
pro formâsub silentio said, that the three bills—the Boroughs Improvement bill, the Drainage of Towns bill, and the Building Regulations bill had hitherto passed pro formâsub silentioMr. Fox Maule
 said, in that case he begged to give notice that he would tomorrow move for leave to bring in a bill of a similar character, and in the mean time he would move, that the present bill be read that day three months.Mr. Fox Maule
 could not consent to the reduction proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, in the emoluments of the Accountant-general. He had no objection to the postponement of the discussion, if it could lend to any useful purpose; but he would remind the House that this functionary held his office for life, and could not be removed without some gross dereliction of duty on his part. They could not, therefore, propose, whatever the amount of his duties or responsibilities was, to make any large reduction in the sum he had hitherto received.Lord J. Russell
d.d.714 said, he had contradicted the hon. Member for Kilkenny, when he stated, that the right hon. Baronet had read the resolution proposed on a former night by the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool. His reason for offering that contradiction was, that the right hon. Baronet, in referring to the resolution, entirely left out the humanity part of it. Everybody knew, while the discussion was going on, that that part of the resolution was a mere pretext. Nobody but his right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, believed, that anything serious was meant by it. The right hon. Baronet, therefore, in referring to the resolution, naturally enough, read only the essential part of it; namely, that
d.d.714Lord J. Russell
719 said, it might seem rather out of order on his part, to answer any observations with regard to the postponement of the Poor-law Bill. He would however say, that in the present state of affairs in the House, while the questions relating to the budget, and other topics to which great interest was attached, were pending, he conceived, in the first place, that to have proceeded with that bill would have occasioned protracted discus-
719Lord John Russell
s: After the amendment. The noble Lord said, that I was making my own calculation. I was proceeding on a statement that had been made in a petition or memorial, a petition upon which the House was called upon to act, and in that petition it was stated that the price was 61sLord J. Russell
: The noble Lord knows well that if I had attempted to speak again in the debate, it would—Lord J. Russell
 said, it was not his intention to proceed with that bill during the present Session of Parliament.Lord John Russell
habeas corpus709 said, that he had, on a former night, in answer to a question put by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-
habeas corpus709Lord John Russell
 said, it was his intention to give notice of the introduction of a bill on that subject, and he hoped to have the support of the right lion. Baronet and the Gentlemen around him in carrying it through the House.Lord J. Russell
 said, he would state his intentions on the subject when the House came to dispose of the orders of the day.Lord J. Russell
l. bore testimony to the qualifications necessary to fill the office of Accountant-general. He would not say that 4,000l.Mr. Lynch
 said, that he had to inform the House that the effect of the bill would be to give to the commissioners of sewers additional powers to tax the people, and, that, therefore, it was not a bill which could properly originate with the House of Lords.The Speaker
 wished to know something respecting our present relations with Persia. Our amicable relations with the Persian government had now been interrupted for three years. He wished to know whether we had received from the Persian government ample satisfaction for the insult which had been offered to our Ambassador, and whether the misunderstanding which had so long prevailed between this country and Persia was at at end? He wished further to know whether relations hostile to British interests did not at present subsist between (as we understood) the courts of Teheran and Herat?Mr. Maclean
 wished to know whether, if the fortress should be evacuated, that would be considered a sufficient compensation for the insults which Persia had offered to our ambassador?Mr. Maclean
 would not persist in his motion for the re-committal of the bill, but begged to move that the eighth clause, which threw the expense of the commutations on the Consolidated Fund, be left out of the bill.Sir E. Sugden
 moved that the bill be re-committed.Sir E. Sugden
l.l.722l. said, he had understood the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies to have promised that he would prepare a clause in the present bill to meet certain objections which he had in view. The clause in question did not go to the extent which he wished, and to which he understood the noble Lord gave his consent. The right hon. and learned Gentleman referred to the various acts of Parliament relating to the office of accountant-general, the business assigned to that officer, and the salary allotted to him, which had increased from a much lower sum to 4,000l.l.722l.Sir E. Sugden
 said, that the bill, as amended in Committee, had never been seen by him. The amendments were not yet printed. Owing to his necessary absence from the House during the time the bill was in Committee—an absence for which he would not apologise—he did not know what those amendments were. He therefore proposed that the noble Lord should forthwith reprint his bill, with the amendments made in the Committee.Sir E. Sugden
 moved, that the debate be adjourned.Sir E. Sugden
 would not divide the House on his motion at present, but would reserve to himself the right of bringing forward his objections on the third reading of the bill.Sir E. Sugden
 observed that all advances were made to England, and very few to Ireland.Mr. J. French
 said, he observed that there were upon the paper thirty-seven orders of the day, one of which was for the further consideration of the report of the Poor-law Amendment Bill. He wished to know whether the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, intended to proceed with that order that evening.Captain Polhill
 thought that there should be some limit to the salary, but it was well worthy of consideration whether the present holder would not be entitled to compensation.Mr. Aglionby
 said, the best thing the House could do, under all the circumstances, was to postpone the discussion till a future day. It was desirable they should have the clauses before them in order to form a proper judgment upon them.Mr. Goulburn
 said, he had not distinctly heard the noble Lord's answer. He hoped the noble Lord would be good enough to state on what day he meant to proceed with the Poor-law Amendment Bill.Mr. Walter
711d.d.J. Russell said, that the right hon. Baronet had thought proper to read the resolution to which the House had agreed last week. [Lord 711d.d.J. RussellMr. Hume
: I have no objection to the importation of sugar.Mr. Hume
l.713 did not think that the right hon. Baronet could have been in the House on that occasion to which the extract he had read referred. The right hon. Gentleman should bear in mind, that a motion had been made in the House to admit foreign sugar at a reduced duty, for which he voted. The House rejected that motion; he was against the House, and on putting It is question on the occasion referred to by the right hon. Baronet, he alluded to the opinion of the House as being against the introduction of sugar, and he said, that if the House continued of the same opinion, such and such consequences would ensue, sugar would be brought up to such a price that he would admit every kind and any kind of sugar that could be got. It was against the calamity which threatened and which did overtake the people of England that he was protesting. The right hon. Baronet thought he had obtained a triumph over him, whereas his allusion was to the House having voted against the very object he had in view, which was to admit sugar. He had no hesitation in saying, that hav-
l.713Mr. Hume
l. was of opinion that if the noble Lord would not agree to limit the salary of the Accountant-general to 4,000l.Mr. Hume
 expressed his satisfaction that Government had attended to the petitions addressed to them on this subject. They had acted liberally towards the north and east part of the metropolis, and he was now anxious that they should consider the situation of the south. Unless an opportunity were soon taken of securing some open place, such as that in the neighbourhood of Bethlehem Hospital, they would in a short time find it difficult to get any eligible spot.Mr. Hume
l. took the opportunity of stating, that he thought the proposition of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden) of too liberal a character. He saw no reason why the Accountant-general should receive a larger amount of remuneration than the Masters in Chancery. The Masters in Chancery received a salary of 2,500l.Mr. Hume
l.l. bore testimony to the laborious duties of the Accountant-general's office, even in the Exchequer, where the investments were only 3,000,000l.l.Mr. Richards
 said, he believed the measures which were proposed by her Majesty's Government were necessary—Gentlemen should bear in mind the great changes which had taken place in the relative position of the agricultural and commercial population of the country. He thought that this alone was a reason why there should be a revision of the commercial code of the country. It was absolutely necessary for the welfare of the people, that the general principles of free trade should be cautiously examined, and carefully admitted. He took this opportunity of stating these opinions, as no opportunity was afforded him during the recent debate.Mr. Slaney
 did not wish to oppose a vote for the accommodation of the public; but it seemed to him irrational to lay out so much money on the eastern part of the metropolis, when there was so much land on the north of the city to which the people had a right, and to which they were still refused access. He wished the Secretary of the Treasury would state when the 288 acres closed up in the Regent's-park would be thrown open? He was quite sure that, while the public were kept out from so much ground to which they had a right, great dissatisfaction would be created by the outlay in the present instance. He was happy to hear the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir E. Knatchbull) make the declaration which had just fallen from him. The hon. Baronet was willing to give the people fresh air, and he reminded him that fresh air increased the appetite—and he hoped the hon. Baronet would recollect that on a future occasion—the people wanted bread.Mr. Wakley
 would vote with the right lion, and learned Gentleman, the Member for Ripon, for the omission of the eighth clause. He thought the expenses of the commutations ought not to be borne by the Consolidated Fund.Mr. Wakley
718717716 said, the right hon. Baronet had taken great credit to himself for supporting her Majesty's Government, and seemed surprised that he had not received a larger amount of gratitude from (the Ministerial) side of the House. The right hon. Baronet said, that he had afforded to the Government his powerful support. Yes, he had a painful recollection that on a variety of occasions the right hon. Gentleman had done so, and that fact caused him to ask the plain and simple question, of what use it would be to this country that the resolution of which the right hon. Gentleman had given notice for Thursday should be carried—if the right hon. Gentleman was prepared
718717716Mr. Wakley
l721720 said, it was evident that the right lion. Baronet, by the motion he had announced, wished, if he could, to divert the public attention from principles to persons. He charged the right hon. Baronet with design to prevent the discussion of the great measures of public benefit which had been brought forward, and to hinder them from being so fully argued in that House, as that the people would be well informed on the merits of them before the appeal was made to their judgment in the usual form. He could construe in no other way the notice which the right hon. Baronet had interposed, so as to preclude the discussion on the most
l721720Sir C. Grey
 said, that as he understood it, the resolution before the House was for the continuance of the West-India monopoly; that being the case, the right hon. Baronet was not only entitled to second it, but he would be justified in telling the people from the hustings, that he had, or ought to have been, its proposer. The right hon. Baronet was at the head of a formidable body of supporters—of confederated monopolists—and he hoped, that the right hon. Baronet would, at the hustings, have the candour to inform the people, that the continuance of the sugar monopoly was chiefly owing to him.Sir De Lacy Evans
 agreed in the observations of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and was pleased with what had been already done with the consent of both sides of the House towards providing open places in the metropolis.Sir E. Knatchbull
" But (the hon. Member continued) if we want any addition to the stock of sugar for home-consumption, I think we ought to take that in preference which is the produce of free labour.": Stop a minute.—
" But (the hon. Member continued) if we want any addition to the stock of sugar for home-consumption, I think we ought to take that in preference which is the produce of free labour."Sir R. Peel
" Mr. Labouchere: I believe it is correct that a small portion of foreign sugar has been admitted on the payment of the usual duty charged on that article. I cannot say whether the sugar was the produce of slave-labour or not.""SUGAR DUTIES.—Mr. Hume: I wish to know whether the right hon. President of the Board of Trade is aware that it is reported, that a quantity of sugar, the produce of slave-labour, has been imported into this country for home consumption, paying an enormous differential duty. It appears to me that, if this practice be allowed to prevail, the efforts of the House to exclude slave-grown sugar from this country will be tendered abortive.712 said, this was his reward for supporting Ministers. Why the hon. Member for Kilkenny should feel it necessary to quarrel with him because he was in good humour he could by no means understand. Every one must see, that it would have been perfectly consistent with the views which he (Sir R. Peel) entertained, to oppose the motion which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had placed in the hands of the Chairman. He had already explained his reasons for not offering any
" Mr. Labouchere: I believe it is correct that a small portion of foreign sugar has been admitted on the payment of the usual duty charged on that article. I cannot say whether the sugar was the produce of slave-labour or not.""SUGAR DUTIES.—Mr. Hume: I wish to know whether the right hon. President of the Board of Trade is aware that it is reported, that a quantity of sugar, the produce of slave-labour, has been imported into this country for home consumption, paying an enormous differential duty. It appears to me that, if this practice be allowed to prevail, the efforts of the House to exclude slave-grown sugar from this country will be tendered abortive.712Sir H. Peel
 said, he had long since promised the noble Lord to support any measure having for its object the prevention of bribery.Sir R. Peel
710 said, that he would second that motion. On Wednesday last the House came to a resolution declaring, "that this House is not prepared (especially with the present prospects of the supply of sugar from British possessions) to adopt the measure proposed by her Majesty's. Government for the reduction of the duty on foreign sugars." The Chancellor of the Exchequer's present motion was in exact conformity with the resolution which the House had already agreed to, and he (Sir R. Peel) would certainly give it his entire support. If any person could suppose that, in consequence of what had recently passed, he entertained any desire to obstruct the public service
710Sir R. Peel
 begged to ask the noble Lord whether he intended to bring in a bill for the prevention of bribery.Sir R. Peel
" That her Majesty's Ministers do not sufficiently possess the confidence of the House of Commons to enable them to carry through that House measures which they deem of essential importance to the public welfare, and that their continuance in office, under such circumstances, is at variance with the spirit of the constitution." said, I rise to give notice that I shall on Thursday next move a resolution to the following effect:—
" That her Majesty's Ministers do not sufficiently possess the confidence of the House of Commons to enable them to carry through that House measures which they deem of essential importance to the public welfare, and that their continuance in office, under such circumstances, is at variance with the spirit of the constitution."Sir R. Peel
707 said, that no arrangement had been entered into between the British and French Governments of the nature of that to which the noble Lord had referred; but a short time back (about two or three months ago) the British Government received a communication from the government of Monte Video, requesting our good offices for the purpose of bringing about peace between Monte Video and Buenos Ayres. To that communication an answer had been returned, stating, that it would be exceedingly agreeable to her Majesty's Government to be able to restore amicable relations between the two republics, and instructions had been sent to the British Minister at Buenos Ayres, directing him to offer the good offices of England to the government of that state; and if they should be accepted by both parties, to take immediate steps to carry that object into effect. He (Lord Palmerston)
707Viscount Palmerston
 said, that we demanded from Persia, for the affront put upon our ambassador, a written apology. That apology had been received and laid before the House, and with it, he thought, we ought to be satisfied. Totally unconnected with that was the evacuation of the fortress of Gourian, which he held that Persia had no right to retain, and we had informed that Government that the British mission would not return to Teheran until the evacuation had taken place.Viscount Palmerston
708 said, that the existing state of our relations with Persia were pretty nearly explained by the papers which he had some time ago laid upon the Table of the House. One point in dispute only remained between the two governments, and that was respecting the evacuation of the fortress of Gourian by the Persian forces. Since the date of the papers upon the Table, intelligence had been received that the Persian government had consented to evacuate the fortress, and a gentleman had been sent from the British mission, with orders to witness with his own eyes the evacuation of the fortress, and to report the fact to his government. The last advices, however, which had been received at the Foreign Office, stated, that some pause— some hesitation, had taken place on the part of the Persian government, with respect to the evacuation of the fortress, founded on a notion that government had chosen to take up, that the British Government was no longer anxious for the
708Viscount Palmerston
 said, that the House and the country were aware of the inconvenience to which British trade had been subjected by the blockade which the French continued so long on the Rio Plata; but, perhaps, they were not aware that similar inconvenience, to almost as great an extent, existed in that region at the present moment, in consequence of a war which was being carried on between the republics of Buenos Ayres and Monte Video. He wished to know from the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether there was any truth in the report which had appeared in the public papers, that an arrangement had been entered into between the British Government and that of France, in consequence of which the intervention of one of those two Governments would be interposed for the purpose of settling the disputes existing between Buenos Ayres and Monte Video, and restoring peace in that quarter?Viscount Sandon
 said, that whatever might have been the intention of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, it was quite evident, that the presentation of such a petition afforded no subject of merriment to Ministers.Colonel T. Wood
 declared that, if the hon. Member for Finsbury divided the House upon the motion, he should certainly vote with him, for he thought the speech just made by the Under-Secretary furnished ample materials to show that this was a case in which the House might very properly press upon the Crown, the propriety of exercising its prerogative of mercy. He thought that all the objects of punishment had been fully attained. No Chartist was now breaking the law. The arm of mercy, therefore, might be safely extended. At first, he (Mr. O'Connell) had felt some jealousy about the petition presented by the hon. Member for Finsbury, because it asked only for an extension of the royal mercy to political offenders throughout England and Wales. He thought for the moment that the petitioners had forgotten Ireland; but on reflection, he remembered that Ireland had now no political offenders; that she had no demand for mercy, only for justice. The ends and purposes of justice in the case of these political offenders in England and Wales having been fully satisfied, he (Mr. O'Connell) thought that the time had arrived when the prison doors should be opened, and the offenders discharged.Mr. O'Connell
793792 said, that he was afraid that if any other hon. Member rose before he had offered his sentiments to the House, he should be accused of offering a factious opposition to the principle of this
793792Mr. Gaulburn
797796795 said, that as the introduction of this bill did not appear to be opposed on the other side of the House, many of the observations which he had intended to make to the House were superfluous and unnecessary. But he availed himself of this opportunity of expressing his thorough conviction, that it was impossible, that church-rates should continue in the state in which they now stood. Such were the doubts and the confusion which existed in point of law— such were the difficulties which daily arose, as to the application of the law— and such was the repugnance of all, in very many districts of this country, at carrying the law into execution, that he might venture to say, that when it was carried into complete effect by the force and power of authority, the serious consequences which generally arose in the continued exasperation of the people, was much to be regretted. The hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford, had made a statement that evening, as well as on other occasions, which appeared to him to be incorrect. The hon. Baronet seemed to be of opinion, that the church-rate was, in fact, a tax upon property. In his judgment, it was no such thing. He took it that it was this; by the law, as it formerly stood, it was supposed, that every person was a member of the existing church, and the consequence was, that as no man dared to deny, that he was such a member of the church, he could not deny his right to pay rates. Those
797796795Dr. Lushington
800 moved
800Viscount Ingestrie
 thought, that the most convenient communication would be by Bristol.Captain Berkeley
801 consented to alter the terms of his motion, so as to include
801Viscount Ingestrie
754753752751750 in rising to address himself to the subject, which he agreed with his hon. Friend was one by no means destitute of interest, must in the first place allude to a sentence in the prayer of the petition just presented relating to the levity and frivolity with which the petition in favour of the national charter had been received. He was in the House at the time, and could bear testimony that no symptoms of levity or frivolity had been exhibited on that remarkable occasion when a petition, perhaps the largest ever presented to that House, was laid upon the Table by the hon. Member for Birmingham in a manner which he (Mr. Fox Maule) was sure had won for that hon. Gentleman the respect of all parties in that House, even of those who most differed from the hon. Member in political opinion. And he was sure that there was no wish on the part of any one in the
754753752751750Mr. Fox Maule
742 said, that the right hon. Baronet had suggested the best course to be pursued, and he was glad the hon. and gallant Member had acceded to it. It
742Lord J. Russell
762 certainly could conceive cases which might form an exception to the general rule laid down by the right hon. Baronet opposite. The question of Sir Manasseh Lopez, which he (Lord J. Russell) had brought forward some years ago, was an exception to the general rule. On that occasion he withdrew his motion, after having elicited a statement from Lord Castlereagh, then Secretary of State, that the motion would
762Lord John Russell
799l. said, it was most desirable that this question should at once be settled, and that they were under extreme obligation to the hon. Member for Leicester, for bringing the subject forward. In the parish in which he lived, the effect of the disputes about church-rates was, that the bells of the church were silenced, and the clock had been allowed to stop. This had been done by the churchwardens. There was, however, no want of liberality on the part of the parishioners. Last year, upwards of 1,000799l.Mr. Hindley
 observed that if it were the intention of the hon. Member to levy a general tax upon pews and seats for the maintenance and repairs of churches, he had no doubt that the course suggested by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, would be necessary, and that the House must first resolve itself into a Committee. But it appeared from the explanation which had just fallen from the hon. Member for Leicester, that it was his intention merely to give a power to the vestry in each particular parish, to levy a tax upon pews and seats for the maintenance of the parish church. In such a case it was unnecessary to proceed by a Committee of the whole House. For although the old rule of the House applied to all taxes, the practice of the House had of late years teen different, and the Highway Bill, Municipal Corporation Bill, Irish Poor-law Bill, and Scotch prisons Bill, had all been introduced without a previous Committee of the whole House, being considered bills imposing taxes of an entirely local nature. Under these circumstances, he considered that the bill might very properly be brought in by motion, and that it was not necessary for the House in the first instance to resolve itself into a Committee.The Speaker
 said, that it was the larger petition of which the hon. and gallant Member wished to hear the prayer read.The Speaker
: Certainly.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, he thought it would be but fair and satisfactory to that House and to the country, that the hon. Member who had presented these petitions should allow the prayer of the petition to be read to the House. He would, therefore move that that be done.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, he was entitled to ask why the prayer was not annexed to the petition, which was the usual mode, instead of having the prayer separate and distinct, as in the present instance.Colonel Sibthorp
 opposed the motion.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, that he treated the noble Lord's admonition as he did the whole of his public conduct, with the most utter contempt.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, he had not the least wish to throw any obstruction in the way of the reception of the petition. On the contrary, he was always anxious that the petitions of all classes of the people should be duly considered by that House. He wished the prayer of the petition to be read, because it was important; but after what had been said, he would do as his right hon. Friend suggested, and would give the House no further trouble on the subject.Colonel Sibthorp
794 was glad, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had intimated his intention not to oppose the introduction of this bill, because he thought that the House ought to be in full possession of the terms of the proposition which was made, before they came to any decision; and if the measure was allowed to reach a further step, they might be able more completely to comprehend those provisions, which at present, he confessed, he did not entirely understand. He meant to give no opinion whatever now as to the bill, or whether the proposition of the hon. Member for Leicester would meet the difficulty which it was intended to remedy. But of this he was sure, that nothing was more clear than the absolute necessity of introducing some measure by which the heartburnings of a great portion of the population of this empire might be removed. It was a subject upon which it was absolutely necessary that the existing discussions should be put an end to, and he thought, that it
794Mr. C. Wood
 entirely agreed, that a fresh committee should be appointed.Mr. Lucas
 said, that this subject was of great importance to Ireland. At present, the communication was not so expeditious and certain as it might be, and it was desirable, that the whole question should be considered by the committee. The great point was the selection of a port for the most direct communication between London and Dublin. He hoped some step might be taken to provide for a more quick and direct communication with the whole of Ireland.Mr. Shaw
761 who rose amid loud cries of "Divide," said, he thought the House having spent so many days in debates of less importance, might allow five minutes to any hon. Member who wished to state his opinion on this subject. It was admitted that in one case, whatever might
761Mr. Aglionby,
 said, that the operation of that act was limited to the particular parish, and it was either wholly private or partly private and partly public, and was thus under a different order: whereas the hon. Member's bill was for levying a general tax, which brought it under the ordinary rule of the House,Mr. Goulburn
 before the question was put, wished to make a suggestion upon a matter of form. The hon. Member, in the explanation of his measure, had been so short—he meant in the explanation, not the speech—that he did not exactly comprehend the measure which the hon. Member intended to propose. He looked, however, to the notice, and found that it was intended "to levy a tax on pews and seats for the maintenance of the churches," and if that were the object of the hon. Member's bill, he conceived that it came within the rule of the House, which required them to go into a Committee of the whole House, before they assented to its introduction. He would, therefore, ask the Speaker whether the present question could be put?Mr. Goulburn
 observed that a vast number of the Chartist prisoners had been treated in a way formerly unknown to the law. Political offenders only a few years since were never treated with so much severity. He called upon the Government therefore, to shorten the confinement of those who were now in prison.Mr. Warburton
755 could not allow a subject of such importance to the maintenance of peace among the community to pass without making some few observations. There was a feeling among the working classes that there was one law for the rich, and another for the poor. He must confess that his own opinion was of late there had been a great exhibition of partiality with respect to the treatment of parties who had committed offences, and at several meetings which he had attended lately the course which had been adopted with respect to Lord Cardigan and the Earl of Waldegrave, had been compared with that which had been adopted with respect to William Lovett. What, he would ask, was Lovett's offence? Why, he had written a political libel for which he was punished, but in doing so, he had committed no offence that affected his moral
755Mr. Leader
l. said, that he was one of those who had formed the majority in voting for the abolition of church-rates, in the year 1834, but he had voted in support of that proposition upon the distinct understanding, that some substitute for them should have been proposed. Viscount Althorp had proposed, that250,000l.Mr. Plumptre
 thought the present was not the time to discuss the conduct of the Chartists, but what they were to take into consideration was, whether, as had been urged by the hon. Member who had preceded him, the punishment of these unfortunate men had not been greatly disproportioned to their offence. He believed much of the severity exercised towards these men arose from the unfounded apprehensions which then filled the public minds, and which subsequent events had shown to be completely unfounded. He sincerely trusted that the Government would see the justice and expediency of re-considering the case of these men who still remained in confinement, and confer a boon upon the millions of that country by restoring them to liberty.Mr. Hume
16,130,00011,386,000
16,130,00011,386,0007,924,000852,000In Ireland, the exact proportion in 1834 was 1 to 9⅓
7,924,000852,000In Ireland, the exact proportion in 1834 was 1 to 9⅓1,056,0001,584,000In Scotland, as 5 to 3
1,056,0001,584,000In Scotland, as 5 to 37,150,0008,950,000In England, the Churchmen to Dissenters as 5 to 4
7,150,0008,950,000In England, the Churchmen to Dissenters as 5 to 4DISSBNTERS.CHURCHMEN.
DISSBNTERS.CHURCHMEN.
16,130,00011,386,000
16,130,00011,386,0007,924,000852,000In Ireland, the exact proportion in 1834 was 1 to 9⅓
7,924,000852,000In Ireland, the exact proportion in 1834 was 1 to 9⅓1,056,0001,584,000In Scotland, as 5 to 3
1,056,0001,584,000In Scotland, as 5 to 37,150,0008,950,000In England, the Churchmen to Dissenters as 5 to 4
7,150,0008,950,000In England, the Churchmen to Dissenters as 5 to 4DISSBNTERS.CHURCHMEN.
DISSBNTERS.CHURCHMEN.27,516,000
27,516,0008,776,000Ireland
8,776,000Ireland2,640,000Scotland
2,640,000Scotland16,100,000England, including the army and navy
16,100,000England, including the army and navy
27,516,000
27,516,0008,776,000Ireland
8,776,000Ireland2,640,000Scotland
2,640,000Scotland16,100,000England, including the army and navy
16,100,000England, including the army and navy791l.l.l.l.l.,790l.789Inglis: said, that it had not been his intention to address the House so early in the evening upon the subject, but that he felt himself called upon to rise, in consequence of the speech of the hon. Baronet, who had just sat down. With regard to the time at which this bill had been brought in, and the object with which it had been introduced, he could assure the hon. Baronet, that he was entirely in error in the statement which he had made. That this bill should be brought in was agreed upon as long ago as the month of December. The hon. Member for Leicester and he (Mr. Hume) had been at Leicester in that month, and a meeting was then held, at which he had attended with the hon. Member, and which, he must say, was the most numerous and the most enthusiastic meeting of dissenters at which he had ever been present. A request had then been made to the hon. Member for Leicester to bring in a bill early in the Session, and he had been honoured by his being requested to second the proposition, and there could be no allegation, therefore, more unfounded than that which had been made by the hon. Baronet; and he hoped, that the House would no longer believe, that the introduction of the measure was in anywise attributable to any anticipation of an election. He believed, that the opinion of the Government upon this question had never varied, and he should wish to know why the opinion of the hon. Baronet had been altered. He believed, that he was correct in stating, that the hon. Baronet had voted for the abolition of Church-rates in 1834. [Sir R. 16,130,00011,386,000
16,130,00011,386,0007,924,000852,000In Ireland, the exact proportion in 1834 was 1 to 9⅓
7,924,000852,000In Ireland, the exact proportion in 1834 was 1 to 9⅓1,056,0001,584,000In Scotland, as 5 to 3
1,056,0001,584,000In Scotland, as 5 to 37,150,0008,950,000In England, the Churchmen to Dissenters as 5 to 4
7,150,0008,950,000In England, the Churchmen to Dissenters as 5 to 4DISSBNTERS.CHURCHMEN.
DISSBNTERS.CHURCHMEN.
16,130,00011,386,000
16,130,00011,386,0007,924,000852,000In Ireland, the exact proportion in 1834 was 1 to 9⅓
7,924,000852,000In Ireland, the exact proportion in 1834 was 1 to 9⅓1,056,0001,584,000In Scotland, as 5 to 3
1,056,0001,584,000In Scotland, as 5 to 37,150,0008,950,000In England, the Churchmen to Dissenters as 5 to 4
7,150,0008,950,000In England, the Churchmen to Dissenters as 5 to 4DISSBNTERS.CHURCHMEN.
DISSBNTERS.CHURCHMEN.27,516,000
27,516,0008,776,000Ireland
8,776,000Ireland2,640,000Scotland
2,640,000Scotland16,100,000England, including the army and navy
16,100,000England, including the army and navy
27,516,000
27,516,0008,776,000Ireland
8,776,000Ireland2,640,000Scotland
2,640,000Scotland16,100,000England, including the army and navy
16,100,000England, including the army and navy791l.l.l.l.l.,790l.789Inglis:Mr. Hume
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the ratepayers of any parish or division of a parish, under certain circumstances, to make a School-rate of limited amount for the education of the children of the poorer classes. The great difficulty of educating the poorer classes had arisen from religious differences, and to obviate this difficulty, without attempting to introduce any larger general scheme, he proposed, that this bill should be entirely of a permissive character, and that it should apply to only rural districts; and in those rural districts where there were not persons properly qualified for, and willing to undertake the education of the poorer classes, he proposed, that, after notice, a vestry should be held, at which three-fourths or four-fifths of the parishioners should be empowered to make a rate for the purpose; and that the ratepayers should make their own regulations; but that if there were a few persons entertaining religious objections to the plan so agreed upon, they might go before a magistrate, and upon making an affidavit, stating those religious scruples, they should be excused from paying the rate.Mr. Slaney
798 felt it impossible to let the debate come to a conclusion without expressing his conviction, that the proposition of the hon. Member for Leicester, as far as he at present understood it, was one that must be productive of much inconvenience to the public, while it was far from being salutary to the Church. There was no intention on the part of his hon. Friends around him to resist the introduction of the measure, though he apprehended it must be manifest even to the hon. Member for Leicester himself, that it would not ultimately be agreed to by the House. He did not mean himself to oppose its introduction, but he could not allow the motion to pass without entering his protest against the principle of the measure, as explained by the hon. Member for Leicester, as he might otherwise be supposed to acquiesce in it. With reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, although the right hon. Gentleman denied, that church-rates were leviable upon real property only, yet his argument established the fact, that the impost was justly due and recoverable on the properly of individuals, the inhabitants of the parish. There was one other point to which he thought it necessary to advert. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had stated, that the number of dissenters in the United Kingdom was greater than that of the members of the Established Church. But the hon. Member had, in making his calculation, included the natives of Ireland
798Mr. Estcourt
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, humbly praying, that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into her merciful consideration the case of all persons confined in England and Wales, for political offences."749748" Clayton, who died in prison, complained once of a pain in his back, and staled, that he considered it was occasioned by the hard labour of the mill. He attempted to say something further to induce the visiting surgeon to remove him, when the governor's son, who was the superintendent of the prison, would not allow him to proceed. He had been in solitary confinement on a charge of violating the silent system. He died about six weeks after his complaining. He pleaded guilty in consequence of a promise held out to him, that he would be let out on his recognizances, but was afterwards sentenced to two years' imprisonment with hard labour."l."To T. S. Duncombe, Esq., M.P."" GEORGE HENRY SMITH." I am your most obedient servant,l.747" Sir—I am requested to send you an account of my sufferings, which occurred during my sad imprisonment for sedition. I am at this moment in the height of agony, being afflicted with pain in my limbs. It is, therefore, next to impossible for me to give a detailed account at this time. However, I will attend to this matter as soon as I am able. I hope, Sir, this will suffice at present, when I inform you that during the term of my imprisonment, the surgeon of the prison prescribed for me, which I took, twenty-three bottles of medicine besides pills and powders. I had also one blister on my neck, eight plasters on the small of my back, four on my knees, one on my breast. My sentence was eighteen months' confine-
l.747" Charles Street, Oxford Road, Manchester, "May" Charles Street, Oxford Road, Manchester, "May" T. S. Duucombe, Esq., M.P."" PETEH. HOEY."Your obedient servant," I have the honour to be,746" Sir—I beg to inform you, that I am one of those individuals who have been liberated from Wakefield twelve months before the time which was two years. My release took place owing to an ulcer on my leg, brought on by cruel discipline and bad diet, and I am compelled to say, much to my sorrow, that I am an invalid the remaining part of my life; I never had an hour's ill health before. Our
746 Barnsley, May" Barnsley, May745l." Mr. William Duff was on the 3rd of this month sentenced by the Court of Queen's Bench to six months' imprisonment and a fine of 20745l." May 25, 1841.744*****" He felt, that it was extremely unpleasant to oppose a motion of this description, and to endeavour to thwart the disposition of lenity which the House might feel towards any particular offender. Every Gentleman must wish to show mercy and forbearance,, as far as justice would permit; but the case in point was not one in which consistently with their duty, with the forms of Parliament, and with propriety they could interfere. Cases might exist, in which the House might in justice be called on to advise the Crown to interpose, and to exercise its prerogative of mercy, in the same way as they might offer advice with respect to any other prerogative; for the House had a right to advise the Crown on matters connected with all its prerogatives."*743 said, that the hon. and gallant Colonel had disavowed the intention of treating the petition with ridicule; but if the gallant Colonel had not done so, he would have said that he never saw a better imitation of an attempt to turn the petitions of the people into ridicule, and treat them with contempt. Whatever might be the fate of the motion with which he intended to conclude, he thought it would be admitted, that it would ill become him to present petitions signed by between 1,300,000 and 1,400,000 of the industrious classes, and to leave their allegations undiscussed and unheeded by those who called themselves the representatives of the people. For that reason, therefore, he would call the attention of the House to many, but not the whole of the contents of the petitions. He was well aware, he should be told that he was, on this occasion, trenching on the prerogative of the Crown; but there were cases in which the House of Commons had taken upon itself to advise the Crown as to the exercise of its prerogative. He could quote precedents on that point. He might remind the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, that in 1820 he moved an address to the Crown for the liberation of Sir Manasseh Lopez,
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, humbly praying, that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into her merciful consideration the case of all persons confined in England and Wales, for political offences."749748" Clayton, who died in prison, complained once of a pain in his back, and staled, that he considered it was occasioned by the hard labour of the mill. He attempted to say something further to induce the visiting surgeon to remove him, when the governor's son, who was the superintendent of the prison, would not allow him to proceed. He had been in solitary confinement on a charge of violating the silent system. He died about six weeks after his complaining. He pleaded guilty in consequence of a promise held out to him, that he would be let out on his recognizances, but was afterwards sentenced to two years' imprisonment with hard labour."l."To T. S. Duncombe, Esq., M.P."" GEORGE HENRY SMITH." I am your most obedient servant,l.747" Sir—I am requested to send you an account of my sufferings, which occurred during my sad imprisonment for sedition. I am at this moment in the height of agony, being afflicted with pain in my limbs. It is, therefore, next to impossible for me to give a detailed account at this time. However, I will attend to this matter as soon as I am able. I hope, Sir, this will suffice at present, when I inform you that during the term of my imprisonment, the surgeon of the prison prescribed for me, which I took, twenty-three bottles of medicine besides pills and powders. I had also one blister on my neck, eight plasters on the small of my back, four on my knees, one on my breast. My sentence was eighteen months' confine-
l.747" Charles Street, Oxford Road, Manchester, "May" Charles Street, Oxford Road, Manchester, "May" T. S. Duucombe, Esq., M.P."" PETEH. HOEY."Your obedient servant," I have the honour to be,746" Sir—I beg to inform you, that I am one of those individuals who have been liberated from Wakefield twelve months before the time which was two years. My release took place owing to an ulcer on my leg, brought on by cruel discipline and bad diet, and I am compelled to say, much to my sorrow, that I am an invalid the remaining part of my life; I never had an hour's ill health before. Our
746 Barnsley, May" Barnsley, May745l." Mr. William Duff was on the 3rd of this month sentenced by the Court of Queen's Bench to six months' imprisonment and a fine of 20745l." May 25, 1841.744*****" He felt, that it was extremely unpleasant to oppose a motion of this description, and to endeavour to thwart the disposition of lenity which the House might feel towards any particular offender. Every Gentleman must wish to show mercy and forbearance,, as far as justice would permit; but the case in point was not one in which consistently with their duty, with the forms of Parliament, and with propriety they could interfere. Cases might exist, in which the House might in justice be called on to advise the Crown to interpose, and to exercise its prerogative of mercy, in the same way as they might offer advice with respect to any other prerogative; for the House had a right to advise the Crown on matters connected with all its prerogatives."*743Mr. T. Duncombe
 in reply, said, that if the noble Lord had imputed to him that the motion was brought forward for election purposes, he could have readily removed that impression by assuring him and the House that this petition was in circulation and receiving signatures between two and three months ago. His object was to prevail upon the House to address her Majesty to discharge all persons committed for political offences at home; he therefore had a right to complain of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State for mixing up Frost's case and the other cases where the parties had been transported with the present motion. In reply to the appeal which the hon. Member for Sheffield had made to him not to press the motion to a division, he believed, that he should be betraying his duty to those whom he represented on this occasion, if he did not call for an expression of the opinion of the House. He had brought the motion forward in no hostile spirit against the Government, or the hon. Gentleman on the opposition side of the House. He only wished, that the House could be unanimous upon the subject, and would declare that the case of these individuals should be considered with a view to their discharge. He should then be too happy to withdraw his motion; but as he had no assurance of that act of amnesty, which was so much wished by thousands of their countrymen, being granted, unless an address were carried to the Throne he felt bound to go to a division.Mr. Thomas Duncombe
 said, that if the hon. and gallant Member would take the trouble of unrolling the petition, he would find, that the prayer which had been read was a fac-simile of that attached to the petition. The petition which he (Mr. T. Duncombe) now presented came from the female operatives of England, Scotland, and Wales.Mr. T. Duncombe
741" That your hon. House will be graciously pleased to present another humble address, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to grant a free pardon to J. Frost, Z. Williams, and W. Jones, now suffering the penalties of expatriation in a penal settlement."" Your petitioners therefore pray, that your hon. House will permit a humble address to her Majesty, praying that she may be graciously pleased to give immediate directions for the liberation of all prisoners now confined in the several gaols of Great Britain for political offences." said, as the principal object sought by the numerous petitions he had to present would be fully detailed in his address on the motion on the paper, he thought he would best consult the feeling of the House by merely asking the House to receive the petitions, and stating the numbers by which they were signed. The large petition was signed by rather more than 1,300,000 of the industrious classes. The others were signed by—from Manchester, 9,997; Newport, 5,300; Chorley, Stockton, Congleton, Gatehouse, Cardiff, Holt, Montrose, Newcastle, Dublin, Norfolk, Chester, Derby, Ripon, Northampton, and twenty-three places in the neighbourhood of London. These were signed by 48,884, making, in all, the signatures 1,348,848. The first prayer of these petitions was this: —
741" That your hon. House will be graciously pleased to present another humble address, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to grant a free pardon to J. Frost, Z. Williams, and W. Jones, now suffering the penalties of expatriation in a penal settlement."" Your petitioners therefore pray, that your hon. House will permit a humble address to her Majesty, praying that she may be graciously pleased to give immediate directions for the liberation of all prisoners now confined in the several gaols of Great Britain for political offences."Mr. T. Duncombe
757 said, that as political offenders had within the last three or four years been treated in an almost unprecedented manner, he thought the Government might fairly exercise the leniency desired by the petitioners. He wondered much at the silence of Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House in this discussion, knowing well that one favourable word from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth would be of immense importance towards the alteration of the sufferings of those men who had been imprisoned without ever having intended any violation of the laws of the
757Mr. Wakley
756 denied that the petition had been received with levity by the Members of that House. He believed there were many who would object to go to the whole extent of the demands made in that petition; but it would be most unfair to suppose that the Members of that House were indifferent to the prayers of 1,500,000 of their fellow subjects. It appeared to him that the people having been shown that they could not recklessly set the law at defiance, some mitigation of the punishment of these men might now take place. He thought another reason for agreeing to the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury, was, the great disproportion of the punishment to the offence. It was a sufficient justification of the assertion that was made in many quarters, that there was one measure of justice meted out to the Peer, and another to the poor man; and he could not help referring to the case
756Mr. Gillon
 defended the votes taken on the question of making a church-rate as being legal, and also the character of the counter-petition which had been presented from Brighton. With regard to the public agitation upon the subject of church-rates, he confessed that he had heard great complaints, that her Majesty's Government had not carried the measure which Lord Grey's Administration proposed in 1834 for settling the question of church-rates.Sir A. Dalrymple
 wished to say a few words in reference to the state of those districts in Wales in which the recent disturbances occurred. He was called on at the time to take an active part in quelling those disturbances; and, being intimately acquainted with the country, he must say he had never known it so tranquil and quiet as it was at the present moment. He must also say, that notwithstanding the present reduction of wages, the stagnation of business, and the depressed state of the iron trade, there was not the least agitation among the working people; and he thought the period had arrived when a merciful consideration ought to be bestowed to poor persons confined in England and Wales. The hon. Under-Secretary of State had admitted that the whole country was in a state of tranquillity, and as he could conceive no more auspicious time, he hoped the House would support the motion. He was glad to say that parties out of doors would have the satisfaction of knowing that no expression of opinion against the merciful consideration of these persons had been given in that House.Sir B. Hall
 said, he thought it an additional reason in favour of this motion, that the only two Members of that House who had expressed an opinion against it, the hon. Under-Secretary for the Home Department, and the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), had not addressed themselves to the merits of the case, but had entirely defended the course they took on some rather fine-drawn doctrines of constitutional law. He would again draw their attention to the fact that this petition was signed by upwards of a million of their fellow-subjects, and of that class who were not represented in that House. They did not come forward praying for an extension of privileges for themselves, but merely to solicit the alleviation of the punishment of those misguided persons who still remain in the prisons of this country for political offences. Under these circumstances, he trusted that the Government would take a favourable view of their case.Sir De Lacy Evans
 said, that he should make no objection to the appointment of the committee; but it was under the consideration of the Government to decide how far they should give up the Milford communication. It seemed to be thought, that if Milford lost it, Bristol must get it; but that was not so clear: for it was very doubtful whether it might not be convenient to drop the southern line of communication, and take that by Holyhead, or Liverpool. He preferred, that this should be a fresh committee; he wished the question to be looked into fairly; and the question of the communication between Greenock and Belfast should also be considered by the committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, had spoken of the cessation of the agitation upon church-rates in the country. He should not do his duty to his constituents or to the public meeting from which that petition had emanated, which that very evening he had presented to the House, if he did not state, that there was no ground for such a proposition. That petition was signed by 4,400 persons. The hon. Baronet had spoken of the majority of persons in the town which he had the honour to represent being in favour of church-rates. But how did that appear? Because the votes upon the question of a rate being made, had been taken under Sturges Bourne's act, and the clergy had brought up ladies and infirm persons to the poll in order to do all they could to secure a majority. He congratulated the hon. Gentlemen opposite on having withdrawn their opposition to the motion of the hon. Member for Leicester.Captain Pechell
 begged his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury to reflect on the nature of the motion, and not to press the House under the circumstances, to a division. His hon. Friend had seen the imputations to which the motion gave rise; they were told it was not a motion honestly brought forward, but had reference to questions out of doors. The best answer, however, to that imputation, into which he was sorry to find that the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool had fallen, was, that the petition had been in preparation for many months, and that it had emanated at a time when no one entertained the remotest idea of a dissolution. His opinion was, that if his hon. Friend had been desirous of submitting his motion to the House at the moment most embarrassing to Ministers he would have chosen the present, because it was impossible for any Government, whatever their feelings might be, to concur in it without exposing themselves to the imputation of taking such a course for the purpose of gaining popularity out of doors. Let them discard those unworthy considerations, and look solely to the merits of the case; and on that subject he should say he differed entirely from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, because he did think there were circumstances in case which not only warranted, but in the some degree called for the interference of the House. Political crimes were very undefined in their nature; and although he did not censure either the Judges, the Juries, or the Government under whom the late prosecutions had taken place, he did feel that some of those political offenders had been treated with great severity. He admitted, however, that in other instances the grievous nature of the crime committed merited the severest punishment. There could be no doubt, too, but it was necessary at the time these prosecutions had been begun, to take strong measures for the peace of the community. Still he was persuaded, that many of those parties now in confinement had more than expiated the offences they had committed. He was at the same time of opinion, that after the explanations which had been given by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, his hon. Friend might injure his own cause by proceeding to a division.Mr. Ward
782d.s.s.d.s.d.s.l.d.s.l.s."It will be observed in the above cases that the charges allowed by the justices to the constable, much exceed the limit of the act of William and Mary (the 4th) to 10d.s.s.d.s.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.781d.s.ds.d.s.d.s.sd.s.sd.ss.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.sd.sd.s."To Thomas Walton, Mayor of Pontefract: The bearer of tills petition, my Friend, Thomas Thwaite, requests thy interference in the case of Ann Tatham, she having last year suffered on account of church-rates amounting to only 1d.s.sd.s.sd.ss.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.sd.sd.s.780" Sir—In consequence of what passed in the House of Commons during the debate on your motion respecting Mr. Baines, I take the liberty of sending you the following case, in confirmation of your statement, that ' dissenters are not alone in their feelings respecting the impost of church-rates.' In this parish (Bury Pomeroy, Devonshire) there is not a single dissenting chapel, but as the Church will not hold half the population, and is some distance from the most populous part of the parish, a chapel of ease has been built, the congregation of which pay largely for their pews; yet they are also asked to pay to a church-rate for the minor expenses of the parish church. But about a year since the vestry refused a church-rate by a majority of three to one—no dissenter being present. Many of those composing the congregation in the parish church joined those who support the chapel of ease in opposing the rate, on the grounds that it was unjust to ask those supporting the chapel of ease to pay the minor expenses of the parish church, where they had not seals, when, by putting a small pew rate on the seats in the parish church, they might do away with a church-rate entirely."779F. BONE.""Your most obliged humble Servant," I have the honour to be, Sir,"Sir—Observing by the public papers that you are about to propose the abolition of Church-rates—permit me to enclose, for your information, a statement made two years back of our church affairs; and since that time, by the same means, we have new-roofed the church, and made many useful repairs and improvements. The parish of Charles in this town, Tavistock, Stoke near Devonport, are following our plan of a pew-rental." This letter is at your service, to use in any way you please.""P. S. As I am a stranger, I beg to add that I am not altogether unknown by the county and city members of Cumberland and Carlisle. "J. L."J. Easthope, Esq."J. LOWRY." I am, Sir, yours, faithfully,778" Sir—Observing that your motion for the alteration of the present mode of providing for the repair of the fabric of churches is fixed for the 18th, I beg leave to make a very few remarks upon this subject. I can assure you, that the fact is, that in many parishes in this and the neighbouring county of Westmoreland, Church-rates, as rates, have virtually ceased and determined. In this parish I endeavoured to have a rate made, but no rate
778777776" But there is no ground for saying that the authority of churchwardens in making a rate goes farther than this—that if a vestry is regularly called to make a rate, and none except the churchwardens attend, the churchwardens then constituting the vestry may make a rate; as I conceive that they might do any other act competent to the vestry, of which they are members. Lord Holt is said to have been of opinion, ' that if there be public notice given to the parishioners, and they will not come, the churchwardens may make a rate without
776" I may boldly ask, if this were law, would it not have been acted upon in some one of the many instances in which church-rates have been refused of late years? The civilians, and the common lawyers, and equity lawyers, who have been consulted about the mode of dealing with an obstinate vestry, while they have suggested the possibility of succeeding by mandamus or monition, or bill in equity, appear never to have thought of the plain, straightforward course of the churchwardens making a rate by their own authority. Let it not be supposed that this has been prevented by that which, were there such a power upon a refusal by the vestry, would be a shallow device—an adjournment for a twelvemonth. Such an adjournment, or any adjournment with the intention of refusing, is the refusal of a rate and would clearly admit the churchwardens to the exercise of any power which a re fusal confers upon them."775No, no774773l.772***l.to prove prejudicial, not only to the peace of particular parishes, but to the general interests of religion. It was, indeed, said by his hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford, that the resistance to the payment of rates was confined to forty or fifty parishes; but could any one doubt that the same spirit, when inflamed both by religious animosity and personal pecuniary interest, would progressively spread itself to a much more formidable extent? Another motive for altering or, at least, regulating the mode of imposing these payments, arose from the abuses which had notoriously grown up, and the improper charges which had been included to swell out their amount. For instance, the parish of Christ-church, Surrey, had been in the habit of voting an augmentation to the income of the minister out of the Church-rates, to the amount of 400*l.771**"He agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) in thinking that the disputes which had arisen on the subject of Church-rates, in different vestries, were likely, if allowed to continue,***which so much pressed for an immediate practical settlement as this of Church-rates, ***770****" He would not attempt to gain popularity at the expense of the noble Lord, by concealing what he had himself intended to do; and therefore he now declared that, although in the course of the present Session he should have attempted, had he remained in office, to effect an immediate settlement of Church-rates, yet it was his intention to adopt the principle of the noble Lord—to extinguish all equivocal and objectional charges, but to provide for the repair of the fabric of the Church out of the general revenue of the country, by an annual provision, to the extent, and for the objects contemplated by the noble Lord. It was right that the noble Lord should have the benefit of this declaration. **about church-rates at each succeeding Easter?"769**" He was perfectly ready to admit such maintenance of an establish church ought to be conducted upon principles and in a manner the least irritating and offensive to other parties, both as respected the amount and the mode of collection. He was equally ready to acknowledge that church-rates, as they stood, formed to the dissenters a serious and substantial grievance. … His hon. Friend had said (and he appeared to attach considerable importance to the statement), that it was only in fifty or sixty parishes that anything like successful opposition had been offered to the levying of church-rates; but his hon. Friend had not stated in how many instances opposition had been put down for a time in order to be renewed at a future opportunity, should no proposition be brought forward by the executive, and submitted to Parliament for the relief of Dissenters, and all parties upon whom that burthen might unjustly press. His hon. Friend forgot to tell them how many hundred parishes there were waiting to follow the example of those which had successfully resisted, should the decision of the Legislature give them no hope of relief. He would ask his hon. Friend what would have been the spirit of disappointment, the effusion of bitterness, with which the news would have been received throughout the parishes of England, if the payers of church-rates were to be told that Parliament, acting under the advice of his noble Friend, had not only determined to adopt no remedy, but were resolved to uphold the original form of church-rates to their full amount, with all that was vexatious and oppressive in their mode of collection, or unnecessary in their amount? Did his hon. Friend think, that the best mode of advancing the true interests of the church was by maintaining every one of its abuses? Did any man suppose that those interests were to be promoted by a profanation of the church itself year after year—by a desecration of the house of God by a squabble*768"He considered that the dissenters were perfectly justified in bringing forward the detail of their grievances at this particular juncture, on this particular point, inasmuch as he thought that there was a great difference, in point of principle, between the payment by dissenters of tithes and church-rates. Church-rate was a tax laid on at the discretion of others, as far as regarded its amount; and the dissenters who were compelled to pay it, felt that they were compelled to pay for the administration of worship under a system they did not approve. For this reason, in his opinion, the dissenters had a right to complain of it; and he thought, further, that the Legislature was bound so far to relieve them. But while the system of church-rates, as the law stood at present, was grievous to dissenters, it could not be in any way satisfactory to the members of the establishment. The payment of church-rates had been refused in different parishes,
*768767766 after presenting petitions praying for the abolition of Church-rates from a number of places, proceeded to address the House on the motion of which he had given notice, for leave to bring in a bill
782d.s.s.d.s.d.s.l.d.s.l.s."It will be observed in the above cases that the charges allowed by the justices to the constable, much exceed the limit of the act of William and Mary (the 4th) to 10d.s.s.d.s.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.781d.s.ds.d.s.d.s.sd.s.sd.ss.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.sd.sd.s."To Thomas Walton, Mayor of Pontefract: The bearer of tills petition, my Friend, Thomas Thwaite, requests thy interference in the case of Ann Tatham, she having last year suffered on account of church-rates amounting to only 1d.s.sd.s.sd.ss.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.sd.sd.s.780" Sir—In consequence of what passed in the House of Commons during the debate on your motion respecting Mr. Baines, I take the liberty of sending you the following case, in confirmation of your statement, that ' dissenters are not alone in their feelings respecting the impost of church-rates.' In this parish (Bury Pomeroy, Devonshire) there is not a single dissenting chapel, but as the Church will not hold half the population, and is some distance from the most populous part of the parish, a chapel of ease has been built, the congregation of which pay largely for their pews; yet they are also asked to pay to a church-rate for the minor expenses of the parish church. But about a year since the vestry refused a church-rate by a majority of three to one—no dissenter being present. Many of those composing the congregation in the parish church joined those who support the chapel of ease in opposing the rate, on the grounds that it was unjust to ask those supporting the chapel of ease to pay the minor expenses of the parish church, where they had not seals, when, by putting a small pew rate on the seats in the parish church, they might do away with a church-rate entirely."779F. BONE.""Your most obliged humble Servant," I have the honour to be, Sir,"Sir—Observing by the public papers that you are about to propose the abolition of Church-rates—permit me to enclose, for your information, a statement made two years back of our church affairs; and since that time, by the same means, we have new-roofed the church, and made many useful repairs and improvements. The parish of Charles in this town, Tavistock, Stoke near Devonport, are following our plan of a pew-rental." This letter is at your service, to use in any way you please.""P. S. As I am a stranger, I beg to add that I am not altogether unknown by the county and city members of Cumberland and Carlisle. "J. L."J. Easthope, Esq."J. LOWRY." I am, Sir, yours, faithfully,778" Sir—Observing that your motion for the alteration of the present mode of providing for the repair of the fabric of churches is fixed for the 18th, I beg leave to make a very few remarks upon this subject. I can assure you, that the fact is, that in many parishes in this and the neighbouring county of Westmoreland, Church-rates, as rates, have virtually ceased and determined. In this parish I endeavoured to have a rate made, but no rate
778777776" But there is no ground for saying that the authority of churchwardens in making a rate goes farther than this—that if a vestry is regularly called to make a rate, and none except the churchwardens attend, the churchwardens then constituting the vestry may make a rate; as I conceive that they might do any other act competent to the vestry, of which they are members. Lord Holt is said to have been of opinion, ' that if there be public notice given to the parishioners, and they will not come, the churchwardens may make a rate without
776" I may boldly ask, if this were law, would it not have been acted upon in some one of the many instances in which church-rates have been refused of late years? The civilians, and the common lawyers, and equity lawyers, who have been consulted about the mode of dealing with an obstinate vestry, while they have suggested the possibility of succeeding by mandamus or monition, or bill in equity, appear never to have thought of the plain, straightforward course of the churchwardens making a rate by their own authority. Let it not be supposed that this has been prevented by that which, were there such a power upon a refusal by the vestry, would be a shallow device—an adjournment for a twelvemonth. Such an adjournment, or any adjournment with the intention of refusing, is the refusal of a rate and would clearly admit the churchwardens to the exercise of any power which a re fusal confers upon them."775No, no774773l.772***l.to prove prejudicial, not only to the peace of particular parishes, but to the general interests of religion. It was, indeed, said by his hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford, that the resistance to the payment of rates was confined to forty or fifty parishes; but could any one doubt that the same spirit, when inflamed both by religious animosity and personal pecuniary interest, would progressively spread itself to a much more formidable extent? Another motive for altering or, at least, regulating the mode of imposing these payments, arose from the abuses which had notoriously grown up, and the improper charges which had been included to swell out their amount. For instance, the parish of Christ-church, Surrey, had been in the habit of voting an augmentation to the income of the minister out of the Church-rates, to the amount of 400*l.771**"He agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) in thinking that the disputes which had arisen on the subject of Church-rates, in different vestries, were likely, if allowed to continue,***which so much pressed for an immediate practical settlement as this of Church-rates, ***770****" He would not attempt to gain popularity at the expense of the noble Lord, by concealing what he had himself intended to do; and therefore he now declared that, although in the course of the present Session he should have attempted, had he remained in office, to effect an immediate settlement of Church-rates, yet it was his intention to adopt the principle of the noble Lord—to extinguish all equivocal and objectional charges, but to provide for the repair of the fabric of the Church out of the general revenue of the country, by an annual provision, to the extent, and for the objects contemplated by the noble Lord. It was right that the noble Lord should have the benefit of this declaration. **about church-rates at each succeeding Easter?"769**" He was perfectly ready to admit such maintenance of an establish church ought to be conducted upon principles and in a manner the least irritating and offensive to other parties, both as respected the amount and the mode of collection. He was equally ready to acknowledge that church-rates, as they stood, formed to the dissenters a serious and substantial grievance. … His hon. Friend had said (and he appeared to attach considerable importance to the statement), that it was only in fifty or sixty parishes that anything like successful opposition had been offered to the levying of church-rates; but his hon. Friend had not stated in how many instances opposition had been put down for a time in order to be renewed at a future opportunity, should no proposition be brought forward by the executive, and submitted to Parliament for the relief of Dissenters, and all parties upon whom that burthen might unjustly press. His hon. Friend forgot to tell them how many hundred parishes there were waiting to follow the example of those which had successfully resisted, should the decision of the Legislature give them no hope of relief. He would ask his hon. Friend what would have been the spirit of disappointment, the effusion of bitterness, with which the news would have been received throughout the parishes of England, if the payers of church-rates were to be told that Parliament, acting under the advice of his noble Friend, had not only determined to adopt no remedy, but were resolved to uphold the original form of church-rates to their full amount, with all that was vexatious and oppressive in their mode of collection, or unnecessary in their amount? Did his hon. Friend think, that the best mode of advancing the true interests of the church was by maintaining every one of its abuses? Did any man suppose that those interests were to be promoted by a profanation of the church itself year after year—by a desecration of the house of God by a squabble*768"He considered that the dissenters were perfectly justified in bringing forward the detail of their grievances at this particular juncture, on this particular point, inasmuch as he thought that there was a great difference, in point of principle, between the payment by dissenters of tithes and church-rates. Church-rate was a tax laid on at the discretion of others, as far as regarded its amount; and the dissenters who were compelled to pay it, felt that they were compelled to pay for the administration of worship under a system they did not approve. For this reason, in his opinion, the dissenters had a right to complain of it; and he thought, further, that the Legislature was bound so far to relieve them. But while the system of church-rates, as the law stood at present, was grievous to dissenters, it could not be in any way satisfactory to the members of the establishment. The payment of church-rates had been refused in different parishes,
*768767766Mr. Easthope
" An act to equalise the ecclesiastical burdens in the parish of St. Mary, Islington, in the county of Middlesex; for partially altering the rents and profits of the Stone Fields estate, within the said parish Church of St. Mary, Islington, and the Chapel of ease thereto, and for other purposes connected therewith." hoped that the objection of the right hon. Gentleman would not be found available. In his bill he had followed the precedent of other acts of Parliament, that had passed that House—he held one in his hand, and there were others to which, as he thought, no such rule had been applied. The act which he had, was the 2nd William 4th., c. 26, and was entitled
" An act to equalise the ecclesiastical burdens in the parish of St. Mary, Islington, in the county of Middlesex; for partially altering the rents and profits of the Stone Fields estate, within the said parish Church of St. Mary, Islington, and the Chapel of ease thereto, and for other purposes connected therewith."Mr. Easthope
 might be permitted to state, that he did not intend by his bill to make taxation imperative in every case, but only to give persons duly assembled in vestry, if they should think fit, a power to levy a tax on the pews and seats of their respective churches.Mr. Easthope
 could not give a silent vote on this question. He perfectly agreed in the general principle laid down by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, but he thought that this was a case in which the House might digress from the usual rule, and for that reason he would vote for the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury. Some of the inhabitants of the town which he had the honour to represent had presented a petition to the House, in which they expressed their desire that one of those offenders should become a candidate to represent that town in Parliament; and as he was particularly desirous that nothing should interfere with the expression of their opinions, he had great pleasure in supporting the motion of his hon. Friend.Mr. Easthope
 in reply, could not forbear remarking, that in what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, in his opposition to this motion, he had not been very accurate in his description of the substitute which he (Mr. Easthope) had proposed in lieu of church-rates. He had stated distinctly, he hoped, so as to be clear to the apprehension of the House, that he proposed, that members of the Established Church should have the power of taxing themselves, as to their pews and seats, for the maintenance and repair of the churches, and nothing that he had said, could involve the consequence that the seats of the poor would be taxed.Mr. Easthope,
 had reason to believe, that the hon. and gallant Member had abandoned the intention of pressing for the reading of the prayer of the petition before the right hon. Baronet (the Member for Tamworth) spoke. It certainly was irregular not to have the prayer of a petition exactly stated, and any Member of the House might require that to be done without intending to cast the slightest reflection on those who had signed it, or meaning to interpose the least impediment in the way of its reception,Sir R. Inglis
788Easthope:No, no! 787panacea786785 observed, that a fortnight ago the noble Lord, the Secretary of the Colonies, had said, that if the present motion were not likely to give rise to any discussion, he would not object to its being pressed at that time; but the noble Lord went further, and he stated with a full recollection of what he said on former occasions, that if the bill of the hon. Member for Leicester simply abrogated Church-rates, he would not assent to its introduction, but as he understood that
788Easthope:No, no! 787panacea786785Sir R. H. Inglis
759758 did not think that the hon. Member had any right to complain of his silence on this or on any other question. He did not think that he could be charged with evading the difficulties of any subject brought before the House, and he felt that he owed them an apology rather for the frequency with which he expressed his opinion than for remaining silent. On all questions he had never withheld his opinions from the House, and on the present occasion, he would not follow the course of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, nor put such a shallow construction on the motion as he had done.
759758Sir R. Peel
 said, that he understood the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) had stated, that the prayer of the petition which he held in his hand was identical with that attached to the large petition on the Table, and there was, therefore, an opportunity of learning its substance; there would be, moreover, great difficulty in unrolling the latter petition on account of its great size. Under those circumstances, he trusted his hon. and gallant Friend would withdraw his motion.Sir R. Peel
784 merely rose to state, that it was not his intention upon that occasion to raise any obstacle on the part of the Government to the introduction of the bill of his hon. Friend. The principle to which her Majesty's Government were not prepared to give their acquiescence was, to leave the matter to chance or option whether the fabrics of the churches should be preserved or not. That certainly was a matter of principle from which her Majesty's Government were not prepared to recede. At the same time he was quite alive to the objections which existed against the present system, and which had been detailed with great perspecuity by his hon. Friend, the Member for Leicester, to which no one was more alive than himself. He did not, of course, al-
784Viscount Morpeth
764 disclaimed throwing
764Viscount Sandon
: Although he represented a large constituency, consisting in no small degree of the working classes in the same sphere of life as these political offenders, yet he felt bound to vote against the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbuty. He could not consider the objections taken by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth as mere matter of official etiquette. He thought it would be dangerous for the House to interfere with the prerogative of the Crown, and he could not depart from a great constitutional principle, however much he felt for the situation of these misled individuals, who, in his opinion, had been more sinned against, than sinning. However much they had been led into agitation by persons who had since deserted them, he could not consent to go beyond the principles of the constitution, which separated the authority of the House of Commons from the prerogative of the Crown.Viscount Sandon
859" There was not a promise which had not been falsified—that shuffling and trickery pervaded the whole conduct of the cabinet, and that it was impossible for Parliament to place confidence in such a ministry."858857 began by applauding the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth, for the course of his political conduct. Placed in an age of rapid civilisation and rapid transition, he had adapted the practical character of his measures to the condition of the times. When in power, he had never proposed a change which he did not carry, and when in opposition; he never forgot that he was at the head of the Conservative party. He had never employed his influence for factious purposes, and bad never been stimulated in his exertions by a disordered desire of obtaining office; above all, he had never carried himself to the opposite benches by making propositions by which he was not ready to abide. Whether in or out of office, the right hon. Baronet had done his best to make the settlement of the new constitution of England work for the benefit of the present time and of posterity. He would advert to what had been said of the distinction between constitutional and official questions; in the former facts were open to all, and every man qualified by his studies to fill the station of a gentleman, would be just as well able to decide whether a Roman Catholic ought to be admitted to power as a Member of the Privy Council, or a Cabinet Minister. The case, however, was very different on questions of finance, for no man unacquainted with the secrets of office could be fully informed as to the resources of the country. Nor was what had been said, by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. C. Hobhouse), respecting the reign of Sir Robert Walpole, more felicitous. He had recently visited the library of the house, and had informed himself of the facts of the history of the time. Sir Robert Walpole, though a Whig, was one of the ablest Ministers this country had ever known, and his followers might derive instruction from contemplating his
859" There was not a promise which had not been falsified—that shuffling and trickery pervaded the whole conduct of the cabinet, and that it was impossible for Parliament to place confidence in such a ministry."858857Mr. D'Israeli
 was understood to explain, that his principles, at this moment, were exactly the same as when he was formerly a candidate at High Wycomb, and carried down with him letters of recommendation from Mr. O'Connell and Mr. Hume.Mr. D' Israeli
877876875" The misfortune of the agriculturists was, not that too little, but that too much waste land had been cultivated—a misfortune (be it observed he called it a misfortune) which had arisen out of the high price of corn during the war. He positively knew that this was the source of the mischief, and that it had led to the breaking up of several waste lands, which bad previously been used at a small price for several useful purposes. More than one half of the individuals who had given their attention to this subject were of opinion, that if the capital which had been expended on the new land had been expended upon the old, it would have produced a much greater advantage to the community at large. Ha himself thought that if they were to proceed to cultivate more waste land, they would double, treble, quadruple, nay, quintuple all the present agricultural distress." he believed, had never regarded the present arrangement as a final measure. There was another authority also, which showed very justly from what cause much of the evil of which agriculturists complained originally sprung. Lord Liverpool said, in May, 1820 —
877876875" The misfortune of the agriculturists was, not that too little, but that too much waste land had been cultivated—a misfortune (be it observed he called it a misfortune) which had arisen out of the high price of corn during the war. He positively knew that this was the source of the mischief, and that it had led to the breaking up of several waste lands, which bad previously been used at a small price for several useful purposes. More than one half of the individuals who had given their attention to this subject were of opinion, that if the capital which had been expended on the new land had been expended upon the old, it would have produced a much greater advantage to the community at large. Ha himself thought that if they were to proceed to cultivate more waste land, they would double, treble, quadruple, nay, quintuple all the present agricultural distress."Mr. Huskisson
 said, as it was clear, from the intimations of the Government, that there would be no chance of bringing forward his bill relative to Irish registration during the present Session, he should move that the Order be discharged.Lord Stanley
833"There may be points on which the House of Commons may come to a different conclusion from that of the Government; it may do so on an abstract question, and that a question of great importance, but still such as to admit of postponement; and there may be cases where it would be possible for a Government, even in opposition to the House of Commons, to conduct the administration of public affairs; but you cannot leave the Tithe question in its present state."832831" It would be difficult to conceive the existence of any Government, however perfect in its general policy, which should not make some errors, or adopt some individual course of policy which the House of Commons could not justify or approve of, if appealed to for its opinion; and then this evil would result to the country from our coming to a vote of partial approbation or condemnation, that we should leave the public in utter doubt and ignorance whether the House of Commons approved or not of the general conduct and policy of the Government."830829 trusted that the House— considering the position in which he stood, having so lately felt it his duty to oppose the Government—woiddindulgehim whilst he made a few observations in reference to the speech just delivered by the right hon.
833"There may be points on which the House of Commons may come to a different conclusion from that of the Government; it may do so on an abstract question, and that a question of great importance, but still such as to admit of postponement; and there may be cases where it would be possible for a Government, even in opposition to the House of Commons, to conduct the administration of public affairs; but you cannot leave the Tithe question in its present state."832831" It would be difficult to conceive the existence of any Government, however perfect in its general policy, which should not make some errors, or adopt some individual course of policy which the House of Commons could not justify or approve of, if appealed to for its opinion; and then this evil would result to the country from our coming to a vote of partial approbation or condemnation, that we should leave the public in utter doubt and ignorance whether the House of Commons approved or not of the general conduct and policy of the Government."830829Lord Worsley
836" Although the meeting is called solely with regard to the Ministerial proposal for a fixed duty on foreign corn, and I might say that it would be out of the regular course of proceeding, to go into a question of politics, yet as I have always, since I have been your representative, acted towards you fairly and openly, and independently, so on the present occasion, I will do, and I can have no objection to answer the question of Mr. Brailsford. There must be many questions on which I think in the same manner as the present Government; it was difficult for me to withdraw my confidence from a Government which I had supported for ten years; but when I found them acting wrongly on the question of the Corn-laws, I was compelled to withdraw my support, because I thought there was no necessity whatever for the measure to be brought forward. I did not class together all the three subjects proposed; I opposed them on the sugar duties, because I found it stated, that a greater quantity of sugar was likely to be brought in next year, the production of our own colonies, by 60,000 tons, than our consumption; but it was on making the Corn-laws a question of taxation for the Budget that I withdrew my support. But having done so, in what Government am I to place reliance? The effect of our votes has been to create the probability of a transfer of power from those with whom we have usually acted. But do not let me from that circumstance mislead you into the belief, that I could place unlimited confidence in Sir Robert Peel. This would be acting a most inconsistent part. I have been opposed to very much of his policy; and if I were to turn round and join him, they
836 though somewhat irregular, begged the indulgence of the House, while he explained what he had stated at the meeting alluded to by the hon. Member who had just sat down. On that occasion one of his constituents asked him the question whether he was willing to originate a motion himself, or would support one made by any other Member for a vote of want of confidence in Ministers? He would read the answer which he gave to that question. He said:—
836" Although the meeting is called solely with regard to the Ministerial proposal for a fixed duty on foreign corn, and I might say that it would be out of the regular course of proceeding, to go into a question of politics, yet as I have always, since I have been your representative, acted towards you fairly and openly, and independently, so on the present occasion, I will do, and I can have no objection to answer the question of Mr. Brailsford. There must be many questions on which I think in the same manner as the present Government; it was difficult for me to withdraw my confidence from a Government which I had supported for ten years; but when I found them acting wrongly on the question of the Corn-laws, I was compelled to withdraw my support, because I thought there was no necessity whatever for the measure to be brought forward. I did not class together all the three subjects proposed; I opposed them on the sugar duties, because I found it stated, that a greater quantity of sugar was likely to be brought in next year, the production of our own colonies, by 60,000 tons, than our consumption; but it was on making the Corn-laws a question of taxation for the Budget that I withdrew my support. But having done so, in what Government am I to place reliance? The effect of our votes has been to create the probability of a transfer of power from those with whom we have usually acted. But do not let me from that circumstance mislead you into the belief, that I could place unlimited confidence in Sir Robert Peel. This would be acting a most inconsistent part. I have been opposed to very much of his policy; and if I were to turn round and join him, they
836Lord Worsley,
" So convinced am I of the value of the shipping interests, with reference to the safety of this great empire, that in all questions where the interests of our commerce and our ships directly clash, I, for one will always be prepared to give due consideration to the shipping interests."868867bona fide866l865864 said, the hon. Member had attacked the Members on the opposition side of the House, as being opposed to the prerogatives of the Crown, while the Government had shewn itself utterly unable to maintain the prerogative of the Crown on the recent occasion of the motion made by the hon. Member for Finsbury for the liberation of Chartist prisoners, against which motion the Ministers could not muster more than twenty-eight Members, and were supported by thirty from the Opposition side of the House; and had it not been for the casting vote given by the Speaker, in support of the prerogative of the Crown, it must have been interfered with, in spite of the Ministers of the Crown. The right hon. Gentleman, the
" So convinced am I of the value of the shipping interests, with reference to the safety of this great empire, that in all questions where the interests of our commerce and our ships directly clash, I, for one will always be prepared to give due consideration to the shipping interests."868867bona fide866l865864Mr. Liddell
 moved, that the orders of the day be read,Lord J. Russell
 said, if hon. Members would have heard him, he was going to ask a question. It was highly inconvenient that Gentlemen should make party speeches on one side of the House, and that there should be no opportunity of answering them. He begged to suggest that if the right hon. Gentleman should take up the case of St. Alban's, he should carry out his principle by adopting proceedings against the people of Walsall.Mr. C. Buller
 rose, but was prevented from speaking by loud cries of" Question "and "Chair."Mr. C. Buller
 said, that the right hon. Gentleman near him had put a question, which had been answered, and that there was now no question before the chair.The Speaker
 thought the charge had been sufficiently established to form the ground of a prosecution. He begged to give notice that he should bring the matter forward on the first open day on which he could do so without interfering with the adjourned debate.Mr. W. Wynn
 had read the evidence of the Walsall Committee, but he did not think it contained anything to justify such proceedings. But wherever bribery could be proved, he thought the House of Commons, as the grand inquest of the nation, ought not to let it go unpunished.Mr. W. Wynn
 begged to know whether any Member of the Committee on the St. Alban's election petition intended to propose measures for the prosecution and punishment of the gross bribery which had been sworn to have taken place at that election. It appeared to him that the House would be disgraced if such proceedings were not punishedMr. Williams Wynn,
 said, that the vessel alluded to was not an English vessel, and interference with their regulations, however desirable, was a matter of very great difficulty. To the particular questions that had been put by the hon. Gentleman, it was obviously impossible for him to give any satisfactory answer.Mr. Labouchere
874"The hon. Member for Somersetshire professed himself pleased with the law of 1815. He could only say to that hon. Member, that he lamented from the bottom of his soul the mass of evil and misery, and destruction of capital, which that law, in the course of its twelve
874bona fide said, that as his reasons for supporting the present motion might partake of a character different from those of other Gentlemen, he thought it his duty briefly to address the House. He had already intimated that he was not altogether opposed to portions of the new financial scheme of Ministers, but as he then stated having conversed with many competent judges of such matters, who were even friendly to the principles now assumed by the Ministry, he had learnt that there was no confidence in these new fiscal projects of increasing the revenue by the remission of taxation, no hopes of a beneficial result placed in them, in consequence of the abrupt and hasty manner in which they had sprung up. It was obvious that they had no deep root in the minds of those who brought them forward, they were a series of expedients, not 874"The hon. Member for Somersetshire professed himself pleased with the law of 1815. He could only say to that hon. Member, that he lamented from the bottom of his soul the mass of evil and misery, and destruction of capital, which that law, in the course of its twelve
874bona fideMr. Walter
889ex parte begged to repeat that the evidence was not satisfactory. It was 889ex parteMr. Mildmay
 said, it was the feeling of the Committee that no Gentleman did intend to propose measures on the subject, and the reason was, that they had heard only the evidence on one side, and no opportunity was given to the other side to contradict it, in consequence of the counsel giving up the case.Mr. Mildmay
873872Cheers871870869 had to appeal to the House for a favourable hearing whilst he addressed them on a question of such immense importance as a vote of want of confidence in her Majesty's Government, and as he had never troubled the House with a speech during the present Session, he trusted the House would feel, that as the representative of a constituency so important and increasing as that of the town of Preston, which had been already alluded to in the course of the recent debate, when he had received letter after letter, and memorial after memorial, calling upon him to express the feelings of his constituents, he had some claim on its attention whilst he spoke on behalf of a large, and more especially, on behalf of a suffering constituency. He was glad, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Finsbury, was in his place, be cause, identified as they both were with the county of Lancaster, they would be better able to understand its true state. And here he must observe, that when the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Fins-bury, addressed the House the other night, and stated, that if the right hon. Baronet brought forward better measures than those of the present Government, he should have the hon. Members support, he, for one, fully agreed in the hon. Member's views, and declared, that he for one was perfectly willing to hear the right hon.
873872Cheers871870869Sir Hesketh Fleetwood
835834 was induced to rise in consequence of the observations made by the noble Lord who had just sat down. He confessed himself surprised at the speech which the noble Lord had ventured to address to the House, considering, that it was only on Friday last, that the noble Lord, in conjunction with himself, had attended a large, influential, and unanimous meeting of their constituents, convened by the high sheriff of the county, and held in the castle-yard of Lincoln. He ventured to tell the noble Lord, that not a person attended on that occasion who did not depart from the meeting under the conviction, that the noble Lord had withdrawn his confidence from the Government. What species of delusion had come over the senses of his noble Friend since he left the county of Lincoln he was unable to explain, nor could he understand how the air of the City of London could be more favourable to the doctrines of free trade and confidence in Ministers than the air of the county of Lincoln. He would take the liberty of reminding the noble Lord of an expression he made use of at that meeting in a most emphatic manner, and which was loudly cheered. The noble Lord stated, "That as Government were prepared to overthrow the agricultural interest, he was prepared to overthrow the Government." That there might be no
835834Mr. Christopher
863A laugh from the Opposition.862telum imbelle sine ictubrutum fulmen861860: Sir,—The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down ought to be the last to complain of the convenient use of liberalism, and to indulge in taunts and reproaches upon those who are opposed to him. He seems to have forgotten the time when he went down to High Wycombe with that convenient variety of opinions, which could allow him to be proposed by a Tory and seconded by a Radical, though it is difficult to tell by what good fortune he had man. aged to persuade the different parties that he was the friend of each. How the hon. Gentleman had been able to reconcile those opposite extremes is a mystery which he himself can alone explain. On that occasion the hon. Gentleman carried with him, as passports, two letters of recommendation, one from the hon. Member for Dublin and the other from the hon, Member for Kilkenny, It is therefore rather too much that he should now deal out insinuations, against his antagonists. I shall now follow the ban. Gentleman through his, historical researches, because I have no wish to compete with him as an
863A laugh from the Opposition.862telum imbelle sine ictubrutum fulmen861860Mr, T. B. Hobhouse
888887habeas corpus886885884" That it appears to this House, that to provide effectually for securing his Majesty's dockyards at Portsmouth and Plymouth by a permanent system of fortification, founded on the most economical principles, and requiring the smallest number of troops possible to answer the purpose of such security, is an essential object for the safety of the state intimately connected with the general defence of the kingdom, and necessary for enabling the fleet to act with full vigour and effect for the protection of commerce, the support of our distant possessions, and the prosecution of offensive operations in any war in which the nation may hereafter be engaged."883882881bonâ fidé880reductio ad absurdum879878 felt called upon, in the first instance, to congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on the support which he had just received to his motion by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, who stated that he should vote for it, not on allegations previously stated on the opposite side, but on grounds completely contradictory to any which had been urged by the right hon. Baronet. The hon. Member said, that the principles on which he was prepared to vote for the motion, and to withhold his confidence from the Government, rested, in the first instance, on the Government's support of the question of privilege last year, and in defence of which the right hon. Baronet distinguished himself more than any other Member of the House; and, secondly, on their introducing and continuing the New Poor-law Bill, of which measure the right hon. Baronet, much to his honour, was a most strong and zealous supporter. He did not rise for the purpose of dwelling on these discrepancies, but for the purpose of following and answering some particular parts of the right hon. Baronet's speech, to which hitherto no allusion had been made by lion. Gentlemen on his side of the House. He would endeavour to compress what he had to say into as narrow limits as possible. He must, then, at once express some little surprise at the form of the present motion. If the right hon. Baronet had chosen to assert the principle that the present Government had not the confidence of the House of Commons, there might be some argument for his motion; but then he did not adduce an argument for the great constitutional question which was lying behind the first assertion in his resolution. As far as he had observed, the conduct of the right hon. Baronet, it appeared to him that he was generally against the assertion of any general principle which applied not only to any particular question, but to any other case that might arise. But in this resolution—this judicial resolution—he de-
888887habeas corpus886885884" That it appears to this House, that to provide effectually for securing his Majesty's dockyards at Portsmouth and Plymouth by a permanent system of fortification, founded on the most economical principles, and requiring the smallest number of troops possible to answer the purpose of such security, is an essential object for the safety of the state intimately connected with the general defence of the kingdom, and necessary for enabling the fleet to act with full vigour and effect for the protection of commerce, the support of our distant possessions, and the prosecution of offensive operations in any war in which the nation may hereafter be engaged."883882881bonâ fidé880reductio ad absurdum879878Mr. Macaulay
802 begged to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. He wished to know if the attention of her Majesty's Ministers had been called to the circumstances connected with a most lamentable occurrence which had recently taken place. He alluded to the loss of the William Brown emigrant vessel, and if measures had been taken by her
802Sir A. Brooke
 hoped the forms of the House and the courtesy of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) would permit him to put a question to the right hon. Baronet respecting a statement made by him in a recent speech, in which he was pleased to refer to a conversation which he had had with a gentleman named Ashworth, one of a deputation to the right hon. Baronet from the Chamber of Commerce in Manchester. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether he had since received any information which had led him (Sir R. Peel) to the conclusion, that the statement which he made was erroneous, especially when he had referred to a pamphlet placed in his hand by one of the deputation as one which they wished him to peruse, as expressing their opinions?Mr. M. Philips
808: Since that period I made an apology to the House, and the right hon. Gentleman, for having put that question, and said, that I
808Sir J. C. Hobhouse
856855854853" In conclusion, I only repeat, that I have yet heard no answer to my question. What other course can be pursued but that which I recommend? And this absence of an answer confirms me in the conviction, that the course I propose, is the only one that can be adopted."852"I must say, that notwithstanding so much of this debate, has turned upon the observations I made last night, I have not yet heard an answer to the question I then put. If you do not like my proposal, what do you propose to do under the present circumstances? I am aware, that much may be said against my pro-
852Cheers.851850849" He hoped," he said, "he should not give offence when he declared that a Minister might nevertheless, act constitutionally, by remaining in office after that House had declared their disapprobation of him. He begged pardon for what he was going to say; but he conceived that, accord to the constitution, the immediate appointment or removal of Ministers rested not with that House. There was, therefore, nothing illegal in a Minister's remaining: in office after that House had declared against him, particularly where immediate resignation would have injured the country; and he hoped a public man might be supposed to act honourably when, upon public motives, he thought he best served,his country by continuing in office after he had been so unfortunate as to lose the confidence of the House. He explained this, by declaring that there were acts of duty, not the less indispensable because they were disagreeable; that, in critical situations, it was incumbent on a Minister, who found he was not approved in that House, to look to the probable consequences of his immediately resigning. It behoved him to consider who were likely to be his successors, and whether the country might not receive more detriment than they could possibly derive advantage by his leaving it without any executive government, and thus making room for an Administration in whom the Crown, the Parliament, and the people could not equally repose confidence. He acknowledged, that the Minister who should lightly venture to encounter
849ipso facto" No man was more zealous or more unreserved in admitting and asserting the rights of the House to advise the Sovereign in the exercise of all his prerogatives than he was. This had always been a sentiment which he had avowed; but that a declaration on the part of the House of their disapprobation of his Majesty's Ministers should, ipso facto848March 24.—Dissolution.March 8.—Mr. Fox: Representation to King. Yeas 191; Noes 190—Majority 1.March 5.—Mr. Fox: Postponement of Mutiny Bill; Yeas 171; Noes 162—Majority 9.March 1.—Mr. Fox: Address to Crown against continuance of Ministers in office. Yeas 201; Noes 189—Majority 12.February 25.—Lord Beauchamp: To adjourn House. Yeas 175; Noes 168—Majority 7.Same day.—Mr. Fox: That above should be carried to Crown by whole House. Yeas 177; Noes 156—Majority 21.February 20.—Mr. Eden (amendment to Mr. Powis): Address to Crown for Ministry having confidence of House, &c yeas 197; Noes 177—Majority 20.February 18.—Mr. Fox: To postpone supplies. Yeas 208; Noes 196—Majority 12.February 3.—Mr. Coke: To lay preceding resolution before the Crown. Yeas 211; Noes 187—Majority 24.February 2.—Mr. Coke: Resolution against continuance of the Ministry. Yeas 223; Noes 204—Majority 19.January 23.—Mr. Pitt's East-India Bill. Yeas 214; Noes 222—Majority 8.January 16.—Lord Charles Spencer: Resolution for removal of Ministers. Yeas 205; Noes 184—Majority 21.Same day.—Lord Surry: Address for an Administration having confidence of House and public. Agreed to.—No division.January 12, 1784.—Mr. Fox: For going into Committee on State of the Nation. Yeas 232; Noes 193—Majority 29.***847Cheers.846Cheers.persevere to the last.845844Sir Robert Peel843842841840a Laugh839838A Laugh.837: Mr. Speaker, I am happy that I gave way to the noble Lord (Lord Worsley) who has just sat down, as it has enabled him to give a most satisfactory explanation of the vote which he is about to give. Nothing can be more just—nothing more consistent than the course which the noble Lord is about to pursue: indeed, the contrary course would have been most unwise and unreasonable. The noble Lord differs from the Government on one point, it is true, and that point a very important one; but on account of that single difference, would it not be the height of imprudence to vote against the general character of that Government, to which, for so many years he has given his able and manly support? It would—and I trust the example of the noble Lord will be followed by others similarly circumstanced. At all events, the high character, the well-known long-tried patriotism, the station of that noble Lord, are such as to place his motives far, far above suspicion. I say this, because, when he was making his explanation, he was interrupted by ironical cheers from some of those charitable Gentlemen opposite, of the agricultural interest, who are in the habit of acting and talking as if they monopolised all the virtue as well as all the talents of the country. It is quite true, as the noble Lord has before remarked, that in opening this discussion
856855854853" In conclusion, I only repeat, that I have yet heard no answer to my question. What other course can be pursued but that which I recommend? And this absence of an answer confirms me in the conviction, that the course I propose, is the only one that can be adopted."852"I must say, that notwithstanding so much of this debate, has turned upon the observations I made last night, I have not yet heard an answer to the question I then put. If you do not like my proposal, what do you propose to do under the present circumstances? I am aware, that much may be said against my pro-
852Cheers.851850849" He hoped," he said, "he should not give offence when he declared that a Minister might nevertheless, act constitutionally, by remaining in office after that House had declared their disapprobation of him. He begged pardon for what he was going to say; but he conceived that, accord to the constitution, the immediate appointment or removal of Ministers rested not with that House. There was, therefore, nothing illegal in a Minister's remaining: in office after that House had declared against him, particularly where immediate resignation would have injured the country; and he hoped a public man might be supposed to act honourably when, upon public motives, he thought he best served,his country by continuing in office after he had been so unfortunate as to lose the confidence of the House. He explained this, by declaring that there were acts of duty, not the less indispensable because they were disagreeable; that, in critical situations, it was incumbent on a Minister, who found he was not approved in that House, to look to the probable consequences of his immediately resigning. It behoved him to consider who were likely to be his successors, and whether the country might not receive more detriment than they could possibly derive advantage by his leaving it without any executive government, and thus making room for an Administration in whom the Crown, the Parliament, and the people could not equally repose confidence. He acknowledged, that the Minister who should lightly venture to encounter
849ipso facto" No man was more zealous or more unreserved in admitting and asserting the rights of the House to advise the Sovereign in the exercise of all his prerogatives than he was. This had always been a sentiment which he had avowed; but that a declaration on the part of the House of their disapprobation of his Majesty's Ministers should, ipso facto848March 24.—Dissolution.March 8.—Mr. Fox: Representation to King. Yeas 191; Noes 190—Majority 1.March 5.—Mr. Fox: Postponement of Mutiny Bill; Yeas 171; Noes 162—Majority 9.March 1.—Mr. Fox: Address to Crown against continuance of Ministers in office. Yeas 201; Noes 189—Majority 12.February 25.—Lord Beauchamp: To adjourn House. Yeas 175; Noes 168—Majority 7.Same day.—Mr. Fox: That above should be carried to Crown by whole House. Yeas 177; Noes 156—Majority 21.February 20.—Mr. Eden (amendment to Mr. Powis): Address to Crown for Ministry having confidence of House, &c yeas 197; Noes 177—Majority 20.February 18.—Mr. Fox: To postpone supplies. Yeas 208; Noes 196—Majority 12.February 3.—Mr. Coke: To lay preceding resolution before the Crown. Yeas 211; Noes 187—Majority 24.February 2.—Mr. Coke: Resolution against continuance of the Ministry. Yeas 223; Noes 204—Majority 19.January 23.—Mr. Pitt's East-India Bill. Yeas 214; Noes 222—Majority 8.January 16.—Lord Charles Spencer: Resolution for removal of Ministers. Yeas 205; Noes 184—Majority 21.Same day.—Lord Surry: Address for an Administration having confidence of House and public. Agreed to.—No division.January 12, 1784.—Mr. Fox: For going into Committee on State of the Nation. Yeas 232; Noes 193—Majority 29.***847Cheers.846Cheers.persevere to the last.845844Sir Robert Peel843842841840a Laugh839838A Laugh.837Sir John Hobhouse
828827826825824llllllll823ll822821" In the next place, with the expectation that every hon. Member seemed to have, that he was to account for his conduct on the hustings."820819818817"The Jamaica Bill was of paramount indispensable importance, for the great objects of emancipation, and the vote of the House of Commons was fatal to that measure. Not only so, but it indicates with sufficient clearness and distinctness, such a want of confidence on the part of a great body in the other House, as to render it absolutely impossible that we should continue to administer the affairs of her Majesty's Government in a manner useful and beneficial to the country."" It is obvious, that in Jamaica the authority of the Crown will be greatly weakened by any vote of the House of Commons giving support to the contumacy of the Assembly of Jamaica against the proposition of the Ministers of the Crown. (He said.) In continuing in the administration of affairs, not having a sufficient degree of confidence and support to carry on those affairs efficiently in this House, we should be exposing to jeopardy the colonies of this country."816815"From the collisions of party arise the energy and vital principle of the constitution, and of popular government. (The noble Lord added) I never find any persons denouncing these party animosities and conflicts, except mock philosophers, effeminate men, and sentimental women."" Otherwise their measures will be thwarted their promises will be distrusted, and, finding all their steps obstructed, their efforts will be directed to the overthrow of the constitution."814" The accession of George 1st was the era when Government by party was fully established in England. During the reign of William, Whigs and Tories had been employed together by the King; and although the distinction of a Whig Ministry and a Tory Ministry were more decidedly marked during the reign of Anne, yet Marlborough and Godolphin, who formed great part of the strength of the Whig Ministry, were Tories; and Harley and St. John, who put themselves at the head of the Tory Administration, had held, a short time before, subordinate offices Under the Whigs. But the complete downfall of the Tory Administration, who had signed the peace of Utrecht, and the well-founded
814" He was far from meaning, that a Minister was never justifiable in differing from the House of Commons. No man was more likely so to differ than himself; but he would adhere to his own opinion, and when he found that the House differed from himself he would resign, and say to the House of Commons— Choose some other instrument to carry on the public business; I am no longer fit to serve you.' "813" That it was true, that the most solid and
813" A House of Commons respected by his Ministers is essential to his Majesty's service. It is fit that they should yield to Parliament, and not that Parliament should be new modelled until it is fitted to their purposes. If our authority is only to be held up when we coincide in opinion with his Majesty's advisers, but is to be set at nought the moment it differs from them, the House of Commons will sink into a mere appendage of administration, and will lose that independent character which, inseparably connecting honour and reputation with the acts of this House, enables us to afford a real, effective, and substantial support to his Government. It is the difference shown to our opinion, when we dissent from the servants of the Crown, which alone can give authority to the proceedings of this House when it concurs with their measures."812" That the appointments of his Majesty's present Ministers were accompanied by circumstances new and extraordinary, and such as do not conciliate or engage the confidence of this House; and that the continuance of the present Ministers in trusts of the highest importance and responsibility, is contrary to constitutional principles, and injurious to the interests of his Majesty and the people."811"That in the present state of his Majesty's dominions, it is peculiarly necessary, that there should be an administration which has the confidence of this House and the public."810"You, by remaining in power, are contravening the principles of representative government, and you alone are responsible for the delays and obstructions that may arise, or for any offence to which, by your acts, the Crown is exposed."" I own I come more and more to the opinion that we ought to revert, whenever we can to that old practice of the constitution, under which the powers of the Crown were administered and exercised by persons in whom the House and the country had confidence."809: I never thought of complaining of any want of courtesy on the part of the right hon. Baronet. I never thought that the right hon. Baronet proposed the question in an offensively hostile manner, and if I had supposed so, I would not have alluded to the circumstance on this occasion. The opinion which the right hon. Baronet implied by his question was entirely confirmed by the House of Commons. Lord Brougham in vain attempted to appease the impatience of the House of Commons on that night, and my own opinion so strongly concurred with that implied by the right hon. Baronet's question, that, on the next day, I signified to the Crown my intention to withdraw from its service. On the night after the right hon. Baronet put his question, which never excited an angry feeling in my mind, Mr. Brougham suggested that, after what had taken place, it would be better to permit the Ministers of the Crown to have some time for deliberation, and, considering the position in which they were placed, proposed that the appointment of the committee, which it was wished should take place immediately, should be deferred till the next day. His advice, however, was overruled; and such was the impatience of the House of Commons to proceed to some decisive act which should imply the downfall of the Government, that, on that very night, the select committee on the Civil-list was appointed. The next administration which also yielded to public opinion, as signified by that of the House of Commons, was that over which I myself presided for a short time in 1835. I did carry on, for a short time, an unequal contest in opposition to the power leagued against me; but this I must say, that the first time I was positively obstructed in an act of legislation, that moment I felt it my duty to withdraw from the management of public affairs. I beg to remind the noble Lord, that at a much earlier period than the date of my resignation, he implied an opinion that I was holding power injuriously to the public interests, because I did not possess the confidence of the House of Commons. On the 2nd of March the noble Lord observed; that he believed no Ministry ever stood before, in respect to the House of Commons, in so extraordinary a position; and the noble Lord observed on the evil influence which
828827826825824llllllll823ll822821" In the next place, with the expectation that every hon. Member seemed to have, that he was to account for his conduct on the hustings."820819818817"The Jamaica Bill was of paramount indispensable importance, for the great objects of emancipation, and the vote of the House of Commons was fatal to that measure. Not only so, but it indicates with sufficient clearness and distinctness, such a want of confidence on the part of a great body in the other House, as to render it absolutely impossible that we should continue to administer the affairs of her Majesty's Government in a manner useful and beneficial to the country."" It is obvious, that in Jamaica the authority of the Crown will be greatly weakened by any vote of the House of Commons giving support to the contumacy of the Assembly of Jamaica against the proposition of the Ministers of the Crown. (He said.) In continuing in the administration of affairs, not having a sufficient degree of confidence and support to carry on those affairs efficiently in this House, we should be exposing to jeopardy the colonies of this country."816815"From the collisions of party arise the energy and vital principle of the constitution, and of popular government. (The noble Lord added) I never find any persons denouncing these party animosities and conflicts, except mock philosophers, effeminate men, and sentimental women."" Otherwise their measures will be thwarted their promises will be distrusted, and, finding all their steps obstructed, their efforts will be directed to the overthrow of the constitution."814" The accession of George 1st was the era when Government by party was fully established in England. During the reign of William, Whigs and Tories had been employed together by the King; and although the distinction of a Whig Ministry and a Tory Ministry were more decidedly marked during the reign of Anne, yet Marlborough and Godolphin, who formed great part of the strength of the Whig Ministry, were Tories; and Harley and St. John, who put themselves at the head of the Tory Administration, had held, a short time before, subordinate offices Under the Whigs. But the complete downfall of the Tory Administration, who had signed the peace of Utrecht, and the well-founded
814" He was far from meaning, that a Minister was never justifiable in differing from the House of Commons. No man was more likely so to differ than himself; but he would adhere to his own opinion, and when he found that the House differed from himself he would resign, and say to the House of Commons— Choose some other instrument to carry on the public business; I am no longer fit to serve you.' "813" That it was true, that the most solid and
813" A House of Commons respected by his Ministers is essential to his Majesty's service. It is fit that they should yield to Parliament, and not that Parliament should be new modelled until it is fitted to their purposes. If our authority is only to be held up when we coincide in opinion with his Majesty's advisers, but is to be set at nought the moment it differs from them, the House of Commons will sink into a mere appendage of administration, and will lose that independent character which, inseparably connecting honour and reputation with the acts of this House, enables us to afford a real, effective, and substantial support to his Government. It is the difference shown to our opinion, when we dissent from the servants of the Crown, which alone can give authority to the proceedings of this House when it concurs with their measures."812" That the appointments of his Majesty's present Ministers were accompanied by circumstances new and extraordinary, and such as do not conciliate or engage the confidence of this House; and that the continuance of the present Ministers in trusts of the highest importance and responsibility, is contrary to constitutional principles, and injurious to the interests of his Majesty and the people."811"That in the present state of his Majesty's dominions, it is peculiarly necessary, that there should be an administration which has the confidence of this House and the public."810"You, by remaining in power, are contravening the principles of representative government, and you alone are responsible for the delays and obstructions that may arise, or for any offence to which, by your acts, the Crown is exposed."" I own I come more and more to the opinion that we ought to revert, whenever we can to that old practice of the constitution, under which the powers of the Crown were administered and exercised by persons in whom the House and the country had confidence."809Sir R. Peel
no803 said, that he had not received any communication on the subject from any one of the parties. If he had received any direct communication from them, he would have immediately returned an answer, and if they had shown him any misstatement he had made, he should at once have corrected it. But he had not received any such communication. There were letters in public papers, but
no803Sir R. Peel
807806805804: I shall proceed without a word of needless apology or elaborate preface to address myself to the subject of the motion of which I have given notice for this night. When on Thursday last the Chancellor of the Exchequer intimated that it was his intention to proceed with the business of the Government, I entertained a strong impression that after the defeats to which that Government had been subjected—defeats, as I thought, indicative of the withdrawal of the confidence of this House—indicative of inability on their part to give effect to measures which they deemed important for the public welfare—I did feel, I say, that after that notice, unaccompanied with the slightest explanation of Government, it was impossible for me to acquiesce in the propriety of the course proposed to be pursued, without taking some step which should bring to issue the question, whether Government do or do not possess the confidence of the House of Commons; and having come to that conclusion, I infinitely prefer bringing the question to issue in the most direct and manly manner in which the sense of the House can be taken. I might have resorted to other proceedings. I might have obstructed the course of the Government with respect to measures of great importance to the commerce and industry of the country, I might have threatened the Government with obstructions to the grant of supplies, I might have taken the milder course of submitting a proposition for the postponement of some important bill, and thus, in an indirect manner, have tested the opinion of the House; but I think it infinitely better, on the very first day the forms of the House permit, to bring, in the direct manner I now propose, under the consideration of the House of Commons the question, whether it give the present Government its confidence. The resolution which I mean to propose affirms two propositions—first, that her Majesty's Government do not sufficiently possess the confidence of the House of Commons to enable them to carry through the House
807806805804Sir R. Peel
"Dabit Deus his quoque finem."" O passi graviora;"s.963Cheers from the Ministerial benches.962J. Russell:961"Though the popularity of the present Administration is not ascertained, yet I will not hesitate to affirm, that there is an intention in Ministers to establish themselves on a foundation unfriendly to the constitutional privileges of this House. They court the affection of the people, and on this foundation they wish to support themselves in opposition to the repeated resolutions of this House. Is not this declaring themselves independent of Parliament? Is not this separating the House of Commons from its constituents, annihilating our importance, and avowedly erecting a monarchy on the basis of an affected popularity, independent of and uncontrolable by Parliament? Such a scheme I can view under no other aspect but as a system of the basest tyranny, and calculated to accomplish the ruin of the liberties of the country. Such a system of despotism, is, indeed, the most likely to originate in men who carry on their schemes by the machinations of dark intrigue, of men who have stabbed the constitution, by means of a secret influence in one department of Government, and are now prepared to perpetrate similar assassinations, by methods of the basest corruption, in another. I hope, however, that Members will attend to these designs of Ministers, masked under the most dangerous and imposing appearances, and that they will rescue the country from the hands of those who are only distinguished by the dirtiness of their political intrigue, and their violations of the privileges of the House. I hope that such Ministers will finally see the danger of their situation, and that this House will no longer suffer itself to be insulted by its own moderation."960959958l.957956955954953Member, hear:minimum952Lord Howick:951950"— constupuêre animi tremor occupat artus."949948Mr. HumeMr. Hume:Mr. Warburton:947Hear, Hear from the Ministerial benches.No, No.946945944943Mr. Speaker, I trust I may be permitted to congratulate the noble Lord (Lord Morpeth), the Secretary for Ireland, upon the self-complacency with which he regards the probable fate of the Government, which, he has been pleased to admit, may be considered at the last extremity. The noble Lord has said, that power may pass from their hands; our allegation is, that power has long since passed from them. The noble Lord has also been kind enough to express a hope that power may prosper in our hands; and, in spite of the self-gratulations with which he concluded his speech, I believe that, if he be just and generous he must think, as the country also thinks, that there are omens which indicate that power may safely be intrusted to our hands. If I mistake not, the noble Lord congratulated the House on the tranquillity and growing prosperity and happiness of our colonial possessions, I conclude that the noble Lord, when he speaks of our colonies, could not have forgotten Jamaica, the principal colony of Great Britain; and I am certain, he must remember, and will have the justice to admit, that the policy which the Government intended to pursue with respect to Jamaica, two years ago, was defeated by the Gentlemen who sit on this side of the House; that the policy adopted was that recommended by my right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth; and that the tranquillity, happiness, and prosperity of Jamaica are attributable to the measures carried, in contravention of those proposed by her Majesty's Ministers, at the dictation of their opponents. I confess, I know not the meaning of the note of triumph which the noble Lord has sounded with respect to the foreign relations of the country. What for instance, does the noble Lord think of the state of our rela-
"Dabit Deus his quoque finem."" O passi graviora;"s.963Cheers from the Ministerial benches.962J. Russell:961"Though the popularity of the present Administration is not ascertained, yet I will not hesitate to affirm, that there is an intention in Ministers to establish themselves on a foundation unfriendly to the constitutional privileges of this House. They court the affection of the people, and on this foundation they wish to support themselves in opposition to the repeated resolutions of this House. Is not this declaring themselves independent of Parliament? Is not this separating the House of Commons from its constituents, annihilating our importance, and avowedly erecting a monarchy on the basis of an affected popularity, independent of and uncontrolable by Parliament? Such a scheme I can view under no other aspect but as a system of the basest tyranny, and calculated to accomplish the ruin of the liberties of the country. Such a system of despotism, is, indeed, the most likely to originate in men who carry on their schemes by the machinations of dark intrigue, of men who have stabbed the constitution, by means of a secret influence in one department of Government, and are now prepared to perpetrate similar assassinations, by methods of the basest corruption, in another. I hope, however, that Members will attend to these designs of Ministers, masked under the most dangerous and imposing appearances, and that they will rescue the country from the hands of those who are only distinguished by the dirtiness of their political intrigue, and their violations of the privileges of the House. I hope that such Ministers will finally see the danger of their situation, and that this House will no longer suffer itself to be insulted by its own moderation."960959958l.957956955954953Member, hear:minimum952Lord Howick:951950"— constupuêre animi tremor occupat artus."949948Mr. HumeMr. Hume:Mr. Warburton:947Hear, Hear from the Ministerial benches.No, No.946945944943Sir James Graham—
905 said, that he believed that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies was anxious really and truly to bring forward measures for the benefit and for the consideration of the country. Those measures were intended to relieve the distress which existed in all parts of the country, and which was admitted by both sides of the House, as requiring a radical alteration. He rose for the purpose of expressing his gratitude to the Government for the measures which they had taken for the relief of the people of Ireland. The policy of the Government was acknowledged by that people, and had produced a state of tranquillity in Ireland greater than had ever before existed. He felt surprised that the state of Ireland had never been once referred to by the right hon. Baronet opposite in his attack on Ministers. The right hon. Baronet had avoided Ireland altogether, but he (Mr. Hutton) thought, although Ireland had not been mentioned in the course of the debate, j that it had some right to be considered. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to Ireland as having been the cause of a great part of the deficiency of the revenue. That deficiency had been caused by a great moral effort on the part of the people of Ireland, and he thought they were entitled to the benefits arising from the reductions of the duties proposed by Government. It was but fair that they should have an opportunity of making up the deficiency which had been caused by their abstaining from spirituous liquors. The measures of Government, he thought, | would not only benefit the revenue, but would also be of great advantage to Ireland. The hon. Member for Pomfret had referred to a great many topics, and among
905Mr. Hulton
908907906: I am not surprised, Sir, that her Majesty's Ministers should receive support on this occasion from the Members of the movement party in this House. But I must confess, I am surprised how any man, the representative of agricultural constituents, who heard the speech of the noble Lord (the Member for Stroud) the other night, how any man who was an adherent of Lord Grey's Administration, who was an admirer of the principles on which that administration was constructed, can give his support on the present occasion to those who have abandoned every ground, who have violated every principle on which that Administration was conducted. Lord Grey, when he retired from office stated, that the principle alone on which he had consented to administer the affairs of the country, were peace, retrenchment, reform, and non-intervention. How have Ministers maintained peace? Have not the country been involved in expensive wars? How have they acted on the principles of non-intervention? There has been nothing but interference with foreign nations. Where are their retrenchments? Having taken office with a large surplus revenue left by the Duke of Wellington's Administration, they have exhibited a miserable deficiency in the public revenue, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer came down last year and called on the House
908907906Lord Norreys
 begged leave to move that this House, at its rising, do adjourn to Wednesday next.Lord J. Russell
 thought that the House would have no difficulty in coming to the understanding which the right hon. Baronet had recommended, in permitting the debate upon his motion, if adjourned over from to-night, to take precedence of all other business on Wednesday evening next. He would not certainly make any objection to the proposition.Lord J. Russell
 said, he would rather not answer the questions which had just been put to him by the noble Lord, as his noble Friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs would be much better able to give him the desired information.Lord J. Russell
 said, that considering there were several points in those bills which would require the attention of that House, and deeming it probable that amendments would be moved which would create a lengthened discussion, it was not his intention to press those bills this Session upon the House.Lord J. Russell
892 said, that yesterday he had given notice to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, that it was his intention to ask such questions this evening. And be expected to have seen that noble Lord in his place. As, however, the noble Lord was not then in the House, he (Lord Teignmouth) thought that the noble Lord,
892Lord Teignmouth
 said, he wished to receive information from her Majesty's Government upon a subject which should claim a little of their attention at this moment, and he wished to ask a question of the noble Lord opposite, with reference to it. He alluded to the insurrection which had lately taken place in the Island of Crete. The questions he wished to put to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, were these. Whether he bad received any further information with reference to this insurrection? And whether her Majesty's Ministers had taken proper precaution of instructing their consul there, to take the necessary steps to prevent the commission of those cruelties which may be perpetrated upon persons under the present circumstances of the island.Lord Teignmouth
921" Aude aliquid brevibus Gyaris et carcere diguum,
Si vis esse aliquem."920Non tali auxilio: non defensoribus istis.919" de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis."918917916" With a withering look He the war-denouncing trumpet took,": Sir,—I will not refuse to my hon. and learned Friend who has just sat down the merit to which he lays claim of uncorrupted patriotism: nor will I dispute with him the exclusive statesmanship to which he pretends: but this I must assert, and probably with the concurrence of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, that notwithstanding his abilities, and his ardour characteristic of the people to which he belongs, and of which he represents a large constituency, his speech has proved but an ebullition of party spirit, and has not contained a single argument calculated to resist the resolution of my right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth, or to uphold the tottering condition of her Majesty's Government. Nor, although
921" Aude aliquid brevibus Gyaris et carcere diguum,
Si vis esse aliquem."920Non tali auxilio: non defensoribus istis.919" de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis."918917916" With a withering look He the war-denouncing trumpet took,"Lord Teignmouth
 gave notice, that on Wednessday next, should the debate on the motion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth be then terminated, or on the first opportunity after its termination, he should bring forward a motion which, as a question of privilege, should have precedence of all other business—that the House do resolve on the prosecution by the Attorney-general of Dr. Webster for gross bribery and corruption at the recent election for the borough of St. Alban's.Mr. Williams Wynn
 would take that opportunity of explaining that, as Chairman of the Committee for trying the merits of the petition of St. Alban's, he should have made some motion on the subject, if such had been the wish of the Committee; but, having received no intimation to that effect from the Committee, he did not think it his duty to do so.Mr. Sanford
900899 was glad that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had screwed his courage to the "sticking place," and at last brought the two great parties in that House to a fair stand-up fight. He (Mr. Sanford) did not hesitate to say, that
900899Mr. A. Sanford
904Laughter.903902901reductio ad absurdum, said, he had heard nothing in the speech of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sanford) who had just sat down, which should prevent him giving his vote in favour of the motion of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. The hon. Gentleman stated he could have no confidence in a Government formed by the right hon. Baronet, but had carefully abstained from expressing the slightest confidence in her Majesty's Ministers. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary at War, stated in his speech, that he would prove mathematically, by the 904Laughter.903902901reductio ad absurdum,Mr. Darby
915" Cries of Oh, oh."914913.l.l." Oh, oh,"Sandon:Sandon:l.912911910Sir Robert Peel:909 said, that he rose in behalf of two classes, which the right hon. Baronet opposite had omitted to notice— the people of England and the people of Ireland. It was an extraordinary thing that, during a speech of one hour and a
915" Cries of Oh, oh."914913.l.l." Oh, oh,"Sandon:Sandon:l.912911910Sir Robert Peel:909Mr. H. Grattan
898s.s.,897896895894893 said, that belonging to that small minority of those Members of the House who were in the habit of addressing it, who did not take part in the late debate, he thought he had now some small claim on the attention of the House, and he assured the House that if it were granted to him he would not abuse it. He wished it had been his good fortune to have caught the Speaker's eye last night, because he should then have at once and unpremeditatedly uttered his opinions, which the House, under such circumstances, would have received with its usual indulgence. But, rising this evening, to speak first upon the adjourned debate of a former day, he feared the House might expect more from him than he could give. It would he expected of him or of any other hon. Member who would address the House this evening that he should address his attention to the speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay). However they might differ in opinion as to the reasoning of that speech, they must all allow that it was one of the most interesting speeches ever delivered on the floor of that House. He felt that in coming into competition with such an authority, he should need all the kindness. of the House, and must place himself entirely at its mercy. If he (Mr. Milnes) understood his right hon. Friend rightly, he thought his right hon. Friend admitted that the
898s.s.,897896895894893Mr. R. M. Milnes
923922 although he agreed with much that had fallen from the noble Lord, could not vote in favour of the resolution of the right hon. Member for Tamworth. His reasons might not be so satisfactory to the other side as his vote; but as he had not the honour of being admitted to either party, he was the better able to look at a question of this kind impartially. The proposition consisted of two parts:—the first was, that the present Ministers had not the power to carry into effect measures essential to the welfare of the State, and by voting the affirmative, he should not more emphatically mark his opinion than he had done already in supporting the recent motion of the noble Member for Liverpool, and on other similar occasions. The second branch of the proposition was, that the present Government, not having been able to carry their measures into effect, by continuing to hold office, were guilty of a violation of the spirit of the constitution. The House was thus called upon to lay down an important constitutional maxim, and to express an opinion nakedly, and in the abstract. He could not give his assent to the statement, that Ministers had been guilty of a violation of the spirit of the constitution. If he thought that Ministers would continue in office, in defiance of the representatives of the people, after the people had been duly appealed to—if he thought that they would continue in office after the people
923922Mr. Ingham,
891 presumed that the noble Lord had made this motion with the understanding that the adjourned debate, if not terminated this night, should have precedence of all other business on Wednesday next, the day to which the noble Lord proposed to adjourn the House, as otherwise he thought that they could not avoid going on with the adjourned debate
891Sir R. Peel
924 had listened with great satisfaction to the speech just delivered by the hon. Member for North Shields. The resolution, and the speech of the right hon. Baronet were, in fact, sufficiently answered by the notorious fact that Government intended to appeal to the country as soon as the necessary business of the Session had been concluded, and, in his opinion, they would pursue a course injurious to the constitution, and dangerous to the public welfare, if they abandoned office merely because the right hon. Baronet thought fit to propose a resolution of want of confidence. If Ministers were defeated in the House, the spirit of the constitution required, that they should appeal to the country for its opinion, on the line of policy they had pursued. Mr. Pitt was defeated fourteen times in as many successive divisions, and yet his appeal to the country was considered a sufficient justification for his remaining in office. If, then, the view taken by Mr. Pitt were sound, what became of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite? It had been said, that the present Government had lost the confidence of the country. That was a point which would be far more satisfactorily settled at the ensuing elections, when the fiat of the people should be pronounced, than by the opinion of any individual in that House, however respectable that individual might be, or however much his opinion might be entitled to consideration. But his opinion was, that if her Majesty's Government had in any degree lost the confidence of the country, it was because they had not brought forward at an earlier period those great measures of commercial reform which the right hon. Baronet had now succeeded in defeating. The people were, no doubt, discontented, and they had reason to be discontented, with the Reform Bill and with the different Governments since its
924Mr. Hutt
942941" Labitur et labetur in omne volubilis ævum."940939938937936935934933Cheers.932No, no.931930 wished, in the first place, to express his approval and acknowledgment of the tone and moderation of temper in which the speech of the right hon. Baronet who had submitted this resolution to the House was conceived. Whether the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down was conceived in the same vein—whether he had shown the same qualities and the same abstinence from party heat, the same disposition to
942941" Labitur et labetur in omne volubilis ævum."940939938937936935934933Cheers.932No, no.931930Viscount Morpeth
929Money did it.No, no.!" CHARLES STURGE."" I am, very respectfully, &c,"Sir—After the manner in which my brother, Joseph Sturge, is mentioned in the Standard of yesterday, I think it but due to him, that you should inform your numerous readers, that he is now in the United States, doing all in his power to assist the abolitionists there; and that, if in England, I am sure he would oppose, to the utmost of his ability, this abominable Whig attempt to introduce slave-grown sugar.Standard,928927926925 said, that whatever gratification the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down might derive from the vote of the hon. and learned Member for South Shields (Mr. Ingham), the application of the reasoning of that hon. Member would afford, in his opinion, but little satisfaction to the Members of her Majesty's Government. He knew the hon. and learned Gentleman was distinguished for his high attainments, but at the same time he must say, that his speech evinced a subtlety of reasoning far more suited to the closet than to the practical affairs of life. The hon. Member for South Shields had justified the maintenance of office by her Majesty's Ministers on one ground
929Money did it.No, no.!" CHARLES STURGE."" I am, very respectfully, &c,"Sir—After the manner in which my brother, Joseph Sturge, is mentioned in the Standard of yesterday, I think it but due to him, that you should inform your numerous readers, that he is now in the United States, doing all in his power to assist the abolitionists there; and that, if in England, I am sure he would oppose, to the utmost of his ability, this abominable Whig attempt to introduce slave-grown sugar.Standard,928927926925Viscount Sandon
 wished to know whether it was the intention of the noble Lord opposite to bring on the two bills this Session, which he had already brought under the notice of the House—he alluded to the Boroughs Improvement Bill, and the Buildings Regulation Bill.Viscount Sandon
 said, he would not have risen if it had not been for an observation which had fallen from his hon. Friend (Sir E. Sugden), who had not expressed himself with his usual perspicuity. He contended that when a return was ordered by that House, if addressed to a public officer, it was his bounden duty to make the return instanter; he had no right to make frivolous excuses.Dr. Lushington
969 could assure the hon. Member that it was the wish and the intention of the Government to carry the measure through during the present Ses-
969The Attorney-General
 had listened with all attention to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, and yet, after the hon. and learned Gentleman had devoted his whole talents and abilities to the task, he had been wholly unable to answer any one of the able arguments which had been urged by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Pembroke. The only accusation which the hon. and learned Gentleman had succeeded in making against the right hon. Baronet was, that having been a Member of the Grey Cabinet, he now refused to give his support to the miserable remnant of that body which now held the reins of office. In that refusal he joined, for he saw no security, that next Session the present Advisers of the Crown, might not make the ballot a Cabinet question, leave the adoption of the Charter an open question, and recommend the repeal of the union in the Speech from the Throne. The noble Lord opposite was pressed forward far beyond his own declarations, and he feared for the prosperity of the country, so long as the noble Lord directed its destinies. He did not accuse the Government of acting contrary to the interests of the country, but he must say, that it was essentially a Government of easy virtue. The noble Lord was unable to resist the pressure of the Radicals—he was unable to withstand the solicitations of the philosophers, and on all these grounds, he should give his hearty support to the present motion.Mr. H. Hinde
sans culottesans culotte1008sans culotte1007"Of the scene which presented itself during the progress of the proceedings, any des-
sans culotte1007Cheltenham and Gloucester Journal.1006l1005ll10041003 said, that there had been so much recrimination in the course of this debate, that he should confine himself as closely as he could, to the terms of the resolution itself. He agreed with the hon. Member for North Shields, (Mr. Ingham), that the first branch of the resolution involved a truism, because the Government had failed to carry those measures which they thought essential for the good of the country. But he had heard hon. Gentlemen opposite say, that they considered that the Government had a very fair share of the confidence of that House. He was ready to admit that they had as large a share as was desirable, but he could not agree, that it was such a share as rendered them fit persons to hold the reins of Government; and he would go further, and say, that since they had conducted the. affairs of this country, they had never had that share of its confidence which enabled them to carry on the Government with advantage to the public, or with dignity to themselves. Let them look to the history of the Government. When they had succeeded in ejecting the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, they had done so by passing a resolution—that no measure for the settlement of the question of tithes could be satisfactory which did not embody the principle of appropriation. That resolution being carried, the right hon. Baronet
sans culottesans culotte1008sans culotte1007"Of the scene which presented itself during the progress of the proceedings, any des-
sans culotte1007Cheltenham and Gloucester Journal.1006l1005ll10041003Mr. Cresswell
1014101310121011" I defy you on this motion, and on all other motions which you may make; I defy your majorities: I stand by the Crown, and shall appeal to the people."10101009 thought the House would not be surprised, when they recollected the circumstances which had recently occurred, and the vote which he had thought it his duty to give on that occasion, that he should feel anxious now to explain and defend the course which he proposed to take. Nothing was farther from his thoughts than to reoccupy the House with the debate that had recently occurred, in order to resay what he had then said, or to recapitulate the reasons why he then voted against Ministers, and why he now did not repent or do other than stand to the course he adopted. But he must still deprecate the course taken, both on the one side and the other with regard to that question. He denied the right of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to bind together three great important questions, different in principle from each other, and distinguished by peculiar circumstances,
1014101310121011" I defy you on this motion, and on all other motions which you may make; I defy your majorities: I stand by the Crown, and shall appeal to the people."10101009Dr. Lushington
 moved the second reading of the Municipal Corporations Bill, which related to the rating of municipal property in or belonging to the city of Exeter.Sir J. Y. Buller
 moved the third reading of the Copyhold and Customary Tenure Bill.Mr. Hope
mandamus968 said, it was per-
mandamus968Mr. Williams Wynn
 moved, that the bill be read a second time this day three months.Mr. Divett
 said, that the hon. Gentleman had entirely misunderstood him. What he had stated was, that there were provisions in the Act of Parliament which provided for the payment, but that those provisions did not meet this particular case.Sir E. Sugden
 said, that, according to the provisions of the Act of Parliament, the sheriff had nothing whatever to do with the matter. It was undoubtedly the duty of the clerk of the peace to take care that the lists should be forthcoming; but it appeared that the provisions of the act did not apply to the case.Sir E. Sugden
 begged to ask, whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Ministers to carry through the House during the present Session, a measure respecting which there was a great deal of anxiety out of doors—he meant the Administration of Justice (No. 1.) Bill?Mr. Aglionby
 strongly supported the motion. The bill had been twice committed, and its provisions fully discussed, and he thought it ought not to be further delayed.Mr. Aglionby
 asked for a short delay, on the ground of the amount of property touched by the bill, and because the right hon. Member for Ripon, who was not in his place, had various objections to it, The right hon. Gentleman moved the adjournment of the debate.Mr. Goulburn
 moved the adjournment of the debate, as at that late hour, it could not be properly discussed.Mr. Goulburn
1044Oh, oh.1043sll1042ssdsdsdsssssMorning Post,1041ssss1040" I rejected the offer, on the ground of public duty, for I could not think that I should have been acting right, that I should have been discharging my duty to my country, or showing that proper regard which I conceive due to ray own character, if, because I had differed from my late colleagues upon one point, I had plunged into opposition to them upon all points with men against whom I have struggled during the whole of my political life. Such conduct I should have looked upon as inconsistent with private honour, and it could not have advanced the public good."Nusquam tuta fides" And I must add this, that, in my opinion, the composition of that Ministry is as bad a: I can well imagine, for it is entirely composed of men to whom and to whose measures I have been all my life opposed."103910381037: Sir, at this late period of the evening I have no wish to prolong the debate unnecessarily, sensible as I am of my inability to command the attention of the House; but it must be obvious to
1044Oh, oh.1043sll1042ssdsdsdsssssMorning Post,1041ssss1040" I rejected the offer, on the ground of public duty, for I could not think that I should have been acting right, that I should have been discharging my duty to my country, or showing that proper regard which I conceive due to ray own character, if, because I had differed from my late colleagues upon one point, I had plunged into opposition to them upon all points with men against whom I have struggled during the whole of my political life. Such conduct I should have looked upon as inconsistent with private honour, and it could not have advanced the public good."Nusquam tuta fides" And I must add this, that, in my opinion, the composition of that Ministry is as bad a: I can well imagine, for it is entirely composed of men to whom and to whose measures I have been all my life opposed."103910381037Mr. Handley
994Hansard;993" The Corn-law repealers did not take into account, the difference between a manufacturing and agricultural population in all that concerns the morals and well-being of the people —the national strength and the national tranquility—nor do they consider the two or three millions of their countrymen they will reduce to utter beggary in the course of their speculations—this they call diverting capital into new channels."992991990989988987 was as ready as the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, to support her Majesty's Ministers, but not exactly for the same reasons. He considered this question one which materially concerned the interests of his own country, Ireland. He placed confidence in her Majesty's Government, because he conceived, that the whole of their policy, both at
994Hansard;993" The Corn-law repealers did not take into account, the difference between a manufacturing and agricultural population in all that concerns the morals and well-being of the people —the national strength and the national tranquility—nor do they consider the two or three millions of their countrymen they will reduce to utter beggary in the course of their speculations—this they call diverting capital into new channels."992991990989988987Mr. James Grattan
ll" Dear Coxe, enclosed you will receive 20lll965lll said, he held a petition in his hand from Mr. Edward Pillbean Coxe, to which he requested the attention of the House, and which, if the statements of the petition were true, called aloud for the interference of the House. The petitioner, one of the freemen of Nottingham, stated, that he and others during the recent election, were supporters of the present hon. Member for that place, and that since that time attempts had been made to buy over himself and other parties to the other side, and for that purpose a meeting had been held by two persons who were named in the petition, and who requested the petitioner to receive a sum of money to the amount of 5ll" Dear Coxe, enclosed you will receive 20lll965lllMr. Godson
1002s understood, then, that the hon. Gentleman had not called the Reform Bill a swindle on his own authority, and should not pursue that point further. With regard to what the hon. Gentleman had said respecting the noble Lord's former opinions on the subject of agitation, be had always regretted that the noble Lord should have published such opinions; but, at all events, the noble Lord was pursuing the right course now, and while he did so, the noble Lord should have his support. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, as an excuse for not stating what measures he would propose, had alluded to the difficulties in which he was placed, and asked for time for deliberation. Why, he had had three years for deliberation, for during the whole of that time he had been anxiously seeking the overthrow of the Government; and he should not, before these measures had been proposed, have been very sorry if the right hon. Baronet had succeeded, but now that Ministers were proposing measures which were really for the benefit of the country, he felt bound to give them his support, and should be very sorry to see the right hon. Baronet succeed against them. He would not inquire into their sincerity. The measures themselves were substantially good, and he would give his vote for them. He firmly believed that the agricultural as well as the manufacturing class would be benefitted by them. They knew very well that the wages they received would buy a much larger quantity of wheat were that wheat cheaper, and that so long as the landlords could maintain their monopoly, they would never have cheap bread. The mode of introducing corn at a fixed duty of 81002sMr. Wallace
No, no.1001StanleyStanley had never heard such a rambling speech as that which the noble Lord had delivered, and which the hon. Member had praised. What did he mean by attributing the Arms Bill and the Irish Coercion Bill to the present Government? Those bills had been brought forward by the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire. By whom had the Coercion Bill been proposed? Why, by the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire. [Lord No, no.1001StanleyStanleyMr. Wallace
 said, that the question was, how the expenses of making out the return were to be paid? He conceived that the expenses should be paid by the clerk of the peace in the first instance, and the magistrates were bound to give an order on the county treasury for the expenses incurred in publishing these lists. He would take an early opportunity of explaining this to the magistrates of the county. The House was not aware how difficult it was to get a body of magistrates together until the quarter sessions commenced. He hoped the House would now give a direct, specific, and imperative order that the return of the list of electors of the county of Hertford, for the years 1840 and 1841, should be forthwith delivered.Mr. Alston
 said, it appeared to him, that there was some misconception here as to which officer should furnish the House with the return in question—whether it was to be the clerk of the peace or the sheriff? The House had always held, that when an order was made upon a public officer, that order should be complied with without hesitation. By the act of the 2nd of William 4th, cap. 5, it was expressly stated in one of its clauses, that the clerk of the peace should cause copies of the registry to be printed or written for the use of the electors, and that every clerk of the peace and every returning officer should deliver to every person applying for a copy of the same such copy or copies at a reasonable charge. Now, it appeared, it was supposed that this clause did not sufficiently provide for the expenses which might be incurred by the proper officers in furnishing the copies of the registry; but if that clause had not done so, the next clause had, for it was therein stated that any expenses incurred in making out the copies of the registry, whether written or printed, or any other expenses incurred in carrying out the objects of that act, should be defrayed out of the treasury of such county. The magistrates of the county ought, therefore, to be applied to for an order on the county treasurer for the payment of such additional expense.Mr. Estcourt
 then moved, that the clerk of the peace for the county of Hertford, be called to the bar of the House on Monday next, unless the register be furnished to the House in the mean time.Mr. Duncombe
967sld966 said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the non-compliance with one of its orders, namely, an order made by the House on the 20th of May last. This was a matter of some importance, as it had reference to the law which regulated the representation of the country. Upon the 20th of last May, upon the hearing of a petition, this House came to a resolution, and an order was thereupon made to the effect, that the
967sld966Mr. T. Duncombe
981980" It is the duty of a Government to calm, not to stimulate, the fever of popular excitement. They have adopted a different course; they have sent through the land the firebrand of agitation, and no one can now recall it. But let us hope there may be limits to their powers of mischief. They have, like the giant enemy of the Philistines, lighted three hundred brands, and scattered through the country discord and dismay; but God forbid that they should, like him, have the power to concentrate in death all the energies which belong to life, and to signalise their own destruction, by bowing to the earth the pillars of that sacred edifice which contains within its walls, according to their own admission, the noblest society of freemen in the world!"979978977Mesne Process.976975974973972971970*** spoke as follows981980" It is the duty of a Government to calm, not to stimulate, the fever of popular excitement. They have adopted a different course; they have sent through the land the firebrand of agitation, and no one can now recall it. But let us hope there may be limits to their powers of mischief. They have, like the giant enemy of the Philistines, lighted three hundred brands, and scattered through the country discord and dismay; but God forbid that they should, like him, have the power to concentrate in death all the energies which belong to life, and to signalise their own destruction, by bowing to the earth the pillars of that sacred edifice which contains within its walls, according to their own admission, the noblest society of freemen in the world!"979978977Mesne Process.976975974973972971970***Mr. Sergeant Talfourd
986985984983982: I am unwilling to allow these debates to come to a close at a period of such vital importance to the best interests of the country, a period so interesting to those whom I have the honour to represent, without offering a very few observations to the House, and stating the reasons why I shall oppose the motion of the right hon. Baronet. The object of the motion I take to be this; to compel, if possible, her Ma-
986985984983982Mr. Gillon
103610351034Stanley103310321031103010291028: I confess it was not without feelings of curiosity I saw my hon. and learned Friend (Sir William Follett), who has just addressed the House, rise to maintain the truth of the proposition propounded in the resolution moved by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, because I was at a loss to conceive how he, with the reputation he so deservedly enjoys, as a great constitutional lawyer, could undertake to support the opinion expressed by that proposition, namely, that a Government, being unable to carry a measure of great importance, which they, for the first time, have submitted to the House, is bound at once to relinquish office, without
103610351034Stanley103310321031103010291028Sir George Grey
996995ll was sensible that he could add nothing in the way of novelty to the debate, and he was ready to rest the argument upon the speeches on his own side of the House, supported as they were by such addresses as the House had just heard from one of the opposite benches. The noble Lord had mentioned the affairs of China, and the right hon. Member for Tamworth had fairly admitted, that they were not yet ripe for discussion. Nevertheless, as the right hon. Member for Pembroke had taken a different course, he trusted that the House would grant him its attention for a few moments while he stated his reasons for coming to an opposite conclusion. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had asserted that the war with China (so to call it) reflected anything but credit upon Ministers; but he took leave to say, on the other hand, that what had been done gave the present Government a strong claim to the confidence of the House and of the country. The whole community of British merchants in China were surrounded and made prisoners in their factory; their lives were threatened, they were to be subject to a lingering death by starvation, and, under those circumstances, 2,000,000996995llSir George Staunton
1000999998997 said, that nothing could reflect greater credit upon men than their having the manliness to abandon place for principle. When an hon. Member found himself convinced as to the propriety of a course he should have no hesitation in adopting that course. He (Sir Walter James) heard with some astonishment the speech of the noble Lord the Member for North Lincolnshire the other night, after
1000999998997Sir Walter James
—I did not designate the Reform Bill as a swindle—I stated it was the hon. and learned Member for Dublin who had so designated it.Sir Walter James
10271026Cheers" If he could be convinced that it was safe and just at once to do away with protection, to adopt a perfectly simple state of the law upon this subject, and to have an importation of corn entirely open and free of duty, he should then be inclined to propose or advocate inquiry. His noble Friend had carefully abstained from stating what it was that he meant to do, whether his object was to have a fixed duty, or a diminution of the present ascending and descending scale; but whichever of these alternatives was his noble Friend's plan, as he saw clearly and distinctly that that object would not be carried without a most violent struggle, without causing much ill blood, and a deep sense of grievance, without stirring society to its foundations, and leaving behind every sort of bitterness and animosity, he did not think that the advantages to be gained by the changes were worth the evils of the struggle, by which, their Lordships might depend on it, the change could alone be effected. They had seen great changes at no distant period—changes which had stirred society from the bottom, which had excited man against man, divided the whole country into parties, and left behind the deepest feelings of discord and enmity. He, for one, was not for adding to those feelings, by rashly adventuring to stir and agitate them, and upon these general grounds, he felt himself justified in saying 'no' to the motion of the noble Earl."— [CheersNo, no.No, no.1025ll1024" I do not hesitate to declare, that, under no circumstances, under the pressure of no difficulties, would I ever advise the Crown to resign that great source of moral strength, which consists in a strict adherence to the practice, the principle, the spirit, and the letter of the constitution."1023Hear, hear.10221021102010191018Cheers from the Ministerial benches.101710161015: Mr. Speaker, I charge the right hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets with no inconsistency, because, on a former night, he gave his vote in favour of those principles to which he has been long and sincerely attached; —I charge him with no inconsistency, because now, faithful to his party attachments, he is about to give what he says may probably be the last vote he will ever record in this House, in favour of that
10271026Cheers" If he could be convinced that it was safe and just at once to do away with protection, to adopt a perfectly simple state of the law upon this subject, and to have an importation of corn entirely open and free of duty, he should then be inclined to propose or advocate inquiry. His noble Friend had carefully abstained from stating what it was that he meant to do, whether his object was to have a fixed duty, or a diminution of the present ascending and descending scale; but whichever of these alternatives was his noble Friend's plan, as he saw clearly and distinctly that that object would not be carried without a most violent struggle, without causing much ill blood, and a deep sense of grievance, without stirring society to its foundations, and leaving behind every sort of bitterness and animosity, he did not think that the advantages to be gained by the changes were worth the evils of the struggle, by which, their Lordships might depend on it, the change could alone be effected. They had seen great changes at no distant period—changes which had stirred society from the bottom, which had excited man against man, divided the whole country into parties, and left behind the deepest feelings of discord and enmity. He, for one, was not for adding to those feelings, by rashly adventuring to stir and agitate them, and upon these general grounds, he felt himself justified in saying 'no' to the motion of the noble Earl."— [CheersNo, no.No, no.1025ll1024" I do not hesitate to declare, that, under no circumstances, under the pressure of no difficulties, would I ever advise the Crown to resign that great source of moral strength, which consists in a strict adherence to the practice, the principle, the spirit, and the letter of the constitution."1023Hear, hear.10221021102010191018Cheers from the Ministerial benches.101710161015Sir William Follett
 asked from whom the hon. and learned Member had obtained his information.Mr. O'Connell
ssss1081108010791078 was anxious to address the House, in consequence of the speech of the hon. Member for Lincoln, (Mr. Handley) on the previous evening. He confessed, that he had listened to the speech of that hon. Member, with pain and surprise, for he had known him for many years. He was besides a neighbour of the hon. Member's, and one of his constituents. Though he had the misfortune to differ from the hon. Member for Lincoln, in politics, he did not complain of him in that respect, for he did not complain of any person expressing the opinions he entertained, provided he expressed them in a fair and straightforward manner. Up to last night, he had looked upon his hon. Friend, the Member for Lincoln, as one of the most upright and straightforward Members of that House. But his experience of
ssss1081108010791078The Earl of Darlington
ss1075 believed, that strictly speaking, he had not a right to address the House a second time on the same question, but in common justice he ought
ss1075Mr. O'Connell
1056" Maladministration has run its course;
1056ll105510541053Tu pulsas ego vapulo tantum,1052squadrone volantes10511050 was sorry he did not see the hon. Member for Lincolnshire in his place, for after the phials of wrath which he had poured out upon his right
1056" Maladministration has run its course;
1056ll105510541053Tu pulsas ego vapulo tantum,1052squadrone volantes10511050Mr. Colquhoun
10651064106310621061" So far from the Orange Society being liable to the imputations cast upon them, their only fault was the exuberance of loyalty."Hansard10601059No1058Hear, hear1057 said, he had three grounds of complaint against the hon. Member who had just sat down. In the first place, he had not read the resolution before the House; in the second place, he had taken an unfair liberty with the hon. Member for Lincolnshire, who was absent; and, thirdly, he had totally concealed his real antipathy to the present Ministry. The hon. Member could not have read the resolution, because there was not one word in it about the confidence of the country; it spoke only of the confidence of the House; and there was a great difference between the two points. The hon. Gentleman seemed to have taken a leaf out of the book of the gallant Member for Lincoln, for, like him, he had spoken of commission after commission, exactly as the gallant Member was in the habit of doing. But as to the sincerity of the motives of the hon. Member in thus attacking the Government, he believed it to be grounded in the fact, that the present Ministry had thrown off the shackles of bigotry, and had endeavoured to respect the religious feelings of all her Majesty's subjects, and to do full justice to them. The hon. Member had attacked the hon. Member for Lincoln in strong terms, accusing him of inconsistency. If his recollection did not deceive him, there was once a Member for Kilmarnock, who advocated the Reform Bill, and appeared favourable to Radicalism; yet he was now found on the opposite benches, the ardent friend of that party which was opposed to the Reform Bill throughout. Was the hon. Member, then, the person to charge others with political inconsistency? If he were not mistaken, there were still greater charges alleged against the hon. Gentleman, but upon that he would not enter on the present occasion. There was an attempt by the variegated party opposite to seize the reins of Government. That was their object. But the House would not be led away by special pleading on the histories of past Government. No attempt of the kind had ever been made with greater political courage. He believed it had the full merit of great political courage; he would not call it a noble daring, because the purity of that daring would depend upon the object of the attempt, and the manner of executing it. The question before the House should be debated upon
10651064106310621061" So far from the Orange Society being liable to the imputations cast upon them, their only fault was the exuberance of loyalty."Hansard10601059No1058Hear, hear1057Mr. O'Connell
Cheers.1109 would acknowledge the consistency of the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, but he could not agree in that hon. Baronet's views of the Corn-laws; for it did not appear how low prices for food would increase the wages of the labourer. That principle, at least, would not be understood here. The present question, however, was well understood by the people of England. They understood the question to be, whether her Majesty's Ministers deserved the confidence of the House of Commons; and they knew that on the measures of the budget, Ministers certainly did not deserve that confidence. The day had gone by when mere forensic declamation would work its way with the people of England. The working people of
Cheers.1109Captain Hamilton
1111, in rising to support the motion of the right hon. Baronet, would ask the House this question; if the present Ministry had brought this country into its present difficulties, and
1111Colonel Conolly
1103Hear, hear.!ds11021101Hear, hear.!Hear, hear !1100Hear, hear !Hear, hear !109910981097Motos prœstat componere fluctus,1096Hear, hear.Hear, hear.1095Laughter.109410931092rari nantes in gurgite vasto" Hear! from the Ministerial Benches."1091" Hear, hear."alba sit, felixque semper109010891088 said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, commenced his speech with an allusion to a pretty and unfortunate countrywoman of mine who, he said, had fallen into a peccadillo. Not being aware what share the hon. and learned Gentleman might have had in the transaction to which he refers, but under the influence of a natural instinct of modesty, and actuated by feelings of commiseration for my fair and unfortunate countrywoman, whom the hon. Gentleman seemed about to drag to the bar of this august assembly—a more formidable tribunal than the Cutty Stool, I felt constrained to rise from my place and take refuge in the library, and it was not till he had nearly concluded his very long speech that I had sufficiently recovered my composure to return to my place. The House will, therefore, not expect that I should reply, as doubtless it deserved, to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman. When I did return to the House, I found him declaiming on the state of severe and unparalleled distress under which the population of our great manufacturing towns had for the last four years been suffering. Other Gentlemen who had spoken previously in this debate, and particularly the Member for Shrewsbury, in a speech which did honour to his good and kindly feelings, had expatiated on the same topic. But did it not occur to these hon. Gentlemen that these distresses, the existence of which I do not deny, and which no one more deeply deplores than I do, have all grown to their present height during the period for which her Majesty's present Ministers have held office. I confess I cannot understand what argument these hon. Gentlemen can legitimately draw from those distresses, if they think that Government has any influence in causing or preventing distress, unless it be one unfavourable to the continued existence of the present Government; and yet all of them have spoken in resistance of the motion of my right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, the object of which is to relieve the country from their misgovernment. In this there does seem to me a strange inconsistency. They allow, in terms, of the first part of the motion of
1103Hear, hear.!ds11021101Hear, hear.!Hear, hear !1100Hear, hear !Hear, hear !109910981097Motos prœstat componere fluctus,1096Hear, hear.Hear, hear.1095Laughter.109410931092rari nantes in gurgite vasto" Hear! from the Ministerial Benches."1091" Hear, hear."alba sit, felixque semper109010891088Mr. Cumming Bruce
 said, that it was the next property to Mr. O'Connell's in the county of Kerry.Sir D. Roche
 bore testimony to the conduct of the hon. and learned Member as a landlord. He had always heard of his being a roost forbearing landlord.Sir D. Roche
Hear, hear1110 said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down stated the question
Hear, hear1110Mr. Muntz
 observed, that he felt that he had scarcely a right to intrude any observations of his own upon the House at that moment, but the fact was, he had risen for the purpose of offering an apology to the House for having so loudly expressed his denial of the accusation of bribery which had been made against those who had been successful in the recent elections against the Government. He begged to repeat this denial—-and to assure the hon. and learned Member for Dublin that he had been altogether misinformed upon that subject. He would only add that, so far as the borough with which he had the honour to be connected was concerned, he believed he had had the satisfaction of being returned by the unbought suffrages of honest and independent electors—and it was a source of peculiar pleasure to him that one of the first votes he had been called upon to give, would be in support of the resolutions of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth.Mr. Lindsay
1074107310721071O'ConnellO'Connell1070106910681067Oh! from Mr. O'Connell1066: Sir, the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who has just resumed his seat, commenced his speech by making three charges against my hon. Friend, the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Colquhoun); the first of which was, that my hon. Friend had not read the resolution now before the House. I confess, Sir, it does appear to me somewhat strange, that the hon. and learned Member should have preferred such a charge against my hon. Friend, who, throughout his speech, did apply himself most ably, to the question under discussion, whilst the hon. and learned Member had not, in his rambling and discursive speech, of an hour's duration, addressed himself for a single moment, to either of the propositions involved in the resolution now before
1074107310721071O'ConnellO'Connell1070106910681067Oh! from Mr. O'Connell1066Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 asked where was the property to which the hon. Member alluded?Mr. Sergeant Jackson
: he made the statement on the authority of a letter, and be would give the name of the writer on ay proper occasion.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
10771076 said, a question had been asked by the hon. Member for Finsbury of the light ho. Baronet, which, in his opinion, well deserved an answer. He would venture to say, that the state of the working classes in the great cities and manufacturing towns of the country, was so bad, as hardly to be capable of exaggeration. He wished, therefore, to repeat that question, and to ask the right hon. Baronet what be proposed should be done with respect to those classes? In his opi-
10771076Mt. Slaney
1087a laugh10861085ss10841083s1082 said, that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, and the noble Lord the Member for Shropshire having given the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Lincolnshire (Mr. Handley) notice to attend, he had thought it his duty to obey their summons, and as they did not appear, they were determined that punishment should be inflicted in his absence, and certainly they had not spared him. But among the terms that were applied to him, the charge of "tergiversation and want of
1087a laugh10861085ss10841083s1082Sir Charles Grey
Cries of "Question."11081107110611051104 had never listened to a more extraordinary oration than that just delivered by the hon. Gentleman. He one moment called the attention of the House to the situation of the Moors in Algiers, in the next he travelled to Jerusalem, and dwelt on the situation of the Syrians; he next proceeded to France, and after a dissertation on the politics of that country, he jumped round to Mehemet Ali and Egypt; in the next moment, he favoured the House with a parallel between Themistocles and Sir Edward Codrington. The hon. Member then travelled to China, and to a number of other places. It was quite out of the question to follow the hon. Gentleman throughout his very discursive speech; he should, therefore, proceed to make some remarks on the question immediately before the House. He believed that no representatives were more interested in the decision the House should come to, on this question than the Members from Ireland, for with that country it was almost a question of life and death. He would not touch on the constitutional part of the question, as that had been dwelt on at length by those who could much better handle it than himself. They were asked then to withdraw their confidence from the Government, either in consequence of acts which they had committed, or in anticipation of a part which her Majesty's Ministers were about to take. The measures of the Government had been less touched on in the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth than he had anticipated, but the right hon. Baronet and those who followed him on
Cries of "Question."11081107110611051104Sir William Somerville
 observed, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, had a motion on the papers for that night, relating to the importation of foreign corn; but as the motion could not, probably, come on that evening, he begged that some Member of her Majesty's Government, in the absence of the noble Lord, would state on what day he intended to bring the question under the consideration of the House. It would be a very great convenience that they should be informed upon the subject.
Viscount Palmerston said, that his noble Friend would inform the House, before it separated, of the day on which he would bring forward his motion. He believed it would be Tuesday next, but he was not quite sure.Sir E. Knatckbull
1130"The Grand Lodge congratulated their brethren in various parts of Ireland on the state of public feeling as manifested at many meetings which had taken place in support of the Protestant constitution, and which had been most numerously attended; they also expressed an ardent hope, that their brethren in other parts of the kingdom would speak out and vindicate themselves, proving, that they were not what they had been described—the expiring remnant of a faction."112911281127" Lord Palmerston has achieved great things for England in a short time. The Mediterranean is now again the central point in all the great transactions of the world. Lord Palmerston has planted his standard there; he has done a mighty deed, and I am not surprised that the most ardent English Tory is now resolved to do him honour and give him a firm sustainment."1126" Cheers."1125112411231122 said, that the resolution proposed to the House by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, might be, he ventured to assert, a resolution which the right hon. Gentleman had been persuaded to propose by some of those advisers, in whom he conceived the experience of the right hon. Baronet might have taught him, that no very implicit confidence was to be reposed. But that resolution did not contain any condemnation of measures. There was nothing in it that would preclude the right hon. Baronet, whenever the interests of his country and his party might coincide, from reducing the duty on slave-grown sugar, or from bringing his own views upon the corn-laws, in conformity with those expressed by Sir George Murray, or the right hon. George Dawson. The right hon. Baronet—he would not say with disingenuousness, for he disliked the use of such phrases, but with characteristic caution, had taken especial care not to encumber the mo-
1130"The Grand Lodge congratulated their brethren in various parts of Ireland on the state of public feeling as manifested at many meetings which had taken place in support of the Protestant constitution, and which had been most numerously attended; they also expressed an ardent hope, that their brethren in other parts of the kingdom would speak out and vindicate themselves, proving, that they were not what they had been described—the expiring remnant of a faction."112911281127" Lord Palmerston has achieved great things for England in a short time. The Mediterranean is now again the central point in all the great transactions of the world. Lord Palmerston has planted his standard there; he has done a mighty deed, and I am not surprised that the most ardent English Tory is now resolved to do him honour and give him a firm sustainment."1126" Cheers."1125112411231122Mr. Shell
11471146114511441143114211411140113911381137113611351134 said, the object of the right hon. Baronet in the very peculiar framing of the resolution which they were now discussing, evidently had been to get a vote of want of confidence in the present Ministry, without subjecting himself to any of the usual inconveniences and responsibilities of such a vote. The right hon. Baronet thought that he might avoid bringing under discussion the general policy of Ministers, by assuming the fact that it had frequently been repudiated by the House, and that he might thus avoid what, above all things, he shrank from, having to state the policy which he would substitute for their policy, and compelling the House, having both before it, to say which it prefers. But whether the right hon. Baronet carried his resolution or not, they might be very sure that the right hon. Baronet would not carry it in the way he desires. No man in this House would be foolish enough to vote on it without reference to its practical results; or be led away by the assertion of past exhibitions of want of confidence contained in the first, or by the abstract inference contained in the second part of the resolution, to vote for turning out the Ministry if he really approves of its policy. Those only can vote for it who, preferring a Tory policy, think that the majority of this House is Tory, and believe that it is prepared to support a Tory Ministry; and unless the object of those who support the motion were really that we should have no Government at all, it could only succeed if the majority were united, not only in condemning the policy of the present Ministers, but also in approving of the men and the policy which would prevail on their removal. He could not but think that the right hon. Baronet, in order to effect his purpose, had attempted to establish constitutional doctrines at once new and mischievous. He quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet, in deprecating the maintenance of a Ministry by the favour of the Crown, in opposition to the expressed will of a majority of the House
11471146114511441143114211411140113911381137113611351134Mr. C. Butter
11881187"After all, the motion of the right hon. Gentleman may be of advantage to the Government. It may give time to constitutional organization, and to make proper arrangements for a dissolution, by which they would have a better chance of defeating and destroying the monopoly of the agricultural interests."1186From the Ministerial benches." How can I refuse to vote my confidence in the Government—I, who concur, not only in the measures which they have carried, but in those which they have abandoned. I concur in the principles which they have abandoned. I recorded my dissent from the abandonment of those principles; and that is the first ground on which I refuse my assent to the proposition, that they are not able to carry their measures through this House."1185Hawes:1184"That by prompt exertions the people might get rid of the financial difficulties of the country, without resorting to additional taxation; but that, by the rejection of the plan, the sources of labour to the industrious workman, and of profit to the manufacturer, would be destroyed, and great impediments be thrown in the way of our commercial prosperity."1183" His purpose was to persuade the House not to engage in this discussion, because he was convinced that it could only terminate in inconvenience and embarrassment. It was almost universally admitted, that there were certain questions which it would be much better to leave in a state of abeyance until they could be more fully discussed in a new Parliament. If there was one question more unfit than another to be entertained at the present moment, it was this, relative to the Corn-laws. No question was more calculated to agitate the House, and to set afloat in the country notions which might give rise to general inconvenience; and he thought, therefore, that unless the House were prepared to go through with it—unless they were Convinced that this opportunity, and this time, were convenient for dealing with so momentous and difficult a subject as the state and system of the Corn-laws, it ought not to be taken up. He would fairly own, that, at this period of the Session, when everybody was looking forward to the probability of a general election, he thought that nothing could be less advisable than to agitate the subject. He repeated, that if, at this moment, the House should raise (as the discussion of this subject was necessarily calculated to do) a great ex-
11831182" The most pusillanimous Parliament would not suffer itself to be deterred from the prosecution of its public duty by such a threat— the most indecent, indiscreet, and unparliamentary that could possibly be thrown out."1181" However that House might be attacked by the Government — however it might be threatened—he, for one, relied on the manly spirit of the House, that no threat would be capable of influencing their deliberations, or altering their opinions."" Whatever might be the issue of the division that night, the Ministry were determined to Stand on the prerogative of the Crown, and if necessary, make an appeal to the country on the subject."11801179117811771176117511741173117211711170" What blame can you attach to us, if our measures were so pure and unexceptionable, as to command the respect and support even of our political opponents?"1169" True, we have sustained defeats on many occasions. On more than one occasion we have been compelled to abandon—on more than one we have been defeated in attempting to carry, our measures. We have received the suggestions and corrections, and have deferred to the commands, of hon. Gentlemen sitting on the other side of the House. Those hon. Gentlemen have generally dictated the course of our proceedings; but it cannot be denied, that we have been able to carry some measures, from 1835 down to the present time."11681167: Mr. Speaker, I have observed, during the course of the late protracted debates, that it is always a favourable omen of the approaching conclusion of a discussion, when the right hon. Gentleman, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, moves the adjournment of the debate, one night, and commences on the succeeding evening at five o'clock, and as we have this evening obtained that happy omen, I trust we may hail the right hon. Gentleman as the harbinger of the close of the present discussion. Before it terminates, therefore, I am anxious to address a few words to the House in explanation of the grounds on
11881187"After all, the motion of the right hon. Gentleman may be of advantage to the Government. It may give time to constitutional organization, and to make proper arrangements for a dissolution, by which they would have a better chance of defeating and destroying the monopoly of the agricultural interests."1186From the Ministerial benches." How can I refuse to vote my confidence in the Government—I, who concur, not only in the measures which they have carried, but in those which they have abandoned. I concur in the principles which they have abandoned. I recorded my dissent from the abandonment of those principles; and that is the first ground on which I refuse my assent to the proposition, that they are not able to carry their measures through this House."1185Hawes:1184"That by prompt exertions the people might get rid of the financial difficulties of the country, without resorting to additional taxation; but that, by the rejection of the plan, the sources of labour to the industrious workman, and of profit to the manufacturer, would be destroyed, and great impediments be thrown in the way of our commercial prosperity."1183" His purpose was to persuade the House not to engage in this discussion, because he was convinced that it could only terminate in inconvenience and embarrassment. It was almost universally admitted, that there were certain questions which it would be much better to leave in a state of abeyance until they could be more fully discussed in a new Parliament. If there was one question more unfit than another to be entertained at the present moment, it was this, relative to the Corn-laws. No question was more calculated to agitate the House, and to set afloat in the country notions which might give rise to general inconvenience; and he thought, therefore, that unless the House were prepared to go through with it—unless they were Convinced that this opportunity, and this time, were convenient for dealing with so momentous and difficult a subject as the state and system of the Corn-laws, it ought not to be taken up. He would fairly own, that, at this period of the Session, when everybody was looking forward to the probability of a general election, he thought that nothing could be less advisable than to agitate the subject. He repeated, that if, at this moment, the House should raise (as the discussion of this subject was necessarily calculated to do) a great ex-
11831182" The most pusillanimous Parliament would not suffer itself to be deterred from the prosecution of its public duty by such a threat— the most indecent, indiscreet, and unparliamentary that could possibly be thrown out."1181" However that House might be attacked by the Government — however it might be threatened—he, for one, relied on the manly spirit of the House, that no threat would be capable of influencing their deliberations, or altering their opinions."" Whatever might be the issue of the division that night, the Ministry were determined to Stand on the prerogative of the Crown, and if necessary, make an appeal to the country on the subject."11801179117811771176117511741173117211711170" What blame can you attach to us, if our measures were so pure and unexceptionable, as to command the respect and support even of our political opponents?"1169" True, we have sustained defeats on many occasions. On more than one occasion we have been compelled to abandon—on more than one we have been defeated in attempting to carry, our measures. We have received the suggestions and corrections, and have deferred to the commands, of hon. Gentlemen sitting on the other side of the House. Those hon. Gentlemen have generally dictated the course of our proceedings; but it cannot be denied, that we have been able to carry some measures, from 1835 down to the present time."11681167Lord Stanley
1189; Ay, and to turn out the Government. That was the political creed of Mr. Tierney, as to the duty of any opposition; but I must say that if ever there was an opposition which has gone out of its way to avoid limiting itself to the performance of the duty prescribed by that
1189Lord Stanley
: No. I did not charge you with it. I said quite the contrary.Mr. Shell
, in moving that the House at its rising adjourn till Monday said, that he would reserve himself with respect to the course the Government would take until that day. All he would say now was, that he proposed to take a vote of supply on Monday, and take only such of the miscellaneous estimates, the necessity for which was so immediate that any delay would occasion great inconvenience to the public service, if not granted at the present moment. [" The Corn-laws."] He would state on Monday what course he meant to pursue on that question, but the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Robert Peel) having though t proper, in his reply, to bring new charges against the Government, which ho had never heard of before, he must take till Monday to consider what steps he could best take to vindicate the Government.Lord John Russell
: Certainly not.Lord J. Russell
12161215" If, however, a set of Ministers, who brought forward a measure to which they were solemnly pledged, for the good of the country, found that that measure was defeated, it certainly might not be improper, in such a case,
12151214121312121211Ut tanta quicquam pro spe tentare recusem.Ut tanta quicquam pro spe tentare recusem.Non adeò" Non adeò121012091208" Cheers"1207R. Peel:1206120512041203120212011200119911981197119611951194" I readily agree with the hon. Member who asserted that the failure of any bill proposed by a Minister afforded no cause for that Minister's dismissal from office—this is a sound doctrine."1193119211911190: Mr. Speaker,—I could have wished to have addressed the House at an earlier period of this debate, soon after the temperate speech of the right hon. Baronet who introduced the motion, but I considered it my duty to wait until I heard the various arguments and allegations which could be urged in its support, and until I heard the charges which might be preferred against the Government. Admitting, as I freely do, the great ability and eloquence with which the motion has been supported—admitting the great numbers who are likely, on a division, to give their assent to it; yet, I may say, that a motion less consonant with the spirit of the constitution, or less founded on real matter, I never knew submitted to the House of Commons. The noble Lord who last addressed the House, in one phrase of his speech, said, that the time
12161215" If, however, a set of Ministers, who brought forward a measure to which they were solemnly pledged, for the good of the country, found that that measure was defeated, it certainly might not be improper, in such a case,
12151214121312121211Ut tanta quicquam pro spe tentare recusem.Ut tanta quicquam pro spe tentare recusem.Non adeò" Non adeò121012091208" Cheers"1207R. Peel:1206120512041203120212011200119911981197119611951194" I readily agree with the hon. Member who asserted that the failure of any bill proposed by a Minister afforded no cause for that Minister's dismissal from office—this is a sound doctrine."1193119211911190Lord John Russell
: And to turn out the Government.Lord John Russell
, seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in his place, wished to ask him whether he had taken any measures, in conformity with the declaration of the Allied Powers, to prevent the perpetration by the Turks, of cruelties on the Christian inhabitants of Candia?Lord Teignmouth
11661165116411631162locus penitentiœ,116111601159 should not feel called upon to answer many of the observations of the hon. and gallant officer, because the line of argument which the gallant Member had taken was only a parody of that taken many years ago by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke (Sir James Graham), when he was an ardent Reformer, and looked closely into the large sums paid to different Ministers. He would, therefore, leave the right hon. Baronet to answer the arguments of his new ally, which he thought utterly unworthy of refutation in that House. If historical precedents were to be referred to as a rule for the steps which this or that Ministry were to take upon certain emergencies, the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard had fully settled the question; but he utterly denied that any Government at the present day, and especially since the Reform Bill, could have their conduct regulated by precedents drawn from the olden time. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had referred to the precedents of Walpole and of the year 1784; but he denied that
11661165116411631162locus penitentiœ,116111601159Mr. Hawes
 did not care twopence for the charges against the Government, but he was exceedingly desirous of having the discussion on the Corn-laws; and he hoped the noble Lord would be prepared on Monday to name the day for the discussion.Mr. Hindley
l.l.l.l.d.s.l.1158l.l.l.1157Noscitur a sociis, said, that as one connected with the county of Lincoln, he had heard with regret and surprise, the expressions and opinions, that had been made use of by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lincolnshire, and by the hon. Member who represented the southern division of that county. He had repeatedly heard these Gentlemen, whether at public meetings or on the hustings, or other places, where he had the honour of meeting them, holding out assurances and promises of attachment and support to the agricultural interest in that county, and who relied on them to defend their interest in that House. As a freeholder in that county he had a right to express his opinion with respect to the votes and speeches of those Gentlemen, and to express his feelings at the manner in which the noble Lord and the hon. Member had deceived their constituents and himself. He hoped the hon. Member, whom he saw in his place (Mr. Handley), had seen the county newspaper in which his conduct was commented on, and which expressed the dissatisfaction entertained in that county at his conduct. the opinions which that hon. Member had thought fit to express in that House, were not the feelings or opinions of the great agricultural constituency which he represented, and he hoped, that they never would be. There was an old adage, "Tell me your company, and I'll tell you who you are." l.l.l.l.d.s.l.1158l.l.l.1157Noscitur a sociis,Colonel Sibthorp
 trusted the noble Lord would that night fix the time. Ample time had been allowed to consider this question. There was no doubt entertained by any one that the discussion on the Corn-laws must come on. As Tuesday was the first day, the noble Lord ought at once before he left the House to fix that day.Mr. Hume
1121 said, that if the noble Lord could not furnish him with more accurate information on the subject, he must be content. He had not asked the question from any uncourteous motives, but it was a subject on the discussion of which a great deal of anxiety naturally prevailed, and he feared that if he had to wait until the noble Lord, the Secretary
1121Sir E. Knatchbull
11551154115311521151: The noble Lord who has just resumed his seat, has no right to throw on hon. Members the charge of supporting her Majesty's Government for party. I do not desire to accuse Gentlemen opposite of opposing them with any such unworthy view, and the fair construction that I am willing to place on their conduct, I claim most unreservedly for ours. I am astonished to hear the noble Lord reiterate the charge made by the right hon. Member for Pembroke, against the Member for Lincolnshire, for a more complete answer than that given by the hon. Member for Lincolnshire, has rarely, I believe, been given by one hon. Member to another in this House. And the answer contained a severe rebuke. The charge of inconsistency made by the right hon. Baronet, was fully met and disposed of by the hon. Member, by a reference to a speech at Carlisle, made by the right hon. Gentleman in 1835, when he stated, that it was not because he differed from the Government on one question, that he could be expected, or would be justified, in plunging into opposition to their measures in general. The noble Lord has referred to recent contests to prove that the Government has lost the confidence of the country. Single elections do not prove much one way or the other, but when the noble Lord refers to them, and at the same moment charges us with inconsistency, I must say, that unless public rumour does great injustice to the party opposite, one of the most important of the recent elections does no honour to the consistency of their political conduct. If the hon. Gentleman lately returned for Nottingham, was sent to that place by the Conservative party, that circumstance is calculated very essentially to excite distrust in that party, and must be viewed with pain by any man who watches political events, and values political integrity. A gentleman altogether unconnected with the place, and unknown there, is sent down by the party opposite, and contests the borough solely
11551154115311521151Sir Harry Verney
1231Trinculo123012291228" He would, however, admit, that the confidence of the House of Commons was necessary to an administration, and he would be the last man to oppose that doctrine."1227" He wished to conceal nothing. He had
1227John Russell:122612251224For sufferance is the badge of all your tribe."" Still have borne it with a patient shrug;1223Cheers.1222John Russell:1221l.1220121912181217: Mr. Speaker, A great portion of the speech of the noble Lord has been occupied by the information, kindly conveyed to me, as to the measures which I should discover to have passed, in case, after the lapse of ten years, I should be called to office. And I have not the least doubt, that, if there should be in the House at present, as there was some time since, some eminent stranger, to whom the speech of the noble Lord should be translated, and who may not be very conversant with the parliamentary history of this country, that eminent stranger would suppose that I was a person to whom it was necessary for the noble Lord to convey information as to the measures that have been passing during that period, that I have been excluded for ten years, from any parliamentary proceedings—and that I had taken no part whatever in those measures which the noble Lord was detailing. I can assure the noble Lord that his reminiscence was unnecessary. With many of those measures I have been fully conversant. I think I know something of the consolidation and improvement of the criminal law. It is true I did not appoint a well-paid commission, of five Gentlemen, sitting for years. I effected those improvements with no other aid than the ordinary official assistance; and after the testimonies which I have heard borne to the utility of those improvements from the Ministerial side of the House, I think it is hardly necessary for the noble Lord now to claim exclusive credit for them, and to remind me that such a thing had been effected, as an improvement in the criminal laws. Then, with respect to Dissenters' Marriages, why, during the short period that I was permitted to hold office, in 1835, one of the measures which I introduced was the measure for the removal of
1231Trinculo123012291228" He would, however, admit, that the confidence of the House of Commons was necessary to an administration, and he would be the last man to oppose that doctrine."1227" He wished to conceal nothing. He had
1227John Russell:122612251224For sufferance is the badge of all your tribe."" Still have borne it with a patient shrug;1223Cheers.1222John Russell:1221l.1220121912181217Sir Robert Peel
 said, that a great part of the speech of the noble Lord consisted of an attack upon himself, but he would be exceedingly sorry if it were possible for the noble Lord to impute anything unfair to him, or that he had taken any advantage in his reply to bring forward fresh charges against the Government. It was not his intention to do so, and knowing that the noble Lord had no right of reply, he had not said one word upon the foreign policy. He would not deprecate the course which the noble Lord might think desirable, and he might take it for granted that the noble Lord would not bring forward the Corn-laws on Monday.Sir Robert Peel
124112401239bonâ fidel.l.1238" No, no.!"123712361235No, no !123412331232: Why, then, when speaking of my acts, as a Minister—why with reference to my administration, did you dig out of this forgotten appendix to the report of the Orange Lodge Committee, a report of the proceedings of some Orange Lodge, if it were not for the purpose of having it presumed that I had encouraged the animosities and the feuds to which the orange lodges had given rise? The right hon. Gentleman read an extract from some grand Orange Lodge report, in which it was stated that there were, in the various parts
124112401239bonâ fidel.l.1238" No, no.!"123712361235No, no !123412331232Sir Robert Peel
113311321131 said, that he was anxious to follow the example of courtesy prescribed by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, although he must take leave to say, that he thought that the right hon. Gentleman was in general singularly infelicitous in the character he gave to any debate in which he took part. He would not say that the right hon. Gentleman intended any want of courtesy on those occasions, but he meant to say, that he frequently indulged in personal observations of a painful character without in the least advancing his argument or the cause he was advocating. He could infer from the argument of the right hon.
113311321131Sir S. Canning
115011491148 said, the question the House had to determine was simply whether the course pursued by her Majesty's Ministers was constitutional and honest or not, and whether the precedent Which they had laid down by their conduct would not be injurious to all future Governments'. The hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last had attempted to bolster up the case of Ministers by placing the former conduct of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, in an unfavourable light; bat what parallel was there between the two cases? None whatever; and therefore, the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman so far was good for nothing. Now, he fully agreed, that on being defeated, the Ministers would be justified in appealing to the country but he mast say, that sustaining defeat after defeat, they were flat justified in retaining office and defering on appeal to the country for an indefinite period. Such a proceeding was not in conformity with either the practice or the spirit of the constitution; and he was
115011491148Viscount Dungannon
 did not know to what declaration the noble Lord alluded, but he would state, that as soon as her Majesty's Goverment had received information of the troubles in Candia, they had dispatched instructions to our ambassador at Constantinople, directing him to use his utmost endeavours to prevail on the Turkish Government to enter into some arrangement with the Greek population of Candia, which, while on the one hand it should be satisfactory to the Turkish Government, should, on the other, give the Greek population of Candia full security for their persons and properties; and he had also been directed to urge the Turkish Government not to have recourse to measures more severe than should be absolutely necessary.Viscount Palmerston
1255 gave notice of a motion for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws relating to landlord and tenant in Ireland. He would take that opportunity to allude to a matter personal to himself. The House was aware that, a few evenings ago, the hon. and learned Member for Bandon (Sergeant Jackson) made a very serious charge against him (Mr. O'Connell) of oppressing his tenants in Kerry, by distraining in April for rent due in March. Not having been in Kerry of late, he (Mr. O'Connell) did not know whether some agent of his might not have distrained some of the tenants from malicious motives; therefore, he did not rise at the instant to contradict
1255Mr. O'Connell
: I don't know how the hon. and learned Gentleman can give the particulars of a falsehood.Mr. O'Connell
custos stated, that he had received an order from that House for a copy of the register of electors for the county of Hertford for 1840 and 1841; that he had not complied with the order, because the register was not in his possession, nor under his control; that he had no access to it; that by the 55th section of the Reform Bill, the sheriff of the county, not the clerk of the peace, was made the custosMr. Storey
"Order.": Now I appeal to the House to decide as to the fairness of this dealing. The hon. and learned Gentleman has stated, that he has a document. Ought he not to have had that document ready to produce when he made a charge of this nature? The hon. and learned Member says, that he made a memorandum, if he made a memorandum, ought he not to have ascertained the man's name? He knows as well as I do, that there are several Twisses on the Jury in Kerry. Ought, he not to have taken down his address? ["Order."Mr. O'Cornell
: I was merely saying this—that the name of the party accusing me is not given—that the address of the party is not given—that the date of the year is not given—and that the lands where this harshness is said to have been practised is not given. And this last fact is material; because I have but one property on which such a transaction could have happened, and that is the college property. On all the rest of my property the rent falls due in May and November. It appears, in short, that this charge has been made against me in the total absence of an accuser—in the total absence of any witnesses—in the total absence of dates—in the total absence of all particulars. I am, therefore, now entitled to pronounce it as gross a falsehood as was ever uttered.Mr. O'Connell
1260 thought, that the witness acted under a mistake. He did not say he was to blame, for a more gross mistake, than that of the magistrates he was at a loss to imagine. According to the act the expense of furnishing copies of the registry was to be defrayed by the treasurer of the county, and it was also required by the act that the Clerk of the Peace should
1260Mr. O'Connell
127712761275 said, that as the noble Lord the Secretary of the Colonies and the right hon. Baronet had stated what they called their view of the position of parties and the course they intended to take, and as Members seemed after that to consider that all real business was over, he hoped he might make one or two observations upon that question which had caused that position of parties, and upon which they were now about to disturb the peace of the country; and if he did not know what grave considerations that question involved—how closely con-
127712761275Mr. Villiers
 moved the committal of the Municipal Corporations Bill.Sir J. Y. Buller
 said, he had been accused of bringing in a bill to plunder the town of Exeter, and he was anxious that the measure should be proceeded with, in order that those who were concerned might learn how groundless the accusation was, and that the bill would, on the contrary, be most beneficial to Exeter.Sir J. Y. Buller
 moved, as an instruction, that the committee be empowered to make provision for compensation for losses sustained by officers, by reason of charters granted to certain towns.Sir E. Wilmot
 moved a clause that the Borough of Bolton be exempted from the operation of this bill.Mr. Boiling
 trusted that the House would at least agree to the principle of the measure.Mr. Fox Maule
 moved the second reading of the Bribery at Elections Bill.Mr. Fox Maule
 replied that his noble Friend would be in his place to-morrow, and would state the bills he intended to press.Mr. Fox Maule
: After what the right hon. Gentleman has said, I feel it necessary to address a few observations to the House, stating, in the first place, that I do not think, upon ordinary occasions, that giving the House any guarantee with respect to any advice which may be tendered by Ministers to the Crown would be convenient; not allowing that to be the usual course in ordinary cases, yet, considering the peculiar circumstances of the present case, and knowing the mind of my noble Friend at the head of her Majesty's Government, and what are his wishes upon this subject, I cannot have any hesitation in saying, that the advice we shall give to the Crown will be, that no time should be lost in dissolving the present Parliament and in summoning a new one. We feel that to be the most convenient course; and I, as holding the seals of office, still more personally feel all the objections that can be urged against continuing to act in office after the vote to which the House came the other night—a vote which we feel imposes upon us the obligation as soon as possible to refer that decision to the judgment of a new Parliament.Lord John Russell
126612651264interruption126312621261 said, that he had stated on Friday night, before the House separated, the course which the Government intended to pursue in regard to the committee of supply and the remainder of the estimates. He likewise then stated, that he would to-day announce his intentions in respect to the motion of the Corn-laws of which he had given notice. It would be in the recollection of the House, that he gave that notice on the day on which his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, brought forward his budget and the financial statement for the year. He afterwards renewed that motion and fixed the discussion of it for Friday last. It was his intention certainly to bring it forward as a question of considerable importance, not merely for the purpose of discussion— because it had been frequently debated before—but he wished to obtain from the House their opinion in regard to the policy of an alteration in the Corn-laws, and in regard to the principle of the alteration which he meant to propose on behalf of the Government. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had, however, fourteen days ago, given notice that he would move a resolution to the effect, that the present Ministers, having been
126612651264interruption126312621261Lord John Russell
 said, if the hon. and learned Member had anything further to state in explanation of the facts, of course the House would be ready to hear it; but he submitted to him whether he ought to prolong this conversation when there was no question before the House.The Speaker
 stated, that if the noble Lord attempted to proceed with this bill, he would oppose every clause of it. A more clap-trap and objectionable bill had never been brought into Parliament. He had opposed a similar bill some Sessions ago, and the only object of the present measure on their part was to entrap Members in a way never attempted before by a Government. The Government was capable of any dirty trick which an Administration could resort to.Colonel Sibthorp
 wished this bill to be postponed until next Session.Mr. Divett
 said, that his opinion coincided with that of the majority of the House, that if the House made an order it must be obeyed, but this was a matter independent of an Act of Parliament. He thought the orders respecting this Gentleman were rather hard. The House did not appear to pay anything for the copy ordered, but, on its own authority, ordered a copy to be returned. Such an order must sometimes operate harshly on an individual. This Gentleman could not make a copy himself, but must pay to have it done; and though this was no reason why the power of the House should not be vindicated, it was a reason for not pressing harshly against an individual who had not transgressed against the order. The House required a copy of the register, and he had not the means of furnishing a copy, for the register was not in his possession. The hon. Member was aware this gentleman had a copy of the register in his possession, and asked him if he did not know that it was a faithful copy, to which the witness answered in the affirmative. He was then asked why he did not send that, and he answered, because it belonged to the county, Could there be a better reason? If he had the register in his possession he (Sir E. Sugden), thought he ought to have obeyed the House, and afterwards appealed to its justice for payment, but it struck him that this gentleman had not the power of obeying the order. There had been a trial of legal skill between the hon. Member for Fins-bury, and the witness; but it appeared to him that the witness had the best of the argument.Sir E. Sugden
 said, he should not oppose the second reading, but he objected to the mode in which the clauses were drawn up relating to treating.Sir E. Sugden
 wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he considered it fit that public offices should be used as places where public petitions ought to lie for signature, and especially whether the Excise-office should be used for the purpose of obtaining signatures to Anti-corn-law petitions?Mr. G. Palmer
lllll1298 wished to say a very few words. If he had expected, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have entered so largely into the question of finance, he should have come down to the House furnished with the papers which had been quoted by his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, in the debate of Friday last. But he had left the House early in the evening under the impression that Ministers were anxious to go at once into the committee
lllll1298Mr. Goulburn
1287llll128612851284ss12831282 said, that the reply of the right hon. Baronet on Friday last con-
1287llll128612851284ss12831282Mr. Labouchere
l1293 had heard the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with great surprise. He had not been able to contradict the fact that for the last five years there had been a continually increasing deficiency, now amounting to seven millions and a half. Of all the arguments he ever heard he thought it the most extraordinary that, because they had a surplus for two years, that surplus should be put forward as a set-off against continually recurring deficiencies. But, if that argument was good, why did the right hon. Gentleman stop at the two first years— why did he take credit for the six millions and a half of surplus that existed when Lord Althorp was Chancellor of the Exchequer? Why did not the right hon. Gentleman add Lord Althorp's surplus of six millions and a half to the three millions that he claimed credit for, and thus he might on the same ground claim credit for nine millions? Now, with respect to what the right hon. Gentleman had stated, he begged to say that during the years between the peace and 1828, when his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge was Chancellor of the Exchequer, thirty-one millions were paid out of the public moneys in the remission of taxes. During the administration of his right hon. Friend he had applied ten millions to the reduction of the public debt. During the time that Lord Althorp was Chancellor of the Exchequer, he had applied six millions and a half to the reduction of the debt. Lord Monteagle had applied about three millions to the same purpose. However, during the last five years the deficiency amounted to seven millions and a half. In answer to this it was said that the present Government had taken off a large amount of taxes; but were they the only Government that had done so? When Lord Monteagle brought forward his first budget, he had done justice to the efforts of former Administrations in the reduction of taxation. He had said that he could only be a gleaner in the field, that the harvest had been gathered by the Wellington and Liverpool Administrations. He told the House that since the peace forty-two millions of taxation had been reduced, of which thirty-three millions had been reduced by the Liverpool and Wellington Administrations. He hoped, there-
l1293Mr. Herries
1297s1296l1295ll1294 was amazed at the charges brought against the Government by the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet was quite as responsible for the deficiency as the Government. The Government had been foolish enough to suffer themselves to be entrapped into increased expenditure by hon. Gentlemen opposite. He had told them at the time what must be the consequence of such profuse expenditure; but they had chosen rather to listen to hon. Gentlemen opposite than to him, and therefore the right hon. Baronet had no right to the claim he had put in, that he would have managed the finances better. The whole excess of expenditure had been owing to the misconduct of the Tories and the weakness of the Whigs—Tories urging them to an extravagant expenditure, and the Whigs having the weakness to yield to them. Did the right hon. Baronet forget that five millions taxation had been reduced, and yet the revenue had only fallen by one and a half millions? He would admit that from 1836 there had been no relief, but the revenue had been annually increasing, and the average revenue of 1839, 1840, and 1841 exceed-
1297s1296l1295ll1294Mr. Hume
: Perhaps the House will permit me to say to the hon. and learned Gentleman, that I will make it my business to put him in possession of all the particulars at the earliest possible moment. I promised his son to-day that I would furnish the information this evening, if I could lay my hand on the memorandum I had made.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
1257O'Connell:1256 observed, that
1257O'Connell:1256Mr. Sergeant Jackson
1259 said, it was quite clear to the House that this order was sent to the clerk of the peace. The hon. Member for Ripon had been decidedly of opinion, that it was the duty of the clerk of the peace to furnish a copy of the register. It was quite clear, after the statement of the witness, that he was in possession of the register, and that it was his bounden duty, as clerk of the peace, to furnish a copy of it to the House. An hon. Member had asked him if it was an authentic copy, and he replied that it was. It seemed that his only object, as an individual; in not furnishing this copy, was to
1259Mr. T. Duncombe
 observed, that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies stated, that he did not intend to proceed during the present Session either with this bill or the Buildings Regulations Bill; they should therefore be withdrawn at once.Mr. Townley Parker
1281R. Peel:"But, Sir, of this I am confident, that no dissolution of any Government—no constitution of any administration can, since that great measure was passed—either impede or endanger the course of a temperate, salutary, and comprehensive system of Reform."Robert Peel:1280" I make great offers, which should not lightly be rejected. I offer you the prospect of continued peace, the restored confidence of powerful states, that are willing to seize the opportunity of reducing great armies, and thus diminishing the chances of hostile collision; I offer you reduced estimates, improvements in civil jurisprudence, reform of ecclesiastical law, the settlement of the tithe question in Ireland, the commutation of tithe in England the removal of any real abuse in the Church the redress of those grievances of which the Dissenters have any just ground to complain I offer you these specific measures, and I offer also to advance, soberly and cautiously, it is true, in the path of progressive improvement. I offer also the best chance, that these things
128012791278 referred to the manner in which the right hot). Member for Tamworth on former occasions had deprecated excitement on the eve of a general election, although, at the present moment, he was anxious at once to go to the country, and to assemble Parliament again with all possible dispatch, in order to consider a great national question, which could not fail to excite the inhabitants of the empire from one end to the other. Now, popular clamour, pressure from without, and pledges of candidates on the hustings, were as nothing in the eyes of the right hon. Baronet. He did not complain of this; but he did complain that the right hon. Baronet, and those who acted with him, opposed the repeal of the Septennial Act, and would not hear of shortening the duration of Parliaments. It appeared not only inconsistent, but irrational, that the right hon. Baronet should wish to select a new Parliament for the discussion and decision of a question of such prodigious importance and interest, and
1281R. Peel:"But, Sir, of this I am confident, that no dissolution of any Government—no constitution of any administration can, since that great measure was passed—either impede or endanger the course of a temperate, salutary, and comprehensive system of Reform."Robert Peel:1280" I make great offers, which should not lightly be rejected. I offer you the prospect of continued peace, the restored confidence of powerful states, that are willing to seize the opportunity of reducing great armies, and thus diminishing the chances of hostile collision; I offer you reduced estimates, improvements in civil jurisprudence, reform of ecclesiastical law, the settlement of the tithe question in Ireland, the commutation of tithe in England the removal of any real abuse in the Church the redress of those grievances of which the Dissenters have any just ground to complain I offer you these specific measures, and I offer also to advance, soberly and cautiously, it is true, in the path of progressive improvement. I offer also the best chance, that these things
128012791278Mr. Wakley
 opposed the motion, on the ground that it would have a most injurious effect on his constituents.Sir C. Douglas
Hear, hear."1299 said, the hon. Member for Kilkenny had been comparing the aristocracy of this country with the noblesse of France, and he thought the comparison a very good one, except that the French aristocracy had not introduced so much sophistry and complication into their system of finance as were to be found in that of this country. The public would yet understand the true nature of the case; and, whatever successes might attend the right hon. Baronet and his party, the present disastrous state of affairs would, he had no doubt, turn out to the advantage of the country. He believed, that the people would yet make the hon. Gentlemen opposite understand, that they knew the object of the right
Hear, hear."1299Sir De Lacy Evans
 objected to the postponement of bills in this way. It was the duty of the Government at once to state what measures they intended to proceed with.Sir E. Knatchbull
ll said, that all the estimates except that for the China expedition, would be for the half year. That estimate was for the whole year, because it was matter of account with the East India Company, who had to make up their accounts in order to pay their dividends.llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that his noble Friend would state to-morrow what bills he intended to proceed with, and what he proposed to postpone.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that such conduct would be improper on the part of the Excise authorities, but he thought that the hon. Gentleman must have been misinformed on the subject. If the hon. Gentleman, however, would give him the particulars, he would inquire into the matter.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
lllll1290llllR. Peel:l1289llllllll1288 was perfectly satisfied with what the right hon. Baronet had said, but during the whole course of the dehate, it was a confident imputation put forward by hon. Members one after the other. So far for the double budget. He thought, however, that he could show the House, that this was not the only point on which the right hon. Baronet was wrong. He would state some figures, for the purpose of setting the right hon. Baronet right upon some mat-
lllll1290llllR. Peel:l1289llllllll1288The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1291llllllll took the calculation for six years, and the right hon. Baronet would recollect that the present Government had, in 1835, taken upon itself the West Indian loan of twenty millions; so that, if he took away the surplus of that year, he ought also to relieve them of the loan. But the result of this calculation was, that instead of the diminution being 7,000,0001291llllllllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
: You are not calculating it as a matter of surplus at all.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1292 had no right to set off the surplus revenue of the years 1836 and 1837 against the deficiency. The present Government began with a great surplus of revenue, but in the last five years a melancholy contrast had been presented. If he was to take the whole seven years, of course the deficiency would not be so great, but when right hon. Gentlemen spoke of the present alarming state of the finances of the country, and their prosperity during the first two years of their
1292Sir Robert Peel
llllllll said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had placed him in the same situation of difficulty in which he complained that he had himself been placed, because he had entered into an explanation of circumstances which he was unprepared to meet. If the right hon. Gentleman had intimated to him that he had intended to call upon him to sustain the calculation which he had produced on a former evening, he should have come prepared to give what answer he could. Upon the debate upon the sugar duties, he (Sir Robert Peel) had said, that during the last five years there had been a deficiency of nearly eight millions—a statement which he afterwards corrected by reducing the amount which he named to 7,600,000llllllllSir Robert Peel
: What was the deficiency for the last five years?Sir Robert Peel
 said that he had not the slightest information more than, was in the possession of other Members. What he spoke of the other night, was not from more information than was possessed by other Members; it was a suggestion of the moment, and what he said was matter of surmise, and not from any particular information that he had.Sir R. Peel
12741273"I have observed, with satisfaction, your desire to introduce strict economy into every branch of the public service. I trust the efforts of the new Parliament, which I shall forthwith direct to be called, will be applied to the prosecution of the same object."" His Majesty trusts the early attention of the new Parliament, which he will forthwith direct to be called, will be applied to the prosecution of those important objects."12721271J. Russell:1270126912681267 said, he would attempt to state, as clearly, as fully, and he hoped, as calmly as the noble Lord had done, the view which he took of the present position of the House in reference to those questions which the noble Lord had alluded to. He would in the first place notice what the noble Lord had designated as the charges which he (Sir R. Peel) had, in his speech in reply, at the conclusion of the debate on Friday, brought against her Majesty's Ministers. He rather believed, that there was only one charge of which the noble Lord could complain, and that was with reference to the Budget. It certainly was not his intention on Friday night to take advantage of the opportunity which the right of reply gave him to urge other charges against the Government, considering the circumstances under which the noble Lord was placed, of not being in a situation to answer him. Technically speaking, he should have had a perfect right to do so, but nothing would have been more repugnant to his feelings. For instance, when he heard the noble Lord the other night speak of the great success of the foreign policy of his Cabinet, and the achievements which the British arms had made in China, it certainly came across his mind to state what he considered were the abatements that ought to be made from the glory of those achievements; but knowing that the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, would not have an opportunity of replying, he abstained from saying a single word upon the subject. And now, with respect to the Budget, he certainly did state that there was an impression throughout the country, that the Budget had been adopted at a very recent period; that had circumstances been more favourable towards her Majesty's Government, probably those extensive measures they now had heard of would not have been submitted to the House. The noble Lord, however, had assured him that he was wrong; and that her Majesty's Government, having viewed the state of the finances, had at an early period prepared these measures for the consideration of Parliament. The noble Lord having given him this assurance, he
12741273"I have observed, with satisfaction, your desire to introduce strict economy into every branch of the public service. I trust the efforts of the new Parliament, which I shall forthwith direct to be called, will be applied to the prosecution of the same object."" His Majesty trusts the early attention of the new Parliament, which he will forthwith direct to be called, will be applied to the prosecution of those important objects."12721271J. Russell:1270126912681267Sir R. Peel
: The answer which the noble Lord has given is the answer which I myself anticipated; and, therefore, in; fulfilment of my promise, feeling that in the noble Lord's assurance I can place the amplest confidence, I withdraw all: objections whatever to the period of six months, for which the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, seeks a vote of supply.Sir R. Peel
 understood the noble Lord to state, that he would not proceed with these bills during the present Session; it would therefore be better to remove these bills from the notice paper.Sir Robert Peel
 thought, that the bill was good and just in itself, but he entertained some doubts as to proceeding with it. He feared, that by doing so, they would be overloading the statute book with public general acts for local places. To a great extent this measure only applied to Exeter; but if it succeeded, they would be asked for acts of a similar character for a number of other places in detail. In his opinion it would be better to pass some general measure on the subject.Sir Robert Peel
1302 did not object to the second
1302Sir R. Peel
 wished to know whether it was intended to proceed with this bill?Sir R. Peel
 said, at the present advanced period of the Session, it was not the intention of Government to introduce any measure for the regulation of the registration of electors in municipal corporations. The difficulties that had recently occurred at Leeds and Liverpool had been, in his opinion, the result of accident, and were not likely to occur again.The Attorney-General
 the clerk of the peace of Hertford was called to the Bar. He was asked by the Speaker whether he had a copy of the register of electors for the county of Hertford? He replied that he had a copy, but submitted that he ought not to be called upon to part with it, as it belonged to the magistrates, who had paid for it, and if he gave it up there would be no other copy to furnish to those electors who might apply for it.Mr. Storey,
 said, he had no personal feeling against the clerk of the peace, but the question was, whether the Commons would support its privileges or not, as there was no doubt, that the conduct of the clerk of the peace was an evasion of its order.Mr. Cowper
ll1321hear13201319 said, he did not mean to impute to the individual who had been at the Bar a wilful contravention of the order of the House, but the course which he had taken was certainly not the most consistent with that respect to which the House was entitled. He agreed in
ll1321hear13201319The Solicitor-General
 was then called to the Bar, and the Speaker said, "In obedience to the orders of the House, I have to direct you forthwith to cause a copy of the register of electors of the county of Hertford to be made, and to present the same to this House on Thursday next."Mr. Storey
 said, that he would cause a copy to be made, but he believed it would be quite impossible that it should be presented on Thursday. He thought it would take three weeks.Mr. Storey
 said it would depend upon the number of hands employed.Mr. Storey
1324 said, he was at first inclined to feel favourable towards the witness; but he thought it was quite evident that he was now acting contumaciously towards the House. No one could doubt that the copy could be prepared within twenty-four hours, or within half that time; and he, therefore, was of opinion, that the House should insist upon the
1324The Attorney-General
1329 said, that he was at the Verulam Arms during the election, and assured the House, that Adams gave the same testimony there, when he brought the money, as he did afterwards when he was examined before the committee. Stebbings,
1329Mr. Mackenzie
 hoped the House would not expect him to express any opinion upon the question before the House, or to vote upon the motion of the right hon. Gentleman. He should certainly diligently obey the orders of the House, if they decided that a case for prosecution had been made out. He Would prosecute, and use all fair and proper means to ensure justice being executed upon the guilty party. But it must be obvious, that he should be desirous of not giving any vote upon the motion.The Attorney-General
1341 observed, that the hon. Member for Halifax had described the chief witness in the case as a lunatic and a liar. He (Viscount Ingestrie), happened to be in the room when that individual communicated the fact that a bribe had been tendered to him immediately after the transaction took place, and the statement which he then made, was precisely the same which he gave before the committee. He had no reason to doubt, that the individual's statement was perfectly true, and thought, that the House would neglect its duty if it did not direct a prosecution to be instituted in a case which had been so clearly proved. There was a bill on the Table of the House, which had been brought in by the noble Lord opposite, for the prevention of bribery at elections; and it would be a perfect farce for the House to adopt that bill while it refused to prosecute
1341Viscount Ingestrie
 inquired whether the proprietors of land through which the line should pass would have the power of resistance to it? Also, whether they were to be remunerated, and how and what were the means to be afforded them for the defence of their rights?Lord Stanley
 regretted that the bill of the noble Lord was not as perfect or satisfactory as that proposed by him last Session. He however thanked the noble Lord for the proposition he had just made, and he begged to assure him that it was one of the most popular measures which he could have thought of introducing into Ireland.Mr. S. O'Brien
 moved that the Committee on the West-India Mails be instructed to send for and examine the commissioners appointed to inquire respecting the port to be selected for the arrival and departure of steam-vessels conveying the mails to the West-Indies. Those gentlemen were willing to attend, but they did not think they ought to volunteer their evidence; and the Committee did not think they ought to send for them; but it was, in his opinion, highly necessary that those who had inspected the ports and reported thereon, should be called upon to explain that report, but he would not press for the attendance of the Gentleman connected with the Post-office.Sir J. Yarde Buller
 said, that the feeling of the Committee was, that they ought not to put those gentlemen on their trial before the Committee, but he had not felt that objection; and now, that it appeared that the Government had no objection to their examination, he should renew his motion in the Committee.Mr. Hodgson
 said, that, as that was the case, he would withdraw his motion.Sir J. Y. Buller
1331 said, that if this were the last act of his political life, he would vote in favour of the present motion; for he defied the annals of Parliament to find such a case of corruption as the present: and he was glad that the motion had been taken up by a person of such experience as the right hon. Gentleman. He thought, that the character of that House with the country, greatly depended in its punishing guilt in every quarter. The frightful dexterity with which bribery was now carried on, the parties keeping clear of punishment, was a consideration which ought to weigh with the House to induce them to follow with punishment delinquency that was so palpable. The very dexterity ought to be an additional reason for the prose-
1331Colonel Conolly
1345 said, it must appear to all that it would be inexpedient to go on with a discussion upon that important subject at the present period of the Session; but, at the same time, he was not sorry that the question had been brought before the House. However, he differed from his right hon. Friend as to the principle laid down, that it was a recommendation to the place alluded to, for a penal settlement, to have it so near this country as it had been described. He held it that the proximity of Labrador to England was
1345Mr. F. Maule
 said, the mortality which existed amongst the convicts, and even the soldiery in the hulks, was owing to an epidemic which prevailed amongst them; and that alone was the cause of the late fatality.Mr. F. Maule
 said, that all he had meant to state was, that as the noble Lord had brought this question before the House, he was not sorry his hon. Friend behind him had suggested some point, in order that the public might see the difficulty of 6xing upon a special point for a penal settlement. He begged to say, that the Government were satisfied with the present penal settlements, and the system of the hulks.Mr. F. Maule
 said, that, off hand, he could not. Transportation of convicts sentenced for seven years had been discontinued.Mr. F. Maule
 said, he had done all he could to procure them. A coroner's notes were as much his property as those of a judge of the superior courts, and he had not been able to obtain them. He could do no more than ask for them.Mr. F. Maule
 had already explained on a former occasion, that it was the intention of the Government to frame a bill on the report in question, but not to press it beyond a second reading, in order that those interested, and the public generally, might have an opportunity of considering its provisions.Mr. F. Maule
 said, it was not the intention of the Government to proceed with the following measures:ߞthe Factories Bill; the Silk Factories Bill; the County Courts Bill; the Bankruptcy, Insolvency, and Lunacy Bill; the Registration of Voters (Scotland) Bill; the Boroughs' Improvement Bill; Buildings Regulation Bill; Royal Burghs (Scotland) Bill, and Drainage of Towns Bill. It was, however, intended to proceed with the Ecclesiastical Commissioners Bill; the Bribery at Elections Bill; the New South Wales, &c. Bill; the Western Australia Bill; and the Administration of Justice Bill.Lord J. Russell
1337 said, that, as a Member of the Committee, he should have thought that Committee would have overstepped the bounds of its duty if it had made a special report with respect to the conduct of Dr. Webster. Still, as a Member of the committee, he did not consider himself precluded from expressing his opinion of the conduct of that individual. They were, in his opinion, in the situation of a grand jury. Strong evidence had been laid before them, which had not been rebutted. In regard to the witness Adams, he must say that he had never heard a witness give his evidence in a more fair and straightforward manner, than that person had done, and the impression on his mind was, that the witness stated the truth. He seemed to believe what he said, and had the appearance of a man who would not be swerved from the truth by any interruption. As the evidence of the witness went to show that Dr. Webster was acting as agent in the election, he must confess that he did not see how bribery could be put down, unless they prosecuted the persons guilty of the practice. He was not aware of any evidence establishing cases of bribery, in either Ludlow or Walsall, but if there was, all he would say was, that if as strong a case as the present were made out against either of those places, he would vote for a motion for the prosecution of the parties. Every case must stand on its own merits, and as the bribery in the present case was
1337Mr. Pringle
 said he should not proceed with his bill for the regulation of the medical profession.Mr. Hawes
ex parteprimâ facie1328in terrorem would shortly state why he, on very general grounds, objected to the present motion. He would not willingly set up precedents to stop the great ends of justice, and he was so anxious to stop bribery, that he would be willing to hold up individuals, ex parteprimâ facie1328in terroremMr. Charles Buller
 thought the labours of the missionaries in this region would not be by any means subverted, if the present motion was carried.Mr. Hindley
 said he would direct the clerk to put a copy of the order into the witness's hands, to produce the copy ordered by Thursday next.The Speaker
 agreed that they were entitled to have the registry produced laid upon the Table, and it would be setting aside the Reform Act if this record were not accessible to the public.Mr. C. Wood
 hoped the hon. Baronet would not press his motion, but that the Committee would exercise the power they possessed of sending for the commissioners, since they had no objection to be examined.Mr. C. Wood
 in explanation, denied that the registry was the property of individuals, and said, on the contrary, that it was a matter of record, and should be accessible to those of the public who might require copies.Mr. Williams Wynn,
1322 said he was quite disposed to concur in the opinion of the learned Solicitor-general. He did not think that the laying a copy of the register on the table of this House would of itself be of much consequence, but he thought it might hold out an inducement to other counties not to comply with the directions of the Reform Act, but to look to the order of the House for supplying a printed copy. With respect to the question that the number of copies to be sold
1322Mr. Williams Wynn
1325l rose to move, that the Attorney-general be instructed to prosecute Mr. Richard Webster, for bribery at the last St. Alban's election. He said, that the facts lay in so narrow a compass, that it would not be necessary for him to trouble the House at any length. He did not wish this question to be mixed up with the general subject of the bribery laws, but to stand upon its own merits, and to be decided upon the evidence taken before the committee which had been printed, and was in the hands of Members. He was anxious, that the charge contained in that evidence against Mr. Richard Webster, should be placed in a course of judicial investigation. Two witnesses, of the names of Adams and Stebbings, had sworn, that Mr. Webster, not in the presence of each other, had given them 121325lMr. Williams Wynn
13431342 in reply, expressed himself much surprised at the tone which had been assumed in this debate by hon. Gentlemen opposite, and particularly by the manner in which the hon. Member for Sheffield had treated the subject. He begged to remind the House, that he had not said one word in the nature of a charge against the committee of any impropriety of conduct in their manner of dealing with this case; nor had he attempted at all to introduce any party considerations into the discussion of this subject. On the contrary, he had studiously avoided everything of the kind. He did not even introduce the name of Lord Listowel, and he had protested against bringing into discussion the circumstance of Dr. Webster having gone to the Treasury immediately before the transaction at St. Alban's, because he did not consider it fair to draw any inference from that fact, which, though it had been mentioned before the committee, Was not fully gone into. The right hon. and. learned Gentleman opposite (Sir C. Grey) had objected that this case had not been reported by the committee as one which ought to be prosecuted, and that it would be unjust to order a prosecution upon evidence adduced in the absence of the accused, who, therefore, had no opportunity of defending himself or answering the charges made against him. But that must be the case in almost every instance of the kind, for, with the exception of the candidates themselves, or petitioners against a return, the persons implicated were not before the committee, and were not in a position to instruct counsel or give evidence in defence or explanation. The committee had come to a determination, which the evidence seemed to them to warrant, that agency had not been proved, that Dr. Webster was not the agent of Lord Listowel, and, therefore, they had no case to report to the House. They had determined that there was not sufficient evidence to connect Lord Listowel with Dr.
13431342Mr. Wynn,
 wished to call the attention of the Government to the introduction of a bill for he regulation of the registration in municipal corporations. In Leeds and Liverpool recourse was obliged to be had last year to the registration of the preceding year.Mr. Baines
 said, that all parties in Ireland had signified their approval of this project.Mr. Litton
 thought that this would be a most desirable experiment to try whether English capital could be laid out in Ireland to advantage.Mr. Lucas
13271326 said, as the Chairman of the late St. Alban's Election Committee, he would offer a few observations on the motion of the right hon. Gentleman, and in doing so, he would not throw any impediment in the way of the motion. He would leave it to the House, and to those who had heard the evidence, to raise that opposition. He would state to the House the impression which the evidence had made upon his mind, and before doing so, he would refer to the fact of the evidence
13271326Mr. Sanford
 asked, whether if a law-stationer divided the copy amongst several persons, it could not be made in a shorter time?Sir E. Sugden
1323 said there could be no doubt that the clerk of the peace should have provided himself with written or printed copies, to be delivered on reasonable terms to the electors applying for them; and sure he was, that when the Reform Act was before the House it was never contemplated that such an amount of charge as was now required should be made for the copy of the registry. He
1323Sir E. Sugden
1350 complained of the system of bringing forward measures of this kind (which were so well calculated to raise the expectations of the people of Ireland) and then abandoning them. He would take an opportunity, early in the next Session of Parliament, of bringing forward this question, and of reminding the noble Lord of his promise upon the subject, which he thought pledged his noble Friend to exert himself in carrying it through Parliament. He thought, however, that the noble Lord was bound to
1350Mr. F. French
1349 seconded the motion. He was happy to be enabled to bear testimony
1349Mr. Shaw
 said, that he was one of the members of the Gresham committee, and he thought it possible that the proceedings might have been sanctioned by one of the officers of that committee, and he therefore felt it his duty to ask the man whom he saw, not in the court appropriated to the merchants, but on the stairs at the top of the court, by whose permission he stood there with the petition, and the answer was, by permission of the commissioners of Excise.Mr. George Palmer
Laughter1332 thought, that the hon. Member for Winchester, Mr. Mildmay, had sufficiently proved, that they ought not to be guilty of the inconsistency of prosecuting in a case in which there was no special report, when in the cases of Ludlow and Cambridge, in which there had been a special report, they had omitted to prosecute. He recollected, that when the bill of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was before the House, he had pointed out the omission in not giving the committees power to proceed and sift every case to the bottom, notwithstanding compromises of the parties in order to stop evidence. He (Mr. Warburton) would not be afraid of voting against the present motion, notwithstanding the threat of the vengeance of his constituents held out by the gallant colonel. For what was the object of punishment? To prevent the commission of crime. Now the present law had existed during the whole of this Parliament, and for a long time previously, and yet the gallant colonel admitted, that the practice of bribery was so common, that it had been reduced to a complete system of trade; and that the parties principally concerned, had contrived to escape un-
Laughter1332Mr. Warburton
 thought that they ought to understand upon what principle such a course was to be adopted, because it would be unusual for the House, having little information on the subject, to control the discretion of a committee, which had full powers to examine witnesses and call for documents.Mr. Freshfield
 said, a railroad might pass along the margin of one county and yet the whole expense might be thrown upon the adjoining county upon whose territory it proceeded. He begged to know if this was to be the case?Mr. Sergeant Jackson
1330Wynn as a member of the committee, must say, that not only the manner of the witnesses, but the actual evidence of Stebbing, was against him: there was a contradiction to other witnesses. And with respect to the other witness, making every allowance for him, and admitting that there was nothing in Adams's evidence to shake his testimony, he appeared to be a loose kind of man. There was another circumstance, too, that weighed with him; it was the statement of the counsel for the petitioner, Mr. Hildyard, in his opening, that this was an election trick, and that the money was given by one party to catch the other. [Mr. 1330WynnMr. Mildmay,
 explained, that it was his intention to have moved, by way of amendment, that the Attorney-general be instructed to prosecute the agents of the hon. Manners Sutton, who had been "proved before a committee of that House to have been guilty" of bribery, and that he be further instructed to prosecute Dr. Webster, who had been accused "of bribery; but he had thought it better as a Member of the committee, not to vote.Mr. Mildmay
 thought it was very important for the House on this occasion to direct its attention to what had been the conduct of those parties after the transaction. One of the witnesses states that he went and received the money. Now the witness Howey is admitted to be a respectable man by all parties. He states, that, having received the money from the person stated to be the party acting for the successful candidate, he sealed it up separately in bulk. The hon. Member for Sheffield, (Mr. Ward) had said, he could not see that was a case that ought to be singled out to found thereon a prosecution, as all must be aware that bribery was going on at nil elections. He was not prepared to concur in that hon. Member's view of transactions of this nature, because instances of bribery were unfortunately of frequent occurrence. It was his duty as an enemy of unfair practices and of corruption to attempt to convict the person who should be detected bribing any elector. He must confess that had he been called upon to act in this case in the capacity of a magistrate, he should, as an honest man, think there was a good cause of commitment. The question before the House Was strictly this, was there evidence enough produced to induce the House to direct that the Attorney-general should prosecute Dr. Webster for bribery at the St. Alban's election? He thought that there was sufficient evidence to induce the House to adopt that course, and he should, therefore, give his vote in favour of the motion of the right hon. the Member for Montgomeryshire.Mr. Bramston
 wished to offer to the House a few reasons why this copy should not be laid on the Table of the House, and why it should not be taken from the clerk of the peace, in whose custody it was. He was satisfied, that the Order of the House had not been obeyed; but the refusal of the clerk of the peace to obey it arose from a misapprehension of duty on his part. The magistrates of the county of Hertford had decided several times, that the copy of the register should not be printed; and it was, therefore, too much to say, that the clerk of the peace, who was only the servant of the magistrates, should have it printed. If you insist on this copy being laid on the Table, you must take it from the clerk of the peace, and he was bound to have it in his custody in order to supply the electors with a copy of it, either written or printed, at a reasonable price. He would not have objected to the motion had it been that the clerk of the peace should produce another copy of the register within a week, or any other reasonable time; but it was not consistent with the practice of the Mouse to take a legal document from the legal officer in whose custody it legally was. He was not aware of a single instance in which that had ever been done.Mr. Estcourt
 thought it would be more consistent with the dignity of the House to fix the time when the copy should be produced; and not to ask the witness any opinion upon the subject.Mr. Estcourt
1318 said, that there could be no doubt that the clerk of the peace was bound to return a copy of the register, according to the words of the Reform Act. He considered, that the House had been trifled with, the return not having been made to the House by the clerk of the peace, conformably to the order served upon him. He recommended the House to leave the clerk of the peace to settle this matter with the magistrates as he
1318Mr. T. Duncombe
 approved of the amendment of the Solicitor-general, and withdrew his motion.Mr. T. Duncombe
 had two objects in view when he moved for the printing of the evidence taken before this committee; one was, that the country might see it, and the public be satisfied with the decision of that committee; and the other was, to test whether the House would permit such scenes, carried on in open day, to be left uninvestigated. He avowed, that his wish would have been to have had a committee appointed to investigate the whole case; but when he saw the state of the public business, and the difficulty there was of obtaining the attendance of Members on the committee, he had given up the idea of moving further in the matter. Yet, as the right hon. Gentleman had made the present motion, he would lend it his support, and he would remind the House, that in the Ipswich case, on which he had sat, there was but one case of bribery distinctly proved, and for that six men, including the most respectable town-clerk, Mr. Sparrow, were sent to Newgate, compared with which a prosecution by the Attorney-general was very slight. He had always deprecated any vindictive course towards any individual, but the present appeared a case that required notice.Mr. Blackstone
 was bound to say, that when he found a witness had sworn he had received a sum of money from Dr. Webster, and when he found that Dr. Webster had openly said, "Never mind, they have done just as bad on the other side," he could come to no other conclusion than that Dr. Webster had been guilty of bribery. It appeared by the evidence before the committee, that Dr. Webster, in his speech introducing the noble candidate, had said he had brought in ten or eleven candidates for the borough, and had carried all with the exception of one. He thought it desirable, that special notice should be taken of the present case, particularly before the general election, in order that the borough of St. Alban's might have the opportunity of wiping out the stain that rested upon it, and he would, therefore, vote for the motion.Mr.Dugdale
 inquired whether it was the intention of the noble Lord, the Secretary of the Home Department to found any measure on the report of the commission on turnpike trusts?Mr. Mackinnon
1336 said, that everybody was agreed upon the necessity of having a fixed rule on these occasions. Bribery was a crime that might be prosecuted by private individuals. If a prosecution was so brought forward without sufficient grounds, the accused party would have his remedy for a malicious prosecution. But would that be the case when a prosecution was ordered by a branch of the Legislature? In the first place, the House acted without responsibility at law to the party. He could not indict or bring his action against the House for a malicious prosecution; he was without a remedy. In the mean time, the intelligence would go forth to the public, that the Attorney-general had been ordered to prosecute him for bribery, accompanied by all the severe remarks that were made by Members in debate. If the person were a professional man, he might be ruined. He (Sir C. Grey) contended no precedent had been laid before the House for the course proposed to be pursued, and if there were no precedent, it would be unjust to depart from the usual rule for the first time, in a case where the Committee had not made a report against the individual against whom they were now called upon to direct a prosecution. It was a principle of English law, with respect to evidence, that much was to be judged from the demeanour of the witness when giving his testimony, and his conduct under cross-examination. How many of those who would vote upon the present occasion had seen the witness when questioned? With regard to the comparison that had been made relative to a grand
1336Sir C. Grey
1344 rose, pursuant to notice, to move the appointment of a select Committee, to take into consideration the fitness of her Majesty's territory of Labrador for the purposes of a penal settlement. He would not, in the then state of the House, trespass upon their attention by any lengthened observations. He considered, however, that the coast in question, possessed great geographical and other recommendations in favour of the proposition he had to make. In the first place, then, from its proximity to this country, the expense of transporting felons would be lessened
1344Sir C. Grey
 did not mean to press his motion, which was negatived.Sir C. Grey
1316 said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. G. Palmer) had, on the preceding day, put to him some questions relative to a petition against the Corn-laws lying for signature at the Excise Office. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had assured the hon. Member that he would make an inquiry into the matter. He had done so, and the result appeared to be this:ߞOn the destruction of the Royal Exchange, the merchants of
1316The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had not entered into particular details, and it was quite true, that the petition was placed on a desk at the side of the stairs, but then it was a desk at which the merchants were in the habit of doing business. That was the explanation which had been given him by the parties to whom he applied. If, however, the hon. Gentleman should make inquiries, and acquire further information, perhaps he would be good enough to communicate it to the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1351 had waited for the explanation of the Members of the Committee. He understood that they had decided not to call before them
1351The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could assure the hon. Member that there was no such objection.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the supposition was, that the Government objected to their examination.Captain Pechell
 thought that the hon. Member for Devonshire had better leave the matter in the hands of the Committee.Captain Pechell
 gave notice, that on Friday, he should call the attention of the House to the bribery, that had taken place at the elections for Cambridge and Ludlow.Mr. Ward
1334prima facie1333 said, if this practice had prevailed in the borough of St. Alban's for so long a time as the hon. Member who had just sat down had stated, the advantage had not been confined to one party only, for he believed that he (Mr. Ward) was the first liberal Member who had represented St. Alban's of late years,
1334prima facie1333Mr. Ward
 intimated that it was not his intention to proceed with the County Coroners Bill.Mr. Pakington
 said, that he could not concur in what had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Member for Montgomeryshire, because, according to the statement of the party at the bar, the document was not his, and, being the document of others, of the magistrates, it would be clearly unjust to require him to give it up. He hoped that the House would not exercise so arbitrary a power, and particularly as the object intended might be obtained by other means. If the course proposed were taken, the effect would be to relieve the counties of the expense of printing those registries, and throwing the burden on the country generally. He, therefore, should suggest whether it would not be better to order a copy to be delivered by the clerk of the peace within forty-eight hours.Sir R. Inglis
1335prima facieprima facieprima facie said, they were not going to punish Dr. Webster, to fine, or imprison him; they were going to send him to trial; and he asked the hon. Member, and the hon. and learned Judge, whether they had ever met a grand jury, and heard them charged from the bench. They were told that the question was not whether the parties accused were guilty, but whether there was 1335prima facieprima facieprima facieSir R. Inglis
 explained, that he had not compared the Committee, but the House, to a grand jury.Sir R. Inglis
 had understood the hon. Gentleman to state, that transportation to some of the settlements had been suspended. Could the hon. Gentleman state the number of convicts now sent out?Sir R. Peel
 thought the better course for the House to pursue was that which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor-general had pointed out. This was not a case it which it was necessary to vindicate their privileges, and, therefore, what they should do was to call this officer back to the Bar, and tell him that the House insisted on his furnishing the copy required by a given day, and would enforce obedience to their order if it were not ready at the appointed time. This was what he recommended at present; but if any difficulty existed on the subject, the better way would be in the next Session to have a committee of inquiry appointed on the subject.Sir R. Peel
1346 said, he had inferred from what had fallen from the Under-Secretary
1346Sir R. Peel
 objected to any interference with the commissioners. It would put those gentlemen who had been appointed, as it were, judges in this matter in an unfair and unfavourable position to call them before the Committee.Sir T. Cochrane
 was understood to express his disapprobation of the coast of Labrador as a penal settlement; and one reason was, because he considered that the safe custody of the convicts could not be secured within any four walls that might be there erected.Sir T. Cochrane
1340 said, that as some allusion had been made in the course of this discussion to a certain letter which he had written connected with the Ipswich election, lie would admit, that he had written a letter to some of the constituents at Ipswich, from which extracts, by some means or other, got into some of the public papers, and in which he said, that the demands
1340Sir T. Cochrane
13391338 felt rather surprised at the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member, because he could not but recollect that, on the part of the committee there had been no expression of opinion, nor had they ever recommended the prosecution of Dr. Webster. What the committee would not have recommended, this House was now called on to recommend, with far less evidence before them than what had been brought before the committee; and, in fact, they were not merely called on to recommend, but to adopt a particular course. If they did adopt such a course, it would be viewed by the country as an act of extraordinary injustice and insanity. He knew that a feeling existed against that committeeߞthat a great deal of pains had been taken to throw odium on that committee by certain persons who seemed to be guided more by their vindictive passions than by due regard to their character and dignity. He felt satisfied if the House expected their proceedings to be regarded with respect by the country, they would not lightly permit imputations to pass unnoticed, which cast a slight on and tended to lower the character of election committees of that House. He would feel exceedingly disappointed should the House adopt the proposition of the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire. What was the case before them? He did not mean to say that there was no bribery. He fully believed that there was. He fully believed that not only at St. Alban's, but at Walsall, Ludlow, and in all those boroughs where hon. Gentlemen opposite had been so lately triumphant, that notorious bribery had been practised. What case was there against Dr. Webster? What was the evidenceߞwhat did it amount to? That a parliamentary agent had suborned two persons to make out a case of bribery
13391338Mr. Hutt
 in explanation, said, he did not state that Adams was a lunatic and a liar; but it was admitted by the evidence of Adams himself before the committee, that he was a liarߞthat he was commonly called a liar.Mr. Hutt
 said, there could be no doubt of the uselessness of having a Committee to inquire into the condition of Labrador in the present state of the House. He would not then go into the consideration of the many topics connected with the immediate question before the House, or describe what he thought to be its unfit-ness for the proposed plan. He would, however, take that opportunity of again appealing to her Majesty's Government on the behalf of the poor convicts at Woolwich, among whom the mortality was daily and hourly increasing to a most alarming degree. In the last week, there were no less than six deaths, all young, and previously hale men. This arose from the crowding together which had taken place on board the hulks in consequence of the recent regulations of Government respecting transportation. The system, in short, now acted on was one of the most frightful that could be conceived, and one of the most destructive possible to human life. In the estimates of last year, provision was made for 3,400 convicts in health, with 200 sick; and although it was resolved by the House on his motion that further increase was inexpedient, the estimates of this year showed no less than 3,750 to be provided for in health, and about 250 in sicknessߞ equal in all to 4,000. It was, therefore, easy to foresee as well as to account for the fatal consequences that have ensued.Viscount Mahon
 believed he could answer the question for the hon. Gentleman. The exact number of persons sentenced to confinement in the hulks previously to 1829 was 1,800. Subsequently, under the administration of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, the number had been regularly increasing. This year it was 3,650, and under the estimate, a further increase was proposed. Having answered one question for the hon. Gentleman, he hoped he would allow him to ask him one in returnߞnamely, when the returns for which he had moved in March last, relative to coroners' inquests at Woolwich, which had been promised immediately, and to which the recent mortality gave additional importance, would be produced.Lord Mahon
1348l in rising for leave to bring in a bill for the purpose of establishing rail roads in Ireland, said, that in the present state of the Session, he should not move for leave to introduce a bill of any importance, with any other design than that of having it printed, so as to give information to the public generally on the subject, more especially to that portion of it more immediately concerned. He would merely then refer to a statement which had been made on the occasion of his bringing forward this motion. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, towards the conclusion of his speech last week, had made a slight and passing allusion to this motion, as if it had been brought forward with a view of propping up the Government on the eve of a general election The fact was, that certain private individuals had come forward and made a proposition on the subject to the Government. He would merely state what that proposition was, and not enter at any length into any of the circumstances connected with it. He was still of opinion that the proposition which he had first brought forward on the subject of the Government undertaking various railways in Ireland, was the most expedient plan. But as when he had brought it forward, he had reason to believe, that it would not meet with the assent of the legislature, he had withdrawn it, and had not attempted again to introduce it, although he believed that persons of all parties had since expressed themselves in its favour. A proposition on that subject had been submitted to the Government on the part of certain individuals of great character, station, and financial ability, and although in making that proposition they had doubtless, imagined that they were not entering upon a hazardous speculation, yet he honestly believed that they had been principally induced to take up the project, because they believed that it would be of advantage to Ireland. Those Gentlemen had adopted as the basis of their calculations, the report of the Railway Commissioners, for which the country was so much indebted to the assiduity and energy of his late excellent and lamented friend, Mr. Drummond. They had proposed to the Government to raise a capital of 1,300,0001348lViscoun Morpeth,
 said the Attorney-general for Ireland did not intend to proceed with the Irish Chancery Bill, if it appeared likely to be opposed.Viscount Morpeth
 said, he did not intend to make the assent or dissent of the landlords essential to the carrying the bill; but there were regulations for compensation on the principle adopted by the Shannon Navigation Bill, which he believed was satisfactory to all parties. In answer to a question from Mr. Shaw, the noble Lord added, that it was his intention to give a general power to other parts of Ireland to adopt the principle laid down for this line.Viscount Morpeth
 said, that it was intended to give a power of applying the principle of the bill to other parts of Ireland than those named in it; and that the deficiency to be provided for, if any, between the guaranteed interest and the receipts of the line would be made up by an equitable assessment on the respective counties benefitted by it.Viscount Morpeth
1356laughter opposed the motion. The Bill was an interference with a humble class of traders. He was glad to see his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the House. If his right hon. Friend would consent to allow an ass to be used [1356laughterMr. Pryme
1354 said, he admired that cheer much. If ever there was an instance stronger than another of the injustice of making a personal charge on any Member without giving him notice, the present
1354Mr. O'Connell
1355 said, it was not so. Mr. Twiss had had many misfortunes in the world. He had been a bankrupt, and had been discharged under the Insolvent Act. But he would not dwell on that. Mr. Twiss's name, however, had been notorious for his want of strict, adherence to truth. In fact, for more than twenty years he had been known in the county of Kerry as "Lying Bobby Twiss." As to the statement of the hon. and learned Member for Bandon, that he had boasted of his relationship to Mr. James Butler, he would say that he should proudly boast of it if it were the fact; but it was not, and it was not true that he had ever boasted of it, so that the statement was doubly untrue. But again let him ask the House, was it fair to get up charges of this nature, and in this manner, against any man? It
1355Mr. O'Connell
 moved, that the House do resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to address her Majesty on the subject of the Danish Claims.Mr. Cresswell
136913681367136613651364136313621361l said, it was undoubtedly true that a resolution had been adopted by the House for an address to the Crown on the subject of these claims, the amount of which was somewhere about 270,000136913681367136613651364136313621361lThe Solicitor-General
1372llSir, this subject has been so often before the House) and so well argued by both parties, that I really do not consider that much time ought now to be occupied with it. I cannot but express toy regret, that the learned Solicitor-general did not favour us on a former occasion with his views on this subject, that we mighty in the first instance, hare had the benefit of his learning and research, and an opportunity of looking into those facts to which he has alluded, although I must say I have not been able to discover any novelty nor much discrimination in what the hon. and learned Gentleman has addressed to the House. It is now nearly twenty years since I first took part in these discussions. On the first class the justice of the claim was still more manifest, but the game arguments which have been used by the learned Solicitor-general were urged against the first class. The House of Commons, however, decided in favour of the claim. The same arguments were adduced against the second class; and yet the House of Commons agreed to the vote. The same arguments have been brought against the third class; the matter has Undergone considerable discussion, and three votes' have been taken upon it. Sir, I am sorry that the hon. and learned Gentleman should have attempted to induce the House not to accede to this motion, by stating that the funds received from Denmark are now exhausted. We know full Well that 1,200,0001372llMr. Hume said—
 was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman had complained of his want of personal courtesy towards him in a former debate.Mr. Cresswell
: Will the right hon. Gentleman tell me the date:Mr. Cresswell
1374 said, that he had not the slightest recollection of the occurrence; but if it had taken place, he thought he was perfectly justified in taking such a course, because the subject had been argued on two occasions before. It had been argued under the right hon. Gentleman's predecessor by the Attorney and Solicitor general; and he had himself at that moment a note of the arguments they had used. He could not therefore, understand why he should have been called on to put off a motion of the kind from day to day, and from night to night, while a number of persons, who had entrusted him with their case, were looking for justice. If, therefore, he had acted as was said, he was
1374Mr. Cresswell
1376 considered that the clause to which the right hon. and learned Gentleman objected was a satisfactory one, and ought to be retained. It appeared that his right hon. Friend did not oppose the clause itself, but objected to the mode in which it had been introduced. The bill before the House related to charity trusts estates. The question was, whether the provision which was now opposed came within the scope of the bill, or was introduced clandestinely. The hon. Member knew that the clause was to be introduced. The bill was repeatedly printed. Ample opportunity was afforded the right hon. Member, if he had been disposed, to offer any opposition to the clause. He would explain shortly to the House the purport of the clause. When the Municipal Corporation Bill was under discussion it was thought expedient to retain what was termed the legal estates in the members of the old corporation up to a certain period, but no provision was made what should be done after that day. The period had elapsed, and nothing had been done. It was time that Parliament should legislate on the subject. It was stated by his right hon. Friend, that he doubted in whom the legal estates were now vested; but he (the At-
1376The Attorney-General
 denied that the clause had been introduced without due notice. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had ample opportunity afforded him to make himself acquainted with the nature of the clause. The clause was of great importance. He had received several petitions from Bristol and Bridgewater, calling his attention to the difficulties which this clause was intended to obviate. The subject was also mentioned to him by several gentlemen of great legal attainments and experience connected with the Court of Chancery, who all approved of the propriety and necessity of a clause of that kind. He repudiated the charge of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, that the clause was smuggled into the bill. He thought that, under the circumstances of the case, he and others, who supported the bill, were not open to such an imputation. The bill was one in which he took a great interest, and, considering it would have a most beneficial tendency, he hoped the House would reject the amendment, and allow the bill to be read a third time.Mr. J. Stewart
 said, the present bill was not a Government measure, and he understood there was no opposition to it.Mr. Pigot
 appeared at the Bar, saying that he had served the order of the House upon Colonel Sibthorp.The Sergeant
: In the passage leading to the House of Commons.The Sergeant
: In one of the committee-rooms of the House, I believe.The Sergeant
 stated, that the House having been informed that the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln bad taken offence at an expression which had fallen from the hon. Member for Elgin, he felt called upon to state, that the expression had not escaped him; and that he had called the hon. Member to order at the time; and the hon. Member having recommenced his speech, without the words which had given offence to the hon. and gallant officer, he had considered that those words had, in fact, been retracted, Understanding, however, that the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln was not satisfied that such was the case, it now became his duty to call upon the hon. Member to retract an expression which had given offence to another hon. Member.Mi. Speaker
 was opposed to any unnecessary delay, and hoped that the proposition for recommittal would not then be pressed.The Attorney General
 supported the motion, as it did not affect the point in dispute.The Attorney-General
 moved the further consideration of the report on the Administration of Justice (No. 1.) Bill.The Attorney-General
1393: I am not content that the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member, should go forth to the public without an answer. He says, that the motion of my right hon. Friend (Sir E. Sugden), will have the effect of preventing the enactment of a measure to remove existing abuses, but I will tell him that the effect of that motion, had it not been for the course which her Majesty's Government have thought proper to pursue, would not have postponed for a single instant the beneficial operation of that measure. I will tell him that this act could not have come into operation for any beneficial purpose until the commencement of the term after the long vacation—until the 1st of November. It has been decided by the House that the act shall come into operation on the 10th of October, and that the appointment of the judicial officers under the act shall be vested in the Government of that day, whoever at that period the Government may be. And, if her Majesty's Government had consented to such a course, on
1393Lord Stanley
1395 said, that no Government of common sense or common feeling would submit to the humiliation to which the motion of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden) exposed them. The object of that motion was to prevent the bill from coming into operation. It was admitted that a denial of justice necessarily took place from the want of such measure, and yet, by the conduct of hon. Gentlemen opposite, that denial of justice to the people of England was maintained and persisted in. The noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had said, that the bill could be passed by the new Parliament. On what grounds did the noble Lord make such a statement? How could the noble Lord know in what manner a new Parliament might think fit to act? Yet this was the universal practice ! The noble Lord said, that he should do one thing, and the right hon. Baronet intimated his intention of
1395Mr. Villiers
1396 agreed with the hon. Gentleman that the country had great reason to complain of the course which had been adopted with respect to this measure; but against which party would that complaint be directed? His noble Friend (Lord Stanley) had said, that the amendment which had been proposed that night Would not impede or in any way interfere with the beneficial operation of the present measure, and every one at all acquainted with the administration of justice in the Court of Chancery must acknowledge that that statement was a just one. He (Mr. Pemberton) had always supported, had always been anxious for the passing of this bill; and he had even blamed the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) for his withdrawal during the last Session, without, as he thought, any fair of sufficient reason. Yet upon him, and Upon those with whom he thought and acted, the blame of impeding its profits was now most Unwarrantably thrown They were accused of preventing this measure from becoming law by hon. Gentlemen Opposite, yet what had been the
1396Mr. Pemberion
 wished to know, before assenting to this bill, what the object of it was?Mr. F. Maule
 stated, that he certainly meant to mark, as strongly as he could, his opinion of the language of the hon. Member, to the Members of the Government and his hon. Friends around him; but if, in so doing, he had exceeded the limits of Parliamentary language, he felt bound at once to modify his expressions within those limits.Mr. Fox Maule
Order, order. said, that he should not take any notice of the observations which the House had just heard; they were below contempt. [Order, order.Mr. F. Maule
 said, the bill was confined to high roads, and the hon. Member had put a forced construction on the clause.Mr. Fox Maule
 said the Government had no power to make any further orders with respect to it. The Secretary of State for the Home Department had intimated to the parties that the practice of clerks of the justice acting as political agents was wrong, and that, like the clerks to the sheriffs, they ought not to take any part as political agents. Some of them had acted on the intimation, but others had refused to do so. Government had not the power to make any order on the subject.Mr. F. Maule
 said, he was sorry to find his opinion upon the subject was different from that of the majority of the House, but, after the vote which had passed, he certainly could not consent to be a party to proceeding with the bill, and he would, therefore, move that the further consideration of the report be postponed to that day three weeks.Lord J. Russell
138713861385 had hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would have been satisfied with the obstacles which he had already offered to the passing of the bill; that the delays and inconvenience which the administration of justice had suffered, owing to the interposition of the right hon. Gentleman, would have induced him to refrain from further interposition, and raising new obstacles. The right hon. Gentleman might endeavour to throw upon him the blame of not passing the bill last Session, by alluding to certain rumours, but not referring to any distinct cause. But it was quite certain, that the bill, having the assent of Lord Cottenham, Lord Lyndhurst, Lord Brougham, and other high authorities in the House of Lords, having been supported by a great majority of that House, having also had the support of the legal authorities, generally speaking, on both sides in the House of Commons, the right hon. Gentleman at
138713861385Lord J. Russell
 wished to know from the hon. Member the Under Secretary for the Home Department whether the Government had taken any steps to prevent clerks of justices of the peace in Scotland, (particularly in Scotland we understood) from acting as political agents in election contests? The practice was most unfair. He was aware that Government had shown its disapprobation of it, but he wanted to know whether it had issued any further orders on the matter?Mr. Lockhart
 thought it would have been a more manly course for hon. Gentlemen opposite to have declared before then the course they meant to pursue. They had not objected to other legislative measures, but their present course was evidently nothing but a shabby scramble for patronage.Mr. Hawes
 observed, it was not usual to take the views of the Poor-law Commissioners from the other side of the House. He thought it would be better that the debate be adjourned to Friday.Mr. Hawes
 asked the hon. Gentlemen of the Opposition what the people of England would think of the integrity of their judges when their appointment was made a subject for party contention?Mr. B. Wood
1400 said, those debts might have been contracted a hundred years ago, and it was, in his opinion, very unjust to
1400Mr. B. Wood
1360 said, that a policeman had no power to take up a person guilty of an assault without a warrant, but in the graver offence of employing a dog to draw a cart, it appeared that he was to have the power. He complained of this great legislative enactment, that it was imperfect, inasmuch as it made no provision for the objects of its peculiar care. When they had taken up the man, what did they propose to do with the dog? He was deprived of his only natural protector, and did they intend to leave him to the wide world, without any food but such as he could get by chance without attacking some unfortunate passenger. A bill was brought in by a worthy Alderman some years since, for the prevention of hydrophobia, which had been treated with great ridicule by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. One clause of that bill empowered a constable to take up any mad dog. In consequence of various imperfections that bill was referred to a Select Committee, the Members of which had, he supposed, been chosen for their names. These were Mr. Lamb, Mr. Fox, and himself(Mr."Bull"er)—who was at the time a very young Member. That committee, however, had elicited some
1360Mr. C. Buller
: Do you know where the hon. Member now is?The Speaker
 said, the hon. Member would see that the affair bad been concluded, and that it would be inexpedient to renew the subject.The Speaker
 did not entertain the least doubt on the subject.The Speaker
 said, that as that seemed to be the opinion of hon. Gentlemen who were most careful of the preservation of their honour, he should rest satisfied.Colonel Sibthorp
1380 said, in the course which he had taken, he was influenced by only one motive. He considered that he had a right to express his opinion with regard to the conduct of public men. He left the House as he always would do upon such an occasion; and, although he was ready to bow to the authority of the Chair, he must say, that the guardianship over his honour, and his character as a public and private man, should never prevent him
1380Col. Sibthorp
 having left the House,Colonel Sibthorp
 complained of the disposition manifested by the Members of her Majesty's Government to hurry over measures at inconvenient hours, and he thought that his right hon. Friend had done no more than his duty in calling the attention of the House to such humbug. Ministers went about amusing themselves, instead of attending to the business of the country. A more idle and deceitful set of men were never allowed to fill such important offices, but he was resolved to follow them, and nothing should deter him from that which he believed to be his duty.Colonel Sibthorp
1379cries of "oh, oh." said, he could not help apprehending some unpleasant consequences from the words which had dropped from the hon. Gentleman opposite, and from what had been stated by the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just left the House—[1379cries of "oh, oh."Mr. Williams Wynn
 thought this an improper time to bring forward the motion.—Motion negatived.Mr. Williams Wynn
1384 had expected that this bill would not come on again at so late a period of the Session, especially as it might have been passed long ago; nor did he consider that any inconvenience would accrue from letting it stand over to the next Session. It would seem, indeed, that the legislation on this measure had been resumed at distant intervals, for the purpose of prolonging the existence of the Administration; still he would not oppose the passing of the bill now, if the Government would adopt certain modifications which he meant to propose. He did expect, that after the vote upon the question of want of confidence the other night, the noble Lord would not have thought it desirable to pursue this measure any further, nor avail himself of the patronage which it must necessarily give her Majesty's Government in the distribution of those valuable appointments which would arise from it. The noble Lord should recollect, that he had put himself upon his trial, and that he had been tried by this House, and had been found, he would not say guilty, for he would not wish to make use of any word that could, by possibility, give the slightest offence—but the noble Lord, and his colleagues, had been tried by this House, and had been found wanting. The noble Lord was, however, now going to be tried by the country, and if he should succeed, then the measure which he (Sir E. Sugden) was about to propose, would not have the effect of throwing the slightest impediment in the way of the administration of justice, for Government could then carry forward their measure with a greater certainty of success, and with more credit to themselves. He proposed to postpone the
1384Sir E. Sugden
 said, the noble Lord was at liberty to take his own course, and, for his part, he found no fault with it. He would merely assure the noble Lord that, if he had the honour of a seat in the new Parliament, he would support the bill by every means in his power.Sir E. Sugden
 in explanation, said that he had not the slightest intention of casting any imputation on the Lord Chancellor.Sir E. Sugden,
 did not object to the motion, that the report on the Houses of Industry, &c. Bill be then received.Sir E. B. Sugden
 objected to a clause which had been added on the recommitment of the bill, which suggested the existence of doubts as to the individuals in whom the estates of charitable trusts were legally vested. By the English Reform Act they were distinctly vested in the corporations. The name of the Attorney-general was endorsed on this bill; and he charged the hon. and learned Gentleman with endeavouring, by a side wind, to effect an object which was not within the purview of the bill. He begged to move the omission of the clause.Sir E. Sugden
 maintained that the continuance of the payment of the interest of these debts by the parishes was a proof that they coincided in the opinion that they were legal.Mr. Darby
 could not avoid rising to protest against the doctrine of the right hon. Baronet, as most novel and unconstitutional. He never heard of such a course as that of passing a bill giving patronage, and at the same time depriving the Ministers of the Crown, of the right of exercising it. If this was done for three months, it might be done for three years. He trusted the House would not sanction so dangerous a principle.Mr. Labouchere
1394 said, that the speech of the noble Lord, had confirmed the impression which was formerly produced upon his mind, that the House had established a doctrine equally novel and dangerous. The course which hon. Gentlemen opposite had pursued, they had not attempted to justify by the production of a single precedent. They had attempted to lay down the doc-
1394Mr. Labouchere
 thought such legislation was wholly unworthy of the House.Colonel Salwey
 proposed, that it should be omitted altogether.Mr. Warburton
 thought the course suggested by the Chancellor of the Exchequer by far the most convenient one, since, before coming to a final decision, it would be well to have a discussion, in which the force of the arguments addressed to the House by the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor-general might be considered.Mr. Warburton
 seconded the motion, because he was satisfied that it was a waste of the time of the House to legislate on such trivial mutters. Last year it had been attempted to excite a feeling on the subject by appealing to their humanity, and stating that the dog was not proper for a beast of draught, surely those who had made such a statement must have forgotten the Kamschatka dogs. The object of the measure was to prevent persons possessed of small means and in humble life, who could not afford to employ other animals, from doing their best to gain a livelihood. If the reason for putting down these carts was that dogs were small animals and liable to throw down horses, then they ought to graduate the dimensions of all animals suffered to draw in the streets, and to prohibit Shetland ponies.Mr. Warburton
 said, that by that clause, it' a child were riding upon a Newfoundland dog in a private garden, a constable might enter the garden, take the parties before a sitting magistrate, and have them convicted in the penalties of the Act.Mr. Warburton
 maintained, that the investigation of these alleged facts was necessary, and that a committee was the only proper tribunal for adjudicating upon them.Mr. Warburton
: Oven supposing that petitions were before the House demanding this bill, the facts contained in them should be submitted to a committee.Mr. Hume
 opposed the motion. There was no proof before the House that the ratepayers of Birmingham, who would be saddled with the expense, had had any notice of the matter.Mr. Hume
 said, that the hon. Gentle-man might as well have said at once, "we want to have the nomination of the judges ourselves, and we don't choose to leave it to you." There was no analogy between this case and that of the Corn-laws. The present bill had received the sanction of both Houses, and the natural course was to pass it without any unusual conditions. The Corn-law question was much disputed, and the reason for not bringing it forward did not at all apply to the present case. This was entirely a party motion, and party feeling never appeared in a stronger light. The House divided, on the question that the clause be read a second time:— Ayes 101; Noes 83; Majority 18.Mr. Hume
 inquired where?Mr. Hume
1357 said, that he had been a Member of the committee before which the
1357Mr. Hume
 said, that, under the circumstances of the House, he should not oppose the vote, but he considered this expense altogether useless, and hoped that in a new Parliament it might be saved.Mr. Hume
 said, with reference to the statement that he kept an office in Dublin for the purpose of registering such charges, nothing could be further from the truth. He could not prevent a gentleman from calling on him in his study and making the statement he did. As to the complaint that he had not given him notice of this charge, he would say, that he could not have anticipated that the hon. and learned Gentleman was about to make an attack on the landlords of Ireland.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 intimated his belief that Mr. Twiss was still in the commission.Mr. Sergeant Jackson
Cheers" Castleconnell, June 6."" I remain, my dear Sir, yours most sincerely ROBERT TWISS."" My dear Sir,—I read with great pleasure the speech you made in the House of Commons on the night of the 3d of June inst., in which you truly stated that my celebrated countryman, Daniel O'Connell, in April, 1838, distrained on his tenants for the rent due the month before. This I have reason to know is the strict truth, as I heard it at the time from the distrainers and the distrained parties. I was on a visit at the time with my old friend James Butler, who lives within four miles of Derrynane. I deem it right, in justice to your good intentions of supporting the credit of the Conservative landlords, to put you in possession of this fact, and you are at liberty to make whatever use you may think fit of this communication. With every sentiment of respect,1353 hoped for the indulgence of the House while he addressed it for a few moments, and they should be very few, on a matter which was in some degree personal to himself. It would be in the recollection of the House, that in the course of the debate on the want of confidence in Ministers the hon. and learned Member for Dublin made an attack on the Conservative landlords of Ireland, whom he charged with being harsh and oppressive to their tenants. He took that opportunity of stating that the hon. and learned Member himself was not a good landlord, for that he had acted towards his tenants in a harsh and oppressive manner, and when the hon. and learned Member expressed a denial of that charge, he had asked him, would he deny having distrained on some of his tenants in April for rent due in the previous March, and he said, that he had asked the question on the authority of a gentleman (Mr. Twiss) who had called on him at his residence in Dublin, and told him the circumstance, and added that he might make any use of it, and of his name as his authority, in any way he thought proper. When he (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) had resumed his seat, the hon. and learned Member got up and denied having ever made any such distress, and that if any such had been made it was altogether without his knowledge, and that if he should find that it had been done by his agent from any private motive of his own, he and that gentleman should part. The hon. and learned Member (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) then detailed the particulars of an interview between himself and the hon. Member for Tralee (Mr. Maurice O'Connell) when the latter called on him to ask the Christian name of Mr. Twiss, the gentleman from whom he had his information. He could not then recollect the Christian name or the date of the year when the distraints were made; but he told Mr. M. O'Connell that he had made a memorandum of the circumstance at the time, and as soon as he could find it he would give him the particulars he required. He had since found the memorandum, from which it appeared that the distraints
Cheers" Castleconnell, June 6."" I remain, my dear Sir, yours most sincerely ROBERT TWISS."" My dear Sir,—I read with great pleasure the speech you made in the House of Commons on the night of the 3d of June inst., in which you truly stated that my celebrated countryman, Daniel O'Connell, in April, 1838, distrained on his tenants for the rent due the month before. This I have reason to know is the strict truth, as I heard it at the time from the distrainers and the distrained parties. I was on a visit at the time with my old friend James Butler, who lives within four miles of Derrynane. I deem it right, in justice to your good intentions of supporting the credit of the Conservative landlords, to put you in possession of this fact, and you are at liberty to make whatever use you may think fit of this communication. With every sentiment of respect,1353Mr. Sergeant Jackson
 moved, that the provisions of the bill be extended to Bolton.Mr. Ainsworth
 moved, that it be an instruction to the committee to give compensation to the clerks of the justices of the peace for the borough of Manchester.Mr. Courtenay
 said, that it appeared to him that his right hon. Friend bore too hard upon the hon. and learned Gentleman, because his right hon. Friend must be aware that it was his duty, as guardian of the public purse, to make the best defence which he could, while the hon. and learned Gentleman was equally justified in injuring his case. He had, on more than one occasion, voted against the right hon. Gentleman, but he did not see anything in his conduct which he could not applaud.Mr. Phillip Howard
 expressed his perfect satisfaction with the appointments which had been made in the Court of Chancery. He believed there was no one who objected to any of those appointments. He had come down prepared to oppose the motion of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Ripon, thinking its object was to get rid of the bill altogether; but from his (Mr. Richards) situation in the Court of Exchequer, he could say that the proposed delay would cause no impediment in the business of the court, and therefore he should support the proposition of his right hon. Friend.Mr. Richards
 said, that as the committee was conceded, he would not occupy the time of the House with any discussion of the question.Mr. Estcourt
 was glad to hear that the hon. and gallant Gentleman was satisfied. But he heard the hon. and gallant Member say—Mr. T. Duncombe
 opposed the motion, on the ground, that the charter of Bolton was in dispute.Mr. Grimsditch
l moved, that a sum not exceeding 166,230lMr. Macaulay
 said, that Ministers had not attempted to proceed with any one of their own measures to which objection was likely to be urged, but that with regard to the bill to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, it was not a Government measure, but had been introduced by an hon. and learned friend behind him (Mr. J. Stewart.) The Government were no parties to it, and any two Members of the Government might have voted opposite ways upon it.Mr. Macaulay
1397 did not think the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) could, as a Minister of the Crown, proceed with the bill, under the present circumstances, and he begged to remind the House, that the outrageous proceedings which had given rise to the noble Lord's motion, did not originate on the Radical side of the House. He, for
1397Mr. Wakley
 moved, that a clause be brought up, to allow compensation to the clerks of the justices of the peace of the borough of Birmingham.Mr. Dugdale
 moved, that the bill be recommitted. He took up the subject in the absence of his hon; Friend, the Member for Warwick, The subject had not been sufficiently explained, and he thought that time ought to be given for the introduction of fresh clauses.Mr. Dugdale
 distinctly recollected that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated in the former debate, that he was placed in a very inconvenient situation by the absence of his two hon. and learned Friends, and that another occasion for the discussion would be more convenient to himself; but he had not put it as a matter of personal favour to the hon, and learned Gentleman, who said, that as the matter had not been argued before, he would not consent to the request.Sir Charles Grey
 said, that it appeared as if a bill of great importance to the public was about to be refused, because there was a chance that some patronage would fall to the lot of the Government. He hoped that fact would go forth to the public. He hoped so, though he might be wrong in his estimate of public opinion. But he considered it to be a matter of importance, and he hoped it would be marked there, as it would be elsewhere, that the present was a Parliament of monopolists, who had only given still further flagrant proofs of the partisanship by which it was animated.Sir De Lacy Evans
 then left the House, and speedily returned, accompanied by Colonel Sibthorp.Sir E. Knatchbull
 moved the Committal of the Debts of Parishes Bill.Sir E. Knatchbull
 replied that his object was to provide for the payment of debts incurred by parishes before the passing of the Poor-law Bill.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that the present bill had received the sanction of all parties at the commencement of the Session, and not only the Poor-law Commissioners but the Government had agreed to it. He would give one instance, whereby they would see the necessity for the bill. A certain parish had been informed that its poor were entitled to a certain disputed property, and they had obtained a loan for the purpose of meeting the expense of prosecuting their rights at law. They had succeeded, and were then in possession of the property, but since the passing of the new Poor-law Act the commissioners had conceived that they had no right to authorise the payment either of the principal or interest of the money so advanced. Cases of that description were frequently occurring,Sir E. Knatchbull
1378 complained that the Government had not kept good faith in bringing forward these bills, when it was distinctly understood from the declaration
1378Sir E. Knatchbull
 thought that the clause did not come within the general scope of the bill, and ought to form the subject of a distinct measure. That was the first time the clause had come under the notice of the House, and he hoped the motion of his right hon. and learned friend would be acceded to.Sir E. Knatchbull
lsll moved the following grants to her Majesty: — 6,200,000lsllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that on the occasion of the last debate, on his asking the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone it, in the absence of the law officers of the Crown, the hon. and learned Gentleman told him that he would not, and that he thought he was justified in not granting the request. He had, accordingly brought forward the question, which left him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) under the inconvenience of answering, in the absence of his hon. and learned Friends.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: Yes, personal.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1373 said, he was rather disposed to consent to the appointment of the committee than to divide the House on the question. He was determined that the matter should come fairly before the House. The parties had before stated, that they did not go for the money, but for the principle. It was now made a question of actual money. He did not think he need discuss the question at length as it bad been exhausted by the
1373The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed the motion. There had been no petition in favour of any such proposition, and it was deprecated by all parties in Manchester.Mr. M, Philips
 replied. He had introduced the bill for the purpose of supposing those cruelties to dogs which took place no less in the country than in town. It should always be remembered, that the feet of dogs were not protected by nature so as to enable them to bear heavy weights. The bill was extremely simple, following closely the provisions of the Metropolitan Act, but extending it to the country. The dogcart nuisance was not only offensive to humanity, but was oftentimes productive of serious consequences. Only within the last few months the Lynn coach had been overturned by a dogcart, and much mischief was the result. He hoped, therefore, that the House would allow the bill to be proceeded with.Mr. East
 said, that having the honour to be one of the persons whose names were on the back of this bill, he would just shortly reply to the objections of the hon. mover and seconder of the amendment, that the more straightforward course for getting rid of this bill would be, by moving that so much of the Metropolitan Police Act as relates to the use of dogs in drawing carts and other vehicles be repealed. He could not see why the dogs in the country should be treated worse than the dogs of London. The hon. Member for Bridport had spoken of the dogs of Kamschatka, but he might have come still nearer home, for dogs were used as beasts of draught in Lapland and in Holland. But in Lapland and Kamschatka they ran over snow, and in Holland upon sand; therefore they did not suffer in the same way as in this country. He supposed, that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State, did not attach less importance to humanity now, than when he supported the measure which applied to the metropolis; and therefore he expected he would vote for this bill.Sir It. H. Inglis
 submitted to the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that the expression had been amply retracted, and that the hon. Gentleman opposite had made every fair concession. He trusted the hon. and gallant Gentleman would allow him (Sir R. Peel) to act as moderator, and that no fresh explanation would be called for.Sir R. Peel
13891388 said, if for a moment it could be inferred, that by his vote on this occasion he meant to imply distrust of the character or integrity of the present Lord Chancellor, he would be extremely cautious how he gave a vote which should have the semblance of sanctioning such a censure. If the object of the present motion were attempted to have been carried by means of an address to the Crown,
13891388Sir R. Peel
13991398 thought it was quite evident that the real cause of that apparent interference which had been ascribed to them at his side of the House, was neither more nor less than the attempt which had been made by the hon. Gentlemen opposite to carry on the executive Government of the country when they did not possess the power to do so. There had been clearly no other course for that Government to pursue, when the House of Commons had so decidedly declared that it did not possess their confidence, than that of resignation or immediate dissolution. By immediate dissolution he did not mean that dissolution which would interfere with
13991398Sir R. Peel
13711370 wished to say a few words on this question. He considered the frequent discussions of this question and the votes to which the House had previously come respecting it, was a sufficient justification for the present motion—for
13711370Sir Stratford Canning
 the clerk of the peace for the county of Hertford, then appeared at the bar, with a large book in his hand.Mr. Story,
14261425" Those who have given occasion for reprisals, are bound to grant compensation to those who have suffered by them."De Jure Belli1424142314221421 said, the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, complains of me for not answering the right hon. the Solicitor-general, when this resolution was first proposed. I should certainly have done so, particularly after the good-humoured piece of mischief which the right hon. Gentleman directed against me, but I thought it would be more consonant with the form of the House, as the motion was put from the Chair, that some one should oppose it before I said anything
14261425" Those who have given occasion for reprisals, are bound to grant compensation to those who have suffered by them."De Jure Belli1424142314221421Mr. Cresswelll
1432143114301429Annual Register1428Cresswell1427 did not wish for a moment to take credit to himself for anything he was not entitled to, therefore he must disclaim the credit given him by his learned Friend, that his statements of last night were merely the arguments used in former debates, and put in a clearer form; he supposed the superior intelligence of his learned Friend had enabled him to find it out. Sir James Mackintosh had distinctly laid it down, that book debts and goods seized ought to be compensated because they were seized against the usages of war and the law of nations; in such a case, he laid it down that it was the duty of the Government to enforce compensation by arms, or to make com-
1432143114301429Annual Register1428Cresswell1427The Solicitor-General
 moved the third reading of the Municipal Corporations Bill.Sir J. Y. Buller
 urged, that no time could be more proper for passing such a bill than the present, when the country was on the eve of a general election.Mr. S. O'Brien
 thought the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick a good one, and hoped that he would persist in it.Sir D. Norreys
 opposed the clause then before the House.Colonel Percival
1439 concurred in some of the objections which had been taken against the
1439Mr. Hobhouse
ex parte1446 said, that at this period of the Session it was utterly impossible for the House to go into an inquiry of this soft, involving as it did the interests of owners of property in the neighbourhood to an enormous amount, whilst the parties so interested had received no notice whatever upon the subject. The lion. Gentleman (Sir. F. Trench), proposed that the committee should sit one day to examine two Gentlemen on one side of the question, and on the evidence of these Gentlemen he was to found some plan for the Government to carry out. Why, he knew of twenty-two witnesses to be examined against it. In the last Session of Parliament, when the chairman of the navigation committee of the City of London, was examined before the committee relative to the proposed embankment, he was asked—" Suppose that a solid embankment is made and a carriage way along it, do you believe, that property would not be injured by it?" To which he replied—" I have no doubt of it." Then he was asked—" You do not consider that having that thoroughfare would compensate for the injury done by the removal of their premises from the banks of the river." And he answered—" I do not." He believed it to be utterly impracticable, and should the
ex parte1446Mr. Harves
prima facie said, he never saw a scheme that appeared to him prima facieMr. Pryme
1441 could not undertake to give a declaration of any such intention as that which the hon. Member for Finsbury hinted at, because he thought it would be inoperative. With regard to the declaration, the propriety of which they were then discussing, if it had not a good effect, it would do harm; and he confessed that, having given that matter some very serious consideration, he could not persuade himself, that any very useful effect could be produced by this declaration, There were many persons who might not be guilty of any very corrupt practices, who might be unwilling, from conscientious scruples, to take such, a declaration. And with regard to the generality of persons, he feared they might not be at all deterred by such a declaration, but would, after a short time, and when its first terrors bad passed away, consider it, as many other things were considered, as merely a matter of course. He did not think it was expedient to have any
1441Lord J. Russell
 said, he was glad that the hon. Member for Lincoln had put that question to him. What he had stated on a former occasion was this, that he would not proceed with the bill if the House, after considering its provisions, desired that it should not reach another stage, and he understood that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had agreed to that; but, as the House was then engaged with another bill, the 8peaker had very properly interposed. He had expected to collect the sense of the House as to whether they had better proceed with the measure or not. It had since occurred to him that the latter part of the present bill would form of itself a good measure, and, being separated from the first part, might be introduced as a substantive bill. He thought that tonight they might go on with the bill, as there would at the next stage be an opportunity afforded to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth to take whatever course he might think the most expedient.Lord J. Russell
1436 thought, that the
1436Lord John Russell
 said, the right hon. Baronet's objection was to the introduction of a definition of bribery to which the House might not afterwards adhere.Lord John Russell
 took the opportunity of stating how he meant to proceed with the Bribery at Elections Bill. If he could expect under existing circumstances, to obtain attention to the different clauses in committee, and due deliberation upon the whole subject, he should be very desirous of carrying the measure through its remaining stages. He could hardly hope that such would be the case but he was quite ready to take any course the House might think expedient.1435Lord John
1435
 proposed that the House should resolve itself into committee.Lord John Russell
1433 contended that the Government was bound to remunerate these parties, for the losses they had sustained, because, when application was made to them, they stated that there need be no apprehension whatever, and, acting upon that advice, one of his constituents, with his family, had been entirely ruined. He contended that these claims stood upon precisely the same footing as the book debts and the goods seined on shore. He himself had sent out ft ship which had been seized at Copenhagen, but it had been afterward re-taken and delivered up to him by Admi-
1433Mr. A. Chapman
 said, you are ordered to attend this day with a copy of the register of the electors of the county of Hertford. Is that a copy in your hand?The Speaker
: Please to deliver it in. You may withdraw.The Speaker
Chairmans1438 had quitted the House some time ago under the impression that the noble Lord did not intend to proceed with the bill. His right hon. Friend the
Chairmans1438Colonel Sibthorp
 was of opinion, that the present laws against bribery were sufficiently severe, but the difficulty was to put them in execution, as it was almost impossible to bring the proof home to anybody so as to secure a conviction. To this inconvenience it would be of course exceedingly desirable to apply a remedy.Mr. W. Wynn
 thought some portions of the measure valuable, and was unwilling to abandon them, although it would perhaps be better to consider the whole subject together.Mr. Wynn
 repeated his opinion as to the great value of some of the clauses, particularly those compelling witnesses to give evidence of bribery before election committees. If those clauses were persevered in now, it would, of course, be necessary to give the witnesses indemnity. At present, witnesses before courts of law were protected from the consequences of their evidence, but such was not the case before election committees, where it was even more important. He thought, that these clauses might be separated from the rest of the bill.Mr. Wynn
 thought, that the best form would be an oath taken before the returning officer. The candidate would be pledged before his constituents, and would run a greater risk of detection should he declare falsely.Mr. E. Turner
 wished to know before what tribunal it was proposed that Members of that House should be tried. Was it before a parliamentary committee, which he conceived was a most objectionable course, or in a court of law?Mr. H. Hardinge
quorum. doubted very much, even though a committee were granted, that the hon. and gallant Member would be able to get a sufficient number together to form a quorum.Mr. Kemble
1437 said, his only doubt as to the proposition was, would it be effectual for the purpose and prevent bribery? Would it not have the effect of inducing persons to believe that elections were purer than they really were, and of shrouding
1437Mr. Warburton
 did not regret, that the aid of the hon. and learned Solicitor-general had been called in, but it would not induce him to vary the vote he had given on a former occasion. He thought it had been established to the satisfaction of the House, that those were reprisals, and not captures, and that the parties were entitled to compensation. He need not refer to the case of the Spanish vessels which had been seized at the breaking up of the war in Spain, and in which compensation was granted to the owners. On the 22nd of July, an embargo was laid on all the Danish vessels' in the English ports, and an armament was sent out to seize all vessels on the high seas belonging to that government. The armament ascended to the mouth of the Baltic, which everybody knew was a close sea, and he thought it only reasonable, fair, and just, that where the British Government derived so large a sum of money from the capture of the fleet and stores, and the condemnation of vessels seized in British ports, it was only reasonable and just that compensation should be afforded out of that large sum. It was nothing for him to hear that he funds had been misapplied; it was no answer to say, that thirty years had elapsed since the occurrence; that was only a stronger reason why the parties should immediately receive the small pittance of compensation to be awarded to them. He relied upon the want of notice to the British, who were sending their vessels to the Baltic, and upon the withdrawal of the British fleet, thereby rendering capture certain. That was enough to justify him in departing from the usual rules, in voting for compensation.Mr. Warburton
 said, he would ask the House, whether they really wished to put an end to bribery? He did not think that men could be made honest by act of Parliament. The present bill, however, even if it did not answer all the objects for which it was intended, would have a moral effect on the country. It might be a discouragement to bribery, and make it fashionable for Members of Parliament to be elected without purchasing the votes of their constituents. As to the clause requiring a declaration to be made, that the Member did not nse bribery, he thought there could be no objection to it. The clause could do no harm. There were many who had no fear of doing wrong, who would, however, have a fear of being detected in it, and as the man who was bribed might inform against the briber, such a declaration might be salutary. He was, he confessed, strongly in favour of any plan which would have the effect of effectually putting an end to bribery.Mr. Brotherton
l. said, he thought the difficulties which had been thrown in the way of obtaining the register were highly culpable. He never saw a practised lawyer give evidence in so discreditable a manner. Now that the register was obtained, means must be adopted for placing it in the hands of the electors. It appeared to him to be absolutely necessary, that the register should be printed. The hon. Member had proposed, that it should be printed at the expense of the House, and doubtless there were one or two examples of that course. As chairman of the committee with respect to the printing of local papers, he thought a document of this nature should be allowed to be printed at the expense of the parties. He held in his hand the list of the electors of Lincoln, which had been laid on the Table of the House upon motion, which had been printed at the expense of the parties; and he had also a statement of the expense of that printing, from which it appeared, that the expense of printing a sufficient number of the returns for the electors of Hertford would be 146l.Mr. Hume
 presumed, that the parties might print the document at their own expense.Mr. Hume
l.1420l said, it was true that her Majesty had no money but what this House afforded to her. The object of this motion was to enforce what the House had more than once acknowledged to be an act of justice, and he asked the right hon. Gentleman why they voted against the Government, and carried their vote for granting the first class of Danish claims? It was true that the House, against the wishes and efforts of the Government, voted, that the first class of the claims should be paid. The same course was pursued with regard to the second class of claimants, and the only difference between those two Governments and the present was, that those two Governments acted in obedience to the orders of the House of Commons, and put those claims in the estimates, and why did not the right hon. Gentleman do the same? There were various ways in which that could be done. Take the case which happened a few months ago. He objected to an address to her Majesty, praying that she would take means to settle 2,000l.1420lMr. Hume
 apprehended legislation of that description was totally useless; and moreover, if such a clause as that was introduced, it would be unprecedented in the legislation of this country. He contended, that whenever they legislated uselessly, they legislated mischievously. He opposed the clause.Mr. Courtenay
 said, after what had been stated by hon. Members he would not press the motion.Mr. T. Duncombe
 moved the Order of the Day for calling in the clerk of the peace for the county of Hertford to the bar.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, he should like to have that copy of the register printed. He did not know that the House would consent to it, but he had a right to ask the question. He would take the opportunity of observing, he did not think they had dealt with the clerk of the peace too harshly on this occasion. He thought it right to state, that after the order of the House, he had referred to several of the principal law-stationers in London, to know in what time they could furnish a copy of the Finsbury list of electors, containing 13,000 names, and was informed by Messrs. Fry law-stationers of Gray's Inn, that it could be copied in two or three hours, in which time they would engage to get it done. Therefore, he thought, they had not been too hard upon the clerk of the peace, in ordering him to produce a copy this day. He should be content whether this question was referred to the printing committee, or that the House should decide whether the copy should be printed or not. The House would remember, that the copy was ordered to be laid on the Table to redress the grievances of the electors of Hertford, but there were no means of redressing those grievances, except the register was printed. It was the duty of the House to protect the elective franchise, and he thought the exercise of that franchise had been impeded by the delay of the clerk of the peace to furnish a copy of the register. He could see no use in the copy lying on the Table. Moreover, his motion was not unprecedented. In 1834, the hon. Member for Dublin had moved that the register of Carrickfergus be printed, and it was printed by order of the House. He, therefore, moved, that this copy of the register be printed.Mr. T. Duncombe
l1440 thought the question which the hon. Gentleman who last spoke had put to the House was much more easily asked than answered. For his part, he firmly believed that House was not sincere in its desire of getting rid of those corrupt and infamous practices which went on at elections. There was, in his opinion, but
l1440Mr. Wakley
 said, he had understood the noble Lord (J. Russell) to say, that he was prepared to go on with the bill if the House were so disposed, and he did not know of any question which could at present occupy the time of the House so advantageously for the country.Mr. Wakley
" And be it enacted, that if any person shall make and subscribe such declaration falsely, every such person, being duly convicted thereof, shall incur and suffer such pains, penalties, and disabilities, as persons convicted of wilful and corrupt perjury are by law liable to, and may be prosecuted for the same at any period within five years after he shall have made such declaration."" ' I do hereby solemnly affirm and declare, that I have not directly or indirectly made use of any bribery for the purpose of being elected at the late election as a Member of this House for the county of (or county of a city, town, or borough, as the case may be).'" And be it enacted, that every Member returned to serve in Parliament, shall, after taking the oath" prescribed to be taken at the Table of the House of Commons, before he becomes entitled to sit and vote, also make and subscribe the following declaration— submitted the following clause;—
" And be it enacted, that if any person shall make and subscribe such declaration falsely, every such person, being duly convicted thereof, shall incur and suffer such pains, penalties, and disabilities, as persons convicted of wilful and corrupt perjury are by law liable to, and may be prosecuted for the same at any period within five years after he shall have made such declaration."" ' I do hereby solemnly affirm and declare, that I have not directly or indirectly made use of any bribery for the purpose of being elected at the late election as a Member of this House for the county of (or county of a city, town, or borough, as the case may be).'" And be it enacted, that every Member returned to serve in Parliament, shall, after taking the oath" prescribed to be taken at the Table of the House of Commons, before he becomes entitled to sit and vote, also make and subscribe the following declaration—Mr. W. S. O'Brien
 said he thought, that under the clause before the House, any person accused could be tried in the ordinary way.Mr. S. O'Brien
 would divide the committee upon the clause.Mr. S. O'Brien
ds" And whereas doubts have arisen whether the payment by candidates of the travelling expenses of electors, and of other expenses necessarily incurred by electors in order to enable them to give their votes at elections, ought to be considered as bribery: Be it enacted, that in case any elector shall reside at a distance of more than five miles from the place of polling at which his vote is received, the payment of the expenses of such elector, by any candidate, shall not be deemed to be bribery, provided that the payment made to each such elector, in consideration of such expenses, shall not exceed an allowance of 5ds moved the following clause, of which he had also given notice:—
ds" And whereas doubts have arisen whether the payment by candidates of the travelling expenses of electors, and of other expenses necessarily incurred by electors in order to enable them to give their votes at elections, ought to be considered as bribery: Be it enacted, that in case any elector shall reside at a distance of more than five miles from the place of polling at which his vote is received, the payment of the expenses of such elector, by any candidate, shall not be deemed to be bribery, provided that the payment made to each such elector, in consideration of such expenses, shall not exceed an allowance of 5dsMr. S. O'Brien
 said, that in consequence of what had fallen from his right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey), he should not persevere in his motion.Mr. S. O'Brien
 said, that he hoped the hon. and gallant Member would, in justice to his own project, and in justice to the various interests that would be affected by it, consent to withdraw his motion, and bring it forward at some future period. At this late period of the Session, he trusted, that the hon. and gallant Member, would not press the House to come to a decision upon this question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
14191418 rose and said, that after the very able and eloquent speech of his learned Friend last night, he had certainly expected to have heard some arguments from the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite in favour of this motion. As, however, he had abstained from entering into the question, he should not go into all the different grounds which had been so well disposed of, but he would tell the House that it became their duty to think very seriously before they took the step of addressing her Majesty. After the question had been so fully discussed, the House would allow him to suggest, that in point of form, the address to which they had agreed was bad —in fact, that the House was about to ask her Majesty to do that which she cannot do. The address requests her Majesty to advance a quarter of a million, and they engaged the honour of the House to make it good at a future period. Now he would ask any Gentleman in the House, how her Majesty could legally comply with that request. There was no legal power in the Crown to do so, and the only answer that could be made to such an address was, that the Crown had no power to comply with such a request. If the House would listen to him for a few moments, he would satisfy them that the Crown had no power to advance any such sum of money out of any funds whatever. No doubt precedents could be shown for such a course—no doubt that a time when the Crown had hereditary revenues and large sums at its disposal, it was in the power of the Crown to make advances on the faith of the advance being repaid by that House. But they had curtailed those revenues, and most properly he thought, with the concurrence of the Crown; they gradually reduced those funds at the disposal of the Crown until there remained nothing but the Civil-list which was necessary for its own expenditure, and a small sum of the civil contingencies which had been granted for only six months. Now, that being all that was at the disposal of the Crown, he would ask the hon. and learned Member, or even the hon. Member for Kilkenny, how it could be expected that the Crown could make such an advance? He was bound to tell the House, that if a treasury
14191418The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1445ldl.ld14441443 rose pursuant to notice, to move the re-appointment of the Select Committee on Thames Embankment, for the purpose of considering evidence in support of a plan to form upon the embankment a quay of communication from Blackfriars-bridge to Hunger-ford-market; the whole expense of which can be provided for by a railroad between the same termini, without any demand for the public money, or any reference to the value of the land recovered from the river. The hon. Member said, that from the report of the committee appointed last year, it appeared, that in conse-
1445ldl.ld14441443Sir F. Trench
 reminded his hon. Friend, the Member for Limerick, that the clause which he had proposed would be an infringement of the understanding on which the Bill had gone into committee, that nothing should be introduced defining what constituted bribery.Sir George Grey
 suggested, that it would remedy the inconvenience if the English system of having different polling places at convenient distances was introduced into Ireland.Sir R. Bateson
 said, his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel) had left the House under the impression that the bill would not be proceeded with that evening.Sir R. H, Inglis
 thought, the question which was put to the clerk of the peace referred to the time in which he himself, with the assistance of his clerks, could make a copy of the register. Any professional person must be aware, that by cutting the register to pieces, it could be accomplished in three hours. With respect to the motion before the House, he believed, that if the register were printed, not more than ten copies would be sold, and if the hon. Gentleman pressed his motion to a division, he (Sir R. Inglis) would certainly vote against it.Sir R. Inglis
 remarked, that he had voted for the second reading, and he was most anxious, that the offences of bribery and treating should be defined, that it might be known what bribery and treating were in the eye of the law. It was material also to consider the propriety of requiring a declaration from parties appointed to offices, in order to make it more secure that they were not given away for services rendered at elections, and thereby converted into a species of bribery. Whatever attempt might be made to define bribery, he hoped it would be a successful one, and that the House would not now adopt a course in that respect which it might at some future time regret. It would be inconvenient to pass a law which it was necessary afterwards to amend. So few days would now elapse before the House was dismissed, that he thought the noble Lord would exercise a sound discretion if he did not press the bill,Sir R. Peel
llss said, that he thought it would be unjust to the electors, that they should be called on to bear the expense of having a document of this kind printed, which ought to be done at the expense of the county. An act ought, in his opinion, to be passed without further delay, by which it should be obligatory on the clerk of the peace of every connty to provide a register, at an expense of 2llssViscount Howick
l1469 concurred in the remarks which hid fallen from the hon. Baronet. It was needless to say that, whoever might be the individual concerned —whether of high or low station, whether friend or foe—in any act of delinquency he would give his verdict impartially. He was not present when his right hon. Friend brought forward his motion with respect to Dr. Webster, but he certainly was astonished when he found that a number of hon. Gentlemen who profess the greatest horror of bribery had done all in their power to shelter him. He believed a more flagrant case than that had never come before the House of Commons. He would now address himself to the subject before the House. Mr. Long had undoubtedly been guilty of bribery, but he
l1469The Earl of Darlington
 was rather surprised, considering the situation in which he was placed, that his hon. and learned Friend should have appealed to him on this occasion. Having in the case of the St. Alban's election, which was before the House very recently, declined giving any opinion on its merits, it was his intention to pursue the same course on the present occasion. If he were to depart from that line, it was possible it might be quoted against him, before a jury, that he was prosecuting a case on which he had already delivered an opinion as a judge in the House of Commons.The Attorney-General
 hoped, that the bill would be postponed till next Session.Mr. Rice
 (on the further consideration of the report on the Bribery at Elections Bill) observed, that as it had been supposed, that he had proceeded with the bill yesterday, after I he right hon. Member for Tamworth had retired from the House, he had taken pains to-day to ascertain whether the right hon. Baronet had any objection to the measure as it stood, and had good ground for believing that the right hon. Baronet approved of it in its present shape.Lord John Russell
 felt himself relieved from the necessity of considering the question in respect to the charge against Mr. Manners Sutton by the course which the hon. Member for Sheffield had just taken. In the second resolution he (Lord John Russell) could not have concurred, because he did not see anything im the evidence which at all implicated Mr. Manners Sutton. With regard to the first resolution, he thought it desirable, that it should be divided into two resolutions, because it related to two different cases. With respect to Mr. Swan, he (Lord John Russell) should certainly require more evidence than he had yet obtained, before he could assent to a prosecution on the part of the House against him; but with respect to Long, it was admitted generally, by both sides of the House, as far as the opinion of the House was concerned, that he had been guilty personally of several acts of bribery, and that it was just such a case in which the House might properly interfere.Lord J. Russell
 expressed a hope, that the bill would be postponed till next Session. Parliament ought to be in possession of more information than it at present possessed on the subject, before it proceeded to legislate with reference to it, and there would be no difficulty in obtaining that information before the next Session. He (Mr. Wood) intended to move for a return of those debts, with a classification, which return would afford very valuable information to the House on the subject of the bill, and there would be no difficulty in obtaining the return in the recess.Mr. B. Wood
1462 having been asked for his opinion as to whether the motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward) could come on as a matter of privilege, had no hesitation in declaring, that the subject was in no way a matter of privilege. The hon. Member had given notice that he would move it before the orders of the day. If the House did not interfere to prevent it, there could be no objection to his taking that course; but the hon. Member had no claim to precedence on the ground of privilege. With respect to the motion brought forward the other evening by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Mont-
1462The Speaker,
 would be sorry to see the idea of instituting a prosecution for bribery entertained where the act was done by agency only, without any proof of knowledge on the part of the principal, because such a course would interfere with the conduct of election committees, and deter them from doing that with respect to the seat of the sitting Member which they could legally do, although there might be no ground for a prosecution. He therefore acquiesced in the withdrawal of the resolution as far as respected Mr. Manners Sutton.Mr. Williams Wynn
1470 said, it had been distinctly proved before the committee that the agents of Mr. Sutton had contributed to a fund, the avowed object of which was the corruption arid bribery of the electors. He believed however, that, as far as Mr. Sutton was concerned individually, he
1470Mr. Protheroe
 was of opinion, that there was no ground whatever for instituting a prosecution against Mr. Manners Sutton. That Gentleman's name was most reluctantly introduced into the report of the committee, it being the opinion of that committee, that Mr. Sutton was in no way proved to be cognizant of the acts of bribery alleged to have been committed in his name, and it was only on the representation of Mr. Austen, the petitioner's counsel, who stated that he feared the finding of the committee would be inoperative unless that gentleman's name was mentioned, that the committee introduced the name of Mr. Sutton at all. There was nothing to implicate that Gentleman, and if he should be indicted he must be acquitted: he would, therefore, suggest to the hon. Member for Sheffield to withdraw the resolution against Mr. Sutton.Sir E. Sugden
 also thought, that there was an essential distinction between the two cases, and that the motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield could claim no precedence as a matter of privilege. He hoped, however, that his hon. Friend would not persist in his objection, but allow the hon. Gentleman the same indulgence as was conceded a few evenings ago to the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire.Sir E. Sugden
officio1472lll1471 was of opinion, that it would neither be creditable nor desirable for the House to institute a prosecution with the certain prospect of defeat before it; nor was it at all consistent with the dignity of the House to institute such proceedings in a spirit of retaliation. What he would ask, had the present case to do with the case of Dr. Webster? Were the merits of the present case involved in that? Why not take each case and rest it on its own merits? He repeated, that it was neither expedient nor desirable, to institute the proposed proceedings; it was no light matter for that House to direct a prosecution, as in doing so, the individual about to take his trial would have a prejudice excited against him, inasmuch as it would be assumed that the House had good grounds for sending the case for trial, and the party would, therefore, labour under a prejudice from the commencement. The House should therefore, be careful how it proceeded. He would not refer to the case of St. Alban's. That case had nothing to do with the She then under consideration. It was Clear, from the evidence of the Chairman of the committee, which sat upon the Cambridge petition, that nothing was elicited which could implicate Mr. Manners Sutton, and the hon. Member for Halifax bore testimony to the same effect. Neither did there appear in the evidence anything which could implicate Swan. He regretted, that the hon. and learned Attorney-general was not present, as he should have wished to appeal to the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether in the administration of criminal justice arty person was held responsible for the conduct of his agent, unless that person were himself in some degree personally connected with the act. In Civil cases, the principal was responsible for the conduct of the agents but, with the exception already made, such was not the case in the administration of criminal
officio1472lll1471Mr. Thesiger
 thought, that there was no parallel between the two cases of St. Alban's and Cambridge; the one was a recent, the other a remote transaction.Mr. Freshfield
1461 did not mean to oppose the order of the day, but begged to avail himself of that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to a subject that he deemed of some importance to the general business transacted within these walls. He observed on the paper a notice given by the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward), "to move, before the orders of the day, 1. That a Committee of the House of Commons having reported, that the hon. Henry Thomas Manners Sutton was, by his agents, guilty of bribery and treating at the election for the borough of Cambridge,' Mr. Attorney-general be directed to prosecute William Swan and Samuel Long, the principal agents of the hon. Henry Thomas Manners Sutton for bribery. 2. That Mr. Attorney-general be also directed to prosecute the hon. Henry Thomas Manners Sutton for bribery at the election for the borough of Cambridge," The hon. Member for Sheffield had, no doubt, given this notice under a supposition, that the matter to which it referred was a matter of privilege. He, however, contended, that it was not a matter of privilege, and, consequently, that it could have no claim whatever to take precedence of the orders of the day. It did not relate to the conduct of any Member of the House, nor was it a matter of such, recent occurrence as could in any degree tend to obstruct the functions of the House therefore it could not be regarded as a, matter of such urgent necessity as to entitle it to the precedence which the hon. Member for Sheffield sought to obtain for it. Perhaps Mr. Speaker would favour the House with
1461Mr. Freshfield
 had no objection to continue the prosecution against Long, but he did not think a case had been made out against Swan.Mr. Plumptre
 said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Gentlemen opposite, he would not then press the bill.Mr. Plumptre
 moved for leave to bring in a bill more effectually to enforce the printing, and the speedy delivery, at a reasonable price, of copies of the registry of electors in England and Wales; and to make provision for the printing of the registry of the present year of the electors of the county of Hertford.Mr. T. Duncombe
 hoped, as it appeared that hon. Gentlemen on both sides were agreed as to the substance of the resolution, at least against Long, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Sheffield, would put it into that technical shape which would make it agree with the wishes of the House.Mr. T. Hobhouse
 also expressed his opinion that the House ought to have more information before they proceeded to legislate on the subject.Mr. Wakley
1468 said, as chairman of the committee on the Cambridge election, he thought it was important that the House
1468Sir C. Lemon
 moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the School Sites Bill (No. 2.)Sir George Grey
 had only one fault to find with the objection of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, and that was, that it was not made at the time that the notice was given. He contended, that this case of the Cambridge election which he now sought to bring forward, was exactly analogous to the case of the St. Alban's election, brought forward and discussed the other evening as a matter of privilege by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomeryshire (Mr. Williams Wynn). There was no pretence for saying that any objection that would be good against the one would not be equally good against the other. In the St. Alban's case, the transaction was a by-gone transaction, quite as much as the transaction in the Cambridge case. He (Mr. Ward), therefore, submitted to the House that the two eases stood in precisely the same position; and if Mr. Speaker should decide upon the question of privilege, that the one was as doubtful as the other was represented to be, he (Mr. Ward) should still put it to the House, whether, in fairness and justice, after the discussion of the other night, he could be denied the opportunity of submitting the motion of which he had given notice.Mr. Ward
"That a committee of the House of Commons having reported, that the hon, Henry Thomas Manners Sutton was, by his agents, guilty of bribery and treating at the election for the borough of Cambridge. Mr. Attorney-general be directed to prosecute Samuel Long, a principal agent of the hon. Henry Thomas Manners Sutton, for bribery." said, that the finding of the committee was, that the agency of William Swan, jun., was proved, and that they considered Long to be the instrument of Swan, for the purpose of this election. Now, as the committee regarded Long to be the instrument of Swan, for the purpose of bribery, Swan certainly ought to be considered as one link in the chain of agency. He had no objection to divide the resolution into two parts, making the first a direction to the Attorney-general to proceed against Long, and the next a direction to the Attorney-general to proceed against Swan, but he could not withdraw the resolution against Swan, because he thought him to be one of the instruments in the work of bribery. Mr. Ward concluded by moving,
"That a committee of the House of Commons having reported, that the hon, Henry Thomas Manners Sutton was, by his agents, guilty of bribery and treating at the election for the borough of Cambridge. Mr. Attorney-general be directed to prosecute Samuel Long, a principal agent of the hon. Henry Thomas Manners Sutton, for bribery."Mr. Ward
 said, that after the discussion which had taken place, he was perfectly willing to abandon the resolution against Mr. Manners Sutton, who, although he might be morally guilty, was not, he was inclined to think, after the opinions which had been expressed, legally guilty of bribery.Mr. Ward
primâ facie1467l1466ll"Had learnt to bribe without being discovered, and how to destroy the links of evidence between the briber and the candidate, thus defeating Parliament, frustrating justice, and leaving the delinquency unpunished."1465"Was not condemnatory of Dr. Webster; but it was intended to send him to trial. And was there, or was there not, sufficient evidence in the Blue Book, to subject him to the ordeal of a tribunal of his country."1464"If Dr. Webster were not guilty of the offence alleged against him, in the report of the election committee, it would in fact be an act of kindness on the part of the House to direct the prosecution, as it would furnish him the opportunity of proving his innocence.""He thought it desirable that special notice should be taken of the present case, particularly before the general election, in order that the borough of St. Alban's might have the opportunity of wiping out the stain that rested upon it.""That the Attorney-general be directed to prosecute Richard Webster, for bribery at the last St. Alban's election."prima facie"Even where the evidence of bribery was incomplete, the House would not discharge its duty properly if it did not send the case into a court of justice—that a prima facie1463 rose, with, very great pain and reluctance, to undertake a duty which he should never have dreamed of saddling himself with, but for the new reading of his Parliamentary duties, as a Member of thud House which was given to him the other night, by
primâ facie1467l1466ll"Had learnt to bribe without being discovered, and how to destroy the links of evidence between the briber and the candidate, thus defeating Parliament, frustrating justice, and leaving the delinquency unpunished."1465"Was not condemnatory of Dr. Webster; but it was intended to send him to trial. And was there, or was there not, sufficient evidence in the Blue Book, to subject him to the ordeal of a tribunal of his country."1464"If Dr. Webster were not guilty of the offence alleged against him, in the report of the election committee, it would in fact be an act of kindness on the part of the House to direct the prosecution, as it would furnish him the opportunity of proving his innocence.""He thought it desirable that special notice should be taken of the present case, particularly before the general election, in order that the borough of St. Alban's might have the opportunity of wiping out the stain that rested upon it.""That the Attorney-general be directed to prosecute Richard Webster, for bribery at the last St. Alban's election."prima facie"Even where the evidence of bribery was incomplete, the House would not discharge its duty properly if it did not send the case into a court of justice—that a prima facie1463Mr. Ward
 felt, then, that he must throw himself entirely upon the kindness of the House. He asked whether, in common justice, after the motion of the other night, the House could now refuse him the opportunity of bringing forward the subject of the Cambridge election.Mr. Ward
 stated, that some time since the committee elections made some suggestions of a trifling and formal nature, for the amendment of some of the provisions of the Act for the trial of Controverted Elections. It would, of course, be matter of great importance that those amendments should be adopted prior to the meeting of a new Parliament. He hoped, therefore, that the House would give him leave to bring in a bill, to amend the act relating to the trial of Controverted Elections. Sir R. Peel
 did not think this a very valuable measure, but he must admit, that it had not yet had a fair trial. One thing he thought deserved notice. He thought the Committee of Selection exercised too little care and caution in seeing that the persons chosen as chairmen of committees had no local connection of any sort with the matter which the committee had to try. Want of sufficient caution in that respect tended to bring back one of the great evils of the old system which it was intended to get rid of. He did not mean to impute any intentional partiality in the selection of chairmen of election committees. What he wanted to impress on the House was the necessity of due caution in such choice.Mr. Pryme
1481 said, he would not object to the motion, though there were many parts of the bill which he should much like to see changed. He was the less disposed to object to it, because he looked upon it as an experiment which would be tried in the first Session of a
1481Mr. V. Smith
 did not think the law had totally failed; on the contrary, he thought it a great improvement on the old law. He objected to giving to any tribunal out of the House the power of trying election petitions.Mr. Ord
1483 said, that no Member was ever chosen Chairman who was known to be in any way locally connected, however remotely, with the county, city, or borough, the return for which he had to try. One thing he thought would be an improvement in the selection of committees. It was, that they should be reduced from seven Members to five. The responsibility would be greater in the case of
1483Lord Eliot
 suggested, that as there were not then Members enough to make a House, the hon. Member should not press his amendment to a division, as it would delay the progress of other bills to which no objections existed.Lord Eliot
 thought the bill had introduced a great deal of practical good, and he considered it still more valuable as a step to further improvement. He thought the plan of the right hon. Baronet had had the effect of increasing the intelligence of election committees. He thought the mode of selecting the Chairman a great improvement, and he thought it desirable to have as permanent a Chairman as possible. The question whether such Chairman should be of the House or out of the House, was a very grave one, and required much consideration. He was not prepared to go to the extent of making the service of the Chairman compulsory. No set of men would be harder worked than they would be during the' next Session, and it would be a monstrous injustice to the Chairman, and doubling the difficulties of the Committee of Selection. He therefore, hoped, that no such clause would be proposed.Mr. C. Buller
" —Si quid novisti rectius istis Candidus imperti; si non his utere mecum."1480" Impiger, iracundus, inexorabilis, acer;"et tu, Brute" ' Quosque tandem abutere, Catilina, patientià nostrâ?'1479sotto voceavidi nimis auricularum1478 said, that he, of course, should not offer the slightest objection to the progress of this bill, but he could not help observing that, within the memory of man, no Session had ever occurred at the close of which the people received so small a return, in the shape of useful and practical legislation, for so enormous a sum of money as it was now proposed to appropriate for the public service. He had of late been paying considerable attention to the somewhat mournful subject of Parliamentary necrology; and he observed every day with sorrow, but without surprise, that so many measures of great interest and value took their places in the diurnal obituary, and were included in the bills of mortality. The reams of paper wasted in printing during this Session would suffice to supply all the trunk-makers and tallow-chandlers in the metropolis with materials for the next six months. He did not by any means intend to cast exclusive blame upon the Government for this inauspicious and unsatisfactory result. All parties were equally in fault for having not only tolerated, but he would even say, encouraged, the pernicious and preposterous practice of adjourning debates—a practice which, if not put an end to by common consent, must inevitably bring on a national bankruptcy, as far as the public time was concerned, and leave very inadequate dividends to be appropriated for the diversified exigencies of legislation. The evil had been greatly aggravated during the course of this Session; "and, Sir," (said the hon. Baronet), "I may without impropriety, utter a complaint on this subject, as I have taken no part in any of these wearisome discussions to which I allude, and by which the public out of doors (I speak of all classes and of all parties) has been both exasperated and disgusted. Many persons are inclining to the opinion, that 658 honest operatives, who spoke less, and did more, would carry on public business with far greater advantage and satisfaction to the empire. The two debates on the sugar duties and the no-confidence question almost engrossed the space of a honeymoon—the one having begun during the first week in May, and the other having terminated during the first week in June; and if at the commencement of the former I had set out for
" —Si quid novisti rectius istis Candidus imperti; si non his utere mecum."1480" Impiger, iracundus, inexorabilis, acer;"et tu, Brute" ' Quosque tandem abutere, Catilina, patientià nostrâ?'1479sotto voceavidi nimis auricularum1478Sir G. Sinclair
 said, that the bill, instead of injuring the public, was calculated, in a very great degree, to guard against expense being incurred by parishes, inasmuch as by its operation the roads were prevented being in such a situation as that an indictment would lie. It was, he thought, of material importance, that the bill should be continued.Mr. Goring
 said the bill was approved of by the Government—and it was in the opinion of many persons absolutely necessary, to enable the trustees of roads to maintain them. It was no violation of principle, for under the old law, statute labour had been applied to the repair of turnpike roads.Sir C. Burrell,
 moved the second reading of the Controverted Elections Trial Amendment Bill.Sir G. Clerk
 said, that the observations of the hon. Gentleman did not apply to the immediate question before the House. It would be impossible at the present period of the Session, to discuss the general subject to which the hon. Member had referred. The object of the present bill was merely to introduce some alterations in the existing law, particularly as regarded the Committee of Selection. It was desirable, that the bill should be made as complete as possible, and the provisions now proposed to be introduced in it were merely intended to remove certain difficulties which had occurred. One of the alterations proposed, was to make the attendance of the Chairman of the committee compulsory. He agreed entirely with the hon. Gentleman who recommended that change. Some such enactment was necessary, for it would be impossible to secure their attendance without it. Another alteration was for the purpose of removing difficulties which had occurred with regard to the serving of notices. Another difficulty had arisen as to cases where more than one petition had been presented against a return. It was proposed to consider all such as one petition, and refer them to the Committee of Selection. His right hon. Friend proposed to re-enact the whole of the former bill, and the alterations proposed to be introduced would be printed in italics, so that hon. Members could see at a glance the alterations intended.Sir G. Clerk
 would not object to the adjournment of the debate, but would not withdraw his opposition to the bill.Captain Pechell
 opposed the motion. He objected to the bill on principle. It went to give the justices a power to appropriate highway rates to private property. He felt persuaded, that the House was not aware of the great power it gave to the county magistrates. He should, therefore, move, that the report on the bill be brought up that day three months.Captain Pechell
1482 would not oppose the bill, though he still adhered to the opinion he had already expressed—that neither the present nor any other measure for the trial of election petitions would be successful which left the jurisdiction in that House in all such cases. The House was now so divided by party, and hostile political collision between those parties so frequent, that he considered the House quite incompetent to give that calm and impartial consideration to election ques-
1482Viscount Mahon
 moved the order of the day for the adjourned debate on the Debts of Parishes Bill for the purpose of having it discharged.Sir E. Knatckbull
 thought the right hon. Baronet was acting judiciously in proposing this amendment.Lord J. Russell
 said, he objected to the Bill, as it provided for the payment of certain debts—one upwards of seven years, the amount and number of which were not specified. He was desirous to ascertain what was the real object of the Bill, and was glad that the hon. Gentleman meant to withdraw it, as next session he trusted such information would be laid before the House as would enable it to legislate on the subject.Mr. Benjamin Wood
1501 said, that the bill of the right hon. Baronet was a great improvement on the former system; it altered the original system in the right direction, and whatever defects it might leave, they might be easily repaired. There was one alteration, however, which the right hon. Baronet proposed to make, to which he felt an objection. The original committee on controverted elections, of which he was the chairman, proposed a plan by which election committees were to be selected as before, by chance; but in order to secure the permanence and competence of one person at least on the committee, that committee proposed that an assessor should be chosen out of the House, who should act as chairman. But the right hon. Baronet proposed a bill as an improvement,
1501Mr. C. Buller
1503 agreed with the noble Lord, that it would be a great advantage
1503Sir E. Sugden
 thought that it was not only the height of impropriety to delude the people on a question like the present, but that it was wicked in the extreme, and the statement of the hon. Gentleman that the landed interest bore no share in the taxation of the country was a statement which would only tend to delude the public. The land-tax, the poor-rates, and tithes, all which were borne by the landed interest, did not amount to less than 50 per cent of the whole revenue.Mr. G. Palmer
1494 said, that he had given the matter his consideration, and he had no hesitation in saying, that if he held the same situation in the next Parliament which he held in the present, he would recommend that the course pursued in regard to private business at the dissolution of 1831 should be adopted on the present occasion. He did not believe, that any great amount of private business would be stopped by the dissolution of Parliament, but at the same time as there were one or two bills of great importance, he thought it but just that the House should take the same course in this respect as they did in 1831. It was impossible for the present House to pledge itself in any respect, but he had no doubt that the two Houses of Parliament would relieve those
1494Mr. Labouchere
1499 said, as far as he was concerned, he had no objection whatever to the Bill going through another stage. He was not responsible for the Bill not going through another stage. It would be most unreasonable to pass the Bill
1499Mr. Warburton
 wished to know what course Government meant to pursue in regard to the private bills before the House, in the event of a dissolution of Parliament.Mr. Loch
1498lsss."You are of opinion, that all those protective duties are, in fact, a direct tax upon the community, by raising the price of every one of those articles to the consumer?—Most decidedly. I cannot analyse the charge which I pay in any other way, than that part of it is the prices of the commodity, and part is a duty, though it goes out of my private pocket, into another private pocket, instead of into that of the public. Have you ever made a calculation as to the amount of taxation which the community pay in consequence of the increased price of wheat and butchers' meat, which is occasioned by the monopoly now held by land?—I think that a tolerable calculation may be made of that increased charge. It is generally calculated that each person, upon the average, consumes a quarter of wheat a year. Assuming, then, the amount of duty that this wheat paid, or the price enhanced by protection, whatever that is, as far as bread goes, to be 10lsss.l" Have you ever heard any estimate of that kind with respect to bread or flour? With respect to bread and flour, the difference which the labourer pays in money is from forty to eighty per cent more than the foreign consumer. Taking the gross amount of revenue paid into the Treasury at 50,000,000l1497dsdssssldslsdslddssd"That there were import duties on the following articles:—malt; beef and pork, fresh or slightly cured; lamb and mutton; cattle, sheep, and swine. High duties are levied on the following articles, to protect British agricultural and grazing interests:—tongues, 3dsdssssldslsdslddssdlllldsll1496l"What do you pay for your assessed taxes? —A mere nothing; our direct taxes are very small. I do not pay on all the land I hold above 10llldsl" Mr. John Rolfe, a farmer and appraiser of farming stock, renting from 200 to 300 acres, in the county of Bucks, was asked, ' Is there any other tax than the malt tax, which presses immoderately upon the farmer?—No, except the assessed taxes. I pay for my riding horse 1lldsll1495 wished to offer one or two observations in regard to what he had asserted the other evening, that, under the Corn-laws as they at present existed, the agricultural interest levied from the community a greater sum than the whole amount of the taxes paid to the State. He wished to show that his assertion was not of so vague a nature as it was represented to be by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge. He had stated that he considered the landed proprietors of England to be in a much more favoured condition than the landed proprietors of any other part of the world, and he was prepared to prove, that while the landed proprietors of this country were almost free from taxation, those of France paid nearly forty per cent, of the whole revenue of that country. He stated this on the authority of a statement of M. Humann, minister of finance—a statement which he considered unanswerable, and which had never been contradicted. In Belgium he found that the land-tax was 22 per cent., and in Holland 25 per cent, of the whole revenue of the state. He had stated that England was in the same situation in which France was in 1789, when the nobility were exempted from taxation, and when the whole revenue was levied from the working classes. He repeated, that the people of England were now in the same situation in which the people of France were at that period, and that while they paid the greater part of the revenue, the landed proprietors paid no portion of the revenue whatever —the amount they received in the shape of protective duties being considerably more than the taxes which they were called on to pay. The landed interest in this country, consisting principally of the aristocracy, he thought sufficiently showed that it was for the benefit of the aristocracy alone that the Corn-laws were maintained. They enjoyed in addition a large portion of the twenty millions paid to the army and
1498lsss."You are of opinion, that all those protective duties are, in fact, a direct tax upon the community, by raising the price of every one of those articles to the consumer?—Most decidedly. I cannot analyse the charge which I pay in any other way, than that part of it is the prices of the commodity, and part is a duty, though it goes out of my private pocket, into another private pocket, instead of into that of the public. Have you ever made a calculation as to the amount of taxation which the community pay in consequence of the increased price of wheat and butchers' meat, which is occasioned by the monopoly now held by land?—I think that a tolerable calculation may be made of that increased charge. It is generally calculated that each person, upon the average, consumes a quarter of wheat a year. Assuming, then, the amount of duty that this wheat paid, or the price enhanced by protection, whatever that is, as far as bread goes, to be 10lsss.l" Have you ever heard any estimate of that kind with respect to bread or flour? With respect to bread and flour, the difference which the labourer pays in money is from forty to eighty per cent more than the foreign consumer. Taking the gross amount of revenue paid into the Treasury at 50,000,000l1497dsdssssldslsdslddssd"That there were import duties on the following articles:—malt; beef and pork, fresh or slightly cured; lamb and mutton; cattle, sheep, and swine. High duties are levied on the following articles, to protect British agricultural and grazing interests:—tongues, 3dsdssssldslsdslddssdlllldsll1496l"What do you pay for your assessed taxes? —A mere nothing; our direct taxes are very small. I do not pay on all the land I hold above 10llldsl" Mr. John Rolfe, a farmer and appraiser of farming stock, renting from 200 to 300 acres, in the county of Bucks, was asked, ' Is there any other tax than the malt tax, which presses immoderately upon the farmer?—No, except the assessed taxes. I pay for my riding horse 1lldsll1495Mr. Hume
 having brought up the report of the committee on the Appropriation Bill,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1500 said, that the Bill referred principally to the technical objections in the present law, which it was desirable to amend. The clauses of the Bill were mostly of an unimportant character, but still, on the eve of a general election, with the probability that many election petitions would soon be presented, it appeared to him advisable to make the Bill as complete as possible. It should be remembered that the act would expire at the end of the first session of the ensuing Parliament. There were, however, some alterations of rather an important character. Under the proposed alteration of the law, a Member was disqualified for serving on the Select Committee, on the grounds of certain degrees of relationship, or of his having voted at the election. It had been found that in one or two instances Members had inadvertently been placed on committees against whom reasonable objections might be urged. Such, for instance, as their having taken an active part in the election; and in those instances Members had expressed a regret that they had not an opportunity of disqualifying themselves. He proposed in the amended measure, for the purpose of remedying that inconvenience, that any Member who had satisfied the majority of the committee that there were good reasons, not having reference to considerations of personal convenience, but affecting the impartiality of the committee, why he should be excused from serving, that in such a
1500Sir R. Peel
 in order to obviate the objection made with regard to the onerous-ness of the duty of chairman to a committee during the whole of a Session, moved the introduction of a proviso, to the effect that every Member on the chairman's panel who had served on one or more election committees during a Session, should be excused from serving on such committee, either as chairman or member, and he should be discharged from attendance on such committee, upon making an application to that effect. If the House did not adopt something like that which he now proposed, in the next Session of Parliament they would have to depend on the services of a voluntary chairman, who, perhaps, would find something onerous in a pecuniary way in the performance of his duties, and, therefore, would refuse to serve, leaving only the alternative of selecting persons for the office who were hot qualified to fill it. That was the danger which he apprehended, and he hoped that those hon. Gentlemen who might accept the office of chairman would endure the suspicion which was inseparable from that acceptance, and which could only attach for a very short time to those who honourably and honestly performed their duty, a suspicion which would not press heavily upon their minds, and which would be counterbalanced by the consideration that the proper discharge of their duty had gained them the approbation of this House. The balance was in favour of an alteration in the law, and he hoped the House would express an opinion strongly in approbation of the clause.Sir R. Peel,
1502 concurred in the opinions of the hon. Member for Liskeard, as to the advantages of the bill of the right hon. Baronet Sir R. Peel; and he thought that [the object of that bill would be destroyed unless they had a permanent chairman, and that it would be impossible to impose on any Gentleman of this House, at the commencement of a new Parliament, a duty so onerous as that of permanent chairman of a committee during the whole of a Session. Having himself had the misfortune to serve ou a committee since the new act came into operation, his experience confirmed him in the opinion that it was necessary to give these committees the benefit of professional assistance in some shape or other. Difficulties and embarrassments were experi-
1502Viscount Howick
 concurred that all the argument was in favour of the right hon. Baronet's amendment.Viscount Mahon
 said, that the keeper had no authority to act as the hon. Member had represented, and his conduct must have originated in some mistake, which he would take care to see rectified. The gate, he believed, was always closed at twelve o'clock, in order to prevent the deer from escaping. He would, however, inquire into the matter.Mr. E. J. Stanley
15271526 seconded the motion. He did not intend to have spoken, but being well aware of the prevailing distress, although no practical benefit could result from the motion with the present prospects of the House, he could not refrain from giving it his support. The cause of the existing destitute condition of the lower orders, and especially of the manufacturing classes, was the excessive burden of taxation they were compelled to sustain. They were taxed by the State, and they were taxed also by the landed aristocracy to an amount very nearly equal to the taxation imposed by the State. He had himself been an astonished witness of the rapid progress of manufactures in some parts of Europe, and the same remark would apply to America. He could not, there
15271526Mr. Williams
d.8¾07 ½1Total
8¾07 ½1Total1⅜0do.401 lb. of raisins
1⅜0do.401 lb. of raisins⅜0do.101 oz. of pepper, occasionally
⅜0do.101 oz. of pepper, occasionally10do.2½0ds.2 oz. of coffee, 1ds.
10do.2½0ds.2 oz. of coffee, 1ds.2½0do.601 lb. of sugar
2½0do.601 lb. of sugar3¼0which is60s.2 oz. of tea, at 4s.
3¼0which is60s.2 oz. of tea, at 4s.d.d.s.s.Duty out ofd.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.Duty out ofd.d.s.s.
8¾07 ½1Total
8¾07 ½1Total1⅜0do.401 lb. of raisins
1⅜0do.401 lb. of raisins⅜0do.101 oz. of pepper, occasionally
⅜0do.101 oz. of pepper, occasionally10do.2½0ds.2 oz. of coffee, 1ds.
10do.2½0ds.2 oz. of coffee, 1ds.2½0do.601 lb. of sugar
2½0do.601 lb. of sugar3¼0which is60s.2 oz. of tea, at 4s.
3¼0which is60s.2 oz. of tea, at 4s.d.d.s.s.Duty out ofd.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.Duty out ofd.d.s.s." A poor woman, a widow, earning her living by washing for families at their own abodes, and having two young children to support, generally purchases, weekly, the following articles, and this is about the usual proportion which poor persons of that class consume in a week;—15301529" We feel that the state of mind which they indicate, deserves serious attention. The Government of this country resides in a minority, and a narrow minority; the owners of land, a small portion of the community, constitute, almost exclusively, one House of Parliament, and form a large majority in the other. Such a Government can be safe only while it is popular; and popular only while it is believed to be impartial. Its first prudential duty is to avoid even the appearance of selfish legislation."1528: Mr. Speaker, It is because I agree in the opinion expressed by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Williams) that the resolution of my hon. Friend, the Member for Birmingham, is not sufficiently practical, that I am anxious to propose the addition of which I have given notice. For, Sir, if the distress at present existing arises from no fault of this House, however warmly we may express our sympathy with the industrious classes, it will be useless, if we cannot by legislation, give them some relief. Believing, however, that much of this distress arises from the present system of legislation, I am desirous to have the proposition I have advanced, adopted by the House. And though this addition itself embraces no practical details, it appears to me that its adoption by the House at the present time would have a practical effect. When the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Robert Peel,) proposed his motion of want of confidence in the Government, he neither proposed to address her Majesty for the removal of her Ministers, nor for the exercise of her prerogative of dissolving this House, though it was certain, that one or the other of these results must follow his motion, if successful. In the same way, I conceive that if the House adopt my addition, the practical result must be a revision of the whole of our taxation, whatever party may be in office. Sir, there are two great parties in the State struggling for power; and I fearlessly tell them both, that it would be utterly impossible for either to hold the reins, except they act on the principle that taxation should be just to all classes of the community. The present system of taxation presses most unequally on the different classes of society, and, most unjustly on the middle and lower classes. The duty of removing this injustice at the present time is exceedingly increased by the extremely depressed state of these classes. The House has heard the melancholy and lengthened details of the hon. Member for Birmingham; and it is unnecessary for me to do more than to confirm their truth from my own personal knowledge. Representing as I do, an extensive manufacturing district, and intimately acquainted, as I am, with the state of the labouring classes, I must say, that
d.8¾07 ½1Total
8¾07 ½1Total1⅜0do.401 lb. of raisins
1⅜0do.401 lb. of raisins⅜0do.101 oz. of pepper, occasionally
⅜0do.101 oz. of pepper, occasionally10do.2½0ds.2 oz. of coffee, 1ds.
10do.2½0ds.2 oz. of coffee, 1ds.2½0do.601 lb. of sugar
2½0do.601 lb. of sugar3¼0which is60s.2 oz. of tea, at 4s.
3¼0which is60s.2 oz. of tea, at 4s.d.d.s.s.Duty out ofd.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.Duty out ofd.d.s.s.
8¾07 ½1Total
8¾07 ½1Total1⅜0do.401 lb. of raisins
1⅜0do.401 lb. of raisins⅜0do.101 oz. of pepper, occasionally
⅜0do.101 oz. of pepper, occasionally10do.2½0ds.2 oz. of coffee, 1ds.
10do.2½0ds.2 oz. of coffee, 1ds.2½0do.601 lb. of sugar
2½0do.601 lb. of sugar3¼0which is60s.2 oz. of tea, at 4s.
3¼0which is60s.2 oz. of tea, at 4s.d.d.s.s.Duty out ofd.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.Duty out ofd.d.s.s." A poor woman, a widow, earning her living by washing for families at their own abodes, and having two young children to support, generally purchases, weekly, the following articles, and this is about the usual proportion which poor persons of that class consume in a week;—15301529" We feel that the state of mind which they indicate, deserves serious attention. The Government of this country resides in a minority, and a narrow minority; the owners of land, a small portion of the community, constitute, almost exclusively, one House of Parliament, and form a large majority in the other. Such a Government can be safe only while it is popular; and popular only while it is believed to be impartial. Its first prudential duty is to avoid even the appearance of selfish legislation."1528Mr. Hindley
1546"That they had made inquiry into the circumstances of every applicant for relief, and that they found thousands of persons who were able and willing to work, but who could not find employment."l." He would never tell a he about his feelings. He would assure the meeting that the sentiments uttered by Bottomley (the chairman of the Operative committee), were held by nine out of every ten of the unemployed workmen." He added, "It is a crime for a man to allow himself to starve in the midst of plenty."" This language." he continued," may sound unpleasantly in polite ears, but let those persons come to have the naked backs and the hungry bellies that this useful class of society suffered from, and I am satisfied that they would not be contented, but that they would be amongst the first, when want pinches their stomachs, to take food where they could find it.""In many cases which I visited," said he, "I have heard men declare, that unless by some means their children could be supplied with bread, they should be under the necessity of taking it from the common stock. In that opinion," said the speaker, "I myself cordially agree; for I declare before God and man I would take it where I could find it."1545" The committee have entered the names of upwards of 2,000 persons, principally heads of families, varying from two to eleven in each family, and, taking five as the average, they find that there are no less than 10,000 persons (in this town) out of employment, or depend-1 ant on those who are in that situation."1544 could not agree in the opinion of the hon. Baronet, that the discussion of the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, would lead to no practical result. He, on the contrary, thought that a subject which involved an inquiry into the true state and condition of the great body of the people in the manufacturing and commercial districts of the country, on the eve of a dissolution of Parliament, when the constituents and representatives were to be brought together, and when inquiries could be made by the latter into the circumstances of the former, and particularly into the alleged distresses that prevailed amongst them, and as to the cause of and remedy for that distress, was of the highest importance, and would be productive of consequences more beneficial than those which belonged to most of the discussions that took place in that House. For his own part, he was accustomed to judge of public questions more from their real importance, than from the sensation they made in Parliament and by the votes which they elicited. The discussion of the ques-
1546"That they had made inquiry into the circumstances of every applicant for relief, and that they found thousands of persons who were able and willing to work, but who could not find employment."l." He would never tell a he about his feelings. He would assure the meeting that the sentiments uttered by Bottomley (the chairman of the Operative committee), were held by nine out of every ten of the unemployed workmen." He added, "It is a crime for a man to allow himself to starve in the midst of plenty."" This language." he continued," may sound unpleasantly in polite ears, but let those persons come to have the naked backs and the hungry bellies that this useful class of society suffered from, and I am satisfied that they would not be contented, but that they would be amongst the first, when want pinches their stomachs, to take food where they could find it.""In many cases which I visited," said he, "I have heard men declare, that unless by some means their children could be supplied with bread, they should be under the necessity of taking it from the common stock. In that opinion," said the speaker, "I myself cordially agree; for I declare before God and man I would take it where I could find it."1545" The committee have entered the names of upwards of 2,000 persons, principally heads of families, varying from two to eleven in each family, and, taking five as the average, they find that there are no less than 10,000 persons (in this town) out of employment, or depend-1 ant on those who are in that situation."1544Mr. Baines
154315421541 observed, that when
154315421541Mr. Labouchere
1520 wished to ask the Secretary of the Treasury a question which was not only of personal concern to himself, but in which the public were also materially concerned. It was a matter of notoriety that there was a public highway through Windsor Great Park which led from Staines to Reading, through Egham and Inglefield-green. On Wednesday night last he was passing along this road in a carriage, and when he arrived at the Bishop's-gate he found it locked, and he was kept waiting until some one came to open it full five minutes. The person who appeared spoke to him with rudeness, and told him that he had no right to be there after ten o'clock at night, and that he might go through for that time, but he should not in future. Now, he thought that there must be a great assumption of power on the part of somebody connected with the park to cause all this; it looked as if there was an intention to defraud the public of a
1520Colonel Salwey
" That the extreme suffering of the industrious classes, from want of employment, low wages, and high prices of provisions, renders it the imperative duty of Parliment to devise means for the alleviation of the great misery which now pervades all the manufacturing districts of the country.''1525" At a late meeting at Liverpool of the working classes, the chairman said, that the next speaker, Robert Jones, though a man well able to express his views on this great question, was unable to read, and he, the chairman, would therefore move the resolution for him: 'That these laws, which wring from the wants of the poor, in order to support a monopoly to the wealthy, are cruel, unchristian, and unjust; alike opposed to the word of God and the happiness of man.' Robert Jones, in moving the adoption of this resolution, said, that like some hundreds, if not thousands, of those present, all the property that he had in the world he had with him—all the estate that God and his father had left him on the earth, and that English landlords would allow him, he held up to them (holding up his hands). These were all his property, and he found that, in consequence of the Corn-laws and other wicked laws, he was robbed of so much of the produce of his estate that he and his children had to rise many a time from the table with half-filled bellies. This was not a cause of party or faction, it was the cause of the whole human family—it was the cause of justice and truth, of God and of humanity. A tax upon bread; a tax upon life itself—a tax upon the very existence of the working man—a tax on Eternal Justice and on the providence of God! God sent untaxed rain to water the earth; God brought untaxed corn out of the earth; God had spread a bountiful table for the whole family of man on the face of the earth—but man put his avaricious hand on the bread, and snatched it from the hungry lips of the people of England."1524" Last week a young wife died in childbirth; her time was come, but, for want of strength, she was not able to bring forth-—a physician was called in but his assistance was unavailing—he said, he had no doubt her death was occasioned by deficiency of nourishment.'," At the Board of Guardians, yesterday, a young woman applied for relief, whose husband had been three weeks in prison for a debt due for provisions; he has nine weeks longer to remain; himself and his wife are steady people; they have two small children. The Guardians thought the woman appeared almost lost for want: they allowed her three shillings, and two loaves, per week, for nine weeks—not sufficient, after paying for lodgings, to keep body and soul together! more could not be allowed to her, as levies are so high, and many persons who pay them stand in need of parochial relief.s.s.1523" Workmen, with large families, are receiving from six to eleven shillings per week, and
s.s.1523" The productions of every climate, tributary to our industry, and plastic to our skill, fill every store with the means of enjoyment, and yet, English poverty is as unequalled as English wealth." We pray you to consider bow ill such poverty brooks delay; how many miseries and anxieties, crowding in each successive hour, have made each week an age. Some victims of our neglect have, in that period, found refuge in the grave. No ministration of earthly comfort soothed their last mortal agony; the aid, for which affection yearned, a necessitous poverty denied—they rest—but, to the living is left the undying regret—that the thousand appliances which might have restored health, or softened pain, were all denied.d." A week has passed, and you have vouchsafed us no reply. Nine weeks have gone since the Committee concluded its labours, reporting, that they had found above 40,000 individuals so miserable as to be grateful— yes, humbly grateful—for a donation of less than 1¼d.s." Birmingham contains ninety-four pawnbrokers, and if each has sixty-five pledges per week, the weekly number of the town, of small pledges, not exceeding 3s.d.s.s." A list of one week's pledges at one shop, containing sixty-five pledges, out of which only two lots exceeded 3d.s.s.1522" The condition of the inhabitants of Birmingham is more deplorable than ever. Cruel mortgagees are disposing of property on which they have advanced money for less than one-third of its value, or rather, I should say, they are purchasing buildings at that rate. In consequence of trade being so bad, and levies and taxes so high, mortgagers have not been able to be punctual in the payment of interest; their property has been advertised to be sold, and no sale being practicable, a legal process has been gone through, and the property been transferred from the legitimate owner to the mortgagee, and this has been the case lately in a great many instances. Trade is daily getting worse. Whilst the number of bankrupts is less, the number of insolvents is greater, in all the manufacturing districts, and the poor debtors are crying ' make room, the prison is too small for us.' This was actually the case in Birmingham only a few weeks ago, when the commissioners held a Court for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors, and those miserable men have been sent forth into the world pennyless, and nothing but an alteration in trade can prevent their coming to the workhouse. Although it was so recently emptied of its inmates, there is a fresh succession of unfortunate debtors, many of whom have lived respectably, and contributed largely to the payment of taxes and poor-rates, to the benefit of the community, but who are now about to perish in obscurity. Tradesmen, with very few exceptions, are in jeopardy every hour. They apply to the pawnbrokers in vain, for these have granted loans till they have no money to lend, and the consequence is, all the heads of families are in ill health, and medicine is of no avail. ' Hope deferred maketh the heart sick,' and one need not be skilled in phisiognomy to be able to discern, by a man's countenance, that he considers himself standing on a quicksand, and, unless he his unexpectedly supported, that he must shortly Sink."1521d.d.d. said, he had to apologize to the House for his own inability to do justice to the motion he had to make. He could assure the House there was vast and extensive suffering in the manufacturing districts of the country, although the word distress was as seldom heard within those walls as was the mention of the national debt, yet it was doubtless owing to the national debt that so much distress existed. Not only had the distress been extensive, but it now affected the home trade as well as the foreign. In fact, so much money was required to procure food at the present high price of corn, that there was little left to buy clothes with, and consequently, the demand for the home trade was proportionately curtailed; nor was the foreign trade in a better condition than the home trade. We had now competitors in every market with which we traded, and unfortunately were undersold in too many of them. The German manufacturers of hardware could take their goods to all parts of the globe, and there undersell the English; they could even introduce articles of cutlery at Sheffield on lower terms than our own manufacturers could supply them. And what gave the advantage to our foreign competitors? We had equal industry, equal skill, and as much capital as foreigners possessed; but our industrious artisans could not buy their bread and the necessaries of life so cheaply as they were sold in other countries. Whilst our workmen had to pay 9" That the extreme suffering of the industrious classes, from want of employment, low wages, and high prices of provisions, renders it the imperative duty of Parliment to devise means for the alleviation of the great misery which now pervades all the manufacturing districts of the country.''1525" At a late meeting at Liverpool of the working classes, the chairman said, that the next speaker, Robert Jones, though a man well able to express his views on this great question, was unable to read, and he, the chairman, would therefore move the resolution for him: 'That these laws, which wring from the wants of the poor, in order to support a monopoly to the wealthy, are cruel, unchristian, and unjust; alike opposed to the word of God and the happiness of man.' Robert Jones, in moving the adoption of this resolution, said, that like some hundreds, if not thousands, of those present, all the property that he had in the world he had with him—all the estate that God and his father had left him on the earth, and that English landlords would allow him, he held up to them (holding up his hands). These were all his property, and he found that, in consequence of the Corn-laws and other wicked laws, he was robbed of so much of the produce of his estate that he and his children had to rise many a time from the table with half-filled bellies. This was not a cause of party or faction, it was the cause of the whole human family—it was the cause of justice and truth, of God and of humanity. A tax upon bread; a tax upon life itself—a tax upon the very existence of the working man—a tax on Eternal Justice and on the providence of God! God sent untaxed rain to water the earth; God brought untaxed corn out of the earth; God had spread a bountiful table for the whole family of man on the face of the earth—but man put his avaricious hand on the bread, and snatched it from the hungry lips of the people of England."1524" Last week a young wife died in childbirth; her time was come, but, for want of strength, she was not able to bring forth-—a physician was called in but his assistance was unavailing—he said, he had no doubt her death was occasioned by deficiency of nourishment.'," At the Board of Guardians, yesterday, a young woman applied for relief, whose husband had been three weeks in prison for a debt due for provisions; he has nine weeks longer to remain; himself and his wife are steady people; they have two small children. The Guardians thought the woman appeared almost lost for want: they allowed her three shillings, and two loaves, per week, for nine weeks—not sufficient, after paying for lodgings, to keep body and soul together! more could not be allowed to her, as levies are so high, and many persons who pay them stand in need of parochial relief.s.s.1523" Workmen, with large families, are receiving from six to eleven shillings per week, and
s.s.1523" The productions of every climate, tributary to our industry, and plastic to our skill, fill every store with the means of enjoyment, and yet, English poverty is as unequalled as English wealth." We pray you to consider bow ill such poverty brooks delay; how many miseries and anxieties, crowding in each successive hour, have made each week an age. Some victims of our neglect have, in that period, found refuge in the grave. No ministration of earthly comfort soothed their last mortal agony; the aid, for which affection yearned, a necessitous poverty denied—they rest—but, to the living is left the undying regret—that the thousand appliances which might have restored health, or softened pain, were all denied.d." A week has passed, and you have vouchsafed us no reply. Nine weeks have gone since the Committee concluded its labours, reporting, that they had found above 40,000 individuals so miserable as to be grateful— yes, humbly grateful—for a donation of less than 1¼d.s." Birmingham contains ninety-four pawnbrokers, and if each has sixty-five pledges per week, the weekly number of the town, of small pledges, not exceeding 3s.d.s.s." A list of one week's pledges at one shop, containing sixty-five pledges, out of which only two lots exceeded 3d.s.s.1522" The condition of the inhabitants of Birmingham is more deplorable than ever. Cruel mortgagees are disposing of property on which they have advanced money for less than one-third of its value, or rather, I should say, they are purchasing buildings at that rate. In consequence of trade being so bad, and levies and taxes so high, mortgagers have not been able to be punctual in the payment of interest; their property has been advertised to be sold, and no sale being practicable, a legal process has been gone through, and the property been transferred from the legitimate owner to the mortgagee, and this has been the case lately in a great many instances. Trade is daily getting worse. Whilst the number of bankrupts is less, the number of insolvents is greater, in all the manufacturing districts, and the poor debtors are crying ' make room, the prison is too small for us.' This was actually the case in Birmingham only a few weeks ago, when the commissioners held a Court for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors, and those miserable men have been sent forth into the world pennyless, and nothing but an alteration in trade can prevent their coming to the workhouse. Although it was so recently emptied of its inmates, there is a fresh succession of unfortunate debtors, many of whom have lived respectably, and contributed largely to the payment of taxes and poor-rates, to the benefit of the community, but who are now about to perish in obscurity. Tradesmen, with very few exceptions, are in jeopardy every hour. They apply to the pawnbrokers in vain, for these have granted loans till they have no money to lend, and the consequence is, all the heads of families are in ill health, and medicine is of no avail. ' Hope deferred maketh the heart sick,' and one need not be skilled in phisiognomy to be able to discern, by a man's countenance, that he considers himself standing on a quicksand, and, unless he his unexpectedly supported, that he must shortly Sink."1521d.d.d.Mr. Scholefield
1540Hear1539153815371536 said, that after the long and discursive speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, he should certainly endeavour to condense what little he bad to address to the House, into the
1540Hear1539153815371536Sir F. Burdett
 said, that a question of this nature was too important to be discussed in so thin a House, and moved that the House be counted. There being only twenty. four Members present, House adjourned.Sir Stratford Canning
 said, that the bill of last Session had not been acted upon, for the Lord Chancellor, he believed, was afraid to act upon it; because, without this bill, if under the act of last Session the Lord Chancellor had issued any order, such order, however inconvenient its operation might have turned out to be, could not have been altered in any way until it had been thirty-six sitting days before Parliament. It was thought better that there should be an opportunity for revision, alteration, and correction, and this provision in the bill had been framed accordingly.The Attorney General
1551 said, that in answer to the question put to him, he would state shortly to the House, that in his opinion the account of the experiment alluded to by the hon. Member was perfectly true. He very much regretted that this subject had been brought before the public by means either of a newspaper or a pamphlet, or by a conversation in that House; because he thought the immense power obtained by this invention ought to have been secured to the country in the most secret manner possible. He had been aware of this invention now for upwards of a year. His attention had been called to it by an indistinct paragraph which he saw by accident in a newspaper. It struck him that there was something behind more than met the eye, and he followed up the track. He could only state, that from that hour his conviction had become stronger every moment, that the possession of the invention was of the greatest possible moment to this country. He should hesitate in making this statement were it only his own opinion, but when the same opinion had been expressed to her Majesty's Government by such distinguished officers as Sir Richard Keats and Sir Thomas Hardy, who, unfortunately, were now no more, he could not refrain from saying, that this was a subject of the greatest possible importance to this country. There were other officers, now living, who had witnessed the experiment, and among them General Sir G. Murray, who had gone to see the experiment, at his suggestion, and who was struck, as everybody must be, with the immense power which was contained in a small compass. That gallant officer had authorized him to say, that after communicating further with the
1551Viscount Ingestrie
 said, that when the Solicitor-general got up to move this alteration, he (Lord J. Russell) was not aware that any such amendment was to be made. However, from the Solicitor-general's explanation, he gathered that it was merely one of those technical amendments which might very well be made in bills at the third reading. The right hon. Gentleman would, therefore, see, that he (Lord J. Russell) was not to blame in the matter.Lord J. Russell
 having moved the third reading of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners' Bill; on the question being put,Lord J. Russell
1547 said, he would take that opportunity to protest against the practice of introducing important alterations into bills at the third reading without notice to the House. Nothing could be more inconvenient. An instance had occurred the other night, in the case of the Bribery at Elections Bill, into the first clause of which words had been introduced by a member of the Government without notice, for giving the unheard-of power to the chairman of an election committee to issue his warrant to the sergeant-at-arms to commit any Member of the House to the custody of the said sergeant without bail or mainprise for any time not exceeding twenty-four hours, if the House shall be then sitting; and if not, then for a time not exceeding twenty-four hours after the hour to which the House shall then be adjourned. The words which had been introduced wholly altered the nature of the clause, and he was sure that a provision so completely objectionable could not have met the eye of the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, or he would have felt it his duty to point out to the House
1547Sir E. Sugden
1548s said, he very much objected to this measure. Last Session a bill had passed into a law, giving the Lord Chancellor greater power than had ever before, he believed, been conferred on an individual—legislative powers, in short, subject to the condition, that the orders which might be made in pursuance of such powers should lay on the Table of the House of Commons for thirty days; and, if not objected to, should, at the end of that time, come into operation. This was a salutary check upon these enormous powers, but this bill continued the powers while it did away with the check; it provided that the orders of the Chancellor should be law, and should come into operation immediately upon being issued, but that they should be laid on the Table, and that the House, if it pleased, might rescind them. This he thought most ob-
1548Sir E. Sugden
 said, that he had thought, upon looking into the bill, on coming into the House on the evening it was to be read a third time, that the words were not extensive enough as they stood, and he had mentioned his doubt to the Solicitor-general, who undertook to introduce some words which he (Dr. Nicholl) suggested. But the Solicitor-general was in no way responsible for the alteration, of which he was afraid he was innocently the cause.Dr. Nicholl
 could not see the wisdom of making such a discovery public. He disapproved of giving rewards to men who exercised the noblest powers of mind in devising means of destruction, instead of devoting them to objects useful to society. It was said this would have the effect of putting an end to war, and he sincerely hoped it might.Mr. Brotherton
1550" The trial took place in the grounds of Mr. Boyd, in the county of Essex, a few miles from town, in the presence of Sir R. Peel, Sir G. Murray, Sir H. Hardinge, Sir F. Burdett, Lord Ingestrie, Colonel Gurwood, Captain Britton, Captain Webster, and some other gentlemen, who all appeared very much astonished at what they saw. A boat, twenty-three feet long and seven broad, was placed in a large sheet of water; the boat had been the day before filled in with solid timber, four-and-a-half feet in depth, crossed in every direction, and clamped together with eight-inch spike nails. This filling in was made under the inspection of Captain Britton, who stated the fact to the distinguished gentlemen we have mentioned, and also that the inventor never went near the workmen employed, that no suspicion might be entertained of any combustible materials being lodged in the hold of the vessel. Several of the gentlemen were on Saturday rowed in a punt to the vessel, and examined it for themselves, so that every doubt might be removed as to the cause of destruction being external, and not from the springing of any mine. When the different parties had taken up their positions, on a signal from the inventor, the boat was set in motion, and struck just abaft her starboard bow, and instantaneously scattered into a thousand fragments. At the moment of collision the water parted, and presented to the eye of our informant the appearance of a huge bowl, while upon its troubled surface he noticed a coruscation precisely resembling forked lightning. A column of water was lifted up in the air like a huge fountain, from which were projected upwards for many hundred feet the shattered fragments of the vessel, which fell, many of them, several hundred yards distance in the adjacent fields. Our informant examined many pieces, and found the huge nails snapped like carrots; the mast looked like a tree riven by lightning, and never before, as he assures us, has he witnessed so sudden and complete a destruction, though he has seen shell and rocket practice on the largest scale.1549The Times rose, in pursuance of notice, "to inquire of Lord Viscount Ingestrie whether some experiments, said to have been witnessed by his Lordship, which were performed by Mr. Warner, to demonstrate the power and utility of certain inventions alleged to be applicable to naval and military conflicts, were correctly described in a morning journal, and in a pamphlet recently published by Mr. Walesby, the barrister." The hon. Member said, that in the month of August last, an editorial notice appeared in 1550" The trial took place in the grounds of Mr. Boyd, in the county of Essex, a few miles from town, in the presence of Sir R. Peel, Sir G. Murray, Sir H. Hardinge, Sir F. Burdett, Lord Ingestrie, Colonel Gurwood, Captain Britton, Captain Webster, and some other gentlemen, who all appeared very much astonished at what they saw. A boat, twenty-three feet long and seven broad, was placed in a large sheet of water; the boat had been the day before filled in with solid timber, four-and-a-half feet in depth, crossed in every direction, and clamped together with eight-inch spike nails. This filling in was made under the inspection of Captain Britton, who stated the fact to the distinguished gentlemen we have mentioned, and also that the inventor never went near the workmen employed, that no suspicion might be entertained of any combustible materials being lodged in the hold of the vessel. Several of the gentlemen were on Saturday rowed in a punt to the vessel, and examined it for themselves, so that every doubt might be removed as to the cause of destruction being external, and not from the springing of any mine. When the different parties had taken up their positions, on a signal from the inventor, the boat was set in motion, and struck just abaft her starboard bow, and instantaneously scattered into a thousand fragments. At the moment of collision the water parted, and presented to the eye of our informant the appearance of a huge bowl, while upon its troubled surface he noticed a coruscation precisely resembling forked lightning. A column of water was lifted up in the air like a huge fountain, from which were projected upwards for many hundred feet the shattered fragments of the vessel, which fell, many of them, several hundred yards distance in the adjacent fields. Our informant examined many pieces, and found the huge nails snapped like carrots; the mast looked like a tree riven by lightning, and never before, as he assures us, has he witnessed so sudden and complete a destruction, though he has seen shell and rocket practice on the largest scale.1549The TimesMr. Wakley
1552 had been a witness to the experiment, and, though no one could adequately judge of it who had not seen war, he would state that he could not conceive a sight more astonishing. The
1552Sir F. Burdett
 thought that our ambassadors or consular agents had no right to enter the manufactories in foreign nations for the purpose of obtaining the information required by the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this motion.Mr. Villiers
 said, he had never heard so extraordinary an assertion as that made by the hon. Member for Wolverhatnpton. His object was, to obtain information in regard to the wages and habits of foreign workmen, which might be of great use in illustrating the condition of the working classes of this country, and he could not therefore withdraw his motion.Mr. Wodehouse
 felt almost disposed to withdraw his motion, as the hon. Member for Kilkenny had made a statement far beyond it.Mr. Wodehouse
"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before Parliament, through the medium of her ambassadors or other diplomatic residents abroad, copies of all regulations established in foreign factories, together with such explanations in detail as the nature of the cases will admit; describing the character of the food used therein, and the wages paid therein, whether in specie or in kind."' moved,
"That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before Parliament, through the medium of her ambassadors or other diplomatic residents abroad, copies of all regulations established in foreign factories, together with such explanations in detail as the nature of the cases will admit; describing the character of the food used therein, and the wages paid therein, whether in specie or in kind."'Mr. Wodehouse
 said, that his only objection to the motion arose from the impression upon his mind, that the information asked for had already been laid before the House in the returns and reports made by our foreign consuls for the information of the Poor-law commissioners. He thought that no additional information whatever could be obtained by the present motion; and it was scarcely fair to the consuls themselves, having so recently troubled them upon a similar subject, to call upon them to make fresh returns.Mr. Labouchere
 did not see, that the motion had any thing to do with the tariffs of other nations. On that head one of the Secretaries to the Board of Trade was engaged in collecting information, which, when ready, would be laid on the Table of the House, and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would rest satisfied with this, and not press his motion to a division.Mr. Labouchere
 wished to know whether the hon. Member opposite would have any objection to amend his motion, so as to give the tariffs of all States?Mr. Hume
1565 said, he had given notice several days previously of his intention to move an amendment, which would have raised a general discussion on this subject, but in the present state of the House it appeared to him that no advantage would be derived from such a course. It was his intention to have brought the subject before the House this Session, and he would suggest to the President of the Board of Trade that he should do as was done by the Government of the United
1565Mr. Hume
1566 stated, that he did not rise to object to the motion, although he feared that it would be exceedingly difficult to obtain the detailed information required; but he rose principally to notice what fell from a noble Lord, in another place, in respect to the iron trade. From what fell from that noble Lord, it might be inferred that the iron trade was in a flourishing state—a statement which he was sorry to say he could not confirm. On the contrary, a reduction in the price of bar iron had taken place of about 30 percent,; and it was now in so distressed a state, that a reduction of a large amount in the rate of wages paid to the workmen in that trade had already taken place, and still further reduction was, he regretted to
1566Sir John Guest
1576 replied, that he certainly undertook that a sum sufficient for the erection of a monument to Sir Sidney Smith should be provided out of the public funds, if the House of Commons would consent to such a vote; but upon taking the matter further into consideration, the cases of some other officers who had also been engaged in the service of the country, were brought before the Government; and there were two of those cases, which seemed to be of sufficient importance to induce the Government to consider whether, in those instances, as well as in the instance of Sir Sidney Smith, it would not be proper to erect monuments at the public expense. He alluded to Lords Ex-mouth and Saumarez. If the Session had proceeded in the ordinary manner, it was his intention either to have taken out of the civil contingencies, a sum sufficient for the erection of the proposed monuments, or to have obtained the amount by a separate vote in the miscellaneous estimates. The hon. Baronet was, however, aware that an interruption had occurred in the ordinary proceedings of public business; and, for that reason, Government
1576Lord John Russell
, as we understood, wished to know why passengers were excluded from travelling by certain lines of railroad on which the mails were carried. For instance, persons going to Dublin were obliged to go round by Warrington to Liverpool, while the mails were sent by a shorter route. He wished to know whether the Board of Trade had not the power of remedying the evil.Lord R. Grosvenor
 trusted, the answer he was enabled to give to the question put to him by the hon. Member for Hull would be satisfactory to the House, and to the great mercantile interests affected by this question. He was enabled to state, that a protocol had been signed by his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and by the Danish Minister, by which he (Mr. Labouchere) hoped the foundation had been laid which would speedily lead to a satisfactory adjustment of the matter. The protocol had not yet been ratified by the King of Denmark, but he believed it was the intention of his noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Department to lay it upon the table of the House, and thus enable hon. Members to see the terms of the arrangement which had been entered into. With regard to the revision of the tariff, commissioners for that purpose would be appointed to proceed immediately with that revision, and he trusted that the whole of this important question would be settled at no distant period.Mr. Labouchere
l said, that the monuments ought to be erected in some place where the public could see them. They had thirty or forty public monuments, which had cost the country upwards of 100,000lMr. Hume
 thought that passengers had a right to be conveyed by the shortest route; but he would make enquiry on the subject, and answer the noble Lord on Monday.Mr. Sheil
1577 said,
1577The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1575 rose to put a question to the noble Lord with reference to a motion which the House would recollect that he had intended to bring before the House upon the erection of a monument to the late Sir Sidney Smith, but which he was prevented from submitting to the House by an assurance that it was the intention of the Government to take tip the subject, and he was willing to leave it in their hands, conceiving them be the fittest persons to conduct the necessary arrangements. He was, however, much surprised and disappointed when he found that amongst the supplies proposed by the Government no grant for such a purpose was mentioned, and, that in fact,
1575Sir F. Burdett
 understood the noble Lord to say, that the delay had occurred, not from any change in his opinion as to the propriety of erecting a monument to Sir Sidney Smith, but from the unlooked-for circumstances which cut short the present Session. The family of Sir Sidney Smith, and the public, might then expect to see the promise of erecting a monument fulfilled, for he understood the noble Lord to say, that he had not given up his intention of taking the matter in hand.Sir F. Burdett
 seeing the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade in his place, was anxious to learn from the right hon. Gentleman whether any progress had been made towards effecting a revision of the Sound duties, in accordance with the motion which he had submitted to the House in the month of March last.Mr. Hutt
15911590 regretted that so little attention should have been paid by the Board of Admiralty to a subject of such high national importance; and that not even one Member connected with that board should be present on this occasion. The whole subject had been grievously neglected, and he must say,
15911590Viscount Ingestrie
1592 said, that in reference to the point just alluded to by the noble Lord, he begged to state, that when Captain Warner applied to Lord Melbourne, he was told, that the subject to which his application referred was a matter rather for the Admiralty, than for the Treasury, and he (Mr. Cowper) suggested to him the propriety of an application to the Lords of the Admiralty. He had himself had an interview with Captain Warner on the subject, and said to him, that it would be satisfactory that some person connected with the Royal Navy should speak as to the advantages of the invention, and upon that, Captain Warner himself suggested— as he (Mr. Cowper) understood as a friend of his—Lieutenant Webster, who was acquainted to some extent with the nature of the invention, and he believed that Lieutenant Webster actually went to the Admiralty as the friend of Captain Warner, and not as a person selected or nominated as an umpire, either by the Lords of the Admiralty or by Lord Melbourne. He also believed, that the reason why the interview at the Admiralty was not more satisfactory to Captain Warner arose from the circumstance, that he would not comply with the conditions which the Lords of the Admiralty wished to affix to the explanation of his invention, and he rather thought, also, that some doubt had arisen as to the number of persons to whom such explanation was to be referred. At all events, in his interview with Captain Warner, he had offered to him, to refer the inquiry into the nature and character of the invention to a committee of engineer officers. That offer, was however declined, and therefore the reason why the invention had not been inquired into was, because Captain Warner would not accede to the terms and manner of the inquiry. He (Mr. Cowper) could not help thinking that this was an unfortunate mode of introducing such a subject, and he regretted that the present motion should
1592Mr. Cowper
 begged to ask the hon. Member for Hertford whether Lieutenant Webster had not been approved of both by the Admiralty, and by Lord Melbourne?Viscount Ingestrie
: I think they approved of him, but not as an umpire.Mr. W. F. Cowper
 was understood to say, that the parties alluded to had been fairly tried, and that there was a protector of aborigines in the colony, who would, of course take cognizance of the affair.Lord J. Russell
, in moving the House to agree to the Lords' Amendments in the Bribery at Elections Bill, expressed his regret that the bill should have been so much altered as only to leave one clause of the many sent up from this House. He begged to observe, that it was utterly untrue, as had been suggested, that this measure had been produced without due consideration. The bill was framed upon a measure introduced some years ago by the right hon. Member for the county of Montgomery (Mr. C. W. Wynn), and had been introduced by him (Lord J. Russell) last Session. He regretted the omission of the clauses struck out by the Lords, because it would prevent that searching inquiry which was necessary in questions of bribery. However, there still remained in the bill as sent down one clause which settled a point upon which there had been so much difference of opinion in election committees—he alluded to the point as to the proof of agency before acts of bribery were admissible in evidence, and, therefore, though so much of the bill had been struck out, he was willing to accept the bill as amended, rather than lose the benefit and advantage of the small portion that remained.Lord J. Russell
" It must at all times be my most earnest desire to attend to the wishes of the House of Commons, and I shall be ready to give effect to them in this instance, whenever the means shall have been provided by Parliament.""VICTORIA R. appeared at the Bar with her Majesty's answer to the address of this House on the subject of the Danish claims, which the noble Lord read as follows:—
" It must at all times be my most earnest desire to attend to the wishes of the House of Commons, and I shall be ready to give effect to them in this instance, whenever the means shall have been provided by Parliament.""VICTORIA R.Lord J. Russell
 said, that he was but very imperfectly informed on the subject to which the hon. Gentleman's motion referred, and he regretted the absence of his hon. Friends connected with the Admiralty Board, who could have put the House in possession of those details with which he (Lord J. Russell) was unacquainted. He hoped the House would not agree to the motion until some explanations were given, for he did think the production of the documents referred to, might not be advantageous to the public interests. As to the appointment of Lieutenant Webster, he understood it was not made either by his noble Friend, at the head of the Treasury, or by the Board of Admiralty. He had offered himself to investigate the matter, as the friend of Mr. Warner, and his offer was accepted, but his report could not be received as an official authority, or any thing more than an expression of his own individual opinion. He had always understood that the point on which the negotiations were broken off was some difference as to the method of communicating the means by which the proposed results were to be accomplished. At the Admiralty, it was thought that these effects might be produced by means with which they were already acquainted, though by a different application, and that they should be put more fully into possession of the details. He agreed that some explanation ought to be given on the subject, that would be satisfactory to the House and the country, and that further negotiations relative to it should be gone into.Lord J. Russell
l. asked of what use was a protector of aborigines, with a salary of 400l.Mr. Hindley
 begged to call the attention of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies to a petition which had been presented on a former evening from the Society for the protection of the Aborigines in the British Colonies. That petition complained that two natives of South Australia had been hanged for the alleged murder of two Europeans, and that no sufficient proof of their guilt had been adduced; that in fact they had not had a fair trial, and that their execution under such circumstances was little short of murder, and was, therefore, not at all calculated to answer the only end for which punishment was intended—namely, the prevention of crime. He wished to know from the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) whether (as we understood) any steps had been taken on the subject by the Colonial Department?Mr. Hindley
 said, he was sure the House ought not to be satisfied, as he was sure the country would not be satisfied, unless some assurance was given by the noble Lord opposite, or by some other Member of the Government, that the benefit of this marvellous invention should not be lost to this country, but that measures would immediately be taken to secure that benefit. As so much had now transpired and become known with respect to this invention, he must say, that he thought it became the noble Lord opposite, or somebody else connected with the Government, to assure the House and the country, that Captain Warner, who had already been treated with the greatest neglect, would not have that neglect longer continued.Mr. Plumptre
The Times1593 replied. The explanation of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies was, to a certain extent, satisfactory to him, though he should have been much better pleased if the noble Lord had known more upon the subject. The noble Lord, however, could not be expected to know everything. The noble Lord had spoken of the impropriety of publishing the correspondence. Now, he did not know what that correspondence contained. He had never seen Captain Warner, nor held any communication with him, and his only reason for
The Times1593Mr. Wakley
1589"That there be laid before the House, copies of any correspondence between the First Lord of the Treasury and Mr. Warner
1589l.Times," He is himself a man whose frankness of manner, intelligent conversation, and whole deportment, are of a nature to inspire confidence; and whose practical knowledge affords a strong guarantee (in addition to the experiments he has actually exhibited) that his expectations will be, to a very great extent, at least, if not wholly, accomplished."1588" To Admiral Sir William Parker, K.C.B."" WILLIAM WEBSTER, Lieutenant (A) R.N.1587" I beg permission to refer you once more to my report of the 10th of October last, to Lord Melbourne, which perfectly agrees with all I had the honour to state to yourself before Sir John Pechell, in the interview alluded to of the 16th of September last, and to repeat in writing my solemn pledge and assurance as a gentleman, an officer of her Majesty's navy, and a British subject, anxious for the interests
1587" Right hon. Lord Viscount Melbourne."" W. WEBSTER, Lieutenant (A.) R..N." I have the honour to be, &c,1586" My Lord,—I beg to inform your Lordship that the principle and practice of the various projects of which Captain Warner is the in
1586" 28 B, Manchester-street, Manchester-square, Oct. 10 1839.Times,laches"The report to the Admiralty was made (said Mr. Walesby, in his pamphlet), on the 16th of September, 1839; and on the 18th of January, 1840, Mr. Warner learned with amazement, from the hon. Mr. Cowper, Lord Melbourne's private secretary, that no report had been received from the Admiralty on the subject. How easily may ten years be frittered away, without any laches1585Times rose to call the attention of the House to a subject, which had been brought under its notice on a former evening. When he first directed attention to the subject of Mr. Warner's most important discovery of a projectile of extraordinary powers, and stated the great hardship of that gentleman's treatment by the Admiralty, he found that the sympathy of the House went greatly with him, and that there was a still stronger sympathy expressed out of doors on the subject; finding this, and after the articles which had appeared in the 1589"That there be laid before the House, copies of any correspondence between the First Lord of the Treasury and Mr. Warner
1589l.Times," He is himself a man whose frankness of manner, intelligent conversation, and whole deportment, are of a nature to inspire confidence; and whose practical knowledge affords a strong guarantee (in addition to the experiments he has actually exhibited) that his expectations will be, to a very great extent, at least, if not wholly, accomplished."1588" To Admiral Sir William Parker, K.C.B."" WILLIAM WEBSTER, Lieutenant (A) R.N.1587" I beg permission to refer you once more to my report of the 10th of October last, to Lord Melbourne, which perfectly agrees with all I had the honour to state to yourself before Sir John Pechell, in the interview alluded to of the 16th of September last, and to repeat in writing my solemn pledge and assurance as a gentleman, an officer of her Majesty's navy, and a British subject, anxious for the interests
1587" Right hon. Lord Viscount Melbourne."" W. WEBSTER, Lieutenant (A.) R..N." I have the honour to be, &c,1586" My Lord,—I beg to inform your Lordship that the principle and practice of the various projects of which Captain Warner is the in
1586" 28 B, Manchester-street, Manchester-square, Oct. 10 1839.Times,laches"The report to the Admiralty was made (said Mr. Walesby, in his pamphlet), on the 16th of September, 1839; and on the 18th of January, 1840, Mr. Warner learned with amazement, from the hon. Mr. Cowper, Lord Melbourne's private secretary, that no report had been received from the Admiralty on the subject. How easily may ten years be frittered away, without any laches1585TimesMr. Wakley
1584 said, in answer to the question put to him, he had the satisfaction of stating, that he had received by the last mail a memorandum from India on the subject, in a postscript of Which it was stated, that the board of
1584Sir J. Hobhouse
, observing the President of the Board of Control in his place, wished to ask him a question relative to the connection of the East India Company with idolatry in India. In doing so, he did not mean to say that nothing had been done by Government on the subject; on the contrary, he could not but compliment the right hon. Baronet on the progress which the question had made since last year. He wished now to know whether the right hon. Baronet could state whether any measures were in progress, or whether he was prepared to recommend the adoption of any measures, so as speedily to ensure the entire separation of the connection between the East-India Government and the local concerns of the idolatrous temples in India.Sir R. Inglis
 owed it to Mr. Warner to state, that be had seen two letters from individuals who were second only to the Duke of Wellington as military authorities and who declared themselves strongly in favour of Mr. Warner's invention. He hoped, however, that the hon. Member for Finsbury, after what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite, would not press his motion.Sir R. Inglis
1110: Sir, it now becomes my grateful duty to congratulate you upon your re-election to the eminent station of Speaker of the House, but I think that I should rather congratulate this House in the first place, that our first act has been one on which the House could unanimously agree, and, in the next place, that we have a Speaker to preside over our debates, who, whether in maintaining authority in our public discussions, whether in assisting in the private business of the House, or whether regarding the preservation of our privileges, and the rules and orders by which our proceedings are conducted, is eminently fitted to fill this high situation. I know, Sir, that you feel, as all who have studied the subject do feel, that our privileges are valuable, not because they confer honour on this House, but because those privileges are valuable to the people at large, whom we are sent here to represent; and you, Sir, have shown by your conduct at all times, that
1110Lord J. Russell
4 said, In obedience to her Majesty's commands, which we have been just summoned to hear, I beg leave to propose that we now proceed to the election of a Member to preside over our future discussions. This duty, on our part, is of high importance, in order that we may pursue our debates upon questions of vast moment in a manner worthy of the representatives of the people, by selecting an individual who may be able to allay any temporary irritation, and to check a course of proceeding that would naturally lower the House in the estimation of the country. I hope that the right hon. Gentleman whom I shall propose to fill this high office, will be generally acceptable to those I have now the pleasure to address. I hope so, because lie has already occupied that chair, and discharged the functions belonging to the station, I believe, to the entire satisfaction of Members on both sides of the House. I am sure if hon. Gentlemen, who are new Members, could have witnessed the conduct of my right hon. Friend, or could have heard the testimony borne to that conduct by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tam-worth, and by the noble Member for North Lancashire, they would have no hesitation in approving the motion with which I shall presently conclude. The right hon. Gentleman stands so high in the estimation of the House, both for his private virtues, and for his public conduct, that he can need no panegyric of mine. While he was Speaker in the last Parliament, all who resorted to him for assistance and advice, found the most willing compliance with their wishes, and the most earnest desire to promote their objects. Those who are acquainted with his qualifications will, I am confident, be prepared to replace him in the situation he
4Lord Worsley
9: I feel most grateful for the commendations passed upon me by hon. Members on both sides of the House. I am sure they are far beyond my merits, though not beyond my anxiety to deserve them. I am greatly indebted to the noble Lord and to my hon. Friend for the highly flattering manner in which they have proposed and seconded this motion, and alluded to my conduct in the Chair. I am most thankful for their approbation, and I regard it as an ample reward for all that toil and anxiety which are inseparable from an office of great labour and responsibility, though of high distinction. I regard it also as the best encouragement to future exertion, now I am again called upon to preside over the discussions of the House. Whatever opinion I may formerly have expressed as to the difficulties attending the situation of Speaker, they are frequently much aggravated by the sudden and unexpected manner in which he may be called upon to discharge them. I know, as regards the privileges of this House, to which my noble Friend has alluded, that the maintenance of the rules and orders of this House depends much upon the care and vigilance of the Speaker, and I feel bound to say, that the more I have become acquainted with those privileges, and with their nature and their
9Mr. Shaw Lefevre
65: When the request was made to me that I would second the proposal of the noble Lord, I at once assented
65Mr. E. Buller
87: It is my intention on this occasion to act upon the principle for which I contended in the year 1835—and upon which I acted in the year 1837, on
87Sir Robert Peel
 accompanied by Members present proceeded, having been summoned, to attend the Lords Commissioners.The Speaker
 on his return stated, that the House had been to the House of Peers, where the Lords authorised by her Majesty's commission had signified the Royal Approval of the choice the House had made of a Speaker. He added that he had then claimed at the Bar all the usual and undoubted privileges of freedom from arrest, freedom of speech, &c. "I trust I may now be permitted," the right hon. Gentleman continued, "again to offer to the House a sincere expression of my gratitude for the honour it has conferred upon me. I cannot pretend to discharge the duties of the office in which I am placed with the ability it may require, but I feel that I shall constantly need the indulgence and assistance of the House. Without that assistance my best effort will be unavailing; but with it I hope to be able to conduct the business of the House in a manner satisfactory to it and beneficial to the country. I have now to remind the House that our first duty is to proceed to take the oaths prescribed by law, without which Members cannot be qualified to take their seats."The Speaker
131130 said, that, in rising to second the Address which had just been moved, he felt himself relieved from the necessity of offering many observations to the House by the very comprehensive speech which his hon. Friend had delivered. His hon. Friend had entered so fully into almost every question which the Queen's Speech embraced, and had demonstrated at such length the merits of the Address, that he scarcely knew to what subject he might venture to allude. It would indeed be quite a work of supererogation for him to go through all the various topics on which his hon. Friend had expatiated with so much ability and precision. In common with his hon. Friend, and he was sure he might say in common with the whole House, he felt he might congratulate her Majesty that the peace of Europe was likely to remain undisturbed. In acknowledging the benefits of peace, he was sure he spoke the sentiments of all present, on both sides of the House; and they would all agree with him in thanking her Majesty on the prospect of the continuance of friendly relations with the great powers of Europe. He trusted he might look upon some of the topics in the speech as a good augury for the future. He trusted that the nations, of at least the civilized portion of the globe, had at length adopted a mode of adjusting their differences in accordance with the advanced state of civilization, by friendly mediation, rather than by resorting to the ancient method of war, which was never satisfactory, and nothing but the right of the strong. He was happy to think that the estrangement of France, which had been so much prophecied, had proved but temporary. They had now the assurance that that estrangement had ceased; and he was sure the whole House would be glad to do anything which should have the effect of strengthening the alliance of France and England. Much as he desired the maintenance of peace, he felt that it was almost impossible that nations having large colonial possessions and extensive commercial intercourse should be able at all times to boast of tranquillity in all quarters of the globe; and it had unfortunately happened, that in consequence of war and rebellions, this country had been obliged to increase its expenditure to an
131130Mr. J. C. Dundas
150149148Gazettes147146, in seconding the amendment, declared that he rose with great reluctance to occupy the attention of the House, and were he not under the influence of a paramount sense of duty, he should not at such a moment be induced to take up any portion of the time of the House. He had the honour to represent an important commercial town—a town which he believed was destined, ere long, to engross a very large proportion of the import trade of the country. Now, though his constituents widely differed in local situation and in local interests from the constituents of his hon. Friend who moved the amendment, yet he was rejoiced to be able to state to the House that his own constituents most cordially agreed in sentiment with those of his hon. Friend, and, he might say, were in perfect accordance with the sentiments embodied in the amendment. This circumstance, he frankly acknowledged, was not without its weight, in inducing him to rise for the purpose of seconding that amendment. There was one other consideration which emboldened him to address the House on the present occasion, which was, that as a new Member he felt bound to express his sympathy with the late House of Commons. He was bound to express his own and his constituents acquiescence and concurrence in the sentiments and the feelings of that House, when they declared
150149148Gazettes147146Lord Bruce
172171Laughter.lll170lll169168pro tanto167ss166s165ssssssss164163162Hear, hear."That we feel it to be our duty humbly to submit to her Majesty that it is essential to the satisfactory results of our deliberations upon these and other matters of public concern, that her Majesty's Government should possess the confidence of this House and of the country, and respectfully to represent to her Majesty that that confidence is not reposed in the present advisers of her Majesty."161" That we are deeply sensible of the importance of these considerations, to which her Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct our attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn."spargere voces in vulgum ambiguas160l159158157Cheers156155: I cannot suppose that Lord Grey's pledge meant, "I will only expend a certain sum of money." Its meaning was, "I will administer the public money in an economical spirit." Lord Grey did not mean to say that it might not be necessary to increase the establishments of the country if the public service required it. The truest economy is to keep the army and navy on an efficient footing. But if in this or any other respect we have not kept the pledge of economy, it proves that no opposition has ever neglected its duty as the present one has done during the last ten years, for not one word has it said against our expenditure. The hon. Gentleman charges us with having failed to keep the pledge of reform. Reform in Parliament, reform in the boroughs count for nothing, because he says we have had a party interest in, those reforms. I do hope we shall always have a party interest in the reform of acknowledged abuses, and in promoting measures for the benefit of the people. I do not think that any reproach to us; but I may remind the hon. Gentleman that a great class of important improvements has been introduced during the time of Whig Administration, to which his observation cannot refer. We have introduced reform in the Church, in tithes, in the Poor laws, and many other important improvements during the last ten years, which cannot be attributed to any party motive. It is a matter of just
172171Laughter.lll170lll169168pro tanto167ss166s165ssssssss164163162Hear, hear."That we feel it to be our duty humbly to submit to her Majesty that it is essential to the satisfactory results of our deliberations upon these and other matters of public concern, that her Majesty's Government should possess the confidence of this House and of the country, and respectfully to represent to her Majesty that that confidence is not reposed in the present advisers of her Majesty."161" That we are deeply sensible of the importance of these considerations, to which her Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct our attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn."spargere voces in vulgum ambiguas160l159158157Cheers156155Mr. Labouchere continued
" That the party which continued in the exercise of political power, after they knew they had forfeited and did not possess the confidence of Parliament, were guilty of a high crime and misdemeanour."177176175174173 was somewhat surprised, after all that had been heard last Parliament, at the application which had been made by the right hon. Member, the President of the Board of Trade, to Sir Robert Peel. He should have thought that there would have been a sense of dignity which would have restrained such an application.
" That the party which continued in the exercise of political power, after they knew they had forfeited and did not possess the confidence of Parliament, were guilty of a high crime and misdemeanour."177176175174173Mr. D'Isracli
181 said, the hon. and gallant officer who had just sat down had done well to attempt to dazzle the question by the success which had attended British arms in Syria and elsewhere, but what man could doubt what British valour could achieve when brought forward under the command of a Stopford and a Napier? But were those successes any proof of the wisdom which dictated the campaign? He admitted that the best view which could possibly be taken of the policy of the present Government was that which was directed to foreign affairs, but even in that respect they had been much to blame. He might ask, in what quarter of the globe would the British Ministers, retiring in 1841, not leave the British name less honored, less loved, and respected than they found it in 1830. He might point to the ill-suppressed rebellion in Canada, to the imminent peril of war with that country with which, above all, a war was to be deprecated. He could not shut his eyes to the open insult directed against this country in the deprivation of the liberty and the jeoparding the life of as meritorious a British subject as ever had the misfortune to serve a liberal Government. He might refer to the blockades established by Russia and France, by which the channels for British commerce had been shut up; to the Bosphorus, closed against our vessels, and to the suspended intercourse with Persia. He might advert to the present state of the frontier of India; to our
181Lord Pollington
193go on. to move the adjournment of the debate. ["193go on.Mr. Ewartrose
 said he did not object to the increase of the army and navy made by her Majesty's Government, but to the policy which had made extraordinary expense necessary.Mr. Wortley
see p145No, no144143142141" If," he said, "upon a question of this kind, there was a general disposition to have an alteration of the law, and a general wish to have the question settled by some new measure of legislation; but that there was a diversity of opinion as
141140139138137136135Cheers" I consider that the Government of this country must be carried on upon the principle which I may venture to describe—that the Government ought to be formed of persons agreeing in principle with the majority of the House of Commons, and I think it necessary to state that the House of Commons have a right, if the Ministers of the Crown have not their confidence, to express their opinion to the Crown, and have a right to require that the Ministers of the Crown should be persons in whose character and principles they are disposed to confide." [" Cheers134" As soon as the new Parliament meets, we shall take the first opportunity of asking for a clear and decided judgment upon the policy we have proposed."133132 said, that he trusted he should not be accused of undue presumption, if he presented himself to the notice of the Chair, and of the House, at that early period after his re-appearance within those walls, in order to propose for the adoption of the House a different course from that which had been urged upon their attention by the hon. Gentlemen who had addressed them from the opposite benches. It would certainly have been more in conformity with his wishes if he could have remained a bystander, on this occasion, and kept his place without mixing in the debate; but, at the same time, feeling as he did, the most complete concurrence in the views and opinions entertained by many hon. Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House, and the most entire conviction of the propriety of the course which it had been proposed to adopt that evening with respect to the Address, by those around him, he felt, that however great his personal backwardness and disinclination from taking such a duty upon him, he could not, on the score of any personal considerations, suffer himself to shrink from coming forward to raise his voice against the course which her Majesty's Ministers had that evening thought proper to pursue in the speech which they had advised. But if he were liable to any charge of presumption for thus coming forward, perhaps he might hope to find something of a justification in the circumstances under which he appeared before them. The circumstances
see p145No, no144143142141" If," he said, "upon a question of this kind, there was a general disposition to have an alteration of the law, and a general wish to have the question settled by some new measure of legislation; but that there was a diversity of opinion as
141140139138137136135Cheers" I consider that the Government of this country must be carried on upon the principle which I may venture to describe—that the Government ought to be formed of persons agreeing in principle with the majority of the House of Commons, and I think it necessary to state that the House of Commons have a right, if the Ministers of the Crown have not their confidence, to express their opinion to the Crown, and have a right to require that the Ministers of the Crown should be persons in whose character and principles they are disposed to confide." [" Cheers134" As soon as the new Parliament meets, we shall take the first opportunity of asking for a clear and decided judgment upon the policy we have proposed."133132Mr. S. Wortley
 could not in the present state of the House (a great number of Members had left) do other than acquiesce in the motion for adjournment, There had been no expectation of a division on the question of adjournment, and therefore any division would be a loss of time. He hoped the House would acquiesce in the motion for an adjournment. He did not quite agree with the hon. Member for Salford, that protracted debates were desirable, but he did think that if the system were continued, there was one great evil attending them, though he did not exactly see what remedy could be provided. He alluded to the comparatively small attendance that took place on such occasions early in the evening, and indeed, until a somewhat late hour, so that although their proceedings bore the name of debates, yet the attendance of Members was not such as to attach sufficient importance to them. The adoption
of a contrary practice would not lessen the duration of a debate, or deprive hon. Members representing the constituencies that had been referred to of their privilege of addressing the House, but it would certainly attach more importance to the proceedings, and give them more the appearance of a debate. He hoped, under the circumstances, that no division would take place, but that the House would agree to the motion for adjournment.Lord John Russell
 should not have risen to trespass upon the attention of the House, but with a view to justify himself on the ground of some expressions of opinion attributed to him throughout the recent contest. It had been said, "Oh! even the Radical Mr. Muntz, the Member for Birmingham, says, that the repeal of the Corn-laws will lower the price of wages." He had no objection to repeat, that such was his opinion, but, admitting that to be the case, was it just, he asked, that the state of starvation to which the people of this country had been reduced, should be allowed to continue? He had, it was true, expressed the opinion which was attributed to him, but he had accompanied that expression with a declaration, that in his opinion, the present state of things could not continue. He was confident, that whoever might govern—whether it was the noble Lord, or the right hon. Baronet, the whole subject must be gone into, and all interests must be considered before any decision was arrived at. He had merely risen to explain what he had really said, and would not further trespass on the time of the House.Mr. Muntz
154153Member152151: Mr. Speaker, the noble Lord who had just addressed the House with so much ability, as well as the hon. Gentleman, the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, who preceded him, have assured her Majesty's Government that they have arrayed against them a large majority. I do not stand here to controvert that assertion. The result of the debate in which we were engaged will show whether, and how far, that is the case. But if it should be true, I am too well acquainted with the disposition of the House not to feel assured, that, whatever may be the violence of party feeling, that state of things will only, afford an additional reason for giving to any Member, however humble, of that Government, who feels it his duty to address them, a patient and indulgent hearing. Sir, both those Gentlemen have expressed a great eagerness that the House should decide on the question now before us. I can assure them that that eagerness is equally shared by her Majesty's Government—that her Majesty's Government are rejoiced that the time has come when they are able to put before the House the policy on which they conceive the affairs of this country ought to be conducted, and to take the opinion of the House of Commons on that policy, feeling that if they
154153Member152151Mr. Labouchere said
192Divide et impera191habeas corpus190189A cry of "China.188187recollected that the right hon. Gentleman's party did at the time vehemently oppose the Municipal Corporation Reform Bill; and further, that this bill was in many respects curtailed of its fair proportions by the noble Lord now silting at the right hand of the right hon. Gentleman (Lord Stanley). He now took an act on which he was bold to say for one—and in the face of the great party opposite he did say it—he could not separate the right hon. Gentleman from his party. He was about to speak of the Poor-law Amendment Bill. During the elections which had just passed, the Liberal party had been met by the most illiberal artifices, and every vulgar appeal had been made to the lowest passions of the people upon the subject of a measure which the Liberal party had passed, which
192Divide et impera191habeas corpus190189A cry of "China.188187Mr. Roebuck 
186185184183 wished to express his acknowledgments for the courtesy of his hon. Friend (Mr. Ewart) in giving way to him. If the question now proposed to the House were simply an inquiry into the character of the present Ministry, he would have had very little difficulty in coming to an opinion upon it, although he might have had some difficulty as to the vote he should give. His opinion would have been adverse to the character of the Ministry; but his opinion would have been come to upon grounds so distinctly opposed to those which had been alluded to, or which would be alluded to by hon. Gentlemen, and right hon. Gentlemen, and noble Lords opposite, that he could not have reconciled it to vote against those he disliked, only because they too much resembled honourable Gentlemen opposite. But the question was not simply as to the character of the present Ministry, it was a question of comparative character, and a vote upon that must be given upon a general opinion of the conduct pursued upon this side of the House and upon that; and here he must observe that he could not understand the analogy drawn by the right hon. Gentleman when he compared himself to a physician. He thought that he should be called in before he gave advice, but surely he was called in when he was returned to that House. He would put an analogy that was more to the purpose. He would not dismiss one servant, till he was convinced that he should get a better. He must have some servant. He must have for a servant some one; and although he might think that his present servant was not altogether as efficient as he might be, that he might be somewhat indolent—and although he might not be all that he could wish, or altogether such as he might like, yet if he dismissed him, he might discover that if he were a sluggard, he might get one ten times worse—if he were untrustworthy, he might admit some one into his house who was absolutely wanting in honesty. He was not prepared then to dismiss his present servant till he was sure that the servant who would come in his place would be better than the one he should turn away. That he believed to be a fair analogy. How, then, was he to learn that the new servants were better, or more likely to be better, than the old? The hon. Gentleman who had moved the amendment had passed over all other points, and had said
186185184183Mr. Roebuck
 reminded the House that the Speaker had now been in the chair upwards of nine hours. The hon. And learned Gentleman opposite had not sat in the House for some years, which was perhaps, a sufficient reason, why he opposed the adjournment of the debate. According to the old practice, Members did not mind how late they spoke after twelve o'clock, and at that time the debates in the House were not of so much importance; but since the passing of the Reform Bill large constituencies had been created who expected their representatives to express their opinions on the subjects discussed in that House. More Members therefore, required to speak than under the old system. It was quite an error to suppose that the people disliked protracted debates in that House. Nothing could be more popular in England than to afford hon. Members the most full opportunity of expressing the sentiments of their constituents. He hoped no further opposition would be offered to the motion for the adjournment of the debate.Mr. Brotherton
" Small by degrees, and beautifully less."s179ss" Compound for laws I am inclined to,
By damning those I have no mind to."178, jun. said, I am surprised, Sir, at the accusations brought forward against her Majesty's Ministers by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, for
" Small by degrees, and beautifully less."s179ss" Compound for laws I am inclined to,
By damning those I have no mind to."178Mr. Bernal
A Member180 would reply to the speech of the hon. Member for the West riding of Yorkshire, for he must confess that the speech of the hon. Member opposite, who had just sat down (Mr. D'Israeli), was utterly beyond his comprehension. The hon. Member for the West Riding, in speaking of the present Ministers, after throwing out his skirmishes pretty well, had made his grand attack upon them for not keeping the promises which they had made, on taking office, of peace, retrenchment, and economy. The hon. Gentleman said, that they had taken office in 1830,and eight or ten little wars had, during that time, been carried on by the Government. If the Government had carried on little wars, he hoped the hon. Gentleman opposite would allow him to say, that if those little wars had not been carried on with vigour and talent, they would not have been brought to the satisfactory conclusion to which they had been. If hon. Gentlemen opposite had been in power, they might possibly have had great wars, and with them great contracts and great loans. He doubted if any other person than the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, would have preserved the peace of the country in the manner which that noble Lord had been able to do. The hon. Gentleman had accused the Government of making little wars. He had told them, that the Government which had held office for eighteen years before the time the present Government came into office, had made but one war—the war at Navarino; but that hon. Gentleman had forgotten that that Government made war with Algiers, and also in India had engaged in the Burmese war, in which he believed a great deal of money had been expended. But he had not told the House that while they were in office, they had
A Member180Sir Charles Napier
" 3. Because we think, that the expectations of ultimate benefit from this measure are founded on a delusive theory. We cannot persuade ourselves, that this law will ever contribute to produce plenty, cheapness, or steadiness of price. So long as it operates at all, its effects must be the opposite of these. Monopoly is the parent of scarcity, of dearness, and of uncertainty. To cut off any of the sources of supply, can only tend to lessen its abundance—to close against ourselves the cheapest market for any commodity, must enhance the price at which we purchase it; and to confine the consumer of corn to the produce of his own country, is to refuse to ourselves the benefit of that provision which Providence itself has made, for equalising to man the variations of season and of climate." 2. Because we think, that the great practical rule of leaving all commerce unfettered, applies more peculiarly and on still stronger grounds of justice, as well as of policy to the corn trade, than to any other. Irresistible, indeed, must be the necessity which could, in our judgment, authorise the Legislature to tamper with the sustenance of the people, and to impede the free purchase and sale of that article on which depends the existence of so large a portion of the community." 1. Because we are adverse in principle to all new restraints on commerce. We think it certain, that public prosperity is best promoted by leaving uncontrolled the free current of national industry; and we wish, rather by well-considered steps, to bring back our commercial legislation to the straight and simple line of wisdom, than to increase the deviation, by subjecting additional and extensive branches of the public interest to fresh systems of artificial and injurious restriction.122121120119118" It has appeared to her Majesty, after full deliberation, that you may, at this juncture, properly direct your attention to the revision of duties affecting the production of foreign countries. It will be for you to consider whether some of these duties are not so trifling in amount as to be unproductive to the revenue, while they are vexatious to commerce. You may further examine whether the principle of protection, upon which others of these duties are founded, be not carried to an extent injurious alike to the income of the state and the interests of the people."117116115114113 rose and spoke to the following effect:—I rise for the purpose of proposing that this House do present an address to her Majesty on her Majesty's gracious speech which we have just heard read, and which was delivered this morning to the newly assembled Parliament by her Majesty's Commissioners. I propose, that in the Address which we shall present to her Majesty, we shall convey to her our humble thanks for her most gracious Speech; and I propose that we should further express our satisfaction that her Majesty has availed herself of the earliest opportunity of resorting to the advice and assistance of both Houses after the dissolution of the late parliament. In these propositions I hope the House will concur with me, and after the sudden determination of the late Parliament, and the important topics which occupied its attention it can only be expected that we should, with the least possible delay, proceed to the consideration of those matters which are of so much importance in the present crisis, and which present themselves so strongly to our notice, in reference to the revenues of this country. I propose that we should assure her Majesty that we are much rejoiced to learn that her Majesty continues to receive from Foreign Powers the gratifying assurances of their desire to maintain with her Majesty the most friendly relations, and that we learn with much content that the objects for which the treaty of the 15th July, 1840, was concluded between her Majesty, the Emperor of Austria, the King of Prussia, the Emperor of Russia, and the Sultan, have been fully accomplished; and that we share in the gratification which her Majesty derives from the fact that the temporary separation which the measures taken in the execution of that treaty created between the contracting powers and France has now ceased. I propose also, that we should add that we trust, with her Majesty, that the union of the principal powers upon all matters affecting the great interests of Europe, will afford a firm security for the maintenance of peace. If I may be permitted to express my own opinion upon that portion of her Majesty's Speech which has reference to
" 3. Because we think, that the expectations of ultimate benefit from this measure are founded on a delusive theory. We cannot persuade ourselves, that this law will ever contribute to produce plenty, cheapness, or steadiness of price. So long as it operates at all, its effects must be the opposite of these. Monopoly is the parent of scarcity, of dearness, and of uncertainty. To cut off any of the sources of supply, can only tend to lessen its abundance—to close against ourselves the cheapest market for any commodity, must enhance the price at which we purchase it; and to confine the consumer of corn to the produce of his own country, is to refuse to ourselves the benefit of that provision which Providence itself has made, for equalising to man the variations of season and of climate." 2. Because we think, that the great practical rule of leaving all commerce unfettered, applies more peculiarly and on still stronger grounds of justice, as well as of policy to the corn trade, than to any other. Irresistible, indeed, must be the necessity which could, in our judgment, authorise the Legislature to tamper with the sustenance of the people, and to impede the free purchase and sale of that article on which depends the existence of so large a portion of the community." 1. Because we are adverse in principle to all new restraints on commerce. We think it certain, that public prosperity is best promoted by leaving uncontrolled the free current of national industry; and we wish, rather by well-considered steps, to bring back our commercial legislation to the straight and simple line of wisdom, than to increase the deviation, by subjecting additional and extensive branches of the public interest to fresh systems of artificial and injurious restriction.122121120119118" It has appeared to her Majesty, after full deliberation, that you may, at this juncture, properly direct your attention to the revision of duties affecting the production of foreign countries. It will be for you to consider whether some of these duties are not so trifling in amount as to be unproductive to the revenue, while they are vexatious to commerce. You may further examine whether the principle of protection, upon which others of these duties are founded, be not carried to an extent injurious alike to the income of the state and the interests of the people."117116115114113Mr. Mark Philips
 doubted whether the hon. Gentleman was right in the fact, he did not recollect giving any opinion against the English Corporation Reform Bill.Sir Robert Peel
 acquiesced in the motion for an adjournment, on special grounds. The Speaker had taken the chair at one o'clock that day, and he conceived that this was a sufficient special ground for acceding to the adjournment of the debate. It was one which would not occur on another occasion.Sir Robert Peel
205204"In Switzerland there is entire free trade. Her soil cannot produce sustenance for half her population, yet her people are better fed, clothed, and educated than any other people in Europe."" I am as confident as of any opinion I ever entertained (says Mr. Symons) that, at no distant period, the English yarns, at any rate those under 150, will find no market in Switzerland.''" At Zurich I have seen (says Mr. Symons), a combination of self-acting mules, severally produced by Messrs. Sharp and Roberts and Smith, of Dearston, which their patents prevented our combining in England," another commissioner, some time since described the increased manufacture of machinery in Belgium, and lie adds that foreign manufacturers have this advantage: an Englishman is, of course, prohibited by law from combining different patents in this country, but it is not so abroad. There they combine them:
205204"In Switzerland there is entire free trade. Her soil cannot produce sustenance for half her population, yet her people are better fed, clothed, and educated than any other people in Europe."" I am as confident as of any opinion I ever entertained (says Mr. Symons) that, at no distant period, the English yarns, at any rate those under 150, will find no market in Switzerland.''" At Zurich I have seen (says Mr. Symons), a combination of self-acting mules, severally produced by Messrs. Sharp and Roberts and Smith, of Dearston, which their patents prevented our combining in England,"Mr. Symons,
207206 said, he should be readily excused by the House from following the hon. Member who had just sat down through all the topics to which he had adverted in his speech. He had not intended to address the House, or trespass upon their attention, had it not been for some of the observations that had fallen from that hon. Member, and this, perhaps, would be a guarantee that he would not detain them. He did not consider himself the mere delegate of the opinions of his constituents, but he trusted, that en all great occasions, when he was called upon to give his vote, that vote would be in accordance with the opinions and wishes of a majority of his constituents. The hon. Member who had just sat down might carry them, as he had done that evening, through every subject that had engaged the attention of the Legislature, but that would not lead the House or the people from the real question at issue, which was, the confidence of the House in her Majesty's Ministers. The Corn-laws, the sugar duties, and general state of trade, were all very proper subjects to be discussed, but not in the present situation of her Majesty's Ministers in that House. What was there in the altered position of the Ministry that he (Captain Hamilton) was to give them the confidence now he had so lately withheld? Why were the Corn-laws so particularly introduced in the Speech from the Throne?—not with any idea of any practical result arising therefrom, but merely to force on a discussion, and allow
207206Captain Hamilton
219218 said, perhaps the House would at once allow him to answer the question. In the course of the debate on the reelection of Speaker, the right hon. Baronet opposite, in the course of his short arguments, assumed that the sole reason why Lord Canterbury was not re-elected Speaker in 1835 was, that his political opinions did not agree with those of the majority of the House. As he had made a different statement in 1835, he had not thought it right to allow the right hon. Baronet's assumption to pass without remark; and he, therefore, said, that though he did not wish to revive the discussion which had taken place on that occasion, yet that political feeling was certainly not the only reason for his opposition to Mr. M. Sutton, but that there were other matters connected with the conduct of that gentleman, which had induced him to oppose his re-election. He had not thought it necessary to revive that discussion any further than to state, that there were other grounds. These grounds he had stated at the time, and though he had not since referred to the debates, his recollection served him sufficiently to enable him to state, that what he had then advanced as a charge against the present Lord Canterbury, was not a positive breach of duty certainly, but what he considered conduct very unbecoming on the part of the Speaker of the House of Commons. The House of Commons at that time, in 1834, contained a great majority in support of the Government, of which Lord Althorp was at that time the leader. That Government was changed in the course of the recess, by the exercise of the royal prerogative, a Privy Council being called for the purpose of formally making that change, and transferring the Government to the hands
219218Lord J. Russell
249248lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll247246 assured the House he should not have troubled them with any observations upon this occasion, if it had not been for a statement put forth by the hon. Member for Manchester, who yesterday moved the Address, and which had been repeated by the hon. Member who had just sat down, that the great distress now unhappily prevailing in the manufacturing districts, had arisen inconsequence of the existing system of the Corn-laws. Doth those hon. Members who made that assertion were, he believed, master manufacturers, and therefore ought to be good authorities on the question; yet he did not hesitate to express his conviction, that never was a proposition more unfounded attempted to be palmed off upon the credulity of the House and the public. In the first place, he must be ' permitted to say, in answer to the insinuations which had been hurled by the hon. Member who had just sat down against those on that (the Opposition) side of the House, that if that hon. Member could convince him by argument, if he himself could believe, that a total abolition of the Corn-laws would confer benefit upon the great body of the people of this country he would, without hesitation, and whatever might be the consequences, give his vote in support of that measure, believing, as
249248lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll247246Mr. H. J. Baillie
261260 could not say that he agreed in the arguments of the hon. Member for Stockport. He must add, that having listened to that speech with some attention, he thought it was somewhat inappropriate for the present occasion, when they were assembled to consider the address in answer to the Speech from the Throne. He wished to allude to one part of the hon. Gentleman's speech, because it struck him that in that part of it the argument of the hon. Member was fallacious—viz., that in which the hon. Member contended that there should be a perfect free-trade in corn in this country, and that if that were the case, there would be an increased stimulus given to commerce and manufactures, and that by sending our manufactures abroad, in exchange for foreign corn, we should be able to give employment to a greater number of persons than at present. If that argument were carried out to its full extent, what, he would ask, would become of the agricultural population? It was probable that a larger number of persons might for a short time find employment in the manufacturing districts, but the effect on agriculture would be, that we should have corn brought from abroad in such quantities and at such low prices that the agriculturist of this country would be compelled to give up growing corn altogether, and so the agricultural labourer would be thrown out of employment; nor did he believe (as some supposed) that those labourers so rendered destitute would find employment in manufactures. Feeling as he did very strongly on this point, and representing a large agricultural district, he had thought it right to state the reasons upon which he disagreed with the hon. Member for Stockport, if he thought the hon. Member's view were the correct one, and that free-trade in corn would produce those advantages which he anticipated, he should not hesitate to support it; with regard to the amendment which had been moved to the address, he would state the grounds why he could not give his vote in favour of it." He was glad to perceive, by the tone of the amendment, that there was no intention of refusing inquiry into the
261260Lord Worsley
 spoke at some length, but was completely inaudible.Mr. Hastie
259258Hon. Members, "Shame, shame."257256Oh oh!Oh! oh!lllll255254Laughterll thought that the hon. Member for Invernessshire had not made out the case he attempted to establish. Would it be believed that the hon. Member who had enlarged so much on the happiness of the agriculturists of Scotland was the very individual who had applied to Government for a grant of no less a sum than 40,000259258Hon. Members, "Shame, shame."257256Oh oh!Oh! oh!lllll255254LaughterllMr. H. Grattan
224l223222221220 said, that connected as he was with a community whose deep distress had been more than once referred to, he felt imperatively called on to address the House on this subject. He knew it was no pleasant task to speak of the poor and suffering many in the presence of the privileged and the opulent few, but he must discharge his painful duty. In that House there was none who did not enjoy all the comforts and many of the luxuries of life, some of them its superfluities in abundant and embarrassing excess, and when he contrasted the scene around him with the wretchedness he had lately witnessed, and which he was sent especially to represent, and if possible to remove, he grieved to think how inadequately he could depicture that misery whose echoes were thrilling in his ears, and whose scenes fresh in all their mournful expressiveness on his mind. He well remembered how frequently it had been said to him during his late canvas, "Aye, Sir you listen to the stories of our grievances now, you talk to us of your sympathy and your pity, but you will go to London and forget us and our suffering as others have done, and we shall hear no more about it, till you come again to ask the electors for their suffrages." But he knew he had undertaken a solemn trust and he hoped to show the House that the miseries of the working classes claimed, nay, demanded its prompt, serious, and religious attention; and let the House remember that to turn away from these miseries, to avoid inquiry into their causes, to refuse redress if their causes can lie discovered, would be alike uncharitable, unchristian and perilous. For who are the sufferers? the unrepresented multitudes! those who in addition to their physical deprivations are denied the exercise of their political rights. With the augmentation of their distress, the sense of injustice done them by their exclusion from a voice in the representation has been greatly aggravated. Political discontent has been naturally mingled with social and individual grievances, and let not Parliament suppose that
224l223222221220Dr. Bowring
217 did not undervalue the importance of the subject which had been referred to; but he considered that before the House took those subjects into their consideration, there was one subject which ought to be at once decided, and that was, whether the present Ministry possessed the confidence of the House. The verdict of the late House of Commons had been given against the Government; the Government were not satisfied with that verdict, and had appealed to the people; and the noble Lord himself admitted that the result of that appeal had been decidedly adverse to him; it was, therefore, incumbent upon the present House, out of respect to themselves, out of respect to their constituents, and out of respect to her Majesty, who dissolved the late Parliament, at once to give her Majesty the answer which their constituents had deputed them to give. There was one point of a personal nature upon which he trusted the House would allow him to put a question to the noble Lord opposite. The noble Lord, in congratulating the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, upon his well-merited re-election to the Speakership, was reported to have said that he had had, on a former occasion, other grounds than those merely of a political feeling for opposing the re-election to the chair of the right hon. Gentleman, now a
217Mr. Manners Sutton
253ll252llllll251ll250 had no intention to trouble the House, nor would he have addressed them at all, but for some observations which had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. He admitted the facts stated, that manufactures had greatly increased, but he wholly denied his conclusion, that the manufacturing prosperity of the country had caused the increased distress of the working classes The hon. Member had drawn a comparison between the landed and the commercial interests, and suggested that it was the welfare of the community that required them to legislate in favour of the one and against the other. The commercial interest required no protection; they wanted nothing but equal laws; they were willing that the agriculturists should have equal laws, but no protection at the expense of the other interests. He always wished to cherish good feeling between
253ll252llllll251ll250Mr. Brotherton
" And when he tries to pull thee out,
God give thee strength, thou little trout,
To pull old Isaac in."231230" The last object, said that pamphlet, a Steady supply of corn at a moderate price, will be obtained by a repeal of the present Corn-Jaws, and by a constant import at a fixed duty
230Corn and CurrencyIronical Cheers229228227" I am not of the opinion of those gentlemen who are against any disturbing of the public repose. I like clamour whenever there is abuse. The fire-bell at midnight disturbs
227226seriatim225 would follow the example of the Mover, and his noble Friend the. Seconder of the amendment, and state the reasons which gave him the victory in the large and important county which he represented. The first that he would merely mention was, that his known determination to stand by the Church of Scotland in her present trials, and to rescue her independence. The other was his well-known character, as an unflinching advocate of free trade in every view that could be taken of it. He would limit duties nearer to the exigencies of revenue, and the sooner that principle was acted upon, the better for the country. He
" And when he tries to pull thee out,
God give thee strength, thou little trout,
To pull old Isaac in."231230" The last object, said that pamphlet, a Steady supply of corn at a moderate price, will be obtained by a repeal of the present Corn-Jaws, and by a constant import at a fixed duty
230Corn and CurrencyIronical Cheers229228227" I am not of the opinion of those gentlemen who are against any disturbing of the public repose. I like clamour whenever there is abuse. The fire-bell at midnight disturbs
227226seriatim225Mr. P. M. Stewart
a laugh from the Opposition, and loud cheers from the Ministerial benchss.245ll244" It is my unalterable conviction, that you cannot maintain the present Corn-laws, and preserve public permanent prosperity and private contentment, and that those laws may be repealed without doing injustice to the landed interest is my firm belief."243242241A laugh240239238lll237llll236235234dictum said, that in addressing himself to their notice, it was not his desire to trespass long upon their attention. He must own, however, that he felt some difficulty how to treat the question that was placed before the House. There did not seem to be a very good understanding as to their position on this occasion. They heard very different opinions expressed as to the object for which they had been sent to that House, and as to the nature of the principles that were determined at the last general election. They had heard, that the last general election was not a test of public opinion as to the monopolies that were complained of, that it was merely a question of confidence in the Ministry. He knew, that that opinion had been expressed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and he was happy to perceive the disposition that existed in the party opposite to take the a laugh from the Opposition, and loud cheers from the Ministerial benchss.245ll244" It is my unalterable conviction, that you cannot maintain the present Corn-laws, and preserve public permanent prosperity and private contentment, and that those laws may be repealed without doing injustice to the landed interest is my firm belief."243242241A laugh240239238lll237llll236235234dictumMr. Cobden
Hansard's Debates200" I only desire," says another, "that every landed gentleman would consider what he could make of his estate, if we had no trade or manufactures, nor any number of populous towns in England. The landed estates would not, in that case, bring in yearly to their landlords the rent they do at present; no, nor one quarter thereof."" No landed gentleman in England would choose to save a shilling in the pound, when, by such a saving, he brings ruin on the trade and manufactures of his native country."199198" At length corruption, like a general flood, (Too long by watchful ministers withstood), Shall deluge all; and avarice, creeping on, Spread, like a low-born mist, and blot the sun."197"Nusquam tuta fides,"" My poverty, and not my will, consents."Romeo and Juliet—196195 rose, but was met by cries of "Spoke," from the Opposition. The hon. Gentleman appealed to the Speaker. [The Speaker said that the hon. Member having spoken last night only on the question of Adjournment, had a right to be heard.] Mr. Ewart then continued. After the interruption, which certainly proved the inexperience in Parliamentary usages of him who caused the interruption, be should proceed with the discussion of the subject before the House. Whatever different shades of opinion might be entertained by different parties in that House, it had been to him, and to many of those around him —he might say to all of them—a source of real congratulation that the important principle of free trade appeared to be on the advance. He had gathered as much as this from the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, who moved the Amendment. He drew the same inference from the speech of the noble Lord who seconded his motion. Indeed, that noble Lord, if he (Mr. Ewart) understood him right, plainly and unhesitatingly expressed himself to be a friend to the principles of a free trade, while the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, declared himself to be nothing less than a disciple of Mr. Huskisson. He received that declaration with peculiar satisfaction, because
Hansard's Debates200" I only desire," says another, "that every landed gentleman would consider what he could make of his estate, if we had no trade or manufactures, nor any number of populous towns in England. The landed estates would not, in that case, bring in yearly to their landlords the rent they do at present; no, nor one quarter thereof."" No landed gentleman in England would choose to save a shilling in the pound, when, by such a saving, he brings ruin on the trade and manufactures of his native country."199198" At length corruption, like a general flood, (Too long by watchful ministers withstood), Shall deluge all; and avarice, creeping on, Spread, like a low-born mist, and blot the sun."197"Nusquam tuta fides,"" My poverty, and not my will, consents."Romeo and Juliet—196195 Mr. Ewart
233232 said, there were many parts of the Address in which he could not concur. It was stated that the great powers of Europe were united for the purpose of preserving the peace of Europe; hut he could only regard that as a species of despotism for the purpose of exercising an undue influence over the rights and interests of the people. He could not, therefore, concur in that passage of the Speech. Again, they were desired to ex-
233232Mr. Crawford
216215"To the Governor of the Whig Bastile. Admit the bearer and his family. Separate him from his wife and family, and give him skilligolee three times a day. (Signed) Morpeth and Milton."214213212s211ll210No, no209208 denied as the hon. Gentleman had stated, that the discussion of the Corn-laws was at present inappropriate, but this was not the word, for in fact it was the great question to which the country looked—it was the question which a sense of duty to their constituents should make them look for an intelligible expression of opinion in that House. If he wanted any justification of this opinion, he should find it in the speech of the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, last night, who said that he considered himself as a part, and an integral part of the answer to the question put to country by the Crown. He (Mr. Ward) also considered himself as a part of that answer as well as the hon. Member, and coming as he did from an important portion of the county which the hon. Gentleman represented, he would take the liberty of telling him that, if his constituents and the more intelligent classes in the country had more, or rather had their fair influence, the answer to the question of her Majesty would have been returned by very different hands. No doubt but that it was a great triumph to carry the election for such an important district as the West Riding. It was one of the greatest triumphs for that party which they could achieve, and it was one of the greatest disgraces for his side of the House which it could sustain. He, however, could tell the hon. Gentleman, that the people of Yorkshire were too intelligent to be deceived by the nature of the course that he had adopted, for it would appear as if he had one set of opinions for Parliament and another which he addressed to his constituents from the hustings. It appeared that both the Mover and Seconder of the amendment had wished to make it appear that they were in favour of free trade. The noble Lord, however, who seconded the amendment with such good taste, and in a spirit of such eloquence and singular ability for a first address in that House, was evidently afraid that he should damage his character as a free trader, if he made any attack on her Majesty's speech. It would ap-
216215"To the Governor of the Whig Bastile. Admit the bearer and his family. Separate him from his wife and family, and give him skilligolee three times a day. (Signed) Morpeth and Milton."214213212s211ll210No, no209208Mr. Ward
263ll262 had a petition to present, signed by, 6,008 electors and other inhabitants of Norwich, complaining of certain proceedings at the late election for that city. The petitioners stated that they had to complain of the made in which that election had been conducted by the returning officer; that a considerable body of the constituents not being satisfied with Mr. Benjamin Smith, one of the former representatives, had pre-
263ll262 Mr. Duncombe
304303302301Parliamentum theologicumParliamentum indoctum300299 said, that he would state as briefly and as distinctly as he could, the reasons which had induced him, as a solemn duty, to give his vote in favour of the amended Address. Before he stated these reasons, however, he would refer to some of the arguments which had fallen from a right hon. Member, who, as appeared to him, had cautiously avoided any allusion to the question the House was called upon to decide. He alluded particularly to the speech of the President of the Board of Trade, who had entered into a discussion of the corn trade, and the Corn-law averages, but had not stated one word of justification of himself and the Ministers of the Crown exercising the functions of a Ministry in defiance of both Houses of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman had alluded to the budget, which had been rejected both by Parliament and the country; and he stated some of the reasons why that budget was introduced. It did seem a most extraordinary circumstance, that at the close of the Session an Administration, which was admitted to have lost the confidence of Parliament, had introduced a budget which went, in the opinion of the House, and of the property, wealth, intelligence, and, he would add, the population of the country, to attack our ships, our colonies, our commerce, and our agriculture. But the right hon. Gentleman did state some of the reasons why that budget had been introduced; and one of those reasons was, hon. Members on his side of the House had been in
304303302301Parliamentum theologicumParliamentum indoctum300299Mr. Escott
296 said, although it was true, as the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool had stated, that the result of the elections, especially in Ireland, amounted to a verdict against the Government, yet he should vote on this occasion in opposition to that verdict. It had been industriously alleged, with a view of imposing on the agriculturists of both England and Ireland, that the policy of the Government would tend to their ruin, and would extinguish agriculture; but the convincing speech of the hon. Member for Stockport satisfied him that such would not be the result. His belief was, that at no distant day all vicious monopolies would be abolished, but at the same time so many varied interests had grown up with them, that he should prefer a gradual rather than a sudden transition from the con-
296Mr. C. Powell
: The hon. Member must be aware, that it is not in order to state that any Member of this House does not legally represent the constituency that sent him to Parliament.The Speaker
Gazettel295leleventh hour294 expressed his hope that the day had now arrived when the hon. and right hon. Gentlemen, who had sat far too long on the opposite benches, were doomed to receive that retribution for their selfishness and political vices which they so richly deserved, and when they would be driven—nay, drummed—out of the House of Commons, to what tune the forms of the House would not permit him to mention. He hoped that the day had arrived when the right hon. Baronet below him, and those by whom he would be surrounded, would prevent that glandered body from any longer infecting the policy of this country. Happy, indeed, would it have been for them if they had had the political honesty to have resigned their places as the advisers of her Majesty long ago, for then they would not at least have seen themselves so contemptuously rejected as they had recently been by the people themselves, of whose support they had so vainly boasted. In the subtle Speech o Ministers, for it was their Speech, and not that of the Queen, the distresses of the people and the difficulties of the country were adverted to; but whatever evils might exist, he was confident, be they ever so great, that the tact and powerful mint of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, would be able to surmount them. He was well aware that the diffi-
Gazettel295leleventh hour294Colonel Sibthorp
l298297 commenced by referring to the violence of language used by some of the Tory party towards the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland, which was calculated to irritate and inflame the people of that country. At a dinner given, at which the hon. Member for Kent was present, a noble Earl referring to the great Reform party to which he belonged, spoke of the right wing of the Infidels and Radicals, and the left of the popish followers of factious demagogues, headed by O'Connell, and supported by "the most infuriated and bigoted priesthood that ever cursed a country." That was language that might well create indignation in the minds of the Irish people, and alarm at the prospect of being governed by the party at whose public festivals it was used. With respect to the question more immediately before the House, although the object of the vote was the condemnation of the Government he could only say, that they possessed his entire confidence. He did not regard the result of the elections as a verdict against Ministers, especially when he considered how limited the constituencies were, and he felt persuaded that before long the country would see the necessity of recalling men to power, who, during their period of office, had effected so much good. They had greatly benefited the country by the reduction of postage; but, although that measure was carried on the distinct understanding, that the deficiency was to be made good by that House, no vote, however, on the subject had been called for; and he had no doubt that the hon. Gentlemen opposite would ultimately derive financial advantage from it. The hon. Gentlemen opposite were studiously silent as to the course they meant to pursue, but was it not due to the country that they should explain the nature of the policy they meant to adopt. In reference to the Corn-laws
l298297Mr. E. Turner
315314ridiculus mus313ll312ll311lll310lllllll309Hear, hear308307HamletHamlet306 said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who last spoke had commenced his speech with the intimation that he was about to enlighten the House as to what the real subject before them was, but he must confess, that, although he had listened with all possible attention to the hon. and learned Gentleman, he had derived but little information from what be had addressed to the House. Something of novelty, indeed, had undoubtedly characterised the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The House must have felt a little astonishment at learning, or hearing from the hon. and learned Gentleman, that they had no right, that they might not dare to discuss—that, according to the constitution, it was impossible for them to discuss—the question of the Corn-laws on the present occasion. Why, the appeal had been made precisely on this question—the feeling of the country, the sentiments of the country had, from one extremity to the other, re-echoed with the discussion on this question. Hon. Gentlemen opposite told the House, that they came there in a body, or at least body, to represent to the House and to the Sovereign the result of this; and yet, on the very first discussion in that House, when her Majesty, in her Speech from the Throne—in the speech of the Ministry, which her Majesty adopted, placed this question distinctly before them, they, for the first time, had had it stated to them as a parliamentary doctrine, that the House had no right to enter upon the discussion of the corn question. He must confess he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had entirely failed in making out his point; he had, indeed, been utterly surprised at the view the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken; and he believed that, before the end of his speech, the hon. and learned Gentleman himself began to doubt as to his own theory, for, though he argued in the outset that the House could not now pretend to a right to discuss this question, the hon. and learned Gentleman himself could not avoid going into little anecdotes about his election experience, in election squibs of little loaves and big loaves. It had been argued that the simple question before the House was, whether the Government now in power had the confidence of the country, and he did not complain at all of the course which hon. Gentlemen opposite had taken on this occasion; he thought they had a perfect right, at the earliest opportunity,
315314ridiculus mus313ll312ll311lll310lllllll309Hear, hear308307HamletHamlet306The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll325llll324l323322lllllllll321ll320319" Great alarm," said the noble Lord, "is naturally felt by those engaged in the timber trade in Canada at the prospect of any alteration in the duties levied on wood in the United Kingdom, which may affect the protection hitherto afforded to colonial timber and deals; but the question must, of course, be resolved by the Government and the Imperial Parliament, according to the view which they may take of the general interests of the empire. I conceive, however, that in any change which may be determined upon in these duties, if it be one which will disturb the proportions which the colonial and foreign timber trade bear to each other under existing laws, care will be taken to diminish as much as possible the loss to individuals by rendering the change gradual; as such a course is certainly the most just as well as the most politic. But, above all, I must express my hope that, in whatever alteration is adopted, the recommendation of the committee of 1835, of which I was chairman, will be adhered to, namely, that the change shall not affect the importations of the year, which would be an act of extreme hardship upon the colonial trade, inasmuch as it only can be carried on by engagements entered into many months before the time at which the goods can be actually shipped, and therefore all the shipments to be made this year have been entered upon on the faith of the present law, and cannot now be countermanded or stopped."l318317316 said, it had not been his intention to offer any observations to the House on the question now before it, because the question really before the House was of so simple and plain a character—was so thoroughly understood by the country and the House, that it could require no additional development, and also from a feeling for the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, presuming that they participated in the anxiety which hon. Members must feel, and which the President of the Board of Trade had expressed—that the decision on the fate of the Government should not be delayed. It was for these reasons that he had intended to confine himself to a silent vote on this occasion. But he was sure that the House would feel that the allusions which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down to the financial transactions of the country during
ll325llll324l323322lllllllll321ll320319" Great alarm," said the noble Lord, "is naturally felt by those engaged in the timber trade in Canada at the prospect of any alteration in the duties levied on wood in the United Kingdom, which may affect the protection hitherto afforded to colonial timber and deals; but the question must, of course, be resolved by the Government and the Imperial Parliament, according to the view which they may take of the general interests of the empire. I conceive, however, that in any change which may be determined upon in these duties, if it be one which will disturb the proportions which the colonial and foreign timber trade bear to each other under existing laws, care will be taken to diminish as much as possible the loss to individuals by rendering the change gradual; as such a course is certainly the most just as well as the most politic. But, above all, I must express my hope that, in whatever alteration is adopted, the recommendation of the committee of 1835, of which I was chairman, will be adhered to, namely, that the change shall not affect the importations of the year, which would be an act of extreme hardship upon the colonial trade, inasmuch as it only can be carried on by engagements entered into many months before the time at which the goods can be actually shipped, and therefore all the shipments to be made this year have been entered upon on the faith of the present law, and cannot now be countermanded or stopped."l318317316Mr. Goulburn
271 wished to call the at tention of the House to the nature of the return which had been moved for. It was
271Mr. Labouchere
 moved for a return of the amount of taxes levied on land in the different states of Europe, distinguishing the taxes raised for the service of the State from those levied for local purposes; the return to show the amount in the moneys and measures the different states, and to be rendered into British moneys and measures; also returns exhibiting the proportion borne by the land tax (as approximately as it can be estimated) to the value or rental of land in the different countries of Europe. Dr. Bowring
265264 seeing the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in his place, would, in fulfilment of the notice he had given on the first night of the Session, proceed to ask the noble Lord certain questions as to the state of the relations between this country and the United States of America, respecting the detention of Mr. M'Leod. He had stated that he would make some few remarks to put hon. Members in possession of the real nature of the questions, and their pith and significance. The House, on Tuesday evening, had been so kind as to hear some observations of his, which would enable him now to save them; but as some misconception was abroad as to his purpose and object in what he attempted then to say, he would still address a few remarks to the House, that they might understand his object in putting these questions. His object in so doing was, as far as possible, to promote peace between this country and the United States, and any one who fancied that any question of his had any other object, was very much mistaken. His purpose was to promote peace, and, to attain that end, he thought it best that hon. Members should understand the real object of the questions he was about to put. Those questions were five in number, but they might be answered in a breath, and they related to the detention of Mr. M'Leod by the authorities of America. That detention arose out of the transactions connected with the Caroline, the attack on which in the waters of the United States gave great umbrage, not only to the people of New York, but to the United States generally. Thereupon an application was made to the Government of this country, and to that no answer was returned. It so happened, that in the meantime M'Leod happened to be in the state of New York, and from his own boastful statements respecting the transactions, and he believed incorrect ones, was arrested in consequence of the belief created upon the subject. When he was so arrested, a feeling on his behalf arose in this country, and then orders were
265264Mr. Roebuck,
290l289seriatim288 would not follow the example of the hon. Gentleman, and of others on the same side of the House, in introducing merely speculative questions which could, in the situation in which parties stood, be attended with no practical result. The greater the importance of the questions which it had pleased her Majesty to call the attention of Parliament to, the more eventful the issues that depended on their decision, the more necessary was it that any discussion of them in that House should be followed by practical results, and not end merely in a display of field-day oratory. With great deference to the hon. Gentleman who last sat down, he should take leave to consider the question before the House not one concerning the sugar duties, timber duties, or the Corn-laws, or any other financial or fiscal measure, but the question of who
290l289seriatim288Mr. Borthwick
279 had expected to hear from the noble Lord who had just sat down some important statement, considering the situation which he held in relation to the commerce and trade of this country. The noble Lord had made a careful and elaborate attempt to draw the question at issue to the mere point of confidence or no confidence in Ministers. For his own part, he took very little interest in those party discussions to which the noble Lord and hon. Gentleman opposite attached so much interest, and he believed the country entertained the same feeling with regard to them. Those privileged classes, of which the noble Lord was a Member, and who were now on the threshold of office, no doubt attached great importance to them, but not so the great mercantile interests of this country. He confessed he was astonished to see the noble Lord making so light of the great and important subjects which really formed the object of their present discussion; not more so, however, than to see the noble Lord, when about to enter upon office, persist in discussing a totally different subject, when every man, woman and child, throughout the kingdom, knew well that there were more Members in the present House who were favourable to the coming in of Sir Robert Peel than there were Members who supported Lord Melbourne. That was known perfectly well to everybody. Then, why say any thing more about it. It could only give rise to unpleasant reflections on that side of the House, and the indulgence in that practice on the other side was only likely to lay the right hon. Baronet opposite open to the impu-
279Mr. Milner Gibson
287Hear, hear286285Times284 "Did good ' for nought;' and blushed to find it fame !"283282An hon. Member:281omne ignotum pro magnifico280 was very far from saying that the noble Lord, or any other Member, did not "legally" represent the con-
287Hear, hear286285Times284 "Did good ' for nought;' and blushed to find it fame !"283282An hon. Member:281omne ignotum pro magnifico280Mr. Gibson
338337336"But I will not pretend that I do not mix tip with the question the consideration of the relative situation of Protestants and Catholics, for I have regard to this consideration, because the state of Ireland is shown to be such, that the bulk of the inhabitants are of the one religion, and the minority of another, that the higher classes are connected with the minority, and the lower with the majority."335" It is known to every one whom I address," (continued the right hon. Baronet) "that the laws affecting Roman Catholics in each branch of the empire are different, that the Irish Roman Catholics are most favoured, and the Roman Catholics of Scotland the least. I propose to place them all as to civil privileges on the same footing, the footing of equality."" This measure will restore equality of civil rights."" There will proceed from this measure the tranquillity of Ireland; harmony among all classes and orders of men, binding and knitting together men of both countries in the lasting bonds of friendship, and combining the affections of Ireland and Great Britain in support of the Government and of the Throne"" There is no doubt, that if this measure is adopted, the Roman Catholics can have no separate interests as a separate sect, for I am sure that neither this nor the other House of Parliament will be disposed to look on anything relating to the Roman Catholics of Ireland with any other eye than that with which they regard what affects this country or Scotland."334333ll332331Laughter." I will stand by this trust, which I did not ask, but which I could not decline. I call upon you not to condemn before you have heard, to receive at least, the measures I shall propose; to amend them if they are defective, to extend them if they fall short of your expectations, but at least to give me the opportunity of presenting them, that you yourselves may consider and dispose of them."330" With such prospects I feel it to be my first and paramount duty to hold the post which has been confided to me."" I did fear, if I had met the late Parliament, that I should have been obstructed in my course, and obstructed in a manner and at a season which might have precluded an appeal to the people; but it is unnecessary for me to assign reasons for this opinion. Was it not the constant boast, that the late Parliament had unbounded confidence in the late Government, and why should those who declare that they are ready to condemn me without a hearing be surprised at my appeal to a higher and fairer tribunal—the public sense of the people."No, no329Interruption328327" Tis pity such a difference should be" Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee."326ll said, that on hearing the statements, arguments, and illustrations of the two right hon. Gentlemen who had just addressed the House, one would suppose that no country had been so admirably governed, that no country possessed such able financiers, and none was governed so economically as the British empire. So much virtue, so much patriotism, so much industry had been displayed in conducting public affairs, that one must imagine it wholly unnecessary to call in another doctor for the diseased state. After all, however it came out that the public accounts were kept in a most strange and extraordinary manner; there was something about them so confused, so inconsistent, and so unmethodical, that it appeared one right hon. Gentleman could prove there was a saving in five years of 2,450,000338337336"But I will not pretend that I do not mix tip with the question the consideration of the relative situation of Protestants and Catholics, for I have regard to this consideration, because the state of Ireland is shown to be such, that the bulk of the inhabitants are of the one religion, and the minority of another, that the higher classes are connected with the minority, and the lower with the majority."335" It is known to every one whom I address," (continued the right hon. Baronet) "that the laws affecting Roman Catholics in each branch of the empire are different, that the Irish Roman Catholics are most favoured, and the Roman Catholics of Scotland the least. I propose to place them all as to civil privileges on the same footing, the footing of equality."" This measure will restore equality of civil rights."" There will proceed from this measure the tranquillity of Ireland; harmony among all classes and orders of men, binding and knitting together men of both countries in the lasting bonds of friendship, and combining the affections of Ireland and Great Britain in support of the Government and of the Throne"" There is no doubt, that if this measure is adopted, the Roman Catholics can have no separate interests as a separate sect, for I am sure that neither this nor the other House of Parliament will be disposed to look on anything relating to the Roman Catholics of Ireland with any other eye than that with which they regard what affects this country or Scotland."334333ll332331Laughter." I will stand by this trust, which I did not ask, but which I could not decline. I call upon you not to condemn before you have heard, to receive at least, the measures I shall propose; to amend them if they are defective, to extend them if they fall short of your expectations, but at least to give me the opportunity of presenting them, that you yourselves may consider and dispose of them."330" With such prospects I feel it to be my first and paramount duty to hold the post which has been confided to me."" I did fear, if I had met the late Parliament, that I should have been obstructed in my course, and obstructed in a manner and at a season which might have precluded an appeal to the people; but it is unnecessary for me to assign reasons for this opinion. Was it not the constant boast, that the late Parliament had unbounded confidence in the late Government, and why should those who declare that they are ready to condemn me without a hearing be surprised at my appeal to a higher and fairer tribunal—the public sense of the people."No, no329Interruption328327" Tis pity such a difference should be" Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee."326llMr. Wakley
293292291 said, that the hon. Members who had moved the Address and the amendment both agreed that it was the duty of the House to give an answer to the propositions contained in her Majesty's gracious speech, but he would ask the hon. Gentlemen opposite whether there was any such answer in the amendment which had been proposed? No answer whatever had been given to the question of whether the country had sanctioned the course which her Majesty's Ministers had taken. Indeed he must say, that he had never witnessed so pitiful a line of conduct as that which had been pursued by the Conservative party for the last two or three months. He called on the right hon. Baronet, Sir R. Peel, and upon the hon. Member for the West Riding, to say whether they were prepared to sustain the principle of a general revision of our whole commercial tariff? The noble Viscount who had that night opened the debate had not offered a single suggestion on this head, and merely said that the present Government had not the confidence of the country. He ought, however, to bring some stronger proof before the House of this than was to be found in mere assertion. His complaint had been that the Whigs had not fulfilled the promises which were held out to the country by the Government of Lord Grey with regard to peace, retrenchment, and reform; but, in the very same breath, he was compelled to say, that they had given more reform than was agreeable to his own party. With respect, however, to the economy which it was urged had not been practised by the present Government, in was notorious that, session after session, they had been stimulated to undertake great expenses with regard to the navy by hon. Members of the Opposition. Again, with respect to their foreign policy, there was not one of the wars in which the Government had embarked the forces of the country—which hon. Gentlemen opposite had denounced—for even the former speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Dorchester (Sir J. Graham) on the subject of China, was no impeachment of
293292291Mr. W. S. O'Brien
 took that opportunity of inquiring whether it were intended to give compensation to the peaceable inhabitants o Syria, whose houses were destroyed, their trees cut down, and their plantations ruined by the necessary operations of the British troops in the recent war? and also, whether it was intended to give compensation to the inhabitants of St. Jean d'Acre for their losses under similar circumstances? Sir Charles Napier
 was much gratified to be able to state to his hon. and gallant Friend, whose interest in these matters he was aware must be very great, on account of the eminentand distinguished public services which he had performed in the quarter to which he had alluded, that he had on that morning received a despatch from Lord Ponsonby, enclosing a copy of a renewed order, the execution of the original having been delayed, which had been sent to the Governor of Acre by the Sultan, directing full reparation to be made in both cases which had been alluded to.Viscount Palmerston
270" No state shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation, or grant letters of marque or reprisal; no state shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage, keep troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact with another state, or with a foreign power, or engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay."269nolle prosequiCaroline268Caroline" I have now to inform you that Mr. Fox has addressed a letter to this department, under date of the 12th inst., in which, under the immediate instruction of his government, he demands, formally and officially, M'Leod's release, on the ground that the transaction on account of which he has been arrested, and is to be put upon his trial, was of a public character, planned and executed by persons duly empowered by her Majesty's colonial authorities to take any steps, and to do any acts which might be necessary for the defence of her Majesty's territories, and for the protection of her Majesty's subjects, and that, consequently, those subjects of her Majesty who engaged in that transaction were performing an act of public duty, for which they cannot be made personally and individually answerable to the laws and tribunals of any foreign country; and that her Majesty's Government has further directed Mr. Fox to make known to the government of the United States, that her Majesty's Government entirely approve of the course pursued by Mr. Fox, and the language adopted by him in the correspondence above mentioned. There is, therefore, now an authentic declaration on the part of the British Government, that the attack on the 'nolle prosequiCaroline268Caroline267266 was the last man in the House who would wish in any way to interrupt what, however, he was bound to remark upon as an irregular proceeding
270" No state shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation, or grant letters of marque or reprisal; no state shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage, keep troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact with another state, or with a foreign power, or engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay."269nolle prosequiCaroline268Caroline" I have now to inform you that Mr. Fox has addressed a letter to this department, under date of the 12th inst., in which, under the immediate instruction of his government, he demands, formally and officially, M'Leod's release, on the ground that the transaction on account of which he has been arrested, and is to be put upon his trial, was of a public character, planned and executed by persons duly empowered by her Majesty's colonial authorities to take any steps, and to do any acts which might be necessary for the defence of her Majesty's territories, and for the protection of her Majesty's subjects, and that, consequently, those subjects of her Majesty who engaged in that transaction were performing an act of public duty, for which they cannot be made personally and individually answerable to the laws and tribunals of any foreign country; and that her Majesty's Government has further directed Mr. Fox to make known to the government of the United States, that her Majesty's Government entirely approve of the course pursued by Mr. Fox, and the language adopted by him in the correspondence above mentioned. There is, therefore, now an authentic declaration on the part of the British Government, that the attack on the 'nolle prosequiCaroline268Caroline267266Viscount Palmerston
278277276275274273272 said, that he did not rise for the purpose of entering, at least at any length, if at all, into those questions of economical policy, which formed so large and prominent a portion of the speech which had been put into the mouth of her Majesty, and a still larger and more prominent portion of the speeches of those who had preceded him in the debate. He did not think that in following that course he should be doing that which was the natural result of the events passing around them, or that he should be doing that which would meet the expectations of the constituencies which had sent them to that House. However convenient it might be within the walls of that House, or elsewhere, to represent the struggle which had been just concluded as a struggle between monopoly and anti-monopoly; to represent that there was no other question at issue than whether or not the measures brought forward by her Majesty's Ministers, under the shape and guise of a Budget, were approved of by the people of this coun-
278277276275274273272Viscount Sandon
" From the doctrine of responsibility of Ministers, it follows, that they ought to enjoy the confidence of the Commons. Otherwise their measures will be thwarted, their promises will be distrusted, and, finding all their steps obstructed, their efforts will be directed to the overthrow of the Constitution."366"The first disturbance which is likely to occur in such a constitution as ours, is a collision between the King as Sovereign, and the Parliament, formed of Lords and Commons, considered as his advisers. The King by the Constitution has, and must have, the power of naming his own servants, who are to carry on the business of the executive Government, but if these servants violate the laws, betray the cause, mistake the interests, or squander the blood of their country, it is as certain that the great council of the nation must have the
366 said, the simple question before the House was one which might have been brought to a conclusion at a touch earlier period than, he feared, it was yet likely to be. That question was, not the question of corn, of timber, or of sugar, but whether her Majesty's present Government were capable or not of carrying on the business of the country. A resolution was passed by the late House of Commons to the effect that the Government did not possess the confidence of Parliament, and that their remaining in office under such circumstance was at variance with the Spirit of the constitution. He could not, therefore, but express his surprise at seeing that Government in office up to the present time, a Government which had been condemned by a resolution of the House. He was convinced that the right hon. Baronet would have sooner submitted to have his right hand cut off, than have been seen clinging to place after such a violation had been, proved against his Administration. The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) in his treatise on the British Constitution, had stated, that
" From the doctrine of responsibility of Ministers, it follows, that they ought to enjoy the confidence of the Commons. Otherwise their measures will be thwarted, their promises will be distrusted, and, finding all their steps obstructed, their efforts will be directed to the overthrow of the Constitution."366"The first disturbance which is likely to occur in such a constitution as ours, is a collision between the King as Sovereign, and the Parliament, formed of Lords and Commons, considered as his advisers. The King by the Constitution has, and must have, the power of naming his own servants, who are to carry on the business of the executive Government, but if these servants violate the laws, betray the cause, mistake the interests, or squander the blood of their country, it is as certain that the great council of the nation must have the
366Captain Folhill
368" Hear, hear, "from the Opposition benches.TimesTimesNusquam tuta fides367 said, that of all the debates he had ever listened to, this was the most peculiarly-marked by sileuce— by silence on those precise topics which the country most anxiously expected to hear discussed. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had either contented themselves with the assertion that Ministers had Dot and did not deserve to have the confidence of the country, without giving themselves the trouble to state any grounds for this opinion of theirs, or, like the hon. Member for Yorkshire, they had staled grounds on which the confidence merely of the opposition was withheld from Ministers. Upon the great questions of free trade and commercial reform, hon. Gentlemen opposite had been pertinaciously silent, and that other great question, the question of Ireland, had been equally omitted from all their speeches. These hon. Gentlemen, however, greatly deceived themselves, if they thought that because they passed these questions over in silence in the House, the country would not regard with a burning sense of indignation the conduct of those who thus kept concealed the distinction between their intended policy and that of the Government whom they proposed to supplant. Looking, however, to the prospects of the present harvest, it might, it was true, be somewhat awkward for hon. Gentlemen oppo-
368" Hear, hear, "from the Opposition benches.TimesTimesNusquam tuta fides367Mr. M. J. O'Connell
371ll370 in reference to what an hon. Member had said last night, when he alleged that the late Member for Water-ford had been deprived of his seat, would contend that he had no right to say any thing of the sort. The registration regulations and the election petition arrangements had been referred to, but it must be admitted that whatever was good in the former was effected by the opposition, and all the merit of the latter was due to the same party. As to the point of confidence, he declared that he gave it to the right hon. Baronet, and withheld it from the Queen's Ministers, because he could depend upon the legislation of a Conservative Government, but upon that of the Melbourne Ministry he could place no reliance, since he had seen it proceed in a downward course of Radical innovation, until they had within the last ten years nearly realized, or at all events they had apparently attempted to realize, the absurdity of a monarchial government, surrounded by republican institutions. If he looked to the question of Canada, he could not help thinking that if the troubles there had not been created, they were at least materially increased, by the conduct of a Gentleman no longer a Member of that House. Then he could not help protesting against the mode in which allusion had been made a night or two ago, by the hon. and learned Member for Bath to the unfortunate case of M'Leod. That gentleman had stated that the United States had no constitutional power to reach the case, and that if M'Leod were convicted, he must be hanged. The Government ought to have interfered, considering that the act imputed to M'Leod as a crime was one performed in the execution of his duty to the country to which he belonged. That interference ought to have occurred to prevent the trial taking place at all; for that trial compromised our national honour, and though we might save the shedding of his blood, we could not redeem our character in regard to the original question. Strong allusions had been made to the question of the New Poor-law, and it seemed to be held that those who voted for it were bound always to uphold and defend it. Now, he could not agree to any such doctrine. He believed at the time it passed that it was a good measure, and therefore he voted for it, but surely he was not bound to uphold it for better or worse because he had so voted. The Whig Government, possessing power to pass
371ll370Mr. Christmas,
385A laugh!384" But I say now, as I always have said, that those who, either by their speeches in Parliament, or the exertion of their talents out of it, have contributed to bring the people in England to look with an eye of favour on the principles recommended in this petition, have done themselves the greatest honour, and the country an essential benefit."protectiveevery restrictive regulation of trade383" That in thus declaring, as your petitioners do, their conviction, of the impolicy and, injustice of the restrictive system, and in desiring
protectiveevery restrictive regulation of trade383" That of the numerous protective duties of our code, it may be proved, that while all operate as a heavy tax on the community at large, very few are of any ultimate benefits to the classes in whose favor they were originally instituted, and none to the extent of the loss occasioned by them to other classes.382381380s.d.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.l.l.379378l.l," Population, 51,072. Inhabited houses, 8,974; uninhabited,1,017. The poor-rate has regularly increased from 1836; it was then 4,725l.l,Mining,Cotton.Shipping.Devon.Cheshire.Cambr.Berks.Bucks.Agriculture.—Beds.Glove Making.Hosiery and Lace.Shoe Making.Hat Making.Carpet Weaving.Cutlery.377Woollens.Silk.Herring Fishery.Nail MakingHardwareHardwareMining,Cotton.Shipping.Devon.Cheshire.Cambr.Berks.Bucks.Agriculture.—Beds.Glove Making.Hosiery and Lace.Shoe Making.Hat Making.Carpet Weaving.Cutlery.377Woollens.Silk.Herring Fishery.Nail MakingHardwareHardware376375No, no374Oh! oh!373372 said, that having so often had occasion to address the house on the subject that had been recommended to its consideration in the Speech from the Throne, he had listened with great anxiety during the present debate to the things which had been uttered on the other side against their discussion, to be saved if possible the trouble of repeating his Former observations, and for this reason he had given his best attention to those who had riot observed the rule of silence Which had been prescribed to the party—and who had undertaken to explain the question to which as they said they were confined on this occasion. He must confess, however, that they had failed to enlighten him. His hon. Friend the Member for Winchester had indeed wondered how any one dared now to speak on this subject, in short as it appeared to him how any one had the courage, in the face of the law and constitution, to discuss any other subject than that which he considered the subject before the House. It seemed to him, that his hon. Friend, whose skill in confusing juries he had often witnessed was not less successful on this occasion in confusing himself and the subject of debate, for, with every wish to do so he had really failed to understand what he meant. Another hon. Member thought questions respecting the suffering of the people were abstract questions and little in place at this time, and so on with several other Members who all upon some ground or other sought to justify themselves in avoiding the questions really proposed to them—but he owned that he saw as little in their reasons as in their silence, to make them think that this was not a fitting moment to discuss matters so deeply interesting to the people. He did not mean to say anything offensive to hon. Members On the other side, but he could not help thinking, that there was a way of accounting for their present silence considering the activity which they had lately displayed in giving circulation to every fallacy, in giving currency to every misrepresentation of the principles and objects of the Govern-
385A laugh!384" But I say now, as I always have said, that those who, either by their speeches in Parliament, or the exertion of their talents out of it, have contributed to bring the people in England to look with an eye of favour on the principles recommended in this petition, have done themselves the greatest honour, and the country an essential benefit."protectiveevery restrictive regulation of trade383" That in thus declaring, as your petitioners do, their conviction, of the impolicy and, injustice of the restrictive system, and in desiring
protectiveevery restrictive regulation of trade383" That of the numerous protective duties of our code, it may be proved, that while all operate as a heavy tax on the community at large, very few are of any ultimate benefits to the classes in whose favor they were originally instituted, and none to the extent of the loss occasioned by them to other classes.382381380s.d.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.l.l.379378l.l," Population, 51,072. Inhabited houses, 8,974; uninhabited,1,017. The poor-rate has regularly increased from 1836; it was then 4,725l.l,Mining,Cotton.Shipping.Devon.Cheshire.Cambr.Berks.Bucks.Agriculture.—Beds.Glove Making.Hosiery and Lace.Shoe Making.Hat Making.Carpet Weaving.Cutlery.377Woollens.Silk.Herring Fishery.Nail MakingHardwareHardwareMining,Cotton.Shipping.Devon.Cheshire.Cambr.Berks.Bucks.Agriculture.—Beds.Glove Making.Hosiery and Lace.Shoe Making.Hat Making.Carpet Weaving.Cutlery.377Woollens.Silk.Herring Fishery.Nail MakingHardwareHardware376375No, no374Oh! oh!373372Mr. Villiers
mens divinior400399hear398TimesTimesTimes,397396395394d.d.393l.392No, no.s.391 said, the noble Lord has distinctly admitted, beyond controversy, the deep distress of the manufacturing classes. The noble Lord spoke of that distress with becoming feeling, and said, that a most difficult problem to solve was, how that distress could be relieved. I will furnish the noble Lord with a simple and efficacious remedy; give the distressed classes a loaf of bread. The noble Lord has not leisure to discuss the awful consequences of that distress, but whether the pleasantry which the noble Lord has indulged in be in good taste or not, it is not for me to say. This is a subject of the utmost importance, and I claim this deference for my opinions on the Corn-laws, that I stand here the representative of two of the largest agricultural communities in the country. I am the representative of more than one million of the people of the Irish nation. Yes, I have been returned for two counties, without canvass or solicitation, without my personal presence, or my asking for a single vote, and with my opinions on the Corn-laws being well known. My opinions I am not in the habit of concealing, and no opinion of mine is better known in those counties than that I am for the total abolition of those laws. There is another testimony in my hon. Friend the Member for Waterford, with respect to the feelings of the Irish constituencies, for he fully informed his constituents that he would vote against those laws. This is a proof that the Irish people do not estimate the advantages which the agricultural interest derives from the Corn-laws. Indeed Ireland illustrates the fallacy of some of the topics used by the supporters of these laws. It is said, that they increase the rate of wages. If they have that operation any where, surely it is in Ireland. Ireland has the full benefit of the Corn-laws, and yet there is the
mens divinior400399hear398TimesTimesTimes,397396395394d.d.393l.392No, no.s.391Mr. O'Connell
 gave an account of the population of one township as follows:—Dr. Kay
 moved as the committee, Sir Robert Peel, Sir James Graham, Lord Stanley, Sir Henry Hardinge, Lord Granville Somerset, and others.Mr. Wortley
pari passu386 observed, that whatever might be the opinions that prevailed upon that or the other side of the House as to the course that ought to be taken in this debate, and the question that was immediately before the House, still he did not presume to offer any objection to Gentlemen on the other side, who considered it to be their duty to speak on a subject that he did not believe to be the immediate question for debate. So far from presuming to offer anything like dictation to Gentlemen on the other side, he must say, that he had listened with deep, painful, and respectful attention to the lengthened statements of Gentlemen who were adventitiously connected with districts, the distress of which they described, and also to their opinions as to the causes to which the distress was to be ascribed. He enjoyed— in the sense in which it was said a man enjoyed bad health—the melancholy privilege of appreciating, in some degree, the commercial distress that existed, and the consequent privations in those parts of the country to which hon. Members had particularly referred. He trusted, then, that if he did not enter into a detailed consideration of what those Gentlemen had thought fit to dilate upon—the causes of the evils that existed, and the immediate remedies to be applied to them—that when he declined to do this, it was not to be supposed that he was of opinion that this great and important subject was not fit for consideration. He was of opinion, that the present state of the civilised world was not only in that House and in the country, but in every deliberative assembly throughout civilisation, a matter to which the intelligence and knowledge of statesmen and men of learning were imperatively called to consider, as the great problem that pressed upon society—namely, the problem how, by human means or human contrivance, they were to distribute the productions, so as to meet the exigencies of a country possessing a large ma-
pari passu386Lord Francis Egerton
390389388nullum tetigit quod non ornavit.HamletHamletHamlet387 said, he was merely stating a coincidence, which, perhaps, was but fortuitous. Great promises had been made to the people, that they would receive material comforts from great political changes, in which promises he had at the time but little faith; and these promises he found followed by a deterioration in the condition of the labouring population, which, having commenced in 1839, had continued to progress up to the present moment. He could assure the House that he did not desire to proceed to the consideration of the question before them in any tone of exultation or triumph on account of the late elections. Such would not be in accordance with his feelings, nor would it be consistent with that state of distress in which the country they were told was at this moment. He was only there to say, that he represented the wishes, the feelings, and the opinions of his constituents, when he assented to the amendment proposed in the Address. Va-
390389388nullum tetigit quod non ornavit.HamletHamletHamlet387Lord Francis Egerton
 remarked, that the House would meet this day. He had no motion to make; but it was understood, that the House would meet this day.Lord John Russell
Hear, hear.449lllironical cheers448447446ss.s.sss.ssssssss445s.s.s.s.444s.Cheers.s.dsds.s.ds.ds.s.443dss.dss.dsdsdsds.sds.sds.dss.s442" The House, I am happy to say, has gone along with me, in promoting this great object and I trust that the country is by this time convinced of the good sense which dictates the policy of getting rid both of positive prohibitions and of prohibitory duties. Much has already been done, but much remains to be done; and it is the intention of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Huskisson) to take an early opportunity of submitting to the House a plan for reducing, within moderate and reasonable bounds, all the remaining prohibitory duties, and thus to strike as it were from our recollection all those errors and prejudices which have so long shackelled the energies of our own commerce, and restricted the productive industry of the world."441440439"Year after year you have departed from the principle with which you commenced, if you had gone on with reform, and continued in the path in which you set out, you would have retained the support and confidence of the country, and you would still have retained office."438Oh! Oh! "from the Opposition437436435434433432431430 then rose and said: If I have to request the attention of the House at this late hour, and at the close of a lengthened debate, I must beg the House to recollect that it was not till a late hour on this the Fourth night of the debate, that any leader of the party opposed to Ministers, rose to justify the amendment on the Address-expressive of a want of confidence in the present Ministry. I complain not of the motion which has been made by hon. Gentlemen opposite, because I think that the meeting of a new Parliament affords the first and best opportunity of deciding the question whether the party now in the possession of the Government, or any other party is entitled to the confidence of the House. But when I say this with regard to the House of Commons, I say it is with them, as with all depositaries of power in this country, there must be reasons given for their proceedings. As a Sovereign would not be justified in appointing a minister without merit of any kind from mere caprice, so neither is a House of Commons justified from a mere consciousness of power in setting aside appointments made by a due and legitimate exercise of the prerogative of the Crown. What, then, are the arguments in support of this motion? The only reasons which have been urged, have been those adduced by the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, who moved the amendment to the Address, and the noble Lord who seconded it, and by the right hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House. But between the arguments used by those hon. Members, and those addressed to the House by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tam-worth, I must observe, in the first place, that there was a most remarkable discrepancy. The hon. Gentleman felt it incumbent on him, in bringing forward a motion of such magnitude, involving such vast consequences, to ground himself on the best reasons he could state to prove to the House the necessity of the motion. The arguments which the hon. Gentleman brought forward, were founded on the con-
Hear, hear.449lllironical cheers448447446ss.s.sss.ssssssss445s.s.s.s.444s.Cheers.s.dsds.s.ds.ds.s.443dss.dss.dsdsdsds.sds.sds.dss.s442" The House, I am happy to say, has gone along with me, in promoting this great object and I trust that the country is by this time convinced of the good sense which dictates the policy of getting rid both of positive prohibitions and of prohibitory duties. Much has already been done, but much remains to be done; and it is the intention of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Huskisson) to take an early opportunity of submitting to the House a plan for reducing, within moderate and reasonable bounds, all the remaining prohibitory duties, and thus to strike as it were from our recollection all those errors and prejudices which have so long shackelled the energies of our own commerce, and restricted the productive industry of the world."441440439"Year after year you have departed from the principle with which you commenced, if you had gone on with reform, and continued in the path in which you set out, you would have retained the support and confidence of the country, and you would still have retained office."438Oh! Oh! "from the Opposition437436435434433432431430Lord John Russell
 suggested, that the committee should be named by the hon. Gentleman who had moved the amendment.Lord John Russell
365364363ssdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsds362361"In the first place, that Government had to contend against the hostility of the King, who never forgave their forcing themselves upon him, and they never possessed the confidence of the nation, who ever regarded the formation of a coalition Government as an abandonment of principle for the sake of place."360359"To assure her Majesty that we are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations which her Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct our attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn."358lll357356sds355354llllll353ll352 could not concur in the observations of the hon. Member for Brighton. He was surprised that any Gentleman sitting on that side of the House, should deprecate the debating the important questions which had been alluded to in the Speech from the Throne. The hon. Gentleman must be the representative of a very strange constituency, when he stated, that the only subject for consideration was, the transfer of political power from Ministers on this side, to those on the opposite benches. He was astonished that any hon. Gentleman professing liberal opinions, should be ignorant of the anxious state of the public mind on the great topics before the House. If the only question was, what men should rule the country, it was immaterial to him whether the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, or the right hon. Baronet
365364363ssdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsds362361"In the first place, that Government had to contend against the hostility of the King, who never forgave their forcing themselves upon him, and they never possessed the confidence of the nation, who ever regarded the formation of a coalition Government as an abandonment of principle for the sake of place."360359"To assure her Majesty that we are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations which her Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct our attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn."358lll357356sds355354llllll353ll352Mr. Hawes
351350349 had given way to the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool last night, because he had expected that noble Lord to break through the prudent taciturnity which had been hitherto preserved on the opposite side of the House, and because he was anxious to hear what would be said on such a question as the present by the representative of that great constituency which had formerly been represented by that enlightened opponent of monopoly, Mr. Huskisson. He had been disappointed; but from what he knew of that constituency he was sure that it had not decided in favour of monopoly against free trade. What private arrangements the noble Lord might have made with his constituents—what pledges he might have given to the merchants of Liverpool, he could not tell; but the presence of the noble Lord in that House was to him a conclusive proof that the hon. Gentlemen opposite had not been universally returned as the advocates of monopoly. He rose to bear his testimony to the statements of the hon. Mover of the Address as to the distress of the operatives; but they had been told that the question was as to the existence of an Administration, and he was truly sorry to find that when thousands and hundreds of thousands of our fellow-citizens were suffering the deepes distress so little was thought of their calamities, and that the attention of that House was mainly directed to the question who should direct the Government of this great country. The majority would of course use its power; it would not permit them to discuss the great questions that had been submitted to the House, and they must abide by the decision of that tyrant majority. When the hon. Gentlemen opposite had got into power he trusted that they would produce such measures as would; alleviate the present distress. There were hundreds in his
351350349Mr. Hindley
 then read the Address as amended. Upon the question, that a committee be appointed to draw up the Address,The Speaker
345344 said, he had not intended to offer any observations for the consideration of the House, had it not been for the great change that had taken place in the manner of treating the present debate by hon. Members opposite. The hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire brought forward his amendment; he told the House that the real question was one of confidence or no confidence; but, although every speaker up to the middle of last night concurred in those sentiments, he had heard a great change in the sentiments of those who had since addressed
345344Mr. Rennie
 had never, for one moment, wished to throw any imputation upon the fair dealing and candour of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman was one of the last men upon whom any such reflection could be justly cast. All he sought td convey was, that he differed from the right hon. Gentleman in a matter of accounts, and his opinion upon that point he still retained.Mr. Goulburn
: It was opposed by the right hon. the Member for Cambridge University.Mr. Labouchere
 said, the whole questions before the House were those which appeared so prominently in the Speech so graciously sent down from the Throne; and he thought it did not become the honour and dignity of the House, merely to say that they would come to a vote of want of confidence in Ministers, before they would direct their attention to the many propositions in the Speech. He thought the great questions referred to in the Speech required mature consideration, and however he might approve of those sentiments, he was not prepared at once to come to a decision upon them. In his opinion, proper time should be given to discuss these measures, and unless they were so discussed, the time of the House might have been much more usefully occupied than it had been by that debate? The question was, how soon the right hon. Gentlemen opposite would walk over the floor of the House. There was no disguising that question, and much as he might wish to avoid it, the change was inevitable; and therefore the sooner it was completed, the better for the House and the country. He thought when that change took place, much as Gentlemen opposite had opposed many good measures, they would find they must adopt similar ones, and if they did so, he would give them his support.Mr. Wigney
 was not aware that he had stated anything that could justify the conclusion the noble Lord appeared to have arrived at.Mr. Cobden
343 addressed the House. The hon. Member believed the prolongation of the debate could not be satisfactory either to the House or the country. It could not be satisfactory to hon. Gentlemen opposite themselves to make statements, which because they were not answered, could not be supposed to be irrefragable. Gentlemen opposite would wish the question to be considered as one of principle on their side, and as one of party on the other, and this was nothing more or less than to place the subject in a false light before the country. Gentlemen knew this question was not, abstractedly considered, the question of the Corn-laws. The men, as Well as the measures, were the subject of decision, and could not be separated. Person and party were involved in the question, and the hon. mover of the Address put the question in a form which he knew they could not grapple with. Yes, the question was put forward in a manner with which they could not grapple, because they knew it only ought to be grappled with by men who occupied a legitimate and distinct position in the country. They knew that the principal accusation against the Government was, that they brought forward those measures impertinently and injudiciously, as they must have been aware that a satisfactory decision could not have been arrived at; and when they heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer stating that the question, regarded as one of revenue, shrunk into nothing before the moral and political questions involved, they heard it admitted as strongly as they could that it was only nominally a financial question, for that in reality it concealed other and higher considerations. He was unwilling to prolong a debate which ought for all practical and reasonable purposes to be shortened as much as possible, and which should be left to the leaders of the great parties in this country. The country had seen by the history of the
343Mr. R. Milnes
348s347346Ironical cheers from the Opposition."Hear, hear," thought, it was the duty of the House to discuss, at the earliest opportunity, the great questions referred to in the Speech from the Throne. He knew that hon. Gentlemen opposite claimed to themselves the right to represent the feelings of the people of England, but for his part he felt persuaded that no claim could be more unfounded. He believed in despite of the late elections that the people throughout the country were thoroughly favourable to Reform, and he was sure that if attention had been paid to what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford), namely, the improvement and the perfection of the Reform Bill, the phalanx opposite could not count the numbers which they now arranged in hostility to the Government. If her Majesty's Government had carried out the principles which they had promulgated in bringing forward the Reform Bill, no such majority would be seated opposite that day. Above all, if the Ballot had been passed, the dominion of Conservatism would have been at an end. [348s347346Ironical cheers from the Opposition."Hear, hear,"Mr. Wallace
ab extra" And it recommends that a suitable agent to encourage immigration, ab extra" Whence must the population required by the manufacturers be derived?l423422sds.ds.ds.421Memberds.s.dsss.ds.ds.ds.ds.ds.420ds.ds.s.s.ds.419s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.ss.,s.418Hon. Members.s.s.s.s.s.s.417Member:s.s.s.s.s.s.s416415414" Cheers."413d.s.d;s.d.s.Hamlet.412411s.410l.409" Whether the principle of protection upon
409"It will be for you to consider whether some of those duties are not so trifling in their amount as to be unproductive to the revenue, whilst they are vexatious to commerce.": The measure, as I remember, was but slightly opposed, but not by me. I shall now refer to another passage of the Speech.
ab extra" And it recommends that a suitable agent to encourage immigration, ab extra" Whence must the population required by the manufacturers be derived?l423422sds.ds.ds.421Memberds.s.dsss.ds.ds.ds.ds.ds.420ds.ds.s.s.ds.419s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.ss.,s.418Hon. Members.s.s.s.s.s.s.417Member:s.s.s.s.s.s.s416415414" Cheers."413d.s.d;s.d.s.Hamlet.412411s.410l.409" Whether the principle of protection upon
409"It will be for you to consider whether some of those duties are not so trifling in their amount as to be unproductive to the revenue, whilst they are vexatious to commerce."Sir R. Peel
408" His Majesty recommends to you to persevere (as circumstances may allow) in the removal of similar restrictions. And his Majesty directs us to assure you, that you may rely upon his Majesty's cordial co-operation in fostering and extending that commerce, which, whilst it is, under the blessing of Providence, a main source of strength and power to this country, contributes in no less a degree to the happiness and civilization of mankind."" His Majesty commands us not to conclude without congratulating you upon the continued improvement in the state of the agricultural interest, the solid foundation of our national prosperity; nor without informing you, that evident advantage has been derived from the relief which you have recently given to commerce by the removal of inconvenient restrictions.407406As these excel cold rocks or brambles rude."In forest, brake, or dell,405As far above dull brutes endued,High-minded man, with powersWafts perfume to pride. No; but man,Where low-bowed basenessRich navies ride; not gay and spangled courts,Where, laughing at the storm,arm'd ports,And turrets crown'd; not bays nor broadNot cities proud with spires" Not high-raised towers nor moated gates,404403" That we learn with much contentment that the objects for which the treaty of July, 1840, was concluded between her Majesty, the Emperor of Austria, the King of Prussia, the Emperor of Russia, and the Sultan, have been fully accomplished; and that we share in the gratification with which her Majesty is enabled to state that the temporary separation which the measures taken in execution of that treaty created between the contracting Powers and France, has now ceased."402401: Mr. Speaker, if I felt more acutely than in fact I do, either for myself or the party with whom I am connected, the weight of the censure and vituperation which the hon. and learned Gentleman has cast at us, still I could find some topic of consolation in the fact, that whatever may be his present abuse of
408" His Majesty recommends to you to persevere (as circumstances may allow) in the removal of similar restrictions. And his Majesty directs us to assure you, that you may rely upon his Majesty's cordial co-operation in fostering and extending that commerce, which, whilst it is, under the blessing of Providence, a main source of strength and power to this country, contributes in no less a degree to the happiness and civilization of mankind."" His Majesty commands us not to conclude without congratulating you upon the continued improvement in the state of the agricultural interest, the solid foundation of our national prosperity; nor without informing you, that evident advantage has been derived from the relief which you have recently given to commerce by the removal of inconvenient restrictions.407406As these excel cold rocks or brambles rude."In forest, brake, or dell,405As far above dull brutes endued,High-minded man, with powersWafts perfume to pride. No; but man,Where low-bowed basenessRich navies ride; not gay and spangled courts,Where, laughing at the storm,arm'd ports,And turrets crown'd; not bays nor broadNot cities proud with spires" Not high-raised towers nor moated gates,404403" That we learn with much contentment that the objects for which the treaty of July, 1840, was concluded between her Majesty, the Emperor of Austria, the King of Prussia, the Emperor of Russia, and the Sultan, have been fully accomplished; and that we share in the gratification with which her Majesty is enabled to state that the temporary separation which the measures taken in execution of that treaty created between the contracting Powers and France, has now ceased."402401Sir R. Peel
469 was not surprised at interruption, when the people's grievances were under discussion, and that he had perfect patience to wait till the House would listen to him. He saw no magic influence in the Treasury Bench, that should prevent any hon. Gentleman from expressing his opinion, or should prevent the House laying its feelings at the foot of the Throne, if that Bench were unoccupied. He did not subscribe to the doctrine that the House ought not to express an opinion unless it was also the opinion of the Minister of the day. He thought, that when the House of Commons was called upon to vote an Address, it was to contain the opinion of the House of Commons, and
469Mr. W. Williams
brought up the report on the Address, which, having been read,Mr. S. Wortley 
 although he thought the constituency ought to be enlarged, especially in the counties, still, under the circumstances of the present time, he could not consistently vote for the amendment of the hon. Member for Rochdale.Mr. Turner,
470 had withdrawn from the House with the hon. Member for Sheffield, but in consequence of what had been stated by the hon. Member for Finsbury, with respect to the agreement between the course taken in a former year and this year he wished to make one observation. He had given his cordial support to the motion of the hon. Member, but there was this distinction between the time at which that
470Mr. Protheroe
 said, he would support the motion of his hon. Friend, and he would try, in the midst of the dejection which would be caused in the country by that morning's division, to infuse into it one drop of sweetness by his own vote.Dr. Bowring
 could not agree with the hon. Member for Sheffield, that this was an improper time for considering the motion of the hon. Member. He thought the motion strictly in accordance with the principles of the constitution. They were on the eve of a change of Government. The first act of a new Government would be to ask for a vote of credit. Then, before granting money, they ought to discuss, at least they ought to make the grievances of the people known, and to require a redress. As he thought, that the franchise was not sufficiently extended, he could not refuse to vote for the amendment of the hon. Member for Rochdale. He was sorry, that there was any division on that side of the House, but he must carry out his own opinions honestly and fearlessly.Colonel Rawdon
466 fully concurred in the observations which had just fallen from his hon. Friend, the Member for Sheffield. His sentiments with respect to the principles of the motion could not be doubted; but, like his hon. Friend, he thought that the present moment, there being no responsible Government, to deal with the question, was so ill-timed and so ill-judged for bringing such an important subject under the consideration of the House, that most undoubtedly he should decline voting upon it. Besides, it was as clear as the light of day, that the majority of that House was represented by the right hon. Baronet opposite, and it was no more than common justice that he should be placed in a fair position. That the right hon. Baronet stood on the high ground he had described him to occupy, had been fully established by the division of the preceding night. That being so, it was just to the opinions of the majority of the constituency, that a fair opportunity should be afforded to the right hon. Baronet to bring forward his measures. Individually he thought, that the people would be disappointed in their expectations in reference to those measures, but, notwithstanding that such was his own conviction
466Mr. Roebuck
467Ward, Mr. Roebuck, differed with the two last speakers. [Mr. 467Ward, Mr. Roebuck,Mr. Wallace
468"To assure her Majesty, that as the amendment of the representative system enacted in 1832, has disappointed her Majesty's people, and as that measure is not, and cannot be final, her Majesty's faithful Commons will take into further consideration the further reform of the Commons House of Parliament." was not surprised, that, after consuming the time of the House for some days in a most unprofitable debate, hon. Members should not like such a discussion on the present occasion, though followed by another defeat. He said, an unprofitable debate, because not one word of hope, of comfort, or consolation, was offered to the industrious millions of this country. The whole scene that had occurred was worthy of the House—not only what occurred then, but what occurred for the last four nights, and even this long time past. Hon. Gentlemen opposite might well triumph when they saw this division in the ranks of the popular representatives. He considered the hon. Gentleman had exercised his right to propose any measure he thought fit at any time he pleased, and especially upon an Address to the Crown. The hon. Member was but discharging his conscientious duty; and when hon. Gentlemen said, he had no right to propose his amendment without consulting them, they quitted the House, and left them in the hands of their enemies. He liked to see open and manly enemies better than professing friends. He himself would vote for the amendment, because it was consistent with his former actions. In the year 1839, he proposed a very similar amendment upon an Address to the Crown. He then proposed—
468"To assure her Majesty, that as the amendment of the representative system enacted in 1832, has disappointed her Majesty's people, and as that measure is not, and cannot be final, her Majesty's faithful Commons will take into further consideration the further reform of the Commons House of Parliament."Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, that provided the right hon. Baronet admitted, that there was distress in the country, and that the wording of the amendment was not intended to evade the admission of the fact, he was satisfied.Mr. T. Duncombe
" We assure your Majesty that in the gracious expression of your deep sympathy with those of your subjects who are now suffering from distress and want of employment,"" The House shared the deep sympathy winch her Majesty felt for those of her subjects who were now suffering from distress and want of employment, and that they recognised in her Majesty's expressions upon that matter an additional proof of her Majesty's tender regard for the condition and welfare of her subjects." said, it was his wish, in reference to the last paragraph in that Address, to ascertain from the right hon. Baronet on the other side of the House, whether it were intended, by the wording of that paragraph, to admit the existence of the general distress of the country, because, it appeared to him, that the paragraph had been carefully framed so as not to express an opinion on that subject. He was, however, free to confess, that he had heard many speeches from hon. Members on the opposite benches in their private and individual capacity, wherein the existence of that distress had been acknowledged. Now, it would be observed, that in the original Address—the Address which had been framed by her Majesty's Government—it had distinctly been stated, that
" We assure your Majesty that in the gracious expression of your deep sympathy with those of your subjects who are now suffering from distress and want of employment,"" The House shared the deep sympathy winch her Majesty felt for those of her subjects who were now suffering from distress and want of employment, and that they recognised in her Majesty's expressions upon that matter an additional proof of her Majesty's tender regard for the condition and welfare of her subjects."Mr. T. Duncombe
Increased signs of impatience.463Oh, oh.462461Cries of "Question.460"We feel it to be our duty to consider the means of so extending and regulating the suffrage, and of adopting such improvements in the system of voting, as will confer on the working classes that just weight in the representative body, which is necessary to secure a
460459458"That we further respectfully represent to your Majesty, that, in our opinion, the distress which your Majesty deplores is mainly attributable to the circumstance of your whole people not being fully and fairly represented
458 rose to propose, that the following additional paragraph be added to the Address: —
Increased signs of impatience.463Oh, oh.462461Cries of "Question.460"We feel it to be our duty to consider the means of so extending and regulating the suffrage, and of adopting such improvements in the system of voting, as will confer on the working classes that just weight in the representative body, which is necessary to secure a
460459458"That we further respectfully represent to your Majesty, that, in our opinion, the distress which your Majesty deplores is mainly attributable to the circumstance of your whole people not being fully and fairly represented
458Mr. S. Crawford,
465464 amidst much confusion, said, that concurring, as it was well known that he did, in all the principles which were involved in the amendment of the hon. Member, he wished to state to the House in a very few words the reasons why he felt it to be his duty to decline giving his support to that amendment on the present
465464Mr. Ward,
457 would state, as an individual Member of that House, and in that capacity alone he begged it to be understood he was about to offer his opinion on this subject in reply to the hon. Member for Finsbury, the construction which he put upon the paragraph complained of. He thought, in the first place, he could undertake to declare, that there had been no deliberate intention of departing from the words of the Address, in regard to the recognition of the existence of distress in the country, because, as the hon. Gentleman must be aware, the terms of that Address had not been known at the time when the amended Address had been drawn up. Therefore, as the hon. Member for Finsbury would at once see, there could have been no intention on the part of those on that side of the House to depart from the words of the Address. Well, then, with regard to the want of respect in the wording of the paragraph to her Majesty, he must beg to say, that while he was perfectly willing to allow that the paragraph in the original Address was quite respectful, he could not admit that the paragraph in the amended Address in any way fell short in that respect; because, whilst the Address stated that the House shared with her Majesty
457Sir R. Peel
 observed, that upon occasions similar to the present it had been customary that another motion should be made. That motion was, that Her Majesty's Speech should be taken into the consideration of the House. In order that by no possibility any disrespect might be supposed to be offered to the Crown, he should take the liberty of moving, therefore, that the Queen's Speech be taken into consideration on Monday next, when the House could dispose of it as it should deem meet.Sir R. Peel
 felt great pleasure in seconding the amendment, in which he fully concurred. It fully embodied his own opinions. It had been impossible for him to vote for the original Address, because that would have implied an approval of all the measures of the Administration; and he considered that they had been guilty of a wasteful expenditure of the public money, and of an unjust and impolitic interference with the internal affairs of foreign powers, acting, therefore, against the principle they had laid down on taking office. He had not, on the other hand, been able to vote for the amendment of the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, for that would have implied confidence on the other side. And on looking back to years past, and recollecting the misconduct of former Tory Governments, he could not say that he could repose any confidence whatever in them. There was nothing in the speech of the right hon. Baronet last night but flowing words. It was true that at the late elections, he had by one means and another obtained a majority in that House, and he had a majority in the House of Lords; but there was one thing wanting, he had not the voice of the people with him, nor their good will, and he must materially alter his conduct before he could expect to obtain it. He would give his cordial support to the present amendment, because he believed that it stated what was perfectly true, that the present state of distress of the country arose mainly from the want of a due representation; and till there was this and some arrangement of the debt, this country never would prosper.Colonel Johnson
479478477 said, I have now, Sir, to state to the House, that after the division of Friday night, her Majesty's Ministers thought it their duty at once to advise the answer which has just been communicated to the House, and humbly to tender their resignations to her Majesty, in order to enable her Majesty to form a new ^ministration. Her Majesty was graciously pleased to accept our resignations, and we, therefore, now only hold office until other Ministers shall be appointed to the offices which we respectively filled. Perhaps the House will allow we on this, occasion, and before I make the motion
479478477Lord J. Russell
483482481480: The announcement which has just been made by the noble Lord will, I am sure, convince every Member of the House, on whichever side he may sit, of the impropriety of entering now
483482481480Lord Stanley
: I am extremely sorry, that any misconstruction has prevailed in any quarter. I thought it was generally understood, that the Speech from the Throne was the speech of Ministers. I am quite ready to say, that I hope no such misconstruction will continue to exist. The speech was the result of the advice of Ministers, and Ministers alone are responsible for it.Lord J. Russell
" It appears to me clear, that this law must undergo much alteration, and I shall always approach the subject, whether the law is to be altered or repealed, with a deep conviction, that the first principle I should be guided by is, tenderness to the poor.""As to the character of the new Poor-law, my objections remain unchanged, as well as to the Administration of the Commissioners."486 observed, that in what he had stated the other night, he had taken for his authority not mere random imputations or rumours, but accounts which he had seen of the speeches made by the hon. Member, and especially an address, signed "J. S. Wortley," issued with a view to the West Riding election. [The noble Lord read the first paragraph of the Address, which Mr. Wortley acknowledged.] He had not Found fault with the hon. Member for holding opinions against the
" It appears to me clear, that this law must undergo much alteration, and I shall always approach the subject, whether the law is to be altered or repealed, with a deep conviction, that the first principle I should be guided by is, tenderness to the poor.""As to the character of the new Poor-law, my objections remain unchanged, as well as to the Administration of the Commissioners."486Lord J. Russell
 was perfectly aware he was not speaking strictly to the question; but he had thrown himself on the indulgence of the House. He had said it was the only opportunity he should have— Mr. Roebuck rose again to order. The hon. Gentleman was referring to a preceding debate, and that was contrary to one of the rules of the House.Mr. Wortley
 had not said anything which could be considered an attack upon the hon. and learned Member for Bath, or any of his Friends.Mr. Wortley
 had meant to show, that it was too much to make him responsible for matters of the kind alluded to by the hon. Member for Sheffield, for he might just as well say, the noble Lord opposite was responsible for a placard which covered the walls of every street in the Metropolis on the previous day, announcing that the Queen of England was to consider herself now no other than a State prisoner. If hon. Members were to consider each other responsible for such popular topics of clamour, there was no knowing where it would end. He considered that, the noble Lord might better have refrained from throwing out random imputations against him.Mr. Wortley
485484 said, he should ask the indulgence of the House for a few moments, while he referred to something that was said by the noble Lord opposite in the late debate, and he hoped the circumstances of the case would be sufficient to justify him. The noble Lord, at the close of a debate of four nights, and at three o'clock in the morning, when the House was in expectation of the important division which immediately afterwards took place, had thrown upon him imputations under which he was unwilling to rest. His respect for the House had at that time prevented him from interposing in order to offer any explanation. On the next day the noble Lord, for good and sufficient reasons no doubt, did not make his appearance in that House. The present, therefore, was the first opportunity he had been able to take, and the only one he was likely to have, to perform the duty which he conceived was incumbent on him, to set himself right with the House on this point. The noble Lord, in the first place, had, as
485484Mr. J. S. Wortley
" Ever anxious to listen to the advice of my Parliament, I will take immediate measures for the formation of a new Administration."" It is a great satisfaction to me to find that the House of Commons are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations to which I directed their attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn; and that in deciding on the course which it may be desirable to pursue, it will be their earnest desire to consult the interests and promote the welfare of all classes of my subjects. Controller of the Household, informed the House that her Majesty had been waited upon, pursuant to the resolution of that bon. House, and he was desired by her Majesty to read to the House the following most gracious answer to the Address of her faithful Commons:—
" Ever anxious to listen to the advice of my Parliament, I will take immediate measures for the formation of a new Administration."" It is a great satisfaction to me to find that the House of Commons are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations to which I directed their attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn; and that in deciding on the course which it may be desirable to pursue, it will be their earnest desire to consult the interests and promote the welfare of all classes of my subjects.Lord M. Hill
: The question is that the Lords Commissioners speech be considered on Monday next.The Speaker
 said, that rule applied in all cases, but where a Member had a personal complaint to make, it was usual to grant him the indulgence of making it.The Speaker
. It is quite competent to any hon. Member to petition the House; but then his petition ought to be presented by another Member.The Speaker
. The hon. Member cannot move the petition without notice; but the clerk, informs me it is signed by the hon. Member himself, and by no other person.The Speaker
. The petition being signed by the hon. Member himself gave the proceeding so unusual and anomalous a character, that perhaps the hon. Member would not object to withdraw it.Mr. Goulburn
 rose to order. There was no question before the House.Mr. Roebuck
 said, what he objected to was, that the hon. Member having defended himself made attacks upon others.Mr. Roebuck
; No, not against me.Mr. Roebuck
 spoke to the following effect:—Sir, I do not expect you will assent to my proposition to repeal the Oath of Supremacy without grave deliberation. That oath was the prop that was invented to sustain the Reformation in its infancy—and surely it cannot be considered as appropriate food to sustain the establishment, now that it has grown up to a position which will entitle it, if purely administered, to endure for ever. This oath, and the distinction between Whig and Tory, emanated from the same circumstance. The struggle between those two great parties of the State, which has lasted for a period of 200 years, may be said to be now suspended, if not terminated for ever. I speak those sentiments from a consideration of the manly and statesman-like pledge that was given within the last two nights, by the right hon. Member for Tarn worth, and if he is enabled to carry out the views by him so eloquently expressed, that distinction to which I have alluded will cease. But if he fails in the performance, he will, thereby, keep alive the distinction just in the same way that the Whigs, by neglecting those opportunities which they had to attach the whole empire to them, kept alive their opponents, and now their successors in office. Sir, I have the fullest confidence in the sincerity and honour of the right hon. Baronet, but I confess that I am doubtful of his power to allay the troubled spirits of some of his followers. It may be, however, prudent for them to recollect, that if he proves his sincerity, as I am sure he will, he will not require the aid of intemperate men to sustain him in power, while on the other hand, they can never exist as a party, ruling the destinies of this great empire, except in unison with him, and in accordance with his recently avowed principles. Sir, I think that the proper opportunity is not yet arrived to obtain a calm consideration of the merits of my intended bill for the abolition of this Oath of Supremacy, and, therefore, with the permission of the House, I beg leave to withdraw my notice for the present, as the whole object of my presenting it has already been accomplished.Sir V. Blake
. If it be the sense of the House that the petition should be withdrawn, I shall willingly withdraw it; but. I really cannot see anything irregular in it, as it is perfectly consistent with former precedents.Sir V. Blake
. I stated that the petition was from a Member of this House, and it is not necessary to give the names of petitioners.Sir V. Blake
ipso facto rose to present a petition upon the subject of the bill to abolish the oath of supremacy, for the. introduction of which he intended to ask leave of the House that evening. The petition was from a Member of that House, and it prayed that all Members of Parliament be relieved from the ' necessity of taking the oath of supremacy, in the same way that Roman Catholics were relieved. The petition denied the correctness of that part of the oath which stated, that no foreign prince, potentate, or prelate, had any spiritual or religious jurisdiction, or authority, within these realms, when it was notorious that the Pope had jurisdiction over the whole of the Roman Catholic clergy and bishops, independent of which he possessed an authority to interfere with the constitution of this House, because he possessed the power of ordination; and by the 9th section of the Roman Catholic Relief Bill, any hon. Member of this House, accepting that ordination, his seat became thereby vacant, precisely in the same way as if he had accepted office under the Crown; and then again, his Holiness possesses a power of ordination with the Protestant Church. It is a matter of public notoriety that persons ordained by him, and becoming conformists, are ipso factoSir Valentine Blake
 said, that he did not mean to oppose the bill, but rose to express a hope, that when, through ignorance, a poor man violated the law, the same course would be pursued in respect of his offence.Mr. Wakley
493 said, that in the absence of the responsible Ministers of the Crown,
493Sir G. Clerk
 briefly stated the object of the bill, and said, that he had been requested to apply to the House that the standing orders might be suspended, and the bill passed through all its stages that evening. The hon. Gentleman cited the case of the Earl of Harborough, in 1820, as a precedent.Sir T. Fremantle
 was ready to give his assent to the proposed course of proceeding.Viscount Palmerston
 thought more time was required to consider what would be the effect of the resolution; and he begged leave to suggest that the subject be postponed.Mr. Hawes
 was of opinion, looking at the thin state of the House, that the question, which was undoubtedly important, could not then be satisfactorily discussed.Mr. C. Buller
" 4. That if any sitting Member whose election or return shall be petitioned against, or any party admitted to defend the election or return of such Member, shall think fit to question the qualification of any petitioner, claiming to have had a right to be elected or returned in the place of such Member, such sitting Member shall, within eight days after the petition read, and such other party within eight days after being admitted to defend the election or return, leave notice thereof in writing with the petitioner or his agent; and the petitioner shall in such case, within eight days after such notice, leave with the clerk of the House of Commons the like account, in writing, of his qualification, as is required for a Sitting Member."" 3. That if any Member whose qualification is so objected to shall decline to defend his election or return, and if any other person shall be admitted to defend the same, such other person shall, within eight days after he shall be so admitted to defend the same, leave with the clerk of the House of Commons the like account, in writing, of the qualification of such Member as is required from a sitting Member." 2. That of such lands, tenements, hereditaments, and personal estate, whereof the party hath not been in possession or receipt of the rents or income for three years before the election, he shall also insert in the same paper from what person, and by what conveyance, assignment, or act in law he claims and derives the same; and also the consideration, if any, paid for the same, and the names and places of abode of the witnesses to such conveyance, assignment, or act in law and payment." If the qualification of such Member shall arise wholly or in part out of personal estate, then the particulars of such personal estate, and of the income arising there from, and upon what security and in whose names such personal estate is vested, and by whom the income thereof is payable: and that any person concerned may have a copy of such paper." If the qualification of such Member shall arise wholly or in part out of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, then a rental or particular of the lands, tenements, and hereditaments, whereby he makes out such his qualification." 1. That every person elected and returned a Member of the House of Commons for any county, riding, or division of a county, or for any city, borough, or Cinque Port of England, Wales, or Ireland, or for the town of Berwick-upon-Tweed, whose qualification is expressly objected to in any election petition, shall within fifteen days after the petition read, give to the clerk of the House of Commons a paper, signed by himself, containing the following particulars, that is to say— proposed the following resolutions, which were read by the Clerk at the Table:—
" 4. That if any sitting Member whose election or return shall be petitioned against, or any party admitted to defend the election or return of such Member, shall think fit to question the qualification of any petitioner, claiming to have had a right to be elected or returned in the place of such Member, such sitting Member shall, within eight days after the petition read, and such other party within eight days after being admitted to defend the election or return, leave notice thereof in writing with the petitioner or his agent; and the petitioner shall in such case, within eight days after such notice, leave with the clerk of the House of Commons the like account, in writing, of his qualification, as is required for a Sitting Member."" 3. That if any Member whose qualification is so objected to shall decline to defend his election or return, and if any other person shall be admitted to defend the same, such other person shall, within eight days after he shall be so admitted to defend the same, leave with the clerk of the House of Commons the like account, in writing, of the qualification of such Member as is required from a sitting Member." 2. That of such lands, tenements, hereditaments, and personal estate, whereof the party hath not been in possession or receipt of the rents or income for three years before the election, he shall also insert in the same paper from what person, and by what conveyance, assignment, or act in law he claims and derives the same; and also the consideration, if any, paid for the same, and the names and places of abode of the witnesses to such conveyance, assignment, or act in law and payment." If the qualification of such Member shall arise wholly or in part out of personal estate, then the particulars of such personal estate, and of the income arising there from, and upon what security and in whose names such personal estate is vested, and by whom the income thereof is payable: and that any person concerned may have a copy of such paper." If the qualification of such Member shall arise wholly or in part out of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, then a rental or particular of the lands, tenements, and hereditaments, whereby he makes out such his qualification." 1. That every person elected and returned a Member of the House of Commons for any county, riding, or division of a county, or for any city, borough, or Cinque Port of England, Wales, or Ireland, or for the town of Berwick-upon-Tweed, whose qualification is expressly objected to in any election petition, shall within fifteen days after the petition read, give to the clerk of the House of Commons a paper, signed by himself, containing the following particulars, that is to say—Mr. Greene
 agreed, that while both sides of the House were eulogizing the conduct of the late Lord Chancellor, they ought not to forget to apply a remedy to a state of things which deprived the suitors of the country of the services of a judge in the prime of his faculties, merely in consequence of a political change. But the separation of the judicial and political functions of the head of the Chancery Courts could not be effected in this bill, as it would require various enactments in great detail. Lord Cottenham, among his other merits, had formerly introduced a measure for this very purpose into the other House. But such a bill ought to emanate from the Government, and he hoped they would soon take steps towards this change, which he thought would confer a greater benefit on the country than any which had yet been made in the administration of justice.Mr. C. Buller
: who seconds the motion?The Speaker
To the Speaker, &c., &c. &c."" To the Speaker, &c., &c. &c."" DANIEL O'CONNELL." Your obedient, humble Servant," I have the honour to be, Sir," I have the honour respectfully to request, that you will be pleased to communicate my election to serve for the county of Cork in the present Parliament, so soon as the rules of the House will permit that communication to be made, in order to allow a new writ to issue for the County of Meath." Should any other act be necessary, on my part, to carry this intention into effect, so that a new writ may issue at the earliest possible period for the county of Meath, I am ready to do that act so soon as I am apprised of the nature of it."SIR—Having been returned to serve in the present Parliament for the county of Meath as well as the county of Cork, I beg leave to state to you, for the information of the House of Commons, that it is my intention to elect, and I do elect, to sit for the county of Cork.th Sept. Merrion Square, Dublin"th Sept. Merrion Square, Dublin informed the House, that he had received the following letter from Daniel O'Connell, esq., returned for the counties of Cork and Meath, making his election for the county of Cork:—
To the Speaker, &c., &c. &c."" To the Speaker, &c., &c. &c."" DANIEL O'CONNELL." Your obedient, humble Servant," I have the honour to be, Sir," I have the honour respectfully to request, that you will be pleased to communicate my election to serve for the county of Cork in the present Parliament, so soon as the rules of the House will permit that communication to be made, in order to allow a new writ to issue for the County of Meath." Should any other act be necessary, on my part, to carry this intention into effect, so that a new writ may issue at the earliest possible period for the county of Meath, I am ready to do that act so soon as I am apprised of the nature of it."SIR—Having been returned to serve in the present Parliament for the county of Meath as well as the county of Cork, I beg leave to state to you, for the information of the House of Commons, that it is my intention to elect, and I do elect, to sit for the county of Cork.th Sept. Merrion Square, Dublin"th Sept. Merrion Square, DublinMr. Speaker
 said, it was irregular for any hon. Member to complain of a newspaper article unless he intended to follow it up with a motion. The more regular course was, for the hon. Member to move that it be read by the Clerk, and that it was a breach of privilege, and then to move that the printer be called to the Bar. The motion might be persevered in or not, as the hon. Member thought fit.The Speaker
: The course at present pursued is decidedly irregular.The Speaker
: Who seconds the motion?The Speaker
 said, that perhaps he might be allowed to state, that he had always understood, when any hon. Member found anything in the public prints offensive to his personal feelings, he was allowed an opportunity of bringing the matter before the House, of explaining, and stating the injury which had been done to his feelings. He had seen this done so many times, that he really thought, from the kind feelings—lie said the kind feelings, and he wished to say no more of any man than he deserved— of the hon. Member for Oxford University (Sir R. Inglis), he would have been the last man to interfere to prevent him (Mr. Roebuck) from availing himself of a practice which was common among hon. Members.Mr. Roebuck
The Times508The Times said, he would then move that the printer of The Times508The TimesMr. Roebuck
 interrupted him by saying, that he was not reading the paragraph complained of, and told him to begin at another place which he described.Mr. Roebuck
" Amidst the pauses which sometimes occur in the melodious voices of Messrs. Hawes and Ward, and Dr. Bowring, the House is threatened with an interlude by their gallery Friend Mr. Roebuck, on the subject of the Poor-law Commission. Nothing could be further from our habitual civility, or more at variance with our known respect for the humbler orders of our countrymen than to represent Mr. Roebuck as a nuisance. Having been made an hon. Gentleman by dint of getting into Parliament, that elevated person has an undoubted right to exercise the privileges of his sphere—we admit it. That those privileges entitle him to fling orange peel at the principal performers, or to have a sally at the dress boxes now and then, might not, if his class license were moderately used, be reasonably complained of. Chartists, such as he, are chartered men; and their occasional impertinences are both expected and endured. But Mr. Roebuck and his associates must not be permitted entirely to forget their station. That he should be allowed to injure everything at his mere pleasure is wholly out of the question. If he does not know his just limits and latitude, the lesson must be seasonably taught him. The evil of seeing important interests made utter havoc of by a precipitate and pert interference is not to be endured. In point of personal and political influence he is just as fit to take ft lead in modifying the New Poor-law as the one-shilling gentry of Drury-lane." said — Surely you are not reading the right passage. Begin —" Amidst the pauses which sometimes occur in the melodious voices of Messrs. Hawes and Ward." [The hon. Member advanced to the Table and read it himself.] It was in these words:—
" Amidst the pauses which sometimes occur in the melodious voices of Messrs. Hawes and Ward, and Dr. Bowring, the House is threatened with an interlude by their gallery Friend Mr. Roebuck, on the subject of the Poor-law Commission. Nothing could be further from our habitual civility, or more at variance with our known respect for the humbler orders of our countrymen than to represent Mr. Roebuck as a nuisance. Having been made an hon. Gentleman by dint of getting into Parliament, that elevated person has an undoubted right to exercise the privileges of his sphere—we admit it. That those privileges entitle him to fling orange peel at the principal performers, or to have a sally at the dress boxes now and then, might not, if his class license were moderately used, be reasonably complained of. Chartists, such as he, are chartered men; and their occasional impertinences are both expected and endured. But Mr. Roebuck and his associates must not be permitted entirely to forget their station. That he should be allowed to injure everything at his mere pleasure is wholly out of the question. If he does not know his just limits and latitude, the lesson must be seasonably taught him. The evil of seeing important interests made utter havoc of by a precipitate and pert interference is not to be endured. In point of personal and political influence he is just as fit to take ft lead in modifying the New Poor-law as the one-shilling gentry of Drury-lane."Mr. Roebuck,
 said, that when he rose he Stated, that he was aware he had the power of moving, that the printer be brought to the Bar of the House. He thought to save the time of the House by the course which he had pursued. If the hon. Member for Oxford insisted upon it, he would make the motion.Mr. Roebuck
 would ask the Speaker whether the course he had adopted was not a usual one?Mr. Roebuck
: It is easy to get out of the matter so; but the hon. Baronet has insinuated a sarcasm, which he would have been reluctant to utter.Mr. Roebuck
: I shall not make any motion.Mr. Roebuck
Cries of" Order."The Times,507Interruption.506The TimesThe Times,The Times,The Times.505The TimesThe Times rose to call the attention of the House to an article which had appeared in Cries of" Order."The Times,507Interruption.506The TimesThe Times,The Times,The Times.505The TimesThe TimesMr. Roebuck
 said, that if it was the pleasure of the House that he should so move, he would move, "That the words just read constitute a breach of the privileges of this House."Mr. Roebuck
 wished to ask, whether anything could be more offensive to common sense, than that a judge, who had committed no fault, should be dismissed, in consequence of a political change? That such a thing should be, was such a violation of common sense and justice, that he trusted some leading Members of the House would put an end to it, by the insertion of clauses in this bill.Mr. Wakley
 moved, that the House, at its rising, do adjourn until Thursday, the 16th instant.Sir G. Clerk
 said, that the first Lord of the Treasury would, he hoped, be in his place on Thursday, the 16th, when he would be able to answer the noble Viscount.Sir G. Clerk
509 said, that before that motion was put, he believed there was a pre-
509Sir G. Clerk
 believed there was no question before the House.Sir R. Inglis
 said, that the hon. Member had, then, occupied the time of the House very needlessly and unnecessarily. The hon. Member had given the House a dissertation respecting his ancestors, who, he said were distinguished in art, science, and literature; but he had not condescended to state who they were.Sir R. Inglis
: I insist upon nothing.Sir R. Inglis
: Does the hon. Member intend to conclude with any motion?Sir R. Inglis
 moved the first reading of the Administration of Justice Bill.Sir T. Fremantle
510 in seconding the motion, said he might be allowed to avail himself of that opportunity, as the bill had been introduced in the other House by his noble and learned Friend, Lord Cottenham, to say that, in his belief, there was but one opinion in the profession of the law as to the great merits of Lord
510Lord Palmerston,
 said, that it probably would be convenient to the House to know whether her Majesty's Government intended, after the recess, to proceed immediately to such business as they meant to propose to the House without further adjournment?Viscount Palmerston
 inquired at what hour to-morrow it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to commence the public business of the House?Lord J. Russell
521 begged to ask if any estimate had been made of the expense of consolidating the kitchen gardens? He approved of the proposed disposal of this piece of ground, but he did not approve of the purpose to which the proceeds were to be applied. He thought that when the working classes were suffering so much distress, and when so much money was expended on palaces, and parks, the proceeds of this piece of ground ought to be
521Mr. Williams
517 said Sir, with respect to the immediate purposes for which the right hon. Gentleman has moved for these papers, I am certainly not likely to differ from any measures which may be proposed in accordance with them. I have entire confidence in the course which I conceive the right hon. Baronet may think fit to adopt on that score, and I think we have all of us experienced the benefit of the plans which these papers suggest and recommend. With respect to any expense that may be required for the purpose of carrying out the end aimed at, I have no doubt that the Treasury and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, will use every requisite expedition in attending to it. With respect to the estimates, to the framing of which I was myself, well as the other Members of the late Government, a party, I can, of course, only say that I shall offer no opposition to their being granted, and I shall consider it my duty to give my support to any of them, the necessity for which shall be questioned. But with regard to the other questions to which the right hon. Gentleman has referred, I shall take an opportunity, before the House goes into a committee of supply to-morrow, of stating the course which I think ought to be pursued with reference to the present slate of public affairs. I do not think it would be convenient that I should enter now into these considerations. I am of opinion that the course I propose to adopt—that of making the observations I wish to address to the House before going into supply to-morrow—more consistent with the practice of the House. I can only say, on the present occasion, that I heard with great concern the intention of the right hon. Gentleman not to propose any measures of importance in the present Session of Parliament. I will not say, that during the last few days in which the right
517Lord John Russell
 said, he must protest at once against this bill, and would give it all the opposition in his power. That opposition had nothing of a party character, because the Government of the right hon. Baronet was not responsible for the measure, which had originated with their predecessors; and he would have opposed it as earnestly if it had been introduced by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) below him as by the right hon. Baronet. He hoped that his hon. Friend would reconsider the course which he proposed to adopt. At the moment when measures were in progress in the formation of additional Royal parks and public walks, and places of recreation for the people, it was manifestly absurd to give away a large portion of Kensington Gardens for such a purpose as was proposed. He wished his hon. Friend had taken a walk with him that morning into Kensington Gardens, and had seen the ground in question, for he was sure he would agree with him as to the convenience of adding it to the Park to which it was immediately contiguous. He thought, whether they regarded the convenience of the Sovereign, or of the inhabitants of Kensington, or of the public generally, nothing could be more injudicious than to build on that spot. Villas were not wanted, and speculations on the part of the Government were not always well managed or profitable. Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens constituted no longer the commencement of the country in that direction, but they were surrounded by a dense town population, and would soon be as much in the interior of the metropolis as Lincoln's Innfields. He trusted Government would use the opportunity of throwing open this place to the public, and apply to the House for the sum of money necessary for the convenience of the Crown in consolidating the kitchen gardens. At a further stage he would offer to the measure every opposition in his power.Mr. Protheroe
518 said, that he had given notice of his intention to move for certain returns relative to the commercial regulations of other countries with respect to our own; but, as he understood that some progress had been made in preparing those returns, if the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Gladstone) would inform him that they should b presented to the House, he should be glad to leave the matter in his hands. At the
518Dr. Bowring
522 said, that it appeared that, for the paltry sum of one thousand pounds a year the only open space which existed beteen the Palace towards the east and the church in Kensington towards the west was to be entirely lost to the public. The hon. Gentleman stated, that the measure was one which would have been brought forward by the late Administration. It was, indeed, one of the great measures upon which the two Administrations concurred in opinion. It was a bad beginning. He hoped the hon. Gentleman himself would go down to Kensington and see this place; and as he remembered a good deal of what the right hon. Baronet had said of late years with respect to the working classes, their recreations and amusements, he entreated the right hon. Gentleman to visit the ground which it was proposed to sacrifice. The people in the neighbourhood complained loudly on the subject. They looked upon it as a deplorable evil that they should be deprived of such an open space of ground, at a time when the Government were spending thousands for the comfort of the inhabitants of other parts of the metropolis. The ground in question was excluded, in a great measure, from public view, but it lay adjacent to a densely-peopled neighbourhood, the inhabitants of which would be greatly benefited by having the space thrown open. It was an advantage which they would greatly prize. He was astonished to find that the late Administration, which professed to be so friendly to the people, should have entertained for a moment the project of building upon the space alluded to; and he would again entreat the Members of the new Government to visit the spot before they came to a definitive resolution on the subject. The right hon. Gentleman himself had commenced their proceedings that night with a motion relating to the health of hon. Members. Now, let them think of the health of the poor as well as of their own. The noble Lord had spoken in the highest terms of Dr. Reid's Administration. Now, he approved of that Ad-
522Mr. Wakley
 said, that, in June last, the late President of the Board of Trade informed the House that one of the secretaries of that board had taken great pains in obtaining information upon the subject of the commercial tariffs of foreign countries, and had stated, that when his report should be prepared in the proper form, he would lay it upon the Table of the House. The noble Lord (Lord Ripon) at the head of the Board of Trade, entirely approved of that intention of his predecessor, and Mr. M'Gregor had received instructions to proceed with the preparation of that information. The House must be aware that this was a work of very considerable difficulty, and one requiring great accuracy, but as soon as it could be prepared it should be laid on the Table of the House. He also agreed that provision should be made with British agents abroad, to supply the Government at home with regular information of changes made by foreign countries in their commercial regulations.Mr. Gladstone
524hear, hear understood that the persons in the neighbourhood were exceedingly anxious that the ground should be opened to the public, instead of being devoted to building [524hear, hearMr. Ewart
 said, that he thought it would be convenient to the House if it was generally understood that in future public business should commence at an earlier hour. He would propose, therefore, that petitions should continue to be presented till five o'clock, but that if there were no petitions they should commence public business at half-past four.Sir R. Peel
523: I rise to say a few words with reference to what fell from the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Protheroe), who has stated that he hopes for some success in the opposition he intends to offer to this bill, because the measure was not originally brought forward on the responsibility of the present Government. Now, Sir, I consider that, by now bringing forward this bill, the present Government is assuming to itself the responsibility of the measure, because it is one which we might have abstained from bring forward if we had thought proper. The noble Lord (John Russell) opposite, has confined his confidence to the Administration of Dr. Reid, and has appeared unwilling to extend it to those who have succeeded him in the
523Sir R. Peel
516515l.514513l.,l.512: I rise, Sir, to move for a paper to which it is, perhaps, desirable that I should at once call the attention of the House, and which is connected with the execution of those works which are now in progress for building the two new Houses of Parliament, and with the adoption of measures for warming and ventilating the present Houses. In making this motion, it will, perhaps, be for the general convenience of the House, that I should avail myself of the opportunity of stating the course which it is my intention, on the part of her Majesty's Government, to pursue with respect to the public business of the country. Notice has been already given for to-morrow, of taking into consideration those estimates for which complete provision has not been made in the late Session of Parliament. That vote will refer to the miscellaneous services of the year. One half of the sum which will be required for the provision for those services has been already provided by her Majesty's late Government in the last Session of Parliament; and what I propose to do is, to adopt those estimates, without exception, as they were framed by her Majesty's late Ministers, and to submit them to the House exactly in the form in which they were proposed by them to the last Parliament. The course pursued on former occasions has been to take, by one vote, the remaining sum which might be required to provide for those services; but, in the present instance, these estimates themselves have not been submitted to the detailed consideration of the House. A sum was taken on account in the last Session; and I apprehend that it would be more desirable, and more satisfactory to the House, that the estimates should be taken into consideration in detail now, rather than one sum should be taken in gross to provide for the public service. I propose, therefore, to submit each sum to the House in detail, and to take a separate vote with respect to each of them. I know not, Sir, that it is necessary to make any proposition to the House, with respect to estimates for any other services than those which were included in the estimates presented to the House
516515l.514513l.,l.512Sir R. Peel
l. said, that the estimated cost of consolidating the kitchen gardens would be reduced, by the conversion of this property, which at a low estimate would let for about 1,000l.Sir T. Fremantle
519 rose to propose a bill for annexing the mansion-house, gardens, and grounds at Frogmore (part of the land revenue of the Crown) to Windsor Castle; and also to move for leave to bring in a bill to authorise the leasing the Royal kitchen gardens at Kensington, for building purposes, and to enable her Majesty's Commissioners of Woods, &c, to expend the value thereof in the formation and improvement of the
519Sir T. Fremantle
 said, he would give his attention to the subject referred to by the hon. Member.Sir T. Fremantle
538537536" Your Majesty's memorialists therefore most earnestly and respectfully pray that your Majesty will take measures to continue the deliberation of Parliament without intermission, until these laws shall be so settled as to secure to your people the most plentiful supply of food at the cheapest rate, and thus to conduce to the general interests of the whole community."" That the intense sufferings of the people will be greatly aggravated by a continued uncertainty of the settlement of these great questions, and by the natural inclemency of the approaching season; that it is therefore of the utmost consequence that your Majesty's gracious recommendation to Parliament should receive its serious attention without any delay, not only in order the sooner to apply legislative measures to alleviate the distress, but that your Majesty's suffering people may derive consolation and hope amidst their severe deprivations, from the knowledge that their wants are engaging the serious attention of the legislature, for the purpose of their alleviation." That all parties have therefore at length acknowledged the importance of considering these laws and their effects upon the great interests of the community." That in reply to the gracious mediation of your Majesty in behalf of suffering industry, your Majesty's memorialists feel some satisfaction that the Parliament has at length acknowledged, ' that they are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations to which your Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct their attention, in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn.'535" That your Majesty's people have been severely disappointed at the determined refusal of the late House of Commons to attend to the prayer of these petitions; but they have derived great consolation from the marked anxiety of your Majesty for their interests at the opening of the present Parliament, when your Majesty was graciously pleased to claim its attention to ' the laws
535" That it was in vain, that your Majesty's people approached the late House of Commons by petitions signed by upwards of one million and a half of your Majesty's people— a number unprecedented on any other occason—earnestly praying for an inquiry into the effects and operations of those laws, with a view to their alteration or repeal." That it has long been the opinion of a large and enlightened portion of your Majesty's subjects, that the embarrassment and distress are to be attributed to the effect of those laws which restrict the supply of food, which prohibit a free exchange of the industry of the people of this country with that of others, and which impose indirect taxes, pressing severely on the community, for the purpose of protecting particular interests, without reference to the public revenue.534s.533" Medicin, malgre lui"532s.s.s.531s.530529." In deciding on the course which it may be desirable to pursue with reference to matters of such importance, it will be our earnest desire to consult the interests and promote the welfare of all classes of her Majesty's subjects; that we feel it to be our duty, however, humbly to submit to her Majesty, that it is essential to the satisfactory result of our deliberations on these and other matters of public concern, that her Majesty's Government should possess the confidence of this House and of the country, and respectfully to represent to her Majesty, that that confidence is not reposed in the present advisers of her Majesty."" We assure your majesty that we are deeply sensible of the importance of those consideraations to which your Majesty has been pleased to direct our attention with reference to the commerce and revenues of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn."528" Her Majesty is desirous that you should consider the laws which regulate the trade in corn. It will be for you to determine whether these laws do not aggravate the natural fluctuations of supply, whether they do not embarrass trade, derange currency, and by their operation, diminish the comfort, and increase
528527526525 said:—I shall now, with permission of the House, proceed to make the observations which I yesterday said, I should feel it my duty to make, on the course which the right hon. Baronet proposes to pursue, and on the general aspect of affairs. The motion which the right hon. Baronet has now made, for the House going into a committee of supply, for the purpose of placing some of the public money at the disposal of the present Ministers of the Crown, being the earliest occasion on which the right hon. Gentleman has asked the opinion of the House on the subject, I look upon as the most fitting
538537536" Your Majesty's memorialists therefore most earnestly and respectfully pray that your Majesty will take measures to continue the deliberation of Parliament without intermission, until these laws shall be so settled as to secure to your people the most plentiful supply of food at the cheapest rate, and thus to conduce to the general interests of the whole community."" That the intense sufferings of the people will be greatly aggravated by a continued uncertainty of the settlement of these great questions, and by the natural inclemency of the approaching season; that it is therefore of the utmost consequence that your Majesty's gracious recommendation to Parliament should receive its serious attention without any delay, not only in order the sooner to apply legislative measures to alleviate the distress, but that your Majesty's suffering people may derive consolation and hope amidst their severe deprivations, from the knowledge that their wants are engaging the serious attention of the legislature, for the purpose of their alleviation." That all parties have therefore at length acknowledged the importance of considering these laws and their effects upon the great interests of the community." That in reply to the gracious mediation of your Majesty in behalf of suffering industry, your Majesty's memorialists feel some satisfaction that the Parliament has at length acknowledged, ' that they are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations to which your Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct their attention, in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn.'535" That your Majesty's people have been severely disappointed at the determined refusal of the late House of Commons to attend to the prayer of these petitions; but they have derived great consolation from the marked anxiety of your Majesty for their interests at the opening of the present Parliament, when your Majesty was graciously pleased to claim its attention to ' the laws
535" That it was in vain, that your Majesty's people approached the late House of Commons by petitions signed by upwards of one million and a half of your Majesty's people— a number unprecedented on any other occason—earnestly praying for an inquiry into the effects and operations of those laws, with a view to their alteration or repeal." That it has long been the opinion of a large and enlightened portion of your Majesty's subjects, that the embarrassment and distress are to be attributed to the effect of those laws which restrict the supply of food, which prohibit a free exchange of the industry of the people of this country with that of others, and which impose indirect taxes, pressing severely on the community, for the purpose of protecting particular interests, without reference to the public revenue.534s.533" Medicin, malgre lui"532s.s.s.531s.530529." In deciding on the course which it may be desirable to pursue with reference to matters of such importance, it will be our earnest desire to consult the interests and promote the welfare of all classes of her Majesty's subjects; that we feel it to be our duty, however, humbly to submit to her Majesty, that it is essential to the satisfactory result of our deliberations on these and other matters of public concern, that her Majesty's Government should possess the confidence of this House and of the country, and respectfully to represent to her Majesty, that that confidence is not reposed in the present advisers of her Majesty."" We assure your majesty that we are deeply sensible of the importance of those consideraations to which your Majesty has been pleased to direct our attention with reference to the commerce and revenues of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in corn."528" Her Majesty is desirous that you should consider the laws which regulate the trade in corn. It will be for you to determine whether these laws do not aggravate the natural fluctuations of supply, whether they do not embarrass trade, derange currency, and by their operation, diminish the comfort, and increase
528527526525Lord J. Russell
572571No, no.570569568 said, that having had such frequent occasion lately to hear of the distresses of the people, and knowing how closely they connected their present condition with the Corn-laws, he had attended the House that evening to learn from the right hon. Baronet what measures of relief, or what amendments of those laws of which such high expectations had been formed would be announced by him; he could not, therefore, suffer this opportunity to pass without expressing his deep disappointment which he was convinced he should share with millions of his countrymen as to the course now understood to be determined upon by the Government, and he could not help considering, that the prorogation of Parliament to the distant day, intended no less than the reasons assigned for it were about as great a mark of contempt for the sufferings, feelings, and interests of the people as he had ever known manifested. Why, really, as an independant observer of what had been passing during this year, he had thought that the whole year had been spent in waiting for the present moment, for from the begin-
572571No, no.570569568Mr. Villiers
 on the Ministerial side said, that as a new Member he could not conceal his astonishment, that hon. Gentlemen opposite, thinking as they thought, speaking as they spoke, and acting as they acted, did not intend to press this discussion to a division. They might, no doubt, be in a minority, but that was no reason why they should not let the country know their opinions by the manner in which they voted. If they did not do so this way, there were no other means of accomplishing it but by every Gentleman opposite stating his opinions, which, heaven forbid be should be called on to do. He would not prolong the discussion. He had just come from his constituents, and he would go back to them perfectly contented, because he knew, and they knew, that the Government was in the hands of persons in whom they could place confidence, who, he trusted, would take time to consider the measures which they meant to bring forward and to carry.An hon. Member
592 wished to take the opportunity of protecting himself from the supposition that he concurred in the opinion expressed by the noble Member for the City, with regard to the Irish appointments; and still more to guard himself from the inference drawn by the right hon. Baronet from what had fallen from the noble Lord. He had great personal respect for the character of Lord Eliot; but he doubted whether he had power or firmness, or perhaps both, to carry out his just or benevolent intentions. It was known that the noble Lord, the new Secretary for Ireland, had formerly provoked the hostility of his party, by the course he pursued regarding the Irish Corporation Act, wishing, as he did, to put, as in England, all sects upon an equality, Upon that occasion the just and liberal sentiments of Lord Elliot were controlled and overruled by his friends in the House
592Mr. M. J. O'Connell
600599 could at last congratulate the House, that the hon. Gentleman had laid down the principle on which his right hon. Friend would conduct his administration, and that was the principle of legitimate propagation: the principle, not of adulterate, but of legal free trade, would be amply undertaken on the assurance of the hon. Gentleman by this new Ministry. The right hon. Gentleman, however, had not confined himself to promises on the part of the right hon. Baronet's Government, but he had laid down the course that the Opposition would adopt, and he had complained of its factions nature. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman would not adopt the explanation made by the hon. Gentleman, and he hoped that in the few observations to which he should confine himself, and which he had intended to address to the House before the speech of the hon. Gentleman, he should not merit the appellation of factious. There had been in the memory of man an opposition which had declared "We will obstruct and oppose all your measures." To an obstructive opposition be believed he never had been, and never would be a party. The only object of his then rising was not because they (the Opposition) found fault because there was no panacea, which the hon. Gentleman declared, and he agreed with him (the right hon. Baronet) never would produce, or with the silence that prevailed as to the future measures of the Government, although he might consider it slighting to the House
600599Mr. V. Smith
 hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not press the motion for going into committee of supply at that late hour. It had been the custom under the late Government to oppose all votes after twelve, and if the right hon. Gentleman now persisted in the motion, he (Mr. Williams) would feel it necessary to make a few observations before the Speaker left the chair.Mr. W. Williams
 said, his objection applied to items of the estimates, and he should not, therefore, offer any opposition to the wish of the right hon. Gentleman.Mr. Williams
l.l.l. objected to the vote as being extravagant, and exceeding any that had been proposed during the last twenty years. The right hon. Gentleman had agreed to take the estimates as prepared by the late Government; but, looking to the dilapidated state of the finances, as represented by the right hon. Gentleman, he (Mr. Williams) thought it was necessary, that they should look to those points of expenditure in which they could effect reductions. The Miscellaneous Estimates for the present year amounted to 2,898,000l.l.l.Mr. W. Williams
l. in explanation said, that he certainly had viewed the state of things represented by Sir George Gippg with very considerable apprehension, but he did not look upon the mischief likely to be produced as being so great as was suggested, because the annual produce derivable from the land sales, about 158,000l.Lord John Russell
Lord SandonNo, no.Lord Sandon:588587" We assure her Majesty that we fully share in the deep sympathy which her Majesty feels with those of her subjects who are now suffering from distress and want of employment; and we fervently join in her Majesty's prayer that all our deliberations may be guided by wisdom, and may conduce to the happiness of her Majesty's subjects."586Lord Sandon:Lord Sandon: said, that if the hon. Member for Stockport was in error as to what bad fallen from the right hon. Baronet, other Members were in error also, because the right hon. Baronet's speech was not reported in accordance with the explanation he now gave. But turning to the question before the House, they had at last got a speech from an hon. Member opposite, and that of the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool did throw some light on the future commercial policy of the Government. The noble Lord had said that it was perfectly well known that her Majesty's present Ministers did not impute the prevailing distress to the state of the Corn-laws. They were therefore disposed to forego the discussion of them with the general assertion on the part of the noble Lord, that the leading authorities in political economy were opposed to a change in the Corn-laws. He had given the noble Lord credit for some reading on the subject, and he had therefore been surprised to hear him state, that the great authorities were in favour of the existing system [Lord SandonNo, no.Lord Sandon:588587" We assure her Majesty that we fully share in the deep sympathy which her Majesty feels with those of her subjects who are now suffering from distress and want of employment; and we fervently join in her Majesty's prayer that all our deliberations may be guided by wisdom, and may conduce to the happiness of her Majesty's subjects."586Lord Sandon:Lord Sandon:Mr. Hawes
d.s.596 had not intended to take pan in this discussion, but after the extraordinary speech of the hon. Member, who was the representative of a commercial community, he could not discharge his duty to the House if he remained silent. He did not know whether the constituents of the hon. and learned Member were leaving their houses to enjoy the fine air of the country; but his own constituents were not enjoying any such pleasure. If the statements of the hon. Members for Salford and Manchester were true as to the number of houses uninhabited, it was not because the families had left thorn for the sake of better air, but because five or six families now dwelt in one house, not being able to pay the rates and rents as they did formerly. They were next told by the hon. Member that the present evils were attributable to over production, but he asked the House where there was evidence that there were too many articles in calicoes, or linens, or woollens, amongst the population? What would they say when he told them that there were hundreds and thousands of the individuals who made these articles and were not able to purchase them. The people had not too many calicoes or too many coats, but too little food. He said it was the duty of the House to consider the means of giving them more food. He asserted that there was not a more industrious population than the working population of this country, and there was no country in which labour ill paid. He remembered when he was at Eberfelt, that a manufacturer told him he would rather pay a good English workman four dollars a day than employ one of his own at one-fifth the sum. He now wished only to address one word to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. In the course of his speech on the want of confidence debate, the right hon. Gentleman had asked how it was possible that the administration of the Poor-law could be so remiss in the country. During a recent visit to the country, he had been called upon for charity to relieve the sufferings of a workman who had been obliged to leave one master in consequence of the improvements in machinery, which had taken away all demand for his labour in spinning, and he had gone from one master to another till he was again thrown out of employment by the failure of his employer. He said to the man, "with the improvements constantly making in
d.s.596Mr. C. Hindley
608 said, it appeared to him, that there were certain clauses in this bill affecting the privileges of the House. It
608The Speaker
590l.bonâ fide589 believed, that many of the observations made in the course of the present discussion, were calculated to create discontent and excitement, but not to afford a remedy for the evils which were complained of. Still he could not allow the debate to close without, on the part of the Irish people, praying the present Government to take full time to form a deliberate judgment on the important
590l.bonâ fide589Mr. Litton
604d.s.s. seconded the resolution. He thanked the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) for his attention to a case which he had had the honour to call to his notice, and all he asked of him and of those around him was that the same sympathy which had been already extended to the sufferings of one might be dealt out to the sufferings of all. The poor might be told to wait, but wailing was very difficult for the suffering many. If hon. Members opposite would only consent to look into the condition of the poor, it could not but be felt that they would ill discharge the duties which they had undertaken, unless they provided a remedy for their distresses. At home, and abroad, great demands were made on the attention of the House. At home, sufferings existed which could not be denied. The case, to which he had before alluded, afforded ample proof of this fact, for the report of the relieving officer was sufficient to establish it. He said that the pauper had applied for relief three months before, and he had made inquiries; he found that the man was in work, and that he earned at the rate of 3604d.s.s.Dr. Bowring
603602 begged to direct the attention of the House to the deplorable distress that existed throughout the whole county of Lancaster, and in other manufacturing districts. He thought the House should not prorogue until something had been done to remedy this frightful state of things. He was astonished too to find that the cruelties of the new poor law were to be continued for another year: and it was with surprise he found the hon. Member for Finsbury allowing the Poor-law commissioners to continue in power a single hour after the 31st of December. He (Mr. Fielden) would remind the House of the number of petitions that had been presented on this painful subject, especially one from Manchester, signed by 50,000 persons, praying that the authority of the commissioners, should hot be extended a single hour after the 31st of December. But this prolongation ought to make the House more feelingly alive to the distress which they wanted but the will to alleviate, for they already had the
603602Mr. Fielden
594Several Members,l.l.d.d.593s.s.s. said, that hon. Gentlemen ought not to attribute the present distress in the manufacturing districts to the Corn-laws, when there had been great prosperity in those very districts during the existence of these same laws. If he wanted to know the cause of the present distress, he would go for information to-the hon. Gentleman the Member for Old-ham (Mr. Fielding); he was a blunt Englishman, and would speak the truth. He told them that, in 1820, the annual produce of the four kinds of cotton manufactured was 180,0001bs., which fetched 96594Several Members,l.l.d.d.593s.s.s.Mr. Hardy
574573, as the representative of a constituency deeply interested in this question, could not abstain from offering a few words expressive of his feeling upon the subject. It must be admitted, that great distress had existed for the last four years, and he was enabled to state that distress, so far from diminishing, was daily increasing. This led him to feel, that great responsibility attached somewhere, and that something ought at once to be done to afford relief. Yesterday there had been a very large meeting in the town of Manchester, to address her Majesty, and praying her Majesty not to prorogue Parliament until there should be some discussion upon those questions, that related to the trade of the country, and more especially to the provision laws. He believed, that
574573Mr. Brotherton
No, no582s.s.581Hear, hear580R. Peel:Gazette579578Oh, oh.!577 said, he was not astonished at the hon. Member who had just sat down expressing his wish for a division. Divide was still the cry, they still had a majority of ninety-one. They had brought forward no argument—had not made use of a single reason. They had not appealed to any principle, but the cry was, "Let us divide." He warned hon. Members from setting a bad example to the coun-
No, no582s.s.581Hear, hear580R. Peel:Gazette579578Oh, oh.!577Mr. Cobden
598"particeps criminis"597: I agree, Sir, with the hon. Gentleman who has last spoken, that the operation of the Poor-law and that of the Corn-law is closely connected, and thus I am justified in asking hon. Gentlemen opposite to allow the same privilege to my right hon. Friend with regard to the Corn-laws, that the hon. Member for Finsbury, the stern and determined advocate for the repeal of the Poor-law has not been unwilling to award him. The question of the Corn-law is deep in the mind of the people of England, and they do not wish it to be hastily and triflingly dealt with. It is a question, that has driven and twisted its roots into every interest of the country, and they cannot be violently torn up without great peril to the whole community. And therefore, am I surprised, that her Majesty's late advisers should, with the tumult of the late elections in their ears, require my
598"particeps criminis"597Mr. Milnes
 (having taken the chair) thanked the right hon. Baronet for having proposed him. At the same time he must beg the indulgence of the House if, in the earlier part of the discharge of his duties, he found some difficulty. He felt an additional difficulty in consequence of the efficient manner in which the duties of the office had for some years past been discharged. He had also to beg the assistance of the House in preserving the order necessary in conducting the business as Gentlemen must be aware, that from the very nature of the business in committee, it was infinitely more difficult to preserve order, than when the deliberations of the House were conducted in more solemn form, with the Speaker in the Chair. In conclusion, he could only say, that he should endeavour to follow the example of his predecessor, in the care, zeal, and assiduity with which he would discharge the duties of the office, that had been conferred upon him.Mr. Greene
591s.d. thought, it would not be denied by the hon. Member who last spoke, that though he was not certainly an Irish representative, he was not without a considerable stake and interest in the country whose interests were alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman. Nothing in his opinion would be so advantageous to Ireland as the total repeal of the duties upon the import of foreign corn into this country. He was not prepared to advocate at all the late Government measure upon corn. He was for a total repeal of the corn importation duties. In Ireland there might safely be reckoned above 2,400,000 labourers, who were employed in agricultural districts, receiving not more than 6591s.d.Mr. Sharman Crawford
l., then moved that the sum of 116, 117l.Sir G. Clerk
l. then proposed a vote of 54,000l.Sir George Clerk
576575 had no wish to lengthen a discussion which seemed to be confined entirely to one side of the House, but he had no hesitation in saying, that after the communication which had been made on that and the previous evening, he thought the sooner the proceedings of the House were brought to a close the better. Upon a former occasion, he had told the right hon. Baronet, that he was one of those who considered, that having won his way
576575Mr. Ward
 suggested the propriety of postponing the votes for the Miscellaneous Estimates until a future day, as, no doubt, many hon. Gentlemen had observations to make with respect to several of them.Mr. Jervis
 said, he should propose the first vote, and then move, that the Chairman do report progress.Sir R. Peel
 observed, that under the circumstance of money clauses being contained in the bill, the measure no doubt ought to be postponed. At the same time, he trusted, that the House of Lords would adopt a new bill, founded on the present one, when sent up from that House. He moved, that the bill be put off for six months.Sir R. Peel
" On the part of her Majesty's Government, I must disclaim any responsibility for this proceeding, and any obligation to ratify your engagements to the enormous extent to which you have entered into them."l.601"I have received your despatch of the 1st February, 1841, marked 'confidential,' in which you report to me the commercial embarrassment which had existed for the preceding three months.‥‥ I cannot receive your report of occurences so disastrous. (Le them mark the terms) occurrences so disas-
l.601 in explanation, only wished to refer to the despatch of the 16th July, 1841, addressed by Lord John Rus-6ell to Sir George Gipps. The noble Lord said,
" On the part of her Majesty's Government, I must disclaim any responsibility for this proceeding, and any obligation to ratify your engagements to the enormous extent to which you have entered into them."l.601"I have received your despatch of the 1st February, 1841, marked 'confidential,' in which you report to me the commercial embarrassment which had existed for the preceding three months.‥‥ I cannot receive your report of occurences so disastrous. (Le them mark the terms) occurrences so disas-
l.601Sir. Robert Peel
 said, that it appeared to him to be desirable to adhere to the practice of the House in appointing a Gentleman to be chairman of committees of ways and means who should also have the charge of attending to unopposed private bills. In the selection of the Gentleman he was about to propose to the House, he had been mainly guided by a consideration of the time which he had devoted to the private business of the House, and he had also proposed to that Gentleman to take, in addition, the charge of committees on public business, should it be the pleasure of the House instead of Members being indiscriminately called upon to take the chair on public bills. To that arrangement the Gentleman to whom he referred had agreed; he therefore proposed Mr. Greene as chairman of committees of ways and means, and he moved that that hon. Gentleman do lake the chair.Sir R. Peel
606 was far from wishing to oppose the wishes of the House, but he
606Sir R. Peel
556555554553John Russell:l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.552l.l.l." The same mail which has brought to me this report of the commercial embarrassments of New South Wales, and of the overtrading and ill-advised system of credit to which you ascribe them, has also brought me your despatch, of the 31st of January, 1841, (No. 29), on the subject of bounties on emigration. From that despatch I learn that you have given orders for bounty, payable within two years, for no less a sum than 979,562l.l.l.551l." Sir—Under feelings of the deepest indignation at the barbarous and savage conduct of I he Chinese in the immediate vicinity of the Emperor's High Commissioner, Klepon, at Ningpoo, in the treatment of a poor unfortunate widowed shipwrecked female, by confining her in a cage of the cube of three feet by three feet two inches, and retaining heri n prison until the very moment almost in which she was about to bring into the world an orphan child of her departed husband, drowned in the wreck; at a time also when we had been exercising for eight months the most extreme and unparalleled forbearance and kindness to the Chinese; thereby incurring an expense of probably the full amount of the remuneration we are seeking; and at a time when we were actually liberating the prisoners without ransom or restriction, giving up their property to a large amount."550nota benel.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.549l.l.l.l.John Russelll.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.ds.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.548d.s.d.s.d.s.8¾34958September 7
8¾34958September 73363¾58August 31
3363¾58August 314½36158August 24
4½36158August 243361¼57August 17
3361¼57August 17336956August 10
336956August 107½374¼57August 3
7½374¼57August 310¾360¾57July 27
10¾360¾57July 270½362¾57July 20
0½362¾57July 209½35357July 13
9½35357July 132¼3511½55July 6
2¼3511½55July 62½361150June 29
2½361150June 297½3610¼45June 22
7½3610¼45June 22837644June 15
837644June 1511½374¼45June 8
11½374¼45June 82½381¼45June 1
2½381¼45June 111¾392½46May 25
11¾392½46May 252½38944May 18
2½38944May 18103510½44May 11
103510½44May 111¾36942May 4
1¾36942May 4d.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.per cwt.per cwt.
per cwt.per cwt.1841.1840.WEEKS.
1841.1840.WEEKS.
8¾34958September 7
8¾34958September 73363¾58August 31
3363¾58August 314½36158August 24
4½36158August 243361¼57August 17
3361¼57August 17336956August 10
336956August 107½374¼57August 3
7½374¼57August 310¾360¾57July 27
10¾360¾57July 270½362¾57July 20
0½362¾57July 209½35357July 13
9½35357July 132¼3511½55July 6
2¼3511½55July 62½361150June 29
2½361150June 297½3610¼45June 22
7½3610¼45June 22837644June 15
837644June 1511½374¼45June 8
11½374¼45June 82½381¼45June 1
2½381¼45June 111¾392½46May 25
11¾392½46May 252½38944May 18
2½38944May 18103510½44May 11
103510½44May 111¾36942May 4
1¾36942May 4d.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.per cwt.per cwt.
per cwt.per cwt.1841.1840.WEEKS.
1841.1840.WEEKS.s.l.s.s.l.547" Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that such reduction be made, so far as may be consistent with the interests of the revenue, without any augmentation of the duty on colonial timber. Resolved, that it is the opinion of this committee, that in any alterations made, such alterations should not affect the shipments made in the year 1836."" If any change should be determined on, disturbing the proportion of duty paid on colonial and foreign timber, care should betaken to diminish the loss to individuals by making it gradual, which is most just and politic; but above all, I must express my hope, that whatever alteration is adopted, the recommendation of the committee of 1831, of which I was chairman, will be adhered to, namely, that the change should not affect the importations of the year, which would be an act of extreme hardship to the colony."" Great alarm is naturally felt by those engaged in the timber trade in Canada, at the prospect of any alteration in the duties levied on wood in the United Kingdom. He says the question must be resolved by Parliament, according to the view it takes of the general interest."546l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.545s.s.s.s.s.s.s.544s.s.s.s.543542541540539 spoke to the following effect:—Mr. Speaker, the course which I took yesterday, in announcing to the House of Commons the proceedings which I proposed to adopt with respect to the public business of the country, is a sufficient indication that I had no wish, at the commencement of the harassing and arduous
556555554553John Russell:l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.552l.l.l." The same mail which has brought to me this report of the commercial embarrassments of New South Wales, and of the overtrading and ill-advised system of credit to which you ascribe them, has also brought me your despatch, of the 31st of January, 1841, (No. 29), on the subject of bounties on emigration. From that despatch I learn that you have given orders for bounty, payable within two years, for no less a sum than 979,562l.l.l.551l." Sir—Under feelings of the deepest indignation at the barbarous and savage conduct of I he Chinese in the immediate vicinity of the Emperor's High Commissioner, Klepon, at Ningpoo, in the treatment of a poor unfortunate widowed shipwrecked female, by confining her in a cage of the cube of three feet by three feet two inches, and retaining heri n prison until the very moment almost in which she was about to bring into the world an orphan child of her departed husband, drowned in the wreck; at a time also when we had been exercising for eight months the most extreme and unparalleled forbearance and kindness to the Chinese; thereby incurring an expense of probably the full amount of the remuneration we are seeking; and at a time when we were actually liberating the prisoners without ransom or restriction, giving up their property to a large amount."550nota benel.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.549l.l.l.l.John Russelll.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.ds.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.548d.s.d.s.d.s.8¾34958September 7
8¾34958September 73363¾58August 31
3363¾58August 314½36158August 24
4½36158August 243361¼57August 17
3361¼57August 17336956August 10
336956August 107½374¼57August 3
7½374¼57August 310¾360¾57July 27
10¾360¾57July 270½362¾57July 20
0½362¾57July 209½35357July 13
9½35357July 132¼3511½55July 6
2¼3511½55July 62½361150June 29
2½361150June 297½3610¼45June 22
7½3610¼45June 22837644June 15
837644June 1511½374¼45June 8
11½374¼45June 82½381¼45June 1
2½381¼45June 111¾392½46May 25
11¾392½46May 252½38944May 18
2½38944May 18103510½44May 11
103510½44May 111¾36942May 4
1¾36942May 4d.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.per cwt.per cwt.
per cwt.per cwt.1841.1840.WEEKS.
1841.1840.WEEKS.
8¾34958September 7
8¾34958September 73363¾58August 31
3363¾58August 314½36158August 24
4½36158August 243361¼57August 17
3361¼57August 17336956August 10
336956August 107½374¼57August 3
7½374¼57August 310¾360¾57July 27
10¾360¾57July 270½362¾57July 20
0½362¾57July 209½35357July 13
9½35357July 132¼3511½55July 6
2¼3511½55July 62½361150June 29
2½361150June 297½3610¼45June 22
7½3610¼45June 22837644June 15
837644June 1511½374¼45June 8
11½374¼45June 82½381¼45June 1
2½381¼45June 111¾392½46May 25
11¾392½46May 252½38944May 18
2½38944May 18103510½44May 11
103510½44May 111¾36942May 4
1¾36942May 4d.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.d.d.s.s.per cwt.per cwt.
per cwt.per cwt.1841.1840.WEEKS.
1841.1840.WEEKS.s.l.s.s.l.547" Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that such reduction be made, so far as may be consistent with the interests of the revenue, without any augmentation of the duty on colonial timber. Resolved, that it is the opinion of this committee, that in any alterations made, such alterations should not affect the shipments made in the year 1836."" If any change should be determined on, disturbing the proportion of duty paid on colonial and foreign timber, care should betaken to diminish the loss to individuals by making it gradual, which is most just and politic; but above all, I must express my hope, that whatever alteration is adopted, the recommendation of the committee of 1831, of which I was chairman, will be adhered to, namely, that the change should not affect the importations of the year, which would be an act of extreme hardship to the colony."" Great alarm is naturally felt by those engaged in the timber trade in Canada, at the prospect of any alteration in the duties levied on wood in the United Kingdom. He says the question must be resolved by Parliament, according to the view it takes of the general interest."546l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.545s.s.s.s.s.s.s.544s.s.s.s.543542541540539Sir Robert Peel
  having moved the Order of the Day, that the House go into a Committee of Supply,Sir R. Peel
585 said, that, as the hon. Member for Stockport had so grossly misrepresented what had fallen from him on a former day, he rose to offer an explanation of what he had stated on the case alluded to. He had heard the hon. Member for Bolton describe the case of a poor man who had been found dead upon his loom, surrounded by his family in a state of starvation. He heard that statement, and after expressing his deep sympathy for the sufferers, expressed a hope some inquiry would be instituted. And, the very first thing I did, said the right hon. Baronet, on my accession to office—for the story dwelt upon my mind—was to write a letter the very day I kissed hands to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department on this subject. I said, that the story had sunk deep into my mind, and that, if true, it was a disgrace to the society in which such distress was suffered to exist. I suggested that some inquiry should be made into the mode in which the Poor-law was administered at Bolton. My advice was taken, and the result is, that an Assistant Poor-law Commissioner has been sent
585Sir R. Peel
567566565564l.l.563l.l.No, no.562l.s.s.561560s.s.s.559558Robert Peel:557: Whether the reasons which the right hon. Baronet has assigned for abstaining from making an exposition of his views before Parliament is prorogued, are satisfactory to himself and the hon. Members who sit behind him, he best can tell; but I take leave to say, that, having listened with great attention to all that has fallen from him, I do not think they will he considered satisfactory by the country at large. The right hon. Baronet has challenged my noble Friend to take the sense of the House upon this question. We know well enough from the result of the last election what the decision of the House upon that question would be, but, however the right hon. Baronet may plume himself upon his majority, I tell him to refrain from reposing too great and unlimited confidence on that support, for he should remember that there is a country as well as a House of Commons. I warn him not to rely too confidently that the opinion of the majority of this House—though, technically he is entitled to represent it as that of the country—will be borne out by the opinion of the people at large. The right, hon. Baronet stated, that he agreed, in general, with the observations made by my noble Friend on the present position of our foreign relations. It was not upon that ground certainly that my noble Friend thought any prolonged sitting of Parliament necessary. It is undoubtedly true, that as far as regards the foreign relations of the country, the right hon. Baronet might prorogue Parliament to-morrow, and no public inconvenience would result therefrom. This, at least, I may say, that we have handed over to the hon. Gentlemen opposite the foreign relations of the country in a state as satisfactory as secure, and as much calculated to inspire just confidence as they were ever in at any former period of the history of this country. It is not, therefore, on account of the slate of our foreign relations that it is necessary to keep Parliament sitting, or to call it together again at an early period. The first point to which my noble Friend alluded, as one with respect to which it was necessary for the right hon. Baronet to state what were the intentions
567566565564l.l.563l.l.No, no.562l.s.s.561560s.s.s.559558Robert Peel:557Viscount Palmerston
s.584s.583 thought that a sense of prudence, if not of decency, might have restrained the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down from alluding to the Members of that side of the House (the Ministerial) as having been returned by means of bribery, and not on the ground of public opinion. He believed that the electors of the Members on that side of the House had been remarkable for their purity. Whether he looked to the great towns or to the great counties which they represented, he felt convinced of the truth of what he stated. Neither London nor Liverpool, nor any of the great towns in. Lancashire, Yorkshire, or Middlesex, had been carried by corruption. If the hon. Gentleman had but cast a glance at Bridport, Shrewsbury, and Nottingham, and a hundred other places, he might from a sense of prudence, have refrained from casting reflections on those who were opposed to him. The hon. Gentleman said, he was anxious to discharge himself of the awful and responsible duty which he imagined to hang on him relative to the condition of the manufacturing districts. The hon. Gentleman, it seemed, felt alarmed at the storm he had raised, and was anxious to relieve himself of the blame of the mischief which he had largely contributed to create, and to throw it on the Ministry, because they were not prepared at present to consent to a repeal of the Corn-laws. He feared that the people of this country would soon find that they had been under the guidance of those better fitted to mislead than to instruct them. What had the hon. Gentleman told the House? He said that the Corn-laws had been carried by bloodshed, and at the point of the bayonet, and only reluctantly admitted that he did
s.584s.583Viscount Sandon
620 had nothing to offer in opposition to the appointment, as regarded the noble Lord himself; but still he thought it as necessary, that the navy
620Captain Plumridge
623 thought his hon. and learned Friend was quite right in having mentioned the subject, as the acceptance of the office by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, was publicly announced on Friday last. It was not a question of whether the right hon. Gentleman wished to retain his seat improperly, or to act against the desire of the House; but a question of considerable importance as to the interpretation which was to be put upon the Act of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that there was not a proper acceptance of office until the office was actually filled. In several offices
623Lord J. Russell
 wished to know from the right hon. Baronet opposite, whether there would be any difficulty in the way of the introduction into the Poor Law Bill which the right hon. Baronet had announced it to be his intention to propose a clause which would take from the Poor Law Commissioners a power which, directly or indirectly, they now had? The subject to which the clause which he contemplated referred, was that of the indiscriminate separation of map and wife.Mr. Yorke
 felt obliged to the right hon. Baronet for the general assurance he had given. But, that his views on the subject might not be misunderstood, he would take leave to inform the right hon. Baronet, that should any difficulty arise in the introduction of such a clause into the bill now proposed by the right hon. Baronet, he should, as far as he was concerned, endeavour to procure its insertion in a second bill.—Subject at an end.Mr. Yorke
" It is particularly necessary that the Porte should faithfully perform the promises Redschid Pasha authorised Mr. Wood to make to the Syrians."631" I have instructed Mr. Wood to consider himself absolutely free from the authority and control of every body in Syria, in his execution of the duties and trusts reposed in him by the Porte." zeal, indeed, seemed to be boundless. This Christian envoy of a Christian Government called upon the Mussulmans in the name of the Koran, which he entitled "the Holy Book"— "the Sacred Law," to revolt, and so strong was Lord Ponsonby's confidence in him that he writes, November 18, 1840,
" It is particularly necessary that the Porte should faithfully perform the promises Redschid Pasha authorised Mr. Wood to make to the Syrians."631" I have instructed Mr. Wood to consider himself absolutely free from the authority and control of every body in Syria, in his execution of the duties and trusts reposed in him by the Porte."Mr. Wood's
 was understood to express a doubt whether Mr. Wood should not properly be regarded as altogether a British agent in the negotiations with the people of Syria.Lord C. Hamilton
644d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.ll.d.s.l.l.643s.l. said, that the hon. and gallant Colonel opposite had often been associated with him in opposition to acts of extravagance by the late Government, and he (Mr. Williams) trusted, that now the hon. and gallant Gentleman's own party was in power, he would continue in the same course. He must call the attention of the House to some of the items contained in the estimates. He objected particularly to the items charged for the expense of ambassadors' outfits, and was quite sure, that the Government would have no difficulty in finding persons most competent to fill these offices for the emoluments annually allowed to them, without any of these additional charges for outfits. He was quite unable to account for one of the charges, and was at a loss to imagine how it could be justified—it was a charge of 319644d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.ll.d.s.l.l.643s.l.Mr. W. Williams
645 said, he could not but express an opinion adverse to that of the hon. Member for Coventry, with regard to the last point he had mentioned. The hon. Member supposed, that in the case of ambassadors and others occupying high offices abroad, the expense of their outfits was not properly incurred by the state. Undoubtedly that might be so, if the House were prepared to say this, that none but persons of great fortune should be appointed to such offices. If, however, as he presumed, the House would concur in thinking, men of great talent should rather be preferred, even with small private fortunes, and without the ability to lay out large sums of ready money, to the amounts requisite for their outfits, then these expenses were properly borne by the State. Now, of course, no distinction could be drawn between different individuals appointed to the same situations, and if the allowances were made in one class of cases, they must be made in all. He confessed, that he had often wished, when at the Colonial-office, that governors sent out, instead of being at the expense of their commissions, should have their appointments free of expense; and he was not without hope that arrangements might be made for securing this. As to Lord Sydenham, however, there was no doubt that allowances had been made to him contrary to the usual practice for the expense of his commission, and on this ground, and this ground only—that the appointment had been, out of the usual course, only for a short time, all other governors being appointed for a period of six years at least, Lord Sydenham having to contemplate only a short stay in Canada. Had the noble Lord been appointed for the ordinary period, as in the usual course, he would have been (subject only to the condition of his retaining the confidence of the Crown), he would have had to bear this expense. Having, however, been appointed only for a short period, it was not thought inst that he should have to pay this expense. He would add this as the result
645Lord J. Russell
 said, without impeaching either the services of the learned doctor, or the justice of his remuneration, he would take the liberty of asking (as it seemed certainly but fair that the country should have the full benefit of those services) whether it were true, as he had heard it asserted (and so commonly that he should think the noble Lord opposite would feel glad of an opportunity of contradicting it, were it untrue), that the reports of the learned doctor had been greatly curtailed and altered by the noble Lord lately at the head of the Foreign-office?Lord C. Hamilton
647l.l. observed, that the sum to be expended on account of the Royal palaces would be greater this year than for some previous years—a sum not less than 49,500647l.l.Mr. Williams
 thought the case of the country stood thus:—The patient was suffering from a severe malady; the late Government had come forward with measures of relief, and they had been rejected, and the present Government refused to administer a remedy. He thought, if the measures of the late Ministry had been carried, that the country would not have been in its present deplorable condition.Mr. Williams
 said, it was now too late to object to this vote, but he would observe, that if the system adopted in the United States, of making prisoners work in erecting the prison had been followed, a considerable amount of expense would have been saved to the country.Mr. Williams
657" What time did it occupy you? "To which he replied," I was about a week altogether upon the line; after having finished the survey, I left with Mr. May instructions as to the detailed surveys. About six months afterwards we met, when the full detail of the works was gone into, and an estimate of every part was formed from his (Mr. May's) detailed survey."" I did: when I say minute survey, I mean such a survey as I should make without taking the depth and dimensions of the different parts. This I requested Mr. May to do when I left the canal."l.656" Resolved, that the Chamber of Commerce of this town do not consider the advantages likely to be derived to the trade of Belfast to be such as to warrant them in recommending such a large toll as that contemplated for the Caledonian canal."" I am directed by the council of the Chamber of Commerce to inform you that the merchants of this port, engaged in the Baltic trade, are of opinion that no material benefit would accrue to them if the Caledonial Canal was completed and steam-tugs placed thereon."" After having made the necessary inquiry of the merchants and shipowners, we have come to the unanimous conclusion, that the trade of this port does not appear to us to be interested in the matter, and, in our opinion, were the contemplated alterations carried into execution, few or no vessels leaving here to the westward would take advantage of the Caledonian canal.""This port is not materially interested in the question.""Their impressions are, that no advantage could accrue to the shipping and commerce of the country by rendering the Caledonian canal more navigable, of sufficient importance to compensate for the expense."655l.l.l.l.l.l. said he had been one of the committee appointed to inquire and report its opinion upon the subject of the condition of the canal, and the advantages to be derived to commerce from a further outlay of public money. He regretted to say the subject had been treated very summarily, and in the conviction that the interests of trade were not served in proportion to the enormous expense of this canal he had voted against the report; another Gentleman voted for it, two had signed it without having paid any attention to the subject; and the result on the whole was that, the numbers being equal, the casting vote lay with the chairman, Mr. Robert Steuart, who, being a Scotch gentleman, thought it was desirable to secure to Scotland the advantages of this canal, and thus the proposition, originally for granting 200,000657" What time did it occupy you? "To which he replied," I was about a week altogether upon the line; after having finished the survey, I left with Mr. May instructions as to the detailed surveys. About six months afterwards we met, when the full detail of the works was gone into, and an estimate of every part was formed from his (Mr. May's) detailed survey."" I did: when I say minute survey, I mean such a survey as I should make without taking the depth and dimensions of the different parts. This I requested Mr. May to do when I left the canal."l.656" Resolved, that the Chamber of Commerce of this town do not consider the advantages likely to be derived to the trade of Belfast to be such as to warrant them in recommending such a large toll as that contemplated for the Caledonian canal."" I am directed by the council of the Chamber of Commerce to inform you that the merchants of this port, engaged in the Baltic trade, are of opinion that no material benefit would accrue to them if the Caledonial Canal was completed and steam-tugs placed thereon."" After having made the necessary inquiry of the merchants and shipowners, we have come to the unanimous conclusion, that the trade of this port does not appear to us to be interested in the matter, and, in our opinion, were the contemplated alterations carried into execution, few or no vessels leaving here to the westward would take advantage of the Caledonian canal.""This port is not materially interested in the question.""Their impressions are, that no advantage could accrue to the shipping and commerce of the country by rendering the Caledonian canal more navigable, of sufficient importance to compensate for the expense."655l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Williams
: The hon. and learned Gentleman had told them that Sir W. Grant, after having been out of legal practice for a period of six months, considered himself unqualified to give an opinion upon any legal point that might be submitted to him, and yet the first condition that he had imposed upon Mr. Vizard was, that he should give up his court practice on taking the office of solicitor to the Home Department; and if, as was the fact, he had now been out of court practice for two years, how could he be better qualified to give an opinion than was Sir W. Grant, after only six months' cessation from practice? Let it also be remembered, that the Home-office had an Attorney-general and a Solicitor-general constantly practising in the courts, to whom they could at all times apply for a legal opinion when necessary.Sir R. feel
 said, had it not been for the assurance which the right hon. Baronet opposite had given, that the whole subject to which this vote related should be taken into his consideration at an early period in the ensuing Session, he should have felt it his duty to propose a considerable reduction in the amount now asked for; but, relying on the right hon. Baronet's promise, he should make no objection.Mr. Williams
 on the Ministerial side, observed, that if there was not a great reduction in the expenses of this department when the estimates came before them next year, he should move that the salaries of the Poor-law Commissioners be reduced to the same amount as the salaries of Excise and Customs Commissioners. He believed they were now nearly double.—Vote agreed to.An hon. Member,
l.l.l. said, that this was a vote to which he should decidedly object. He found the charge for foreign secret service for the year was 25,000l.l.l.Mr. Williams
 complained of the amount of this grant which made criminal jurisprudence very costly.Mr. Williams
667 objected to the vote. It
667Mr. Williams
 said, that his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) some time before leaving office, had addressed a circular to the different West Indian colonies stating that he could no longer consent to this charge for the instruction of the Negro population, when so small a sum was voted for education at home.Mr. V. Smith
 said, he approved of this grant, but regretted that he could not find people in any town to combine for the purpose of extending the advantages of schools of design among their fellow-townsmen, and hoped that the Government would use some strenuous efforts to promote their establishment.Mr. Williams
 said, he had heard the opinions of the right hon. Baronet with the greatest satisfaction.Mr. Williams
 said, he should like to know whether the argument of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford University (Sir Robert Inglis), did not apply to his favourite motion for Church of England extension? He only wished that there should be a fair division on this question of Maynooth College.Mr. M. J. O'Connell
 said, it must have been three Sessions since the right hon. Baronet had expressed the opinions to which he had referred, for he did not think he had spoken upon the subject when it had been discussed in either of the last Sessions.Mr. M. J. O'Connell
 said, he did not want to draw any inference from his absence, but he had heard the matter remarked by some hon. Members in that House.Mr. M. J. O'Connell
 begged to remind the hon. Member for Bridport that: he bad already voted for a grant that was at variance with their feelings at his side of the House, as Members of the church of England. They were all of that description at that side, but the gentlemen on the other side were of various persuasions.Mr. Hope (as we could learn)
673Laughter. objected to the vote, as he looked upon the office of Lord-lieutenant of Ireland quite as an ante-diluvian one, and one which he hoped to see abolished. He was persuaded that, if the question were calmly considered, the country would see the advantage of doing away with the office. In England there is no public demonstration made on a change of Ministry, nor is the public mind disturbed by any parade connected with that change. The new Ministry go down to Downing-street without attracting any attention whatever. This is not the case in Ireland; the Minister sent over there is also the representative of royalty. On his arrival a royal salute is fired, soldiers line the streets, the drums beat, in honour of his arrival, while vast numbers of people are collected together for the purpose of meeting him, or witnessing his entry; this naturally produces much excitement, particularly as it is only the party to which the Lord-Lieutenant belongs who attend him on this occasion. The Lord-Lieutenant's levees partake of the same character, and are only attended by those who belong to his party in politics, the officials of Dublin, and the officers of the garrison. Thus the Lord-Lieutenant is at once made, in spite of himself, no more than the head of a party, and let him be ever so anxious to be impartial, be never is considered so. [673Laughter.Viscount Clements
 in proposing the second reading of the Royal Gardens Bill, hoped the House would allow it to be advanced a stage, though the hour was late, on the condition that the discussion should be taken on a future stage of the bill.Sir Thomas Freemantle,
mortmain, supported the vote, because he conceived it to be only an act of justice to the great majority of our Roman Catholic brethren in Ireland, who had strong claims upon us. He did not support the vote on the ground taken by the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis), namely, that of prescription; because it should be recollected, that had it not been for the statute of mortmain,Mr. Smythe
 inquired what had taken place with respect to the sale of Fernando Po to our Government.Mr. S. Wortley
617" experimentum in corpora vili,"616615614 said, I rise, Sir, in the first place, to enter, before you leave the
617" experimentum in corpora vili,"616615614Mr. Otway Cave
 suggested, that many hon. Members could hardly be expected to vote money for the Church of England, who were opposed to that Church, but who never asserted, that in so voting, they voted for the propagation of error.Major Bryan
 said with regard to the church of Scotland grant, to which allusion had been made, if there had been a division upon it, he would have voted against it.Mr. Cochrane
 said, that, although he was disposed to allow every man the free exercise of his religious principles, yet as he was conscientiously opposed to the present grant he would vote against it.Mr. Cochrane
 did not think by allowing the public to walk through the room those who went to study would be disturbed, particularly as an apartment was specially provided for their accommodation.Mr. Hawes
653 said, he regretted that ill consequence of the librarian and his assistant being engaged in making a new catalogue for the library and occupying the apartments, the public were still excluded from that most interesting part of the building. He hoped that if the object-
653Mr. Hawes
 begged to ask a question of the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, whether it was his intention to renew this Session, or next Session, the motion which he made last Session of Parliament for an address to the Crown, praying for some provision for church extension.Mr. Hawes
d.s.l.642 hoped the system of jobbing which for more than ten years had been practised by her Majesty's late Ministers would now be put an end to. He would say nothing of the appointment of a reverend gentleman to the deanery of Armagh, which he designated an insult to the Archbishop—he would say nothing of the appointment of a noble Lord to sit for about seventeen days for the adjudication of important cases at the Irish bar—he would say nothing of all the other jobs that had been perpetrated by the late
d.s.l.642Colonel Sibthorp
d.s.l.l.659 said, he felt it to be his duty again to object to the expense attendant upon a new appointment which had been made by the late Government of a gentleman, with whom he (Colonel Sib-
d.s.l.l.659Colonel Sibthorp
 entertained the highest opinion of Mr. Vizard, but the hon. and learned Member for Worcester had not quite satisfied him as to the propriety of, or necessity for, the appointment.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, he had yet heard no argument upon this subject which had had sufficient weight with him to induce him to consent to the bill passing through another stage, and he must therefore, however reluctantly, oppose its further progress on the present occasion.Mr. Protheroe
 said, those measures were not completed which would displace the former officers.Sir E. Sugden
622 said, that as he was not present at the early part of the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he could not make any reply to them; but he understood the hon. Member to say, that he (Sir Edward Sugden) was acting unconstitutionally in retaining his seatin that House, having accepted the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland. He would beg to say he did so, because he conceived that he did not legally fill that office, though he had consented to fill it. He considered it his duty to his constituents not to abandon the trust they reposed in him, until he had lost it in law. He would also say, that he had not voted on any question since he accepted that office, nor had he been even called upon to consider whether he ought to vole. That he mentioned as a fact, and without attaching importance to it. He had no intention to do an unconstitutional act; but he never was more surprised when, without the least notice given to him, he heard the speech of his hon. and learned Friend, and at the close of that speech, that he was spoken of in terms of civility. He wished that the civility was shown by acts, and not by the terms in which it was expressed. He believed he was standing on his right as Member for Ripon, and maintaining his place in that House. He did not wish to carry the principle to any inconvenient extent; and if it were the opinion of the House that he was stretching the constitutional principle, he would at once withdraw; but he did not consider he had lost his rights as a Member of Parliament, until he actually filled the office which he had accepted. At that moment he was not legally Lord Chancellor of Ireland; Lord Campbell still, legally speaking, held that office. It was
622Sir E. Sugden
 also opposed the grant, but hoped his hon. Friend would not divide.Mr. Darby
d.d.626s.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.625s.d.s. rose to request from his noble Friend opposite, the Member for Tiverton, an explanation on the subject of a paper which had been some time since presented to that House, and which contained a communication from our consul at St. Petersburgh on the subject of the quantity of grain produced in a province of the Russian dominions. A portion of that paper had been quoted in the debate on the address by his right hon. Friend who was now at the head of the Government. Sir Edward Baynes, in that paper, said, "In order to give an idea of what this country can produce when the harvests are particularly good, I have been assured by one of the principal corn merchants of Ribinsk (one of the greatest grain marts on the Volga), that in 1835 the government of Tamboff alone produced 38,000,000 quarters of grain." In a statement subjoined the cost at first hand at St. Petersburgh was stated to be for wheat from 13d.d.626s.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.625s.d.s.Mr. Harcourt
 said, as he had been referred to by the hon. and gallant Officer, he could only say, that, during the five or six years he was at the Ordnance, there was no naval officer at the board, nor had any been appointed in the first instance by Lord Melbourne's Administration. The appointment of a naval officer to this department was therefore not an invariable rule, although he admitted, that advantage might arise from having a naval officer at the Board. With respect to the office of Surveyor-general of the Ordnance, his opinion was, that that office would be better filled by a military than a naval officer.Sir H. Hardinge
 Having heard that the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Ripon, had accepted the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland, he wished to know the reason why a new writ had not been moved for for Ripon.Mr. Tufnell
640 said, though immediate relief was much wanted by the people under their distresses, he thought the position of the right hon. Baronet, as a public man, with his immense responsibilities, ought also to be considered. It must not be forgotten, that the misery now spoken of was increasing in the spring of the year, and with the misery there was increasing an excess of expenditure over income. The right hon. Baronet, however, having objected to the specific mea-
640Mr. H. R. Yorke
 inquired when it was likely that the catalogue would be completed and printed.Dr. Bowring
" The honour of the British Crown requires that the promises made to the Syrians in the name of the Sultan by the British agent, Mr. Wood, should be fulfilled."" I had declared to the Syrians that the Porte would grant them their ancient rights and privileges. In consequence of such promises, they were encouraged again to revolt against the Egyptian authority after they had laid down their arms. I was sent by your Lordship, authorised to make a number of promises to the Syrians, and was, in a manner, pledged to see them executed by the Sultan's officers."" Come to us armed, both you and your chiefs, in order that you may assist us in making you free and happy."" The Porte will effectually engage to make a remission of taxes in Syria."" The great powers have decided to relieve the country from the burdens imposed oh it, particularly that part which is governed by you."630" The sublime Porte has only at heart now the general prosperity of its Syrian subjects, to whom it will grant the free exercise of their laws and perfect liberty, and the powerful intervention of England and Austria Will secure these blessings to them""My Prince, you must remember the conversation we had together four years ago, and the determination you then declared to arm your countrymen, provided England assisted you in your noble efforts to procure liberty for your countrymen."" Four years ago I alluded to the probable separation some day of Syria from the dominion of Mehemet Ali, and he promised them if they would revolt,' peace and happiness, and liberty.'"" The allied powers have engaged to recommend to the Sultan to make an arrangement to render your condition happy and prosperous."" I direct you to declare in my name loudly to whoever chooses to hear you, that I am authorized to acquaint the Syrians that the British Government, in union with the Governments of Austria, Russia, and Prussia, will protect the Syrians who shall return to the direct obedience of the Sultan."629" If I am not altogether deceived the Porte will have to abandon in the greater part of its dominions, the mode of receipt recently introduced into several of them. By collecting the duties through its own receivers it will only have augmented the exactions so far as its
629628 said, before he put the question of which he had given notice, he hoped he should be allowed to make one or two observations that would make the subject intelligible. For a very long time past there had existed between this country and the Ottoman empire certain treaties known by the name of the Capitulation Treaties. By those treaties, a duty of 3 per cent, was agreed to be imposed upon all exports and imports, and the tariffs which regulated those capitulations had been settled at various times by commissioners, so that the imposts intended to be levied never exceeded this 3 per cent., and from the diminished value of merchandize were in most cases much less than this amount. But in the progress of years, and the general disorganization and anarchy of the Turkish rule, enormous abuses had introduced themselves into many of the provinces, especially those immediately under the sway of the Sultan, and in these the capitulations had become of no effect. One article after another had been monopolized —heavy imposts had been levied on consumption and transits—and commercial operations were interfered with by every sort of exaction and abuse,—and to remedy which grievances, in 1838, a treaty was entered into between Great Britain and the Porte, by which it was agreed that instead of the 3 per cent, formerly levied upon exports, 12 per cent, should be collected by the Turkish empire, and that instead of the 3 per cent, upon imports there should in future be a duty of 5 per cent. At the same time, however, all internal taxes or impediments, that had formerly interfered, were to be put an end to. Now, he was very ready to admit, that, as far as Turkey Proper was concerned, the treaty to which he had last referred was of the utmost commercial importance, supposing it was really carried into effect, which it had not been up to the present hour, for so inveterate were the ancient habits of misrule and oppression, that the feeble hand of the sultan
" The honour of the British Crown requires that the promises made to the Syrians in the name of the Sultan by the British agent, Mr. Wood, should be fulfilled."" I had declared to the Syrians that the Porte would grant them their ancient rights and privileges. In consequence of such promises, they were encouraged again to revolt against the Egyptian authority after they had laid down their arms. I was sent by your Lordship, authorised to make a number of promises to the Syrians, and was, in a manner, pledged to see them executed by the Sultan's officers."" Come to us armed, both you and your chiefs, in order that you may assist us in making you free and happy."" The Porte will effectually engage to make a remission of taxes in Syria."" The great powers have decided to relieve the country from the burdens imposed oh it, particularly that part which is governed by you."630" The sublime Porte has only at heart now the general prosperity of its Syrian subjects, to whom it will grant the free exercise of their laws and perfect liberty, and the powerful intervention of England and Austria Will secure these blessings to them""My Prince, you must remember the conversation we had together four years ago, and the determination you then declared to arm your countrymen, provided England assisted you in your noble efforts to procure liberty for your countrymen."" Four years ago I alluded to the probable separation some day of Syria from the dominion of Mehemet Ali, and he promised them if they would revolt,' peace and happiness, and liberty.'"" The allied powers have engaged to recommend to the Sultan to make an arrangement to render your condition happy and prosperous."" I direct you to declare in my name loudly to whoever chooses to hear you, that I am authorized to acquaint the Syrians that the British Government, in union with the Governments of Austria, Russia, and Prussia, will protect the Syrians who shall return to the direct obedience of the Sultan."629" If I am not altogether deceived the Porte will have to abandon in the greater part of its dominions, the mode of receipt recently introduced into several of them. By collecting the duties through its own receivers it will only have augmented the exactions so far as its
629628Dr. Bowring
 said, there was no difficulty in the public obtaining access to the libraries on the continent.Dr. Bowring
668 said, that there could not
668Dr. Bowring
 in reply observed, that if it was his duty to have prepared a remedy, he would have done so at once, and without any hesitation.Mr. Fielden
 was surprised at some part of the speech just delivered. The hon. Member for Finsbury had talked of the justice of giving the Government time. That was just what he wished to have given them, the old constitutional principle being, that the grievances of the people should be first redressed before the supplies were granted; and this appeared to him the only proper course on the present occasion. The distress. of the country was too serious for delay. Lancashire was fast going. The best workmen were departing to foreign countries, to obtain there that subsistence which at home they could not get. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to afford the people any relief before the winter set in?Mr. Fielden
 said, that he rose as an individual Member of Parliament to oppose the grant. It was only that day that he had presented thirty-five petitions against any further grant to the College of Maynooth, and he had presented at an earlier period of the year not less than 100 petitions to the same effect. He hoped that the right hon. Baronet below him would not think that in opposing this vote he meant to offer the slightest opposition to his general policy. He had uniformly opposed it on all occasions, and though he, felt it to be his duly to differ with the right hon. Baronet on this matter, he was most anxious to give him in all other things every support in his power. He felt delighted to see the right hon. Baronet Occupying the place he did, and to know that he was, as he had himself expressed it, free as the wind to do as an independent Minister, determined to do his duty to the country. He would prove a blessing to the country, and he invoked the blessing of ALMIGHTY GOD upon his head. He had ever opposed this vote, and he did so still, on the principle that he could not consent to grant the public money in support of what he believed to be the propagation of error. He should say "Nay," to the present vote, and unless some very strong reasons were adduced to dissuade him from it, he should divide the Committee on it.Mr. Plumptre
 said, however he might feel disposed to acquiesce in the recommendation of some hon. Friends about him, he felt conscientiously disposed to press his motion to a division.Mr. Plumptre
 had applied to the Home-office for information, in his capacity of magistrate, and had always obtained the advice he sought. In his judgment there was no necessity for the appointment of a solicitor to the Home-office.Colonel Rolleston
 said it seemed to him, that in a case of this sort, where the agent was sent out as the officer of the Government, there was a perfect right on the part of the Ministry to alter his reports in any way necessary to render them official documents; and he would further say that he had for one derived satisfaction from the perusal of these reports, and he hoped that her Majesty's Government would never hesitate on proper occasions to propose a similar course, nor could he well conceive of any mode in which public money could be more advantageously laid out than in the collection of such valuable information.Mr. Milnes
s.639d.d." When you act on the same principles you have so beautifully enunciated, and admit our produce into your markets, then you may lay claim in turn to the sympathy and liberality of other countries."6385⅓equal to02545Peas
5⅓equal to02545Peas11equal to05543Beans
11equal to05543Beans30equal to612338Rye
30equal to612338Rye43equal to910924Oats
43equal to910924Oats17equal to46837Barley
17equal to46837Barley1¼equal to01273Wheat
1¼equal to01273WheatPer cent. Ad Valorem.Duty.Average price.
Per cent. Ad Valorem.Duty.Average price.
5⅓equal to02545Peas
5⅓equal to02545Peas11equal to05543Beans
11equal to05543Beans30equal to612338Rye
30equal to612338Rye43equal to910924Oats
43equal to910924Oats17equal to46837Barley
17equal to46837Barley1¼equal to01273Wheat
1¼equal to01273WheatPer cent. Ad Valorem.Duty.Average price.
Per cent. Ad Valorem.Duty.Average price.l.l.s.l.l.l.s.l.s.637s. had no statistical statements to lay before the House, but he could assure them that there was not a single branch of manufacturing industry which was not in a state of depression. He, for one, should have infinitely greater pleasure in remaining there until next February, than in meeting at that period. He had looked that morning at a statement which was given of the state of our cotton trade. He found, that in 1840, the quantity of cotton taken out of the Liverpool market for the weekly consumption was 23,288 bales, while in 1841 it was 19,304 bales, showing a reduction of one-sixth. This was accounted for by the closing of so many mills, and the working of short time in others, causing, of course, great distress among the labouring classes. He had conversed with men, during the late recess, engaged in commerce; and he must say, that without regard to political opinions, every practical man concurred in the opinion that had there been a duty of 8s.639d.d." When you act on the same principles you have so beautifully enunciated, and admit our produce into your markets, then you may lay claim in turn to the sympathy and liberality of other countries."6385⅓equal to02545Peas
5⅓equal to02545Peas11equal to05543Beans
11equal to05543Beans30equal to612338Rye
30equal to612338Rye43equal to910924Oats
43equal to910924Oats17equal to46837Barley
17equal to46837Barley1¼equal to01273Wheat
1¼equal to01273WheatPer cent. Ad Valorem.Duty.Average price.
Per cent. Ad Valorem.Duty.Average price.
5⅓equal to02545Peas
5⅓equal to02545Peas11equal to05543Beans
11equal to05543Beans30equal to612338Rye
30equal to612338Rye43equal to910924Oats
43equal to910924Oats17equal to46837Barley
17equal to46837Barley1¼equal to01273Wheat
1¼equal to01273WheatPer cent. Ad Valorem.Duty.Average price.
Per cent. Ad Valorem.Duty.Average price.l.l.s.l.l.l.s.l.s.637s.Mr. Thornely
651 would ask the hon. Member for Oldham why he did not come forward with a measure for the relief of the-distressed condition of the country? If the hon. Member was so fully impressed with that idea, it was his duty to propose any remedy which he (Mr. Fielden)
651Mr. Wakley
650l.l.649648 feared that no advantage would attend the remarks which had been just made. The hon. Gentleman, Mr. Williams, spoke on that side of the House amidst gentlemen by whom all these estimates and expenses were proposed and incurred. Now it appeared to him that the House should submit with becoming humility to their unfortunate position at this time, to take what the constituencies had been pleased to do at the late elections, and endure what might be submitted to them during the coming year. These estimates, without doubt, exhibited from beginning to end a carelessness of the public expenditure—there was no doubt about that, nobody could deny it who looked fairly and dispassionately at them. Every man in viewing them must suppose, if he knew nothing of the financial condition of this country, that we were in a state of extraordinary prosperity, that there was no distress, no calamity, no diminution of trade, and no complaining on the part of the labouring population. Here was a recklessness of public expenditure from beginning to end; but who was to blame? He declared that since he had been a Member of this House he had observed more recklessness on the part of the Members of this House with regard to the public money than by the hon. Gentlemen who were now in office or by the hon. Gentlemen who had left their seats and gone to the other Bide. The real dif-
650l.l.649648Mr. Wakley
652ss. said, that there was no more dangerous and unconstitutional doctrine than that which threw upon the executive Government all the responsibility of originating measures. It was the duly of Members unconnected with the Ministry to propose whatever measures they thought would be conducive to the interests of the state. It was the duly of the hon. Member for Oldham to have stated the other night to the House what he thought would be the remedy for the evils of which he now complained. He should like to know whether the proposition of an 8652ss.Mr. Wakley
 said, he feared a division would be of no use, if the Government were determined to carry out their measure. He had, the other evening, begged the right hon. Baronet to go and visit the spot on which it was proposed to build, and he was sure, if the right hon. Baronet would personally look at the place itself he would not persevere with the bill.Mr. Wakley
 thought that the hon. Baronet was wrong in the view which he took of the distinction between the property of the Crown and that of private individuals. The property of the Crown was held for the benefit of the people as well as for the interest of the Sovereign. He did not think that her Majesty at all participated in the exclusive views entertained by the hon. Member opposite.Mr. Ewart
 observed, that if the hon. Member's remedy, patience, were the sole recommendation he had to offer, he feared he would soon have to assist at the inquest on the defunct remains of the country. He would, however, not enter upon the various topics which had been suggested by the hon. Member, but would confine himself to the question before the committee, and he begged to give expression to the satisfaction which he felt in finding that the Regent's Park was now available to the public as a pleasure ground. He thought, that the same course might be advantageously adopted with respect to other parks, and particularly as regarded Richmond Park, which would be a great accommodation if thrown open to the public. There was Kew Park also, which was contiguous to the large and populous towns of Brentford, Isleworth, &c, and which was closed six days in the week, and which might, without inconvenience, be thrown open. He hoped, that Kensington Gardens would be preserved in their present state, and not be encroached upon, as the west-end of town was already sufficiently built in; and unless breathing space was preserved at the present time, there would be no future opportunity for obtaining it.Mr. Ewart
 concurred in the views which had been taken by the right hon. Baronet.Mr. Ewart
: They differed from the Maynooth principles, not in form, but in doctrine; and he hoped the division would be persevered in. He did think if he voted for the Maynooth grant, he would do what would be an injury to the people of Ireland in a religious point of view; and so far as it might be considered in a political point, be did not think that, from the experience of the last thirty years, they could say that it had tended very much to the peace of Ireland.Mr. Forbes
d.s.d.s.s.d.d.635 felt it absolutely necessary to make another appeal to the right hon. Baronet, with reference to the condition of the working classes and the great urgency of some measures for their relief, because since Friday last he had received a statement from Rochdale exhibiting an amount of pressure and distress which it was perfectly frightful to contemplate. It appeared that in that town, which he had
d.s.d.s.s.d.d.635Mr. S. Crawford
 expressed a hope that the right hon. Baronet would take the first opportunity of correcting the error. He could assure the right hon. Baronet, that the officers of the navy were not content upon the subject, and Sir G. Cockburn himself had told him that the only proper way to rule the navy was by placing an admiral at the head of it.Sir C. Napier
 begged to call attention to one of the recent appointments of the right hon. Baronet. He could not conceive how the public service could be efficiently carried on in the absence of a navy officer at the head of the Board of Ordnance. He thought, also, that it was paying a bad compliment to the navy, in which there were 600 captains and 200 admirals, not to find one officer amongst them capable of being intrusted with the government of that board. Why, it would be really as absurd, he thought, to make him Lord Chancellor of England, as to place a civilian at the head of the Board of Ordnance; and he should not be at all surprised if the noble Lord who had been appointed to that office were unable to distinguish between a line-of-battle ship and a frigate. Besides, it was contrary to the usual practice.Sir C. Napier
658 did not consider the work likely to be of benefit to Scotland, and had protested against the large sum which had been annually voted. The work was undertaken not on the recommendation of any person connected with Scotland.
658Sir G. Clerk
 concurred in the sentiments expressed by his hon. and gallant Friend; and could only refer, in support of what his hon. and gallant Friend had stated, to the satisfaction which his late Majesty gave while at the head of the Admiralty, because he was a naval officer, and understood the nature of the service over which he presided. When the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Launceston, was at the Board of Ordnance some years ago, he admitted the evil of not having a naval officer connected with that department.Captain Pechell
660 said, he could not forget the jealousy with which the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln had regarded the creation of, and the appointment to, the office to which his hon. and gallant Friend had alluded. He differed from his hon. and gallant Friend in no one particular, but he felt bound to say, that Mr. Vizard had been for twenty-five years his solicitor and private friend, and yet, from a sense of public duty, and concurring with his hon. and gallant Friend, he (Sir J. Graham) had not been in the office he had now the honour to fill forty-eight honrs before he sent for Mr. Vizard, and told him that it was not his intention to interfere with the vote to which Parliament had come last Session, and by
660Sir J. Graham
 expressed his earnest hope that his hon. Friend would not divide the Committee, though he was inclined to doubt whether the money voted to Maynooth College was a grant which was beneficially applied.Mr. Pakington
669 concurred with his hon. Friend in the opinion that the grant to Maynooth was most objectionable; but hoped that he would not divide the Committee on the present vote. There had been
669Sir R. H. Inglis
 ventured to say, that the hon. Gentleman had never seen ten persons at one time in the library of the Vatican; and though the visitors to the library at Paris were numerous, sometimes amounting to 30,000 in a short space of time, there were no readers seen there. The quantity of dust produced by so great an influx of persons must certainly be very great, as hon. Members might well imagine, from the state in which that House was at twelve or one o'clock.Sir R. Inglis
 did not wish to interfere in the quarrel, it was a very pretty one as it stood. He rose for the purpose of making an observation in allusion to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Dumfries, who appeared to have taken the position formerly occupied by the late Member for Kilkenny. The hon. Member, although he reserved to himself the liberty of doing what he liked with his own fields and gardens, wished to deny to the Crown the right of managing its own property. He considered the right of the Crown to Richmond-park to be as strong as that by which any private gentleman held his estates.Sir R. Inglis
 said, that it was not his intention in the course of the present Session to renew the motion for church extension, of which he had given notice last Session of Parliament. With respect to any motion which might be made in another Session of Parliament, it was sufficient for him to postpone any answer, and request the House to postpone requiring it till that Session arrived.Sir R. H. Inglis
619 could only assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that by the appointment referred to he did not mean to cast the slightest imputation or reflection upon the profession of which the hon. and gallant Gentleman was so distinguished an ornament. It was not fitting that he should enter into a discussion upon the question on the present occasion; but he must observe, that
619Sir R. Peel
618 rose, he said, to answer the question which had been put to him by the hon. Gentleman. He certainly did not intend to bring forward the identical bill that had been introduced in the last Session by his noble Friend (Lord Stanley); but in concert with his noble Friend
618Sir R, Peel
 said, no change whatever had as yet been made. It was the intention that the appointment alluded to by Mr. Tufnell should be made, but the ceremony even of kissing hands had not yet taken place.Sir R. Peel
 was understood to reply, possibly in the course of a few weeks. With regard to the observations of the hon. Member for Lambeth, the questions whether the public should be allowed promiscuously to enter the library for the purpose of seeing the place, or to examine and read the books, were very different. There was every disposition on the part of the trustees to allow access to the library for the purpose of study, but to make the library a public promenade would certainly be to destroy the design of the institution.Sir R. Peel
636 assured the hon. Gentle-
636Sir R. Peel
633632 could not help suggesting, that the noble Lord, the late Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, would, perhaps, have been the best authority to appeal to for satisfactory information upon this matter. He apprehended the state of the question was this:—In 1838, he thought it was, a treaty was ratified between the Porte and this country, which, for various internal monopolies, and exactions of different kinds, substituted an export duty of 9 per cent. There had been previously an export duty of 3 per cent., which still continued, and at present the whole duty to which British subjects were liable was 12 per cent, on exports. In some cases he had no doubt the levy of that duty might bear hardly on the native inhabitants, comparing the present amount of duty with what they were before subject to in particular districts of the country; but, on the whole, he apprehended that the substitution of a duty of 9 per cent.,
633632Sir R. Peel
 said, he should be better prepared specifically to answer the question at the silting of the House on the next day. But he could at once inform the hon. Gentleman, that he should take care to adopt such a course in reference to the new bill, as would not prevent any hon. Member from bringing the subject in question before the House.Sir R. Peel
 was of opinion that the towns and counties of Scotland were much too wise to accept of the offer. A sum of money had been expended on the undertaking, which there was a natural reluctance to lose; but if no public advantage was likely to accrue from following it up, he thought the sooner it was abandoned the better. It would be wiser not to proceed than to incur the loss of several hundreds of thousands of pounds more. He, therefore, had no hesitation in agreeing to postpone the vote, and thus afford an opportunity of considering what steps should be taken to prevent the loss of what had already been expended. No further expenditure ought to take place until an impartial inquiry should be entered into with respect to the probable advantages which would result from the carrying out the project.Sir Robert Peel
663l. said, he should be sorry at once to pronounce a positive opinion upon the subject, but having filled the office for some years of Secretary of State, he must at present stale that he did not think such an office as that which the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had eulogized was absolutely required. During the time he had held the office of Home Secretary he had an Under Secretary (Mr. Hobhouse), who, though brought from the Treasury, discharged all those duties which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had overlooked, as belonging to an under secretary of state. He spoke with the greatest respect for Mr. Vizard, when he said, that with the assistance of such a man as Mr. Phillipps, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had little to require even upon the most intricate and delicate construction of statute law. And of Mr. Hobhouse he must add, that he very well remembered Sir Vicary Gibbs, remarking, that he would not hesitate to put his name to any legal opinion given by that gentleman. He repeated, therefore, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had apparently overlooked the permanent nature of the appointment of the under Secretary of State, and that the office was usually, as at present, filled by gentlemen of legal eminence. He (Sir R. Peel) was of opinion that the sum of 2,500663l.Sir R. Peel
 said that before next year the whole of these estimates should undergo the most careful revision.Sir R. Peel
670: Sir, I merely rise to say, that I perfectly remember having expressed my opinion upon this vote in the last, or probably the preceding Session of Parliament, and, to prevent any mistake arising as to my motives for proposing and sup-
670Sir R. Peel
 said, he should never object to the grant of public money for such a purpose. He thought that it would be a great benefit to the country if schools of designs were established generally throughout all manufacturing districts, but he was quite certain that Government alone should not take it up, but should invite the co-operation of persons on the spot, who, it was hoped, would take a sufficient interest in the matter as to co-operate actively with the Government. Unless individuals in the respective localities assisted Government, he was very much afraid it would not be as successful as they wished.Sir R. Peel
: I really cannot say positively whether it is two or three Sessions from this time that I spoke upon a similar vote to this, but I remember a distinct proposal being made by some hon. Gentleman respecting the grant being withheld, and that I then made a speech upon it, in which I gave my reasons for supporting its continuance. It would have been very easy for me to have avoided giving a vote on the occasion to which I refer, by leaving the House, as other hon. Members sometimes do. I certainly spoke my sentiments upon the grant, however; but if I have accidentally been absent when some similar vote has been discussed in subsequent Sessions, no inference ought to be drawn from such a circumstance than ought, at the present moment, to be drawn from the fact, that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), the late Secretary of State, is not in the House.Sir R. Peel
l674: I have taken the advice of the hon. Member, and have visited the spot in question—and I must say, that I do not, after having done so, feel the force of his objections to the proposed plan, for I found, that on going from Kensington Palace to the Uxbridge road, the land on which it is proposed to build, is all on the left hand of the path which bounds Kensington-gardens. It is ground which has never been open to the public; and, besides, it is only intended to build villas upon it, which will not occupy the same space as would a street of continuous houses. There will be as much open space left after the villas are built as there is now, and the health of the neighbourhood will be much more promoted by the alteration of the place, as proposed, than by leaving it in its present state, or building streets upon it. If we admit that the object of consolidating the gardens is a useful one, it is surely better to devote the Crown land to the purpose proposed, and that we should vote the money required in this way, than that we should come down next year, and ask for
l674Sir Robert Peel
 would bow to the opinion of the House if, after inquiry, the result should be unfavourable to the continuance of the appointment; but he was bound to observe, that it was an unsafe practice to trust the expositions of legal questions and elucidations of acts of Parliament to any one who was not conversant with what was passing daily in the law courts. Mr. Hobhouse, no doubt, was very talented; and Mr. Phillipps, the present under Secretary, was also talented; but they had been out of practice several years, and, though each might give a very respectable opinion on many legal points, yet he doubted if ever Mr. Phillipps would venture to give an opinion as to the construction of an act of Parliament, without first consulting the Secretary of the Treasury. Sir William Grant, when only out of practice six months, declared his incompetency to give a legal opinion.Sir T. Wilde
 did not imagine that Sir W. Grant meant to say, that the mere fact of his having been out of practice for six months incapacitated him from forming an opinion; but that what he meant to infer was, that a person who was not constantly in the course of professional practice and professional reading was not the most safe adviser. It was true, that Mr. Vizard had been required to give- up his private practice on his appointment to the office in question, but he had not, therefore, given up his professional reading, and could the right hon. Baronet say, that the under Secretary of State for the Home Department had time to read the law reports, and to keep up that course of professional reading which was necessary to enable him to give an opinion as to the construction of acts of Parliament? He (Sir T. Wilde) knew that, from the nature of his official duties, he had no leisure for such a purpose; and that from the moment he entered upon his office he must cease to be a professional man. But it was perfectly reasonable, that Mr. Vizard should give up his private practice, and yet be able to devote himself to such reading as was sufficient to enable him satisfactorily to perform the duties of his office.Sir T. Wilde
662l.l.661 was satisfied that the result of the review to which the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department had alluded, would be that the public service at present demanded and would continue to demand the continuance of the office to which allusion had been directed. Of such an appointment as that of Mr. Vizard he had no knowledge until it had been made; but this he did know, that his hon. and learned Friend Sir John (now Lord) Campbell, then the Attorney-general, and himself had designed making a representation in furtherance of such an arrangement to the proper department of the late Administration. The duties of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, were not only most numerous but onerous in connexion with the Administration of the law. There were very few days indeed upon which the Secretary of State for the Home Department, did not receive letters from magistrates and others requiring instruction and advice upon the construction of various acts of Parliament. Some of these inquiries required the earliest possible attention, in order to save magistrates from committing themselves, or to prevent other similar and equally unfortunate evils. The course had been, it was true, that when the Secretary of State had been asked for advice, for that public functionary to apply to the Treasury in order to obtain the opinion of the solicitor of that board upon the particular point upon which advice was solicited. Now, the Secretary for the Home Department, had various other important duties connected with the Administration of Justice to perform, and yet he had under the old system first to solicit the advice of the solicitor to the Treasury; that solicitation answered, many statements as to the law and facts, frequently elaborate, were es-
662l.l.661Sir T. Wilde
621 remarked, that a very important question had been brought before the House, with respect to his right hon. Friend (Sir E. Sugden), after accepting the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland, retaining his seat in that House. The principle involved in this was a very important one, for it was declared, that a Member of the House having accepted office from the Crown should be remitted back to his constituents. This was imperatively required by the 4th and 5th Anne. But in this case it was said, that the act was not violated, because there were some ceremonies to be gone through, that had not yet been accomplished. It was said, that the patent of the late Lord Chancellor of Ireland (Lord Campbell) had not yet been recalled. He did not think, that face of much importance, but the circumstance itself, as it occurred, appeared to him to be such, that he felt bound to say of it a more dangerous evasion of an Act of Parliament had never been attempted. The right hon. Baronet opposite had, by the authority of the Crown, offered to a Member of that House a high office, so high an office as that of Lord Chancellor of Ireland: He begged then to know whether the influence arising from that office was one that ought not to be remitted back to the constituents? The principle was particularly dangerous when there was a power of delaying the revocation of the patent which could confer office on the Member, who might in the meanwhile be voting the supplies, and on every question affecting the liberty and property of the subject. He wished
621Sir Thomas Wilde
 wished to explain why he had not given notice to his right hon. Friend, and in doing so he would repeat those expressions of courtesy towards him which he had before used, although he knew that his right hon. Friend had a very peculiar method of acknowledging any courtesies. He was not aware when he entered the House, that it was the intention of his hon. Friend to put a question to the right hon. Baronet opposite on the subject; but that question having been put, he felt it his duty, when he heard the answer, to lose no time in giving notice of his intention to bring the subject before the House, and he had consequently no opportunity of giving notice to his right hon. Friend. In that intention he had been confirmed by the very dangerous doctrine laid down by his right hon. Friend, and to-morrow he would draw attention to the subject.Sir Thomas Wilde
 said, that information had been received by the late Government, stating, that as many, he believed, as six vessels were being fitted out at Hamburgh to be employed in the Slave-trade. He could not say whether that information were well founded, and, without implying any opinion one way or the other, he had communicated it to the Board of Admiralty, in order that the necessary directions might be given to the cruisers on the coast of Africa, in case the, report should turn out to be true.Viscount Palmerston
634 wished, although it was not altogether regular, to add a few words to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. With regard to the treaty of 1838, although the hon. Gentleman considered it a bad one, he certainly thought it a good one: and when he stated that several other powers had, in imitation, concluded exactly similar treaties with Turkey, he thought it might be inferred that the treaty had been advantageous to the Christian inhabitants. He knew that his hon. Friend had a strong feeling in favour of Mehemet Ali, and it was honourable to him that he had not abandoned the Pasha when he had encountered misfortune and failure. It was, therefore, not unnatural that the hon. Gentleman should look with some degree of dissatisfaction on the state of things established in Syria. He was also particularly anxious that this treaty should not be applied to Egypt, because that would of course, diminish those fiscal means which Mehemet Ali had applied in a manner not very consistently with his allegiance as a subject. But first of all, with regard to what had been done in Syria, the statement of the right hon. Baronet was quite correct. When first Syria was restored to the lawful dominion of the Sultan some officers, Mouhassils and Defterdars, were sent to collect the revenues, and it was perfectly true they had committed great excesses. On that being made known to the Turkish Government every desire was manifested to correct those abuses, and persons duly authorized were put in communication with the people of Lebanon and other parts of Syria, for the purpose of making some satisfactory arrangements with regard to the tribute they should pay; and before leaving office he had reason to believe that some arrangement would be made, which for a certain number of years would relieve the people of Lebanon from anything which could be considered oppressive. With regard, how-
634Viscount Palmerston
627 thought that a reference to the context would at once show that the ciphers referred to by the hon. Gentleman were erroneous, and that some mistake had occurred in transcribing them. In the passage immediately preceding that referred to, Sir E. Baynes said, "supposing the cultivation to continue within its present limits, the provinces that supply St. Petersburgh could send down in the years of average crops, besides what is required for local consumption, from 175,000 to 210,000 imperial quarters of wheat;" and he further added that in, years of abundance these quantities might be tripled, or that, in fact about 600,000 imperial quarters might be produced. Now, if that were the case, it was not very likely that Tamboff, a comparatively inconsiderable province, could have produced 38,000,000 of quarters. The terretorial extent of Ireland was, as compared with Tamboff, as nineteen to twenty-three. A reference to the comparative productions of the two countries would at once dispel any alarm which might have been occasioned, and show that the statement complained of was the result of error only. But there was another ground for supposing that the error was an accidental one. The calculation referred to was for the year 1835. Now, how many quarters of wheat were exported from St. Petersburgh in that year? Two. In 1836 none at all were exported. So that it was quite evident that if the produce of Tamboff had so increased, the appetite of the population had increased in the same ratio. If his hon. Friend would inquire at the Foreign-office or at the Board of Trade.
627Viscount Palmerston
 admitted that Mr. Wood was a British dragoman acting under Lord Ponsonby, but he had authority from the Turkish government, and in virtue of it he held those communications with the subjects of the Ottoman Porte.Viscount Palmerston
646 said, he certainly had struck out the word "sovereign," applied in several places to Mehemet Ali, owing to his learned Friend's zeal in the Pacha's cause, which phrase did not seem to him quite correct. He had also struck our various passages, (most of them extracts from other works, eulogistic of the Pacha's character and policy, which appeared to him to have nothing to do with the subject matter of the inquiries. But he had made no alteration
646Viscount Palmerston
 said that the Spanish Government had agreed that the sale should take place, but having submitted the proposition to the Cortes, they found them entertaining such a disinclination to dispose of the island, that they thought it best to drop the matter.Viscount Palmerston
 certainly thought that the principle stated by the right hon. Baronet might be productive of serious inconveniences to the public, especially in the case of the subordinate Members of the Government.Lord J. Russell
683: as the hon. Member has declared his intention of taking the sense of the House on his motion, I beg to say a few words in reference to the vote which I intend to give. I agree with my hon. Friend in much that he has stated with respect to the exemption from committees on private bills of local and personal interests, and if any scheme can be devised for giving to those committees a more judicial character, I shall support it. However, though I agree so far as I have stated with the hon. Member, I am not prepared to go the length of saying that local interests should be altogether excluded. I am not prepared to say that, admitting certain local interests, is not a mode by which more information can be obtained, and that more easily in a short time than in the more formal shape of witnesses could be obtained in a much greater length of time. By this mode, and in the form of discussion, more information might be obtained in a short time than in the formal way I have mentioned in a long time. I must, therefore, say, that although I shall vote for the previous question, I do not totally differ in opinion from the
683Lord J. Russell
 said, that by the rate of exchange in the Mediterranean, seamen serving there and paid abroad had been deprived of 4d. on the dollar. He could instance his own ship, the seamen of which when paid at Gibraltar, were charged for every dollar 4d. more than it passed for, He had called the attention of the former Secretary of the Admiralty, to the subject, and he hoped it would not be lost sight of by the present.Captain Berkeley
: I wish to say a few words to the House on a matter personal to myself. I am most anxious to explain that it was my intention to vote against the grant to the College of Maynooth, and I communicated to several friends about me in the House my fixed determination so to do, but having inadvertently gone into the old lobby, I did not discover my mistake until the door was closed. As soon as I was aware of my mistake I remonstrated in the strongest manner against being obliged to record my vote against my principles and my recently expressed intentions, but I was informed that having gone into the lobby my vote was, in fact, given, and could not be recalled. It is most painful to me to vote against her Majesty's present Government, from which we have reason to expect such inestimable benefits to the nation; but I never can conscientiously vote for the grant to Maynooth College. I never intended to vote for it, and I never will. I trust the House will pardon this intrusion, but I felt it due to my own character and that of the constituency I have the honour to represent, thus to explain the apparent inconsistency of my conduct.Colonel Acton
699698 had not thought, that a discussion would have arisen upon the subject, or he would have come down to the House better prepared to bear his part in it. The commissioners had done all that could be reasonably expected of them, and he begged to observe, that the act under which they derived their powers was not an act directing the methods to be employed in the cure of patients; but it was an act for the purpose of controlling those enormous abuses which, from time to time, had been laid before Committees of that House—abuses under which persons were very easily confined in lunatic asylums, but which rendered it almost impossible for them to obtain their liberty. Such was the state of the law when the present act was introduced. He wished to inform the House that the commissioners had made periodical reports to the Lord Chancellor, and it was not long ago that it was determined by the commission that he (Lord Ashley) should be called upon to lay those reports from the year 1835 upon the table of that House, that the country might see the
699698Lord Ashley
 briefly explained, that there were exceptions in the country visitations.Lord Ashley
 wished it to be understood that he received no remuneration for his services.Lord Ashley
697No, no seconded the amendment. He agreed with his hon. Friend, that there were great abuses and vices in the present system, that the lunatic asylums of the country were very imperfect, and that the public had a very insufficient knowledge of the manner in which they were conducted. There was no proper check upon them. The details that were brought to light some time ago, relative to the management of the Hereford Lunatic asylum, were perfectly disgusting. He wished to direct the attention of the House to that part of the act which enabled the keeper of an asylum to receive lunatics as patients. Under special circumstances, a single apothecary might consign a man to confinement for ever. [697No, noMr. Hawes
 thought the right hon. Gentleman did say, that if no extraordinary circumstances occurred, Parliament would meet at the ordinary period. They might therefore, he thought, justly infer that it would be in February.Mr. Villiers
 wished to ask the right hon. Baronet what was the probable duration of the prorogation of Parliament? The reason why he wished to put this question was, that an hon. Member on the Ministerial side of the House had stated in his place, that nothing that had fallen from the right hon. Baronet ought to lead to the conclusion that Parliament would be prorogued to so late a period as February.Mr. C. P. Villiers
: To the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley.)Mr. Villiers
 said, that he had not described the hon. Member for Finsbury to make the statement as upon the authority of the right hon. Gentleman. A doubt had been raised in the public mind on the subject, and it was the object of his question to set it at rest.Mr. Villiers
 said, that in the very last report on this subject, a committee of the House—a committee on which the right hon. Baronet next the right hon. Member for Tamworth had sat, if not the right hon. Member himself—was at direct variance with the principle laid down by the right hon. Baronet, in that case, the case of Mr. Wynn, no difficulty had been made in issuing a new writ; yet it was perfectly well known and admitted, that the right hon. Gentleman did not receive his patent of appointment until two months after his re-election. It was most desirable, as Mr. Wynn himself had suggested, that some course should be taken by the House to define what did constitute the acceptance of office. In the case of Mr. Wynn there was no act done before he vacated his seat; all that he had received was an intimation that directions would be given for making out his patent, and he thereupon vacated his seat, the patent itself not being made out for two months after.Mr. C. Wood
690"That an bumble Address be presented to her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to direct her Commissioners of Land Revenues to take measures for rendering safer the recreations of bathing and skating on the ornamental waters of Hyde-park, St. James's,
690689688687Total Drowned … 55Total Recovered ‥ 355
Total Drowned … 55Total Recovered ‥ 35521675954242
21675954242„811351841
„811351841311265491840
311265491840912511341839
9125113418391141011491838
114101149183831035191837
3103519183711031191836
1103119183642426371835
42426371835Regent'sSt. JamesHyde Park.Years.
Regent'sSt. JamesHyde Park.Years.Suicides.Attempted Suicides.RECOVERED.
Suicides.Attempted Suicides.RECOVERED.
Total Drowned … 55Total Recovered ‥ 355
Total Drowned … 55Total Recovered ‥ 35521675954242
21675954242„811351841
„811351841311265491840
311265491840912511341839
9125113418391141011491838
114101149183831035191837
3103519183711031191836
1103119183642426371835
42426371835Regent'sSt. JamesHyde Park.Years.
Regent'sSt. JamesHyde Park.Years.Suicides.Attempted Suicides.RECOVERED.
Suicides.Attempted Suicides.RECOVERED.„81115
„81115„5121841
„5121841„5131840
„5131840„3221839
„3221839„3221838
„3221838„3121837
„3121837„3721836
„3721836„3721835
„3721835Regent's Ditto.St. James's Ditto.Hyde Park Ice-breaking.Hyde Park Bathing.Years.
Regent's Ditto.St. James's Ditto.Hyde Park Ice-breaking.Hyde Park Bathing.Years.DROWNED.
DROWNED.
„81115
„81115„5121841
„5121841„5131840
„5131840„3221839
„3221839„3221838
„3221838„3121837
„3121837„3721836
„3721836„3721835
„3721835Regent's Ditto.St. James's Ditto.Hyde Park Ice-breaking.Hyde Park Bathing.Years.
Regent's Ditto.St. James's Ditto.Hyde Park Ice-breaking.Hyde Park Bathing.Years.DROWNED.
DROWNED."That upon a careful consideration of the danger to which the public is exposed during the bathing and skating seasons of the year, from the numerous accidents of a critical nature which have occurred in the parks, it is the confident opinion of this committee, that the proposed measure is of the utmost consequence, inasmuch as it would effectually secure the public against the dangers to winch it is now most unnecessarily exposed; whilst it would enable the Royal Humane Society to turn its attention to the preservation of life on the river Thames, by appropriating the large annual expenditure now incurred in the parks, with very great advantage to the safeguard of the public, particularly at those places where accidents have lately become so numerous as to require the watchful aid of the Institution, and which its limited income is not otherwise adequate to meet."686: Mr. Speaker—The object of the motion which I am now about to submit to the House, is a remedial and effectual measure for the prevention of those lamentable and unnecessary sacrifices of life, which occur so frequently in the Royal parks of this metropolis. Sir, I trust, if the House will accord to me its indulgence for a very few minutes, I shall be able to show that this subject, involving as it does a deplorable and constantly recurring loss of life requires, and is entitled to the most serious consideration of Parliament. These accidents are not of the nature of those which may be considered extraordinary—every precaution which the most vigilant superintendence can suggest is put in practice—no pains or expense have been spared by the Royal Humane Society in their praiseworthy efforts to protect the lives of their fellow subjects, and yet every returning season exhibits the impossibility of attaining their object by the means at present in use. Sir, I hold in my hand a very interesting statistical document, furnished to me by the Royal Humane Society—it contains a carefully drawn up return of the number of persons who have been drowned in the Royal parks during the last six years; but, before reading this statement, I must beg the attention of the House to what passed at a meeting of that Society, convened especially to lake into consider-anon the expediency and practicability of
690"That an bumble Address be presented to her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to direct her Commissioners of Land Revenues to take measures for rendering safer the recreations of bathing and skating on the ornamental waters of Hyde-park, St. James's,
690689688687Total Drowned … 55Total Recovered ‥ 355
Total Drowned … 55Total Recovered ‥ 35521675954242
21675954242„811351841
„811351841311265491840
311265491840912511341839
9125113418391141011491838
114101149183831035191837
3103519183711031191836
1103119183642426371835
42426371835Regent'sSt. JamesHyde Park.Years.
Regent'sSt. JamesHyde Park.Years.Suicides.Attempted Suicides.RECOVERED.
Suicides.Attempted Suicides.RECOVERED.
Total Drowned … 55Total Recovered ‥ 355
Total Drowned … 55Total Recovered ‥ 35521675954242
21675954242„811351841
„811351841311265491840
311265491840912511341839
9125113418391141011491838
114101149183831035191837
3103519183711031191836
1103119183642426371835
42426371835Regent'sSt. JamesHyde Park.Years.
Regent'sSt. JamesHyde Park.Years.Suicides.Attempted Suicides.RECOVERED.
Suicides.Attempted Suicides.RECOVERED.„81115
„81115„5121841
„5121841„5131840
„5131840„3221839
„3221839„3221838
„3221838„3121837
„3121837„3721836
„3721836„3721835
„3721835Regent's Ditto.St. James's Ditto.Hyde Park Ice-breaking.Hyde Park Bathing.Years.
Regent's Ditto.St. James's Ditto.Hyde Park Ice-breaking.Hyde Park Bathing.Years.DROWNED.
DROWNED.
„81115
„81115„5121841
„5121841„5131840
„5131840„3221839
„3221839„3221838
„3221838„3121837
„3121837„3721836
„3721836„3721835
„3721835Regent's Ditto.St. James's Ditto.Hyde Park Ice-breaking.Hyde Park Bathing.Years.
Regent's Ditto.St. James's Ditto.Hyde Park Ice-breaking.Hyde Park Bathing.Years.DROWNED.
DROWNED."That upon a careful consideration of the danger to which the public is exposed during the bathing and skating seasons of the year, from the numerous accidents of a critical nature which have occurred in the parks, it is the confident opinion of this committee, that the proposed measure is of the utmost consequence, inasmuch as it would effectually secure the public against the dangers to winch it is now most unnecessarily exposed; whilst it would enable the Royal Humane Society to turn its attention to the preservation of life on the river Thames, by appropriating the large annual expenditure now incurred in the parks, with very great advantage to the safeguard of the public, particularly at those places where accidents have lately become so numerous as to require the watchful aid of the Institution, and which its limited income is not otherwise adequate to meet."686Mr. Rennie
 said, that the accumulation of mud which occurred formerly had been caused by a sewer, which had since been removed. However, as the motion was opposed, he would consent to withdraw it, but hoped that the subject would receive the attention of the Government, at a future time.Mr. Rennie
 hoped to see the motion brought forward and discussed in every Session, until greater improvements were effected. While he admitted the right of a constituency to the services of their representative, yet they had no right to have that representative transformed into an interested judge. He thought the best plan which could be adopted would be lo allow the representative to attend before the committee, and give information where he happened to be connected with local interests, and he thought this plan would cause the House to stand higher in public opinion.Mr. Aglionby
691 trusted that the hon. Member opposite would not think he was derogating from his claims to merit, for the interest he took in the subject which he had introduced to the House, when he stated his intention to vote against it. It must afford gratification to all those who were interested in the exertions of the Royal Humane Society to hear testimony borne to the great exertions they had made to prevent those fatal occurrences. The hon. Member opposite had described the advantages which would result from the adoption of the plan to which he referred, but he hoped to be able satisfactorily to show some difficulties which would attend the carrying into effect of that proposal. In offering his opposition to the large expense which would attend it, he felt that he was justified upon that ground alone; however, he remembered that in the early part of his life, a great deal of money had been expended in deepening that water, which the hon. Member now sought to render of less depth. He was not able to say what amount of expenditure would be required to effect the object which the hon. Gentleman desired; but taking his own calculation, that it would be no more than for a railway embankment of the same extent, he did not think that he would be justified under the circumstances, in agreeing to that expenditure, for the purpose of lessening the depth of that water, in deepening which so much expense was incurred at a former period. Before these waters were deepened, in consequence of the deposits made in them, they were attended by an offensive smell, which was extremely injurious to health, and annoying, not only to those who went there to bathe, but to the inhabitants of London generally who went there to enjoy the recreation and fresh air which the open spaces in these parks afforded them. The hon. Member must take into account what injury would follow to the community at large, supposing that the filling up of these spaces would be attended with a recurrence of the same effects. With respect to the enjoyment of those who went there to enjoy the manly and invigorating exercise of swimming, if these waters were filled up so as
691The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 bore testimony to the fact that the hon. Gentleman had communicated to him his intention of voting as he had just stated.Mr. Plumptre
681 thought, that the principle laid down by the hon. Member was good, and he was not disposed to controvert it, but he thought he had taken a wrong mode of carrying it out. He would not deny—but that he entertained considerable respect for the opinion which he knew prevailed, not only amongst many Members of that House, but also very extensively out of doors—that in the con-
681Mr. Estcourt
701700 said, he for one bore warm
701700Mr. Wakley
 explained that he had spoken of the professional persons only— the physicians and barristers. Those persons, he repeated, received one guinea per hour, besides travelling expenses, for the time they devoted to an inquiry, and he believed the act put no limitation on the time they might occupy.Mr. Wakley
 was perfectly aware that the majority must be against him. Under such circumstances he would, therefore, not waste the time of the House by forcing a division. But he would continue to press them on the attention of the House so long as he had the honour of a seat.Mr. Ewart
 seconded the motion.Mr. Ewart
 would have no objection that the whole of his resolutions should be referred to the committee on private business. That would be a fair mode of compromise, and he trusted it would be acceded to by the right hon. Baronet.Mr. Ewart
680"4. That the committee of Selection appoint no Member to serve on more than one such private bill committee at a time.""3. That such seven Members be appointed by the committee of Selection, after the second reading of such bills. But that previous to such appointment, the committee of Selection do ascertain from each of such seven Members that he is willing to serve, and that he is, neither through his constituents nor himself, personally interested for or against the bill in question; and that in case he is unable to serve, or is interested as aforesaid, the committee of Selection do appoint some other Member to serve in place of him."2. That, with a view of attaining these objects, the number of Members composing committees on opposed private bills be reduced to seven."1. That it is expedient that committees on private bills should be approximated, more nearly than they now are, to judicial tribunals, and exempted, as much as possible, from all motives of local and personal interest. And that the responsibility and efficiency of such committees would be promoted by diminishing the number of Members composing them. rose to move the following resolutions, of which he had given notice: —
680"4. That the committee of Selection appoint no Member to serve on more than one such private bill committee at a time.""3. That such seven Members be appointed by the committee of Selection, after the second reading of such bills. But that previous to such appointment, the committee of Selection do ascertain from each of such seven Members that he is willing to serve, and that he is, neither through his constituents nor himself, personally interested for or against the bill in question; and that in case he is unable to serve, or is interested as aforesaid, the committee of Selection do appoint some other Member to serve in place of him."2. That, with a view of attaining these objects, the number of Members composing committees on opposed private bills be reduced to seven."1. That it is expedient that committees on private bills should be approximated, more nearly than they now are, to judicial tribunals, and exempted, as much as possible, from all motives of local and personal interest. And that the responsibility and efficiency of such committees would be promoted by diminishing the number of Members composing them.Mr. Ewart
 said, that if the proposition he had made had been founded only upon his own opinion, he should at once assent to the recommendation of the hon. Member for Oxford; but as it was a case on which the public felt very strongly, and as many Gentlemen, of great experience, agreed in his views, and feeling, that, as the House had gone so far, they ought to go still farther, he should take the sense of the House on his motion.Mr. Ewart
682 said, that he should support the resolutions, and if for no other reason, because the Members for Bradford had declared on the Hustings, that they would use their utmost endeavours to
682Mr. W. Ferrand
bandeau,l.l.,l.693 said, he wished to call the attention of his right hon. Friend to an alledged fact which, if it were well
bandeau,l.l.,l.693Sir C. Burrell
 hoped the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Wigan, would withdraw his resolutions, as it was not expedient that the House should, at this period, be called upon to go into the consideration of such a subject. The experiment of last Session had not been sufficiently tried, and that to exclude hon. Members from taking part in an investigation whose constituents might be interested in the subject matter of a private bill, as proposed by the hon. Member, would work positive injustice.Sir G. Clerk
 also stated that he had not vacated his seat until he had kissed her Majesty's hands on his appointment.Sir J. Graham
702 having been appealed to, would offer a very few words to the notice of the committee. The subject was of the gravest character, and the discussion must touch deeply the feelings and sympathies of every humane man. He agreed most cordially with the hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford, that amidst the many claims which his noble Friend had established upon the gratitude of the nation, there was none that had better earned for him the title of the friend of the afflicted and the unprotected, than the active part he had taken in the distressing duty with which he had associated himself. The point immediately before the committee was in itself, however, very narrow. It was simply, whether the term of the renewal of the act should be for a greater or a less period. He perfectly agreed with the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Finsbury, that a very salutary effect was produced in bringing the conduct of commissioners, and indeed, all other public servants, frequently under the revision of that House. But in the present instance, the only question was, what limitation of lime should be taken as
702Sir James Graham
 said, he had listened to the speech just delivered with the deepest attention, marked as it was at once with that simple clearness, and that sincerity of feeling, which characterized his noble Friend's addresses on such subjects. The only observation he had to make was, that he trusted the country visitations were not altogether and universally mockeries. He fell great pleasure in declaring, that his noble Friend had earned one title more honourable than all others—that of the friend to the friendless—the sympathizer with every sufferer.Sir R. H. Inglis
 thought it was highly necessary that the present system should have a fair trial, which had not jet been had.Sir R. Peel
692 said, I now rise to move for leave to introduce a bill, of which I have given notice, and the object of which is, to continue in force certain Acts which would expire, either on a certain day named, or at the end of the Session of Parliament, or after a certain period. Upon the whole, having taken into consideration that one part of the bill which I proposed to introduce is likely to undergo discussion, and that the other is not likely to meet with any objection, I believe that it would be more for the convenience of the House that I should introduce two bills, one for the purpose of continuing the present Poor-law commission, and another for the purpose of continuing in force, for a certain period, other expiring laws. I believe that this will better meet the views of those who may be desirous of separating the Poor-law Commission Renewal Bill separately from the other, which is not likely to meet with any discussion or objection. I think it Tight, however, to mention, that whichever course may be adopted, of introducing one or two acts, it will not be competent for hon. Members to move amendments in the ordinary mode, but whatever amendments they may wish to introduce, must be moved in the shape of an instruction to the committee. I think it righ there-
692Sir R. Peel
: I now move for leave to introduce a Bill, to continue such laws as will expire within a certain limited period.Sir R. Peel
685Aglionby:684 was rather sorry that the hon. Gentleman was about to take the sense of the House on this question. In his opinion it would be much better to give a fair trial to the existing system. The public attention had been very strongly called to the mode in which private business was conducted in this House. There was a strong impression throughout the country that there were great abuses in the mode of conducting it. Nothing could tend more to lower the dignity and character of Parliament than an improper mode of conducting the business on private bills, and of conveying the impression that improper influence could be used in carrying them into effect or impeding them. Great improvements had been made under the suggestion of Lord Dumfermline and the present Speaker. It was better, then, to give the present system a fair trial, and not call upon a new Parliament, in which there were so many new Members, who had not yet had the advantage of seeing how the system worked. He did not think it advisable to take the sense of the House at the present moment. The hon. Member opposite (Mr. Aglionby) thought that the constituents had the right to the services of their representatives and that it was the duty of the latter to attend and claim to be heard. Now he had had some experience in these matters, and what, he would ask, must be the effect of this, in the case, let it be supposed, of a railroad: let it be supposed that it was the object to defeat the bill. There would then be the representatives of several counties and towns. Then, according to the assumption of the hon. Gentleman, they would be bound to
685Aglionby:684Sir R. Peel
678: I did not concur altogether in the opinion of my right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Ripon, as expressed yesterday, that the completion of the patent was necessary before a new writ could issue. I should have no objection whatever that it should be understood that the tender of an office under the Crown in writing, and the acceptance of it, also in writing, by the person to whom it was offered, should constitute a vacation of the seat. I think there ought to be some record of the transaction, and that it should not be left to rest upon mere
678Sir R. Peel
 begged to state, that he had made no communication on the subject to any hon. Member who could have made such a remark; he himself had not heard any such remark, and did not at all understand to whom the hon. Gentleman opposite referred.Sir R. Peel
679 said, he had never heard a question of that nature put to a Minister before. It was one to which he could not, consistently with his duly, return an answer. The period of the meeting of Par-
679Sir R. Peel
 said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury had made such a statement without any authority from him. The hon. Gentleman opposite must be aware, that it was impossible for the hon. Member to give any assurance to the House on the subject.Sir R. Peel
 said, he had not vacated his seat till the patent was in his hands.Sir R. Peel
bonâ fide did not perceive, that, according to his interpretation of the act, it was necessary for any Gentleman to whom office had been offered to vacate his seat in Parliament until the completion of the formal proceedings which might be considered to constitute the formal appointment. If hon. Gentlemen were to be compelled to vacate their seats before there was a bonâ fideSir R. Peel
677676675 said: Nothing that ever fell from the right hon. Baronet gave me more regret than the statement which he has just made, sanctioning principles which will, in my judgment, go far to destroy the independence of this House, As the issuing of the writ is no longer opposed, I should have been content to have made the motion without adding a single word, because, in bringing the matter under the attention of the House, I had no desire to
677676675Sir Thomas Wilde
 begged to repeat to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the question which had been put the night before, why it was that a new writ had not been issued for the borough of Ripon, in the place of the right hon. Gentleman, who had been appointed to the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland.Sir T. Wilde
708 thought that the right hon. Baronet was too straight-forward to accept the version of his conduct which had been just supplied by the hon. Member for Finsbury. He was one of those hon. Members who could not disconnect the Poor-law from the Corn-laws, and whenever they were to be considered, he hoped that the latter would have precedence; because he believed that the opinions of many hon. Members in that House would be considerably influenced upon the question of the Poor-law, by the situation in which the Legislature might think proper finally to settle that of the Corn-laws. He sincerely regretted that the consideration of the question of the Corn-laws was to be postponed until next year. He should certainly refuse to join in any factious opposition to the course which the right hon. Baronet, in the exercise of the discretion and responsibility which were vested in him, deemed it necessary to pursue in that respect; but knowing that the right hon. Baronet possessed the most extensive information upon the subject, and that he had taken a prominent part in the discussions which had arisen on it from time to time, he could not conceive it possible or probable that the right hon. Baronet had not yet made up his mind 'upon the subject. Considering, however, the position which the right hon. Baronet now occupied, with a large majority, had, by a recent appeal to the country, to support him, and responsible for the postponement of this question, he would not, while he could not but regret the postponement, offer any further objection to it. As regarded the Poor-law question, he thought the right hon. Baronet, since he was not prepared to state what course he considered to be best, ought not to invite any partial discussion, or any discussion, until he was prepared to allow the House to go into the whole question for the purpose of its final settlement. It was morally
708Mr. Rice
 had no intention of prolonging the discussion, but, being one who had always opposed the new Poor-law, and being still opposed to it, he also hoped it would be distinctly understood, that no hon. Member who gave his vote for the second reading of this bill for the continuance of the commission, would be understood as having agreed in the principle of the measure, which was to come on for discussion on Friday next, and to which many hon. Members were opposed.Sir H. Fleetwood
 said, as this discussion had arisen, he would take the opportunity of observing, that the course pursued by the right hon. Gentleman was, in his opinion, a perfectly fair one, and, in accordance with that which he had himself thought it his duty to propose. It was one thing to consider the whole provisions of the Poor-law with a view to introduce into them any alteration or modification which the House might think fit, but quite a a different one to continue the Poor-law commission for a limited period, if Parliament was not inclined at the time to enter into the discussion of the general question, When, in like manner, last Session, there was not time to consider the details of the Poor-law, he had suggested a continuance of the commission, though for a longer period than was now proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. The particular time to which the commission should be continued was not of so much essential importance, the principle of temporary continuance being admitted, and he should certainly be very sorry to hear of any intention on the part of any hon. Member to propose an instruction to the committee for any alteration in the Poor-law itself. He was glad to hear from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for the University of Dublin, that he was of opinion, that on the whole, the working of the Poor-law in Ireland had been attended with success. He had never supposed the law could be introduced there without its being at first attended with a great deal of political excitement, and it appeared by report, that such had been the case; but he trusted, when the really beneficial effects of the Poor-law in that country were understood and felt, the political excitement would gradually subside, that the law would be used for the purpose for which it was intended, and that ultimately so far from its being considered to have inflicted a wrong on the people of Ireland, it would be found to have been a great benefit to the physical condition of the poor, and to have advanced the general, moral, and political condition of Ireland.Lord J. Russell
719 was not inclined to adopt or encourage the mischievous and unfounded suggestions of those who imputed to the founders of the measure heartless indifference to the sufferings of the people, or a desire to promote their own private objects. He believed that any person, however, who looked at that law with an unbiassed mind, must feel the deepest regret at the absence of discrimination and distinction between applicants for relief, as to the causes which might
719Mr. Bodkin
704 said, that although it was
704Mr. Wortley
715714 felt bound to state, in a few words, why he should not oppose the second reading of this bill. He could assure the noble Lord, who seemed to take this bill so much as a matter of course, that he felt that he did owe some apology and excuse to the country for the vote which he should give, for nine-tenths of the educated people of this country held a totally different view of the Poor-law from the noble Lord, the only excuse which he could offer for now giving his vote for the continuance of the commission was, that up to the present moment there was no sufficient information before the House, or the country on which Parliament could honestly and fairly legislate with regard to this important question. He had read within the last few days the annual report of the Poor-law commissioners, and he believed he did not exceed the bounds of
715714Mr. Escott
718 said, he was quite sure the hon. Member, when he had had a little more experience in the House would see, that the language he had last used was unbecoming the dignity of debate, which
718The Speaker
711710 did not rise to prolong the debate, but to express the great satisfaction with which he had heard what had just fallen from the right hon. Gentle-
711710Mr. C. Wood
 said, that his objections to this bill had not been removed by anything he had heard in the way of explanation. He considered it calculated to injure both Kensington Palace and the gardens; because, if it should hereafter turn out, as was very probable, that the Crown should wish to remove the present dilapidated palace, and build another, the occupation of this space of ground let out on leases to private individuals might be found exceedingly inconvenient and prejudicial. There was certainly one advantage connected with the plan which he was ready to give credit for, namely, the opening of a new road from Kensington to Bayswater, but in other respects the measure seemed to be very objectionable.Mr. Protheroe
 had heard, with great satisfaction, the statement of the right hon. Baronet, as to this bill in connexion with Ireland, as he had not been before aware of the course which Government proposed to take with respect to it. With regard to the working of the Poor-law in Ireland, he would not say that the introduction of the measure there had been attended with circumstances of much difficulty, but he believed, at the same time, that it had been, on the whole, successful, and that if it were continued to be judiciously administered, and met with a fair and reasonable general support, it would be found to conduce in a great degree to the advantage of the public without the least injury to the interests of the poor.Mr. Shaw
 expressed his regret that the question of the Corn-laws was not to be considered before next Session; but as regarded the Poor-law question, he had no objection that the right hon. Baronet should take time to consider it, so that he might be able to bring forward such modifications as would be the most likely to conciliate all parties. Sure he was, that all parties would concur in a measure having for its object the rejection of the claims of the worthless and the improvident, and the relief of distress where that distress ought in reason to be relieved. He thought that the measure of the right hon. Baronet ought to be made the instrument of removing as much misery as it was possible, and creating as much happiness as could be created consistently with that control which it was necessary to observe. He had no objection to offer to the present bill. He should allow the question toremain in the hands of the right hon. Baronet unmolested by any opposition on his part, persuaded that such a course afforded the greatest prospect of a fair and satisfactory adjustment of the whole question.Dr. Bowring
713 asked, why, when the effects of the Poor-law had been so baneful throughout the country the commission should be continued for another day? Did the House mean to decide that persons who resided on the spot where the poor
713Mr. Fielden
707706 said, that if the House was desirous that the discussion should take place on Friday, he had no wish to disturb the arrangement. But, assuredly, if there was to be an alteration of the law, it was extremely desirable that those hon. Members who had watched its operation, and who were anxious to effect in it very material changes, should have an opportunity of addressing the House, and admonishing the right hon. Baronet upon the subject of those changes, in order that he and his Colleagues might not be in the position of saying, at the opening of the next Session of Parliament, that they were unacquainted with the feelings and desires of the House on this important question. Hence the very great expediency of affording opportunity to hon. Members who entertained strong opinions upon the question of declaring their sentiments, and putting the Government in possession of the changes they were desirous of effecting. He never had expected that he should be called upon to vote for the continuance of the Poor-law Commission. He thought it the most unconstitutional authority the law had ever created in this country. His opinion on that subject remained entirely unchanged. The experience of every day, the conviction of every hour, assured him that a more unconstitutional authority, or one more dangerous to the well-being of the community, could not exist. The right hon. Baronet proposed to prolong that commission for six months beyond the period prescribed by law, and that proposition he (Mr. Wakley) cordially supported, because a more rational proposition, a proposition more imperatively called for by the circumstances of the case, could not, he conceived, be submitted for the consideration of that House; and if the right hon. Baronet did not defend his own character as connected with that proposition, he should feel himself compelled to endeavour to defend it for him, in order that, by so doing, he might establish a defence for his own conduct, in reference to the course pursued by the right hon. Baronet, which had been made the subject of attack. Under what circumstances had the right hon. Baronet made that proposition?
707706Mr. Wakley
 felt it absolutely necessary, after what had been said, that some discussion should take place before going into committee on this odious and detestable law, and therefore he hoped that stage of the bill would be postponed till some day next week.Mr. Wakley
 was ready to apologize to the House. He had thought, that he was not out of order in referring to an expression which had certainly been used in, debate upon a former occasion, but if it were considered at all offensive he should at once retract it. Before the New Poor-law was enacted, he had—feeling it to be unconstitutional and unjust — adopted every lawful means of opposing it. In the county of York he had presided over meetings of 100,000 people, who were then, and still were, determinedly hostile to its main provisions. When it became the law of the land he continued to give it every opposition to which he could legally and peacefully resort, but when he found that the Government of the country were indirectly using the Chartist influence to put down those gentlemen in the country who were constitutionally opposing the New Poor-law, he felt it his duty to retire from the conflict, and leave public opinion to work its own way, feeling strongly convinced, that no Government in this country could long subsist which identified itself with that odious and most unjust law. The late Government did identify itself with this law, and it had fallen. The right hon. Baronet below him had now been placed at the head of affairs by an immense majority of those who as candidates had pledged themselves to repeal the harsh clauses of that law; and, anxious as he was to see the right hon. Gentleman continue long at the head of the Administration, believing he was the only man in England who could save the country, he would still fearlessly assert, that if he did not repeal the more obnoxious clauses of this bill, his Government would become unpopular throughout the country, and, like his predecessors, be obliged soon to give way to public opinion.Mr. Ferrand
Order, order. wished to know, if nine-tenths of the educated classes were in favour of the Poor-law, what hon. Gentlemen opposite, meant by saying; that that law had been made a party cry throughout the country? He differed from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and agreed with the hon. Member for Winchester, that nine-tenths of the educated classes in the country were diametrically opposed to the harsh and cruel clauses of the Poor-law Act. He was himself sent to Parliament by a constituency strongly opposed to them; and he came there to oppose those clauses to the utmost of his power. Indeed, his constituents must have felt very strongly on the subject when, to enable them to send him to that House, they had burst asunder the bonds of the Duke of Devonshire in Knaresborough — bonds which had enchained them during 150 years. He was very much surprised at the commencment of this Parliament to hear the noble Lord the Member for the city of London charge, not the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, but those who sat immediately behind him, with having gained their seats by agitating the country upon this question. If the noble Lord meant to imply that they had held insincere language, or told falsehoods throughout the country in order to gain the favour of their constituents, he would only reply to such insinuations by stating that he had read in the debates of that House, before he had the honour of being a Member of it, that the late Government, of which the noble Lord was himself the leading representative, had existed for years by "enormous lying." [Order, order.Mr. Ferrand
717716 said, the hon. Member for Winchester really seemed to have entered
717716Mr. Ward
l., rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to provide for the payment of persons employed in taking the census of the population of England and Wales. A very large number of persons had been employed for that purpose, and as the Act of Parliament for securing payment to those persons now stood, considerable trouble would attend it. The Act of 1831, under which payment was awarded to them, had reference to a state of things different from that which at present prevailed. In 1831 the poor-rates were under the management of vestries and overseers, but they were now under the direction of boards of guardians, and relieving officers. Another change had taken place since 1831 with regard to large towns where there were corporations, and in which justices attended the quarter sessions, but they were now presided over by recorders. The act of 1831 referred to justices and not to recorders. The sum granted was only 5,000l.,Sir James Graham
 quite agreed with the hon. Member that they ought not to deprive any future possessors of the Crown of this piece of ground; and, under the circumstance referred to by the hon. Member, it might be found exceedingly difficult to repurchase it or to find another sufficiently convenient for the erection of a new palace.Sir R. Inglis
705 thought it was understood, that any discussion which might be desired should take place on the question, that the House resolve itself into a committee. Having been led to believe that the object of the bill, namely, the renewal of the commission, met with, under the circumstances, the general approval of the House, but, at the same time, that there was a wish on the part of several Members to express their opinions upon different parts of the bill, he stated that the most effectual way of doing so would be to give notice of an instruction to the committee to make enactments corresponding with the views which they entertained upon the subject. He thought that the discussion should not take place now, but at a more distant day—Friday next he conceived would be the most proper and convenient time, when it was intended to move that the House go into committee on the bill. He might take this opportunity of correcting an erroneous impression which he was surprised to hear existed in some parts of Ireland, to this effect—that in consequence of the change in the Government, alterations to a material extent would be made in the Irish Poor-law. He had been told also, that that impression not only existed, but that it counteracted the beneficial operation of the Irish Poor-law in some parts of Ireland. As he supported that bill, he was rather at a loss to conceive how such an impression could have arisen; but for the purpose of preventing any
705Sir R. Peel
712 thought, it must be well understood that the present measure afforded no opportunity for opposing the principle of the Poor-law itself. The Poor-law itself was an act in permanent operation. The present was a separate bill, to continue for a given period the Poor-law commission. If it would be any consolation to the hon. Gentleman opposite he would at once state that he meant to oppose any amendments that might be brought forward in the discussion upon the present measure which would affect the principle or the operation of the Poor-law itself. He had already said he would give hon. Gentlemen every opportunity o opposing the present measure, and he certainly could not prevent them from discussing amendments having for their object alterations in the Poor-law; but he certainly could not permit any amendments of the Poor-law to be introduced
712Sir R. Peel
709: Sir, I have already suggested that it would be more convenient to take any discussion in reference to the Poor-laws, when the bill gets into committee, and I can only now say, that if I had anticipated that there would be a discussion on the second reading, I would have taken care that my right hon. Friend should not have chosen so early a day after its introduction for the second reading. I thought there was a general understanding, that the bill should pass this stage, as a matter of course, and that whatever discussion was deemed necessary should take place when the bill got into committee. Sir, it would be ungrateful in me if I did not acknowlege the obligation I am under to the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Finsbury, who has come forward so voluntarily in my defence— but at the same time I must confess, that I am more obliged to the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Dover, than to the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Finsbury, for the defence which he has made for me. The hon. Gentleman, the Member for Dover says, the thinks the Poor-laws and the Corn-laws, should be settled together, and that immediately on accepting office, I should have brought forward a bill on the subject of the Corn-laws, and submitted to the consideration of the House all the modifications intended to be made by the Government in the Poor-laws. Ha wishes that both measures should be conjointly considered, but I appeal to the House whether it would be possible for the Government to do justice to the Poor-laws, without having an opportunity of considering the local operation and general bearings of those laws. Would it, I ask be possible for any Gentleman placed in the situations which we now fill, and who intend to consider the general operation of the Poor-laws, with a view to suggest modifications in them consistently with the principles of the Poor-law Act, especially tinder our peculiar circumstances, to introduce any measure on the subject at present? Would it, I ask, be possible for us, without availing ourselves of the information to be procured from the commissioners, who are employed to obtain information, to bring forward an important measure of this kind, and I will only ask hon. Gentlemen whether it would have been doing justice, or would
709Sir Robert Peel
: As there is notice of business for Thursday, perhaps I shall meet the general wishes of the House by moving, that the House at its rising do adjourn to Friday.Sir R. Peel
720 did not think it at all an unreasonable proposition, that the House should go into committee on this bill on Friday next. Indeed, he felt, that any postponement beyond that day would imply an assent to opinions on his part which he certainly did not entertain. He could not prevent discussion undoubtedly, but really in committee on a mere continuing bill he thought all discussion on the principle and provisions of the New Poor-law irrevalent. Next week there would probably arise some discussion relative to financial measures, and if at that period of the Session, when it appeared to be the general opinion, that no business of great importance should be discussed; he proposed, that this bill should be postponed beyond Friday, it might very well be said, that he did so in the hope of pro-
720Sir R. Peel
 proposed, that it should be committed on Friday next.Sir R. Peel
l. moved a clause, empowering her Majesty to grant to any person who shall vacate the office of Vice-Chancellor under the provisions of the bill an annuity of 3,500l.The Attorney-General
 begged to call the attention of the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty to a resolution of which he had given notice with respect to the efficient manning of the navy. He wished to know whether it were the intention of the present Board of Admiralty to issue orders, that in future none of her Majesty's ships of war should be sent to sea without a fixed and full complement of men?Captain Berkeley
 then begged to withdraw the motion of which he had given notice upon that subject.Captain Berkeley
 under these circumstances would withdraw the notices of motion he had given on these subjects.Captain Berkeley
791No, noNo, no790789788 said, that as he had been one, who on a former occasion, had complained of the course intended to be taken
791No, noNo, no790789788Mr. Villiers
 said that he would only occupy the attention of the House for a minute in consequence of the assertion of the hon. Member for Stockport as to certain districts which would produce corn in sufficient abundance to supply the wants of our population. The hon. Member in the course of his travels had no doubt seen many wonderful things—he had told them he had seen cheese on the summits of the Alps—that he had met with negroes at the Antipodes, and that sufficient corn might be brought by steam, amply to supply the wants of the manufacturers; but he begged to ask the hon. Member whether he was aware that the 180 millions of acres to which he had referred had not yet been put into cultivation? And he wished therefore to know how those acres out of cultivation could be of any possible service to the present distressed condition of this country. It was to a remedy for the present distress that they looked, and though they had been accused by the hon. Member for Dumfries of being mutes, he might say, without fear of contradiction, that there was as much and as deep feeling for that distress on that side of the House as the other; but they were loth to waste time, when business of importance was waiting, by rising one after another without any motion before the House, and expressing opinions which had been stated over and over again long ago.Captain Fitzroy
l. said, that he wished for some explanation as to an item of 25,000l.Mr. Williams
 said, that he was quite satisfied that there was no land near Kingston which was worth anything like the price that had been paid for this.Mr. Williams
 had great reluctance in allowing this vote to pass without a division; and if the present Ministers had been at all responsible for those estimates, he certainly should have taken the sense of the House upon it.Mr. Williams
 wished to know whether there would be any objection to produce the correspondence that had taken place on the subject.Major Beresford
 said, that he had belonged to two Boards of Admiralty, and in each of them there was a strong feeling that the Naval Ordnance ought to be under the direction of the Board of Admiralty. He was sure before he left the Admiralty that there was a strong feeling in favour of the adoption of new arms, and why they had not been adopted he knew not.Captain Berkeley
 wished to inquire whether the vessel now building at Harwich had been contracted for, and if she was being built by contract, whether the lowest tender had been accepted?Major Beresford
Napier said, that the gallant Commodore had omitted to notice the great improvements which had taken place in the arrangement of the great guns, and of the powder on board ship, and of fitting the guns with Congreve sights by the Board of Ordnance. The muskets were the same for the navy as for the army. [Commodore NapierCaptain Fitzroy
 said, the very admission just made by the gallant Colonel, that "He would devote himself to the military part of the ordnance department," showed that they ought to have persons to attend to the navy department. He recollected the navy having had to distribute a quantity of muskets to the Spaniards, and that they (the navy) much wished to take those muskets, and give the Spaniards their own instead of them.Captain Berkeley
 said, he had taken some interest in the subject; but it appeared impossible to entertain Captain Warner's proposition; for, from his refusing to state the nature of his invention, it was deemed impossible to admit such an article on board a man-of-war, as it was not certain but that it might blow up and destroy the ship.Captain Berkeley
 said, that the third contract had been accepted, because the two contracts below that had been clogged with stipulations to which it was not thought right to agree.Captain Boldero
 was understood to object to this.Captain Boldero
 said, that the land in question was very desirable for building leases, and the proprietors of the soil would not sell it under the price that had been paid for it.Captain Boldero
804l.l. said, that these votes had been sanctioned by the Lords of the Treasury. He believed that some time ago a committee had been appointed, composed of some of the most scientific officers in the service, to consider the best method of improving the military defence of our colonies; that committee had recommended that at Kingston certain redoubts should be constructed, and if the hon. Member turned to the ordnance estimates, he would find a sum of 270,000804l.l.Captain Boldero
l.l.803l. said that the present ordnance estimates which he rose to move had been prepared by the late Board of Ordnance, and authorised by the late Master-general. It was a legacy which had been left to them by their predecessors, and they had thought it their duty neither to augment nor decrease them. Under the first head of ordnance works and repairs in the United Kingdom, there was an item of 2,000l.l.803l.Captain Boldero
 said, the new percussion gun had given great satisfaction.Colonel Fox
 believed that Captain Warner had been offered a committee to inquire as to his invention, but had declined it.Colonel Fox
 said the application had been referred to the present Board of Admiralty, and was under its consideration.Mr. Sidney Herbert
737 said, the subject was at present under the consideration of
737Mr. Sidney Herbert
Frater, vive tuos, optime, meos.""Immature peril, sed tu felicior annos,798797 said, he could not but complain of the course adopted by the hon. Members for Manchester, Stockport and Bolton, in getting up and stating their opinions, without having the least prospect of carrying any measure which they might propose. He deprecated the practice of encouraging peripatetic orators to
Frater, vive tuos, optime, meos.""Immature peril, sed tu felicior annos,798797Captain Carnegie
 had not alluded before to the new muskets, for, unfortunately, the army was not supplied with them. He had endeavoured to obtain them for his own regiment on the borders of Canada, but without effect; and that regiment was now supplied with arms that were not of any use.Lord A. Lennox
 said, a difference of opinion seemed to exist with reference to the muskets issued to the army and navy. As a military man, he could only say, if the same arms were issued to the navy as to the army, nothing could be worse than they were. He had been some twenty years in the service, and he would venture to say, that more wretched arms could not be put into the hands of a soldier, than were given to our army. He hoped, that this discussion would have the effect of placing better arms in the soldiers' hands; without doing so, it was cruel to place soldiers in situations of danger and responsibility.Lord A. Lennox
l. thought the question narrowed itself to this—whether, at the time of this vacancy, it would not have been quite possible to make a provisional appointment? He had no doubt that Gentlemen could be found who were fully competent, and who would be quite willing to take the office on such conditions. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), seemed to think that this office should be looked on as patronage, going in the shape of just emolument to the judge. Was not 7,000l.Mr. Hawes
 begged to remind the hon. Member, that the question before the House was the Order of the day for the third reading of the Royal Gardens Bill.The Speaker
 objected to the amount of retiring allowance. He thought it much too great, but would not divide the House on the question.Colonel Sibthorp
: His right hon. Friend (Mr. Baring), never admitted that a positive right to compensation was made out on the part of Mr. Scarlett. All he said was, that a discretionary power should be given to the Government as to what allowance should be granted, the plain meaning of which was, that Mr. Scarlett should receive a recompense for the offices which he had abandoned on being nominated to the Exchequer. That this was the determination of his right hon. Friend, was plainly shown by the fact, that he voted against the amendment of the hon. and learned Solicitor-general (Sir W. Follett), for giving full compensation for the loss of the Mastership.Mr. C. Wood
 said, that Captain Warner had refused to submit his invention to examination to individuals appointed by the Admiralty, and the Admiralty had refused to tyrant him compensation without some grounds to proceed on.Mr. C. Wood
 said he would no longer detain the House, but simply ask the right hon. Baronet whether, before the House was called upon to decide as to the corn question, it was not desirable that more inquiry should be made on the subject?Mr. V. Harcourt
s.s.s.s.s.,s.736s.s. said he wished to put a question, or rather make some suggestion to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury. After hearing a statement which had been made on a former occasion in that House, on the authority of papers before Parliament respecting the large amount of grain said to be grown one year in the Russian province of Tamboff, he had taken the liberty of asking the noble Lord, the late Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether, from the information he had had within his means, he could give any explanation of what seemed to him the very extraordinary statement but the noble Lord, while concurring with him, that the amount of corn grown appeared to be something very unusual, assured him that the papers, as laid before the House, were correct copies of the official papers. Upon inquiring further at the Foreign-Office, yesterday, he found, from a communication with the Under Secretary, not only that there was no mistake of the transcript whence the papers had been printed, but that a letter had since been received from our consul at St. Peters-burgh, the author of the former statement, re-affirming that statement, namely, that more than thirty-eight millions of quarters were grown every year in the province of Tamboff. He could not, however, but still imagine, that there must be some great error in this matter. Upon another point, the price of this corn, he had also stated to the noble Lord opposite his conviction that there must be an entire mistake in the return made to the House; and had affirmed his full belief that, whereas the consul at St. Petersburgh stated, that this corn could be brought to the market at St. Petersburg for from 13s.s.s.s.s.,s.736s.s.Mr. V. Harcourt
751 quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that nothing could be more unjust than to allow personal or political considerations to interfere with the just settlement of this question. He hoped, that hon. Members would guard themselves against the great danger of being influenced in the vote they should give by motives of personal kindness and affection towards those who might have a strong pecuniary interest in this question. It had been stated, that Mr. Scarlett had given up other offices, the retention of which was incompatible with a a mastership in the Exchequer; he should be glad to know what those offices were; he did not think they could be fairly called offices. One, he believed, was an appointment as counsel to the Mint. In that capacity he might take on himself to say Mr. Scarlett had most efficiently performed his duties; indeed, he knew no man who was more respected in the profession, or who was accustomed to perform the duties which fell to his lot in a more creditable manner, than his hon. Friend the Member for Horsham. But, apart from all such feelings, he (Mr. Aglionby) must be guided, on a question of this nature, by a sense of public duty. Mr. Scarlett must have taken this office with his eyes open, well knowing that it must soon be abolished, and having then made the necessary calculations of profit and loss, he could not fairly be considered entitled to compensation under this bill. At all events, the arrangement which he understood was suggested in the last Parliament, limiting the compensation to the
751Mr. Aglionby
802s. rose to offer his testimony to the extreme distress which existed in the manufacturing towns in Cumberland. In the town of Cockermouth, which he represented, there were many hundreds of families in the greatest distress, and they had hitherto endured it with the greatest patience and forbearance. Many willing to work had not been able to procure employment, and many had been compelled to subsist and to support their families on 6802s.Mr. Aglionby
l. said, this he supposed was one of the blessings of colonies—to have to pay 272,000l.Mr. Aglionby
 remembered it was at the close of the debate, and on it being stated, that the hon. Member for Horsham had given up other offices in order to accept this, that the noble Secretary for the Colonies said, that circumstance, of which he was not aware, very much altered the case.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l."Mr. Scarlett had actually given up a situation worth 500l. wished to state to the House, exactly what was the history of this clause. The bill, as it originally stood, had not a clause limiting the compensation to those who held offices in the Court of Exchequer, prior to the 14th of March, 1840; but his predecessor, the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Mr. F. Baring), introduced one to that effect as an amendment. The hon. Member for the county of Waterford, towards the end of the discussion stated, that,
l."Mr. Scarlett had actually given up a situation worth 500l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
756: I am quite ready to say, that, having well considered the grounds of my vote on a former occasion, I am not prepared, for the sake of any temporary or apparent popularity, to swerve from the opinion then acted upon. I believe that Lord Abinger had a perfectly legal right to make the appointment; that Mr. Scarlett was properly nominated to it; that the business of the court could not have gone on without filling up the vacancy;
756The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baring) seemed to conclude that Mr. Scarlett was entitled to compensation for the office of Master, which has been abolished in consequence of having given up the situations which he previously held.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the proposition. The duties of the Vice-Chancellors were not inferior to those of the other judges, and it would be extremely dangerous, by fixing a lower retiring salary than those of the judges, to produce the impression that their employment was inferior or of less importance.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
808 wished to observe, that having been for some time connected with the Board of Ordnance, the uniform practice was, that whenever any requisition was made by the Board of Admiralty for gun-carriages, or any new invention of the gun which it was thought advisable for the navy to adopt, it had been the invariable rule of the Ordnance Board to carry the wishes of the Admiralty into effect. He recollected, several years ago, in the case of the ship Caledonia, the inventions of Sir Thomas Hardy, General Miller, and Sir William Congreve, were all fairly brought forward and tried by a united Board. The Board of Ordnance merely gave its opinion as to what it thought to be most efficient, but it remained for the Board of Admiralty positively to determine what
808Sir H. Hardinge
772iterum ite-rumque was sorry that, after the speeches which had been delivered, no Member of the Government should have risen to reply to them. Under ordinary circumstances, he should have said that the right hon. Baronet was not to be called upon to give any exposition to Parliament of his views; but the Government of Lord Melbourne had fallen in consequence of many attacks on the part of the right, hon. Baronet—772iterum ite-rumqueMr. J. Parker
s.801l.l,l.,800l.l.l.,l.799 always rose with great reluctance. He had presented a petition from his constituents, calling on the House
s.801l.l,l.,800l.l.l.,l.799Mr. Brotherton
Like that of sounds, from discord springs."—"the harmony of things,763Laughter762No, no.Oh, oh.Oh, oh.761"As winter is now approaching your petitioners feel that they would be wanting in duty to the public, if they did not lay a statement of the case before Parliament, that they may be pleased to take the condition of this, and the other distressed manufacturing communities of the kingdom into their early and serious consideration. May it therefore please your honourable House, before adjourning, to take the present distressed state of the country into your immediate and most serious consideration, and to devise such speedy means of relief as to your honourable House may seem meet."760"As a proof of the melancholy depression prevalent in Johnstone, it will be sufficient to state the fact, that, at the present moment, of the sixteen cotton mills in the town, only four are in operation. In the machine-shops not one-fourth of the hands are employed; and in the collieries, where two years ago 400 hands were employed, now we have only 108, and these not in full employ. The wages of labour, even to those who are fully employed, does not afford the means of healthy subsistence, and there is every reason to believe that one-half of the disease and death that have been in Johnstone for some months past have been the effects of destitution, either by the decay of nature accelerated, or of disease induced by scanty and unwholesome food. As regards cases of individual suffering, let the worst be imagined, and it cannot go beyond the truth. I could tell you of mothers dividing a farthing salt herring and a halfpenny-worth of potatoes among a family of seven; of others mixing sawdust with oatmeal in making their porridge, to enable each to have a mouthful; and of families living for ten days on beans and peas and ears of wheat stolen by the children from the neighbouring fields. This state of suffering is a reproach to a Christian country, and being beyond the reach of private beneficence to relieve, it becomes a duty, alike urged by the demands of humanity and the requirements of religion, that something be done promptly and efficiently by Government to remove this mountain mass of misery, by opening markets for the industry of the willing artisans. I hope that the memorial to her Majesty not to prorogue Parliament until they have entered upon a full consideration of the corn and provision laws, will be graciously received, and answered to the satisfaction of a starving people.""Unless it were the effects of war or pestilence, it is almost impossible to conceive any state of things which could create such a complete disruption of society as is going on here, arising wholly from the grievous monopolies, and other burdens, to which the trade of the country is subjected. The effect of this state of things is, that our best tradesmen are trans-sporting themselves to America in great numbers, while houses and shops stand unoccupied, and in many parts of this formerly busy town the proprietors are actually allowing their houses to go to ruin. The friendly societies, those invaluable institutions, are fast going to wreck; and thus our most spirited tradesmen will have nothing left when attacked by infirmity or disease, but to sink to the wretched condition of paupers."759l. rose to call the attention of the House to a petition which he presented on Tuesday last, from the county of Renfrew. He felt bound to take this course in discharge of the duty which he owed not only to his own constituency, but to the country generally, and, under these circumstances, he trusted that he should be acquitted of trespassing unnecessarily upon the time of the House, or of offering a factious opposition to the Government. The county which he had the honour to represent, was, like other manufacturing districts, in a state of deep and increasing distress. His constituents had forwarded a memorial to her Majesty, setting forth the deep distress under which they laboured, and praying her Majesty not to consent to the prorogation of Parliament until some means had been devised for alleviating their sufferings. Another memorial, to the same effect, had been sent to the right hon. Member for Tamworth. The petition which he presented on Tuesday, referring to Paisley, stated, that within the last two months several of the leading manufacturing and commercial houses in that town had failed, involving losses to the extent of upwards of 700,000Like that of sounds, from discord springs."—"the harmony of things,763Laughter762No, no.Oh, oh.Oh, oh.761"As winter is now approaching your petitioners feel that they would be wanting in duty to the public, if they did not lay a statement of the case before Parliament, that they may be pleased to take the condition of this, and the other distressed manufacturing communities of the kingdom into their early and serious consideration. May it therefore please your honourable House, before adjourning, to take the present distressed state of the country into your immediate and most serious consideration, and to devise such speedy means of relief as to your honourable House may seem meet."760"As a proof of the melancholy depression prevalent in Johnstone, it will be sufficient to state the fact, that, at the present moment, of the sixteen cotton mills in the town, only four are in operation. In the machine-shops not one-fourth of the hands are employed; and in the collieries, where two years ago 400 hands were employed, now we have only 108, and these not in full employ. The wages of labour, even to those who are fully employed, does not afford the means of healthy subsistence, and there is every reason to believe that one-half of the disease and death that have been in Johnstone for some months past have been the effects of destitution, either by the decay of nature accelerated, or of disease induced by scanty and unwholesome food. As regards cases of individual suffering, let the worst be imagined, and it cannot go beyond the truth. I could tell you of mothers dividing a farthing salt herring and a halfpenny-worth of potatoes among a family of seven; of others mixing sawdust with oatmeal in making their porridge, to enable each to have a mouthful; and of families living for ten days on beans and peas and ears of wheat stolen by the children from the neighbouring fields. This state of suffering is a reproach to a Christian country, and being beyond the reach of private beneficence to relieve, it becomes a duty, alike urged by the demands of humanity and the requirements of religion, that something be done promptly and efficiently by Government to remove this mountain mass of misery, by opening markets for the industry of the willing artisans. I hope that the memorial to her Majesty not to prorogue Parliament until they have entered upon a full consideration of the corn and provision laws, will be graciously received, and answered to the satisfaction of a starving people.""Unless it were the effects of war or pestilence, it is almost impossible to conceive any state of things which could create such a complete disruption of society as is going on here, arising wholly from the grievous monopolies, and other burdens, to which the trade of the country is subjected. The effect of this state of things is, that our best tradesmen are trans-sporting themselves to America in great numbers, while houses and shops stand unoccupied, and in many parts of this formerly busy town the proprietors are actually allowing their houses to go to ruin. The friendly societies, those invaluable institutions, are fast going to wreck; and thus our most spirited tradesmen will have nothing left when attacked by infirmity or disease, but to sink to the wretched condition of paupers."759l.Mr. P. Stewart
796795"We do not wish to reduce the wages of your labourers, we think they are already too low; only exchange with us at your present prices, and we will clear out your warehouses, and place your manufacturing districts in a state of activity and prosperity."794"Let it be supposed for a moment," said
794793hiatus792 who rose amidst cries of "question," could readily understand, he said, the impatience with which the Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House listened to the remarks which fell from the opposition if they entertained the same opinions as those which the right hon. Baronet had that evening expressed, namely, that the subject of the Corn-laws and of the distress of the people ought not again to be obtruded on the consideration of Parliament, after the discussion which had already been taken upon it. But had ' nothing' since transpired to render a revival of the question just and necessary? He thought that subsequent to the recent discussion, the suffering artisans of Manchester, Leeds, Glasgow, and Leicester, had met to remonstrate against Parliament's putting an end to the question. He thought that memorials had been sent up from those towns to the Queen's Ministers, and he imagined that those Ministers would have felt it their duty to give a reconsideration to the grievances of which the people complained, unless, indeed, they were disposed to have it go forth to the country, that they agreed with a noble Duke in the opinion that town meetings were farces. As he and his Friends entertained a more respectful regard for the opinion of the country legitimately, legally, and morally pronounced, he hoped they might be excused by the Gentlemen opposite for dwelling a little more upon it, and for claiming for the wishes of the people a little more attention than the supporters of the Government seemed to be disposed to accord to them. Had the right hon. Baronet been in his place, he (Mr. Cobden) should have called his attention to the answer he had that night made to the remonstrances of the people. Three years ago when petitions came up from the people complaining of distress, the right hon. Baronet had his statistics to refer to, to show the manufacturing interests must needs be in a state of prosperity. What did the right hon. Baronet do now? He referred to the accounts of the savings banks for three months to
796795"We do not wish to reduce the wages of your labourers, we think they are already too low; only exchange with us at your present prices, and we will clear out your warehouses, and place your manufacturing districts in a state of activity and prosperity."794"Let it be supposed for a moment," said
794793hiatus792Mr. Cobden
l.l. said, although he bad been in business about forty years, he never saw greater distress than now existed in the manufacturing districts, and he believed the middle classes were fast verging towards poverty. The borough which he represented contained 25,000 inhabitants, and the annual rental was about 60,000l.l.Mr. R. Walker
771770769"To this hungry multitude," said the rev. Gentleman "already goaded by want, into rick-burning, and trades unions, into chartism, and every other expression of impatience at unendurable calamity — 400,000 beings are added year after year. What is to be done for them? Soup kitchens, tickets for coals and potatoes, mendicity societies, night asylums, and charity balls, or charity sermons, will not fatten their lean visages, nor furnish their empty dwellings, nor make them bless God for plenty. And yet God has provided plenty for them all. The earth would grow a hundredfold more corn than they want; and they have strength, skill, and industry wherewith to purchase it. Only allow them the opportunity of labouring for the food with which Europe can supply them; only fix and reduce the duty on foreign corn, and they will be fed."768767766s.ss.,s.,765d.764 observed, that the right hon. Member for Tamworth's position appeared to be analogous to that of a barrister, who, having a bad case, received instruction to hold his tongue. He disliked the course adopted by the Government. For what more useful pupose could the House of Commons assemble than to take into consideration the dis-
771770769"To this hungry multitude," said the rev. Gentleman "already goaded by want, into rick-burning, and trades unions, into chartism, and every other expression of impatience at unendurable calamity — 400,000 beings are added year after year. What is to be done for them? Soup kitchens, tickets for coals and potatoes, mendicity societies, night asylums, and charity balls, or charity sermons, will not fatten their lean visages, nor furnish their empty dwellings, nor make them bless God for plenty. And yet God has provided plenty for them all. The earth would grow a hundredfold more corn than they want; and they have strength, skill, and industry wherewith to purchase it. Only allow them the opportunity of labouring for the food with which Europe can supply them; only fix and reduce the duty on foreign corn, and they will be fed."768767766s.ss.,s.,765d.764Mr. Gibson
s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.s., rose to offer an observation on what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, when he asked whether hon. Members opposite would now accept a duty of 8s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.s.,Mr. Thornely
l.,739l.,l.,l.l.l.738 should like to know when they were to begin to act upon a different principle, because it might be said in all
l.,739l.,l.,l.l.l.738Mr. Wakley
 said, that Captain Warner's invention was a secret which the various powers of Europe were anxious to purchase, and vast sums of money had been offered to him for it. It could not be expected that he should submit his invention to a committee, in the appointment of which he had no voice. The public would expect that an investigation should be made into the powers which his invention possessed.Mr. Wakley
 said, that Captain Warner had been very loud in his complaints against the Board of Ordnance—that they had endeavoured to interfere with his patent. He hoped that the new Board of Ordnance would take the subject into consideration, as the right hon. Baronet had himself seen the tremendous effects of the explosive power.Mr. Wakley
812 wished to know if anything further had been done with regard to
812Mr. Wakley
 presumed, from the silence of hon. Members who were acquainted with the ordnance department, that the allegations of the gallant Officer were such as could not be contradicted. That gallant Officer had declared that the naval service of this country, which they ought to uphold above all others, had sustained an injury in consequence of there not being any naval officer on the Board of Ordnance. Was it right that a statement of that kind should be made on such high authority, without a hope being held out; that means of redress would be immediately applied. He trusted, that if the Board of Ordnance were inefficient, some change would be made in the constitution of it. The public interests of the country demanded, and the reputation of the navy required it; for that reputation could not be maintained if such statements were to go forth to Europe. He wished to ask whether any inquiry had been instituted with respect to the inventions of Mr. Warner? He alluded to the destructive machine—experiments on which he understood the right hon. Gentleman (Sir H. Hardinge) had himself witnessed.Mr. Wakley
l.l. also thought the sum too great, and proposed that the amount be reduced from 3,500l.l.Mr. Ewart
"Scilicet egregii mortalem altique silenti.""Jurantem me scire nihil, mirantur, et unum785"The greatest of all follies on such an occasion would be to shut our eyes to the difficulties which, taken in time, we may perhaps overcome, but which by procrastination we cannot avoid. Our Corn-laws, however expedient to prevent other evils, in the present state of the country, are in themselves a burden and restraint upon its manufacturing and commercial industry; whilst the produce of that industry must descend to the level of the general markets of the world, the producers in this country, so far as food is concerned, are not upon that level. If the price of those products which we never export, and are frequently compelled to import, be materially higher here than elsewhere, that dearness cannot be counterbalanced in the articles which we export; it must fall either in the way of reduction upon the wages of the labourer or upon the profits of those who find him employment."784 thought the right hon. Baronet had rather injudiciously diverted the attention of the House from the main question to the metaphors of the hon. Member for Renfrewshire. The metaphors of the musical instrument on which it had pleased the hon. Gentleman for some time to play did not originate with his hon. Friend, but with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Dorchester, to whom it ought in fairness to be awarded. The inference drawn by the right hon. Baronet from what took place at Manchester during the late election was rather unfortunate. The right hon. Baronet said, that although the words "free trade" were inscribed on the Conservative banners, yet they were unsuccessful; but the right hon. Baronet ought to recollect that on those banners were inscribed the names of Murray and Entwistle. The inference to be drawn from this fact was not that they did not put faith in free trade, but that they had no confidence in Murray and Entwistle. The right hon. Baronet appealed to the House for time. He was quite willing to afford him time, but the question was what length of time would he require? A delay of one or two months, perhaps, might not be objected to, but the right hon. Baronet would not give the least intimation of the probable period when he would favour the House with his opinion, and this would necessarily tend to aggravate the feelings of discontent which now prevailed in the country. The only inference which the public could draw from this prolonged silence of the right hon. Baronet must be unfavourable to any scheme which he might afterwards propose; and whilst he kept his remedy in abeyance, the exasperated feelings which had arisen between the manufacturing and agricultural interest would increase, and the trials of a long and severe winter might excite the people to such a degree, as to disturb
"Scilicet egregii mortalem altique silenti.""Jurantem me scire nihil, mirantur, et unum785"The greatest of all follies on such an occasion would be to shut our eyes to the difficulties which, taken in time, we may perhaps overcome, but which by procrastination we cannot avoid. Our Corn-laws, however expedient to prevent other evils, in the present state of the country, are in themselves a burden and restraint upon its manufacturing and commercial industry; whilst the produce of that industry must descend to the level of the general markets of the world, the producers in this country, so far as food is concerned, are not upon that level. If the price of those products which we never export, and are frequently compelled to import, be materially higher here than elsewhere, that dearness cannot be counterbalanced in the articles which we export; it must fall either in the way of reduction upon the wages of the labourer or upon the profits of those who find him employment."784Mr. Ewart
754 believed, it was generally understood that the Court of Exchequer, as at present constituted, would be abolished when this situation was filled up. Now, what was the course taken in a case precisely similar? In 1830, it was proposed to abolish the Welch judicature, but it was found necessary to appoint judges after this notification, and those so nominated were deemed not entitled to compensation though the others were. And not only the judges, but the officers appointed after the announcement of a determination to do away with the tribunal, distinctly understood that no compensation was to be given for their services. If the principle contended for on the other side were a just one, a man might be ap-
754Mr. Watson
743 wished to know whether
743Mr. Watson
807: The right hon.
807Sir Charles Napier
: It never has been so.Sir Charles Napier
809 felt himself bound again to call attention to the subject of arms for the navy. He had been thirty-one years in the service, and he had never yet seen in the navy a good musket or a good cartouch-box, or even a good lock to a musket. He appealed to any naval officer who heard him to say whether or not he exaggerated. There were 600 captains in the navy, and 200 admirals; they were almost all Conservatives; surely the right hon. Baronet might have found
809Sir Charles Napier
806805 said, that he should take this opportunity of again addressing the right hon. Baronet on the propriety of reconsidering the manner in which the Board of Ordnance was at present constructed. When he mentioned this subject on a former occasion, he was told that it was not customary always to appoint a naval officer on that Board; but of this he was convinced, that the duties of the Board could not be properly performed without an officer of the navy belonging to it; he therefore was anxious to press upon the right hon. Baronet the propriety of making such an appointment. He was not arguing this from any factious motive, but from a thorough conviction that the duties of the Board, so far as the navy was concerned, could not be properly discharged, nor the naval service be well-conducted, unless one of the members of the Board belonged to the navy. So long ago as the year 1830, he addressed a letter to a very distinguished naval officer re-
806805Sir Charles Napier
 meant say, that it was extremely difficult to obtain a proper supply of ordnance, and he believed that the muskets applied for were only now, at the present moment ready.Sir Charles Napier
 said, whether the House took any interest in the subject then before them was what he did not know. He should not say, that he did not care, for he cared a great deal; but this he would take upon himself to say, that if they did not pay more attention to the subject, disasters must occur, which would astonish them. He was grateful to the present Government for the addition made to the seamen, for our ships had not been manned as they ought to be; and on a recent occasion, if a large French fleet, well manned, had borne down upon them, no man could have told what the consequences might have been. Whatever party might be in power, whether Whigs or Tories, or his hon. Friends, the Radicals, he hoped, that means would be taken to prevent our being disgraced, as we had been in the American war.Sir C. Napier
811 said, that as to the improvements spoken of by Captain Fitzroy,
811Sir C. Napier
 moved that the House should resolve itself into a committee of supply.Sir George Clerk
: But these were saleable offices.Sir G. Grey
 said, that the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed the bill with precisely the same words in it as those now embodied in the motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield.Sir G. Grey
 said, that in the course of the discussion on the former bill the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had spoken of the point as one on which two opinions might fairly be held, but that his own was against giving the compensation to Mr. Scarlett. The noble Lord accordingly voted against the compensation. But, after the division, his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wells suggested, that at all events the compensation ought not to be continued after Mr. Scarlett had, by being raised to the peerage, ceased to hold the office, upon which the hon. and learned Member for Exeter at once said, the proposition was so reasonable, that although it had not struck those who called for the compensation, they could not object to it, and it was agreed to accordingly. But, in the first instance, his noble Friend had been against the compensation.Sir G. Grey
810 observed, that the testimony of the right hon. Member for Dorchester was of great importance upon an occasion such as the present. It was, he believed, the fact, that Captain Duncan had been placed on the Board of Ordnance with the full consent of the right hon. Baronet who spoke last, and he thought, that the objection urged by the gallant Member for Marylebone ought to meet with serious attention. The inefficiency of the arms supplied to the navy was universally admitted; the cutlasses were no better than so many iron hoops—they were only fit for barter on the coast of Africa. No one could deny, that the activity of Captain Duncan, while on the Board, had been productive of the best effects. He did not say, but that in the course of twenty years, improvements might be effected, without having naval officers connected with the Board of Ordnance; but of what value would such improvements be to the present generation? And he, therefore, hoped, that the right hon. Baronet, seeing the dissatisfaction which prevailed, would take measures for putting an end to the causes of discontent and apprehension. As one of the right hon. Baronet's relatives had obtained fa-
810Captain Pechell
 interrupted the right hon. Baronet, and observed, that the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought forward the very motion which he now proposed.Mr. Ward
"Who was appointed to his office prior to the 14th March, 1840."745l.l.l.l.744 rose, and said this was the fit occasion for him to propose an amendment, for the purpase of bringing before the House a subject to which he was anxious to draw their attention. He alluded to the case of the hon. Mr. Scarlett, to whom it was proposed by this clause to give compensation for being deprived of an office—that of a Master of the Court of Exchequer, to which he had been appointed by Lord Abinger, the Lord Chief Baron. He had to beg pardon for renewing a question in which a Gentleman, now an hon. Member of that House, was concerned; but at the same time the case was one which he felt imperatively called upon to bring under the notice of the House. The effect of the amendment which he should propose, was, that the compensation proposed by the clause should not be granted to any officer of the Court of Exchequer who had been appointed to his official employment subsequent to the 14th of March, 1840, an amendment that would at once bear upon the appointment of the hon. Member for
"Who was appointed to his office prior to the 14th March, 1840."745l.l.l.l.744Mr. Ward
l.l. admitted, that there was no legal or political obligation on Lord Abinger not to fill up the situation, but he thought the hon. Attorney-general went a little too far, when he said there was no moral obligation upon him. He thought there was upon him the moral obligation of consulting the public interest in preference to his own private interest, which seemed to have prevailed in the selection he had made. With reference to what the hon. Gentleman had said, as to the impossibility of Lord Abinger obtaining a successor to the office if his holding was to be only temporary, he (Mr. Ward) could only say, that the emolument of 2,000l.l.Mr. Ward
: Is the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer prepared to act on the grounds which he attributes to the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, as forming the reason why the latter assented to some compensation, and to say, that he will confine the amount of compensation to the loss sustained by Mr. Scarlett, in giving up the situations which he held previous to his appointment of Master in the Court of Exchequer?Mr. Ward
 should be sorry to utter one word in depreciation of the services of Captain Duncan. He had derived great satisfaction from having had that gallant officer as his colleague, and he was perfectly ready to say, that the service had derived the utmost benefit from the assistance which he gave in his official capacity, but he did not think, that it was indispensably necessary at all times to have a naval officer on the Board of Ordnance. There were civil details requiring the attention, knowledge, and habits of a civilian, and such a man, he thought, ought to fill the office of clerk of that Board. When he first came into office, Mr. Ward filled that situation. He was not prepared to say anything against the appointment of naval officers, but at the same time, he was not prepared to give any distinct pledge upon the subject.Sir James Graham
787786 assured the House that it had not been from any insensibility to the distress that existed among the people at large, nor had it been from any impression that the position of the constituency he had the honour to represent less demanded the serious and attentive consideration of Parliament than any other portion of the country, that hitherto he had refrained from addressing the House upon those momentous questions which now agitated the public mind. Without troubling the House at any length with those details of distress which had already been so strongly brought under their notice, he begged permission to relate one fact as being painfully illustrative of the state of
787786Sir J. Easthope
741 said, that possibly there was no Member of the House who was more deeply impressed with the suffering of his constituents, or more anxious to consult every species of economy than himself. Representing constituents who were suffering under distress that would defy description, he felt it his duty to take a line of rigid economy; but he might safely say for those constituents, piercing as was their misery, that they would discard such paltry economy as this. It was not by rendering less efficient the courts of justice, or by excluding from the judicial bench individuals of high talent, that distress such as theirs was to be remedied.
741Sir John Easthope
783782"According to all usage, and under circumstance of all the cases that were analogous to the present, the new Parliament ought to be convoked immediately. He said this not only with reference to the important questions to which the public mind was alive—not only with reference to the immense advantage which it must be to all persons engaged in commercial speculations or enterprise of any kind, to know what was to be the state of the law affecting the importation of corn—not only with reference to these considerations, but also with reference to the position of the executive government, which manifestly stood before the people as not possessing the confidence of the House of Commons. The combined force of these considerations compelled him to conclude that the interval ought to be as short as possible between the dissolution of the present Parliament, and the calling together a new Parliament. No considerations of private or personal convenience of Members ought in the slightest degree to interfere." said, that the right hon. Baronet ought, upon his admissions of the extent and severity of the distress in the country, to proceed without further delay to the adoption of remedial measures. Indeed, so heavy and pressing was that distress, that he was convinced, unless the House would proscribe immediate relief, they would have to witness and deplore that want of order and those scenes of mischief, which he thought it was the duty of all those who entertained his opinions to take timely steps to prevent. It had been his good fortune to support an Address from that House to the Throne, praying, that her Majesty, having called together her Parliament, would direct the distressed state of the country to be taken into immediate consideration. He held in his hand a speech which the right hon. Baronet made in that House on the 7th of June last, which had led him to hope, that Parliament would be re-assembled, not for the purpose of having a great and pressing question of this nature postponed, but of devising an immediate and effectual remedy for the distresses which afflicted the country. On the 7th of June last, the right hon. Baronet said:—
783782"According to all usage, and under circumstance of all the cases that were analogous to the present, the new Parliament ought to be convoked immediately. He said this not only with reference to the important questions to which the public mind was alive—not only with reference to the immense advantage which it must be to all persons engaged in commercial speculations or enterprise of any kind, to know what was to be the state of the law affecting the importation of corn—not only with reference to these considerations, but also with reference to the position of the executive government, which manifestly stood before the people as not possessing the confidence of the House of Commons. The combined force of these considerations compelled him to conclude that the interval ought to be as short as possible between the dissolution of the present Parliament, and the calling together a new Parliament. No considerations of private or personal convenience of Members ought in the slightest degree to interfere."Mr. M. Phillips
781780l.l.,l.l.,l.,l.,779l.l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.778s.s.777s.s.s.,776775GibsonHawes.774773 thought if he took the advice of the hon. Member for Sheffield, he should not give that satisfaction to the country which it was required he should give. For all that the hon. Member demanded was, that he should give a "little" development of his intentions. Now, he saw really no great practical advantage in a "little" explanation. It appeared to him, that the course he proposed to pursue, was a much more rational one than that which the hon. Member suggested. The course he adopted, on being called with his colleagues to the Administration of public affairs, to repair, if possible, some of the enormous embarrassments in which they found the country involved, so far as financial affairs were concerned, was to ask from the House confidence sufficient to enable them to take a comprehensive view of the whole position of the country, and after a short, a comparatively short, period (considering the importance of the questions to be discussed), to mature their plans and submit them to the consideration of Parliament: that really appeared to him to be a far more reasonable course than that he should make a "little explanation." What could this "little explanation" of his be upon the subject of the Corn-laws? Was there any alternative, if the Corn-laws were to be considered at all—was there any other alternative than that of fully stating the measure of the Government? And was it not in-
781780l.l.,l.l.,l.,l.,779l.l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.778s.s.777s.s.s.,776775GibsonHawes.774773Sir R. Peel
750749 continued by observing, that his only wish had been, that the bill should be now brought forward in the same state in which it had been dropped last year, and his impression certainly had been, that the noble Lord (Lord J. Rus-
750749Sir R. Peel
 said, the doctrine he held upon this subject was at any rate not a novel one—namely, that in the abolition of patronage attached to judicial offices it was but right to consider its amount in estimating the compensation. There were two or three reports of committees which recognised the means of appointing members of a family, duly qualified of course, as a very valuable piece of patronage, and the principle for which he contended was, in fact, recognised by the statute law of the land. The right hon. Baronet read the preamble of an act passed in 1825, which made a provision for the Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, in lieu of certain valuable patronage which was taken away by the act.Sir R. Peel
740l.puisnel.l. said, that the House was well aware of the circumstances under which this bill had been proposed by her Majesty's late Administration. It was for the purpose of providing some remedy for the enormous evils which had arisen from the accumulation of business in the Court of Chancery. The evils accompanying the denial of justice, arising not from neglect on the part of the judicial authorities, who it was admitted were most competent to the discharge of their duties, but from the impossibility of transacting the immense and complicated business of the Court of Chancery, had led to the proposal of this bill as a remedy. He was quite sure of this, that the worst economy would be to make incompetent appointments, and the present measure would fail in its object, unless they could procure from the bar two men of great eminence for the discharge of the judicial duties to which it would give rise. The hon. Member for Finsbury said, he never knew a lawyer whose services were worth 3,000740l.puisnel.l.Sir R. Peel
 said, if he remembered rightly, the noble Lord opposite, when leader of the House, and the representative of the Government there, entertained considerable doubts as to the propriety of this compensation. The hon. Gentleman to whom the compensation was to be paid was not then in the House, and his brother stated the circumstances under which he had accepted the office, and there was at that time a claim for compensation.Sir R. Peel
 had understood the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to have acquiesced in the arrangement as being perfectly just.Sir R. Peel
 said, he thought the best arrangement he could make on this point would be, to lay before the House the subsequent information received from the consul at St. Petersburg, and any further information which might be obtained. It was quite certain that there had been no mistake as to the matter in the Foreign-Office. The statement of the consul was distinctly this,—that 38,500,000 quarters were grown in 1835 in the province of Tamboff, and the authority he gave was that of Mr. Calley, a large corn dealer, and one of the principal British residents at St. Petersburg. The consul, however, had not, as the hon. Gentleman imagined, re-affirmed his statement as to the quantity grown, but said he would make further inquiries on the subject.Sir R. Peel
 assured the gallant Officer that he should be most unwilling to imply the slightest doubt of the capacity of any member of the profession of which he was so great an ornament; but the observation of the gallant Officer certainly did imply (without intention of course) a doubt of the capacity of the members of the military profession, when he stated that it was impossible for the navy to have good muskets, unless a naval officer were on the Board of Ordnance. He could easily believe that the assistance of a naval man would be beneficial at the Board, but he really did hope that there were men of sufficient acumen, and sufficient experience to take care that such muskets were supplied as did not go off at half-cock.Sir R. Peel
 should have thought, that a military man was as competent to take care that the muskets were good as a naval officer.Sir R. Peel
 felt great pleasure at having a son of his honoured by being noticed by so distinguished a member of his own profession as the gallant Officer. He should be exceedingly sorry to lay down any rule against the employment of naval officers, or to do anything that should have the appearance of under-rating the talent or the importance of the services of the members of that profession. But he confessed it did not appear to him that the reasoning of the gallant Officer supported the opinion he had expressed, because there actually was a naval officer on the Board of Ordnance at the very time when he addressed the letter representing the manner in which our ships were equipped.Sir R. Peel
 thought, that some of the Members of the late Board of Ordnance ought to have defended its previous conduct. He should give his whole time and attention to the improvements in the muskets and to the military part of the department.Colonel Peel
 said, that the regular course should be followed in these matters; he was persuaded that it was the proper course. His recommendation had been, that Captain Warner should address himself to the Board of Admiralty, and those departments of the service that were responsible. The subject had not been brought under consideration since he had come into office.Sir R. Peel
747746 (Sir Frederick Pollock), rose, in the first instance, to correct a misapprehension on the part of the hon. Member for Sheffield, when he had said, that clause 58 was the result of a compromise. That clause was not inserted as a compromise, but because it was considered that, on succeeding to the peerage, Mr. Scarlett would cease to hold the office, and that, therefore, as it had been by Lord Abinger himself, that the appointment had been made, it was only fair that the compensation should cease also. With regard to the question itself, he quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman, that, where feelings of personal friendship and kindness were mixed up, it was always unpleasant to enter upon discussions of this kind, but, at the same time, both the hon. Gentleman and himself must do their duty. Not having been present at the former discussion, he did not vote in the division to which the hon. Member referred; but, at the same time, he entertained a very distinct impression on the subject, which he would state to the House. Lord Abinger, at the time the bill was brought in, was Lord Chief Baron, and a vacancy occurred in the Court of Exchequer, which he filled up, before the bill for abolishing that court had been proceeded with in Parliament, though a bill to that effect had been brought in in a former Session of Parliament. This was quite true; but it was a mistake to suppose, as the hon. Gentleman had done, that the proposition to abolish the Court of Exchequer met with the entire concurrence and appro-
747746The Attorney-General,
 was by no means prepared to deny the importance of the alteration suggested by the hon. Gentleman, or that great and valuable changes might be made in the appellate jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery; but he did not hesitate to state that he had no intention whatever of introducing into this bill any such clause as that proposed by the hon. Gentleman. If he did so during the present Session, he would be fairly chargeable with crude and hasty legislation.The Attorney-General
 (Sir W. Follett) said, the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, after hearing that the hon. Member for Horsham had given up other offices in order to accept this, at once said he would be willing to give him compensation to the extent of those offices, and the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) then also thought, that the case was much altered by the fact of those offices having been given up. The right hon. Baronet opposite was quite right in saying, that the noble Lord had voted against the compensation in the division on that occasion.The Solicitor-General
753**"He thought that the House ought to act liberally in compensating persons deprived of any office in consequence of improvements in the law. They ought to do so, not only in justice but in policy, because the slightest disposition on the part of Parliament to act illiberally towards persons so situated would make the passing of any measure of reform matter of great difficulty. What was the worth of these two-penny-half-penny questions compared with the great good which would be gained by a reform like the one now proposed? He thought, that the Court of Exchequer had behaved admirably on this occasion, as Lord Abinger had offered no opposition to a bill which would strip him of a great deal of patronage."*"That he meant to vote for the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Exeter, on the ground that Lord Abinger had a right to appoint a person to the office, and that the individual so appointed, had therefore a right to compensation on being deprived of it."*752 begged the hon. and learned Gentleman to remember, that in referring to the arrangement suggested last Parliament of a compensation restricted to the loss which Mr. Scarlett sustained by resigning the offices previously held, he the (Solicitor-general) had given no opinion whatever favourable to such a proposition; nor had he alluded to it as any reason why he should not receive compensation under this bill. The ground on which he had put the matter before, and that on which he rested the claim now, was this: Mr. Scarlett was in justice entitled to compensation, not with reference to anything he had given up, but because he was holding now an office in the Court of Exchequer which was to be abolished by the bill now before the House. The hon. Member for Sheffield had expressed an opinion, that the Lord Chief Baron was not, in justice to the public, called upon to fill up the vacancy which had occurred. The hon. Member should have been aware, that by act of Parliament the Lord Chief Baron was bound to fill it up. But even if no statute applied to the case, it was quite impossible that the Lord Chief Baron could allow one of the offices of Master in the Court of Exchequer to remain vacant. The performance of the regular business of the court, in which every suitor had an interest, required that the vacancy should be supplied. The hon. Member for Sheffield was also mistaken in supposing, that when the bill was brought into the House of Lords there was a general concurrence of opinion as to the propriety of abolishing the office. It was quite essential, he repeated, that the Lord Chief Baron should fill up the vacancy. That being so, some practising barrister, some one taken from the bar, must have been appointed; and whether he held the office of counsel to the Mint or not, he must give up some practice and some emolument; why, then, should he not be entitled to compensation when the
753**"He thought that the House ought to act liberally in compensating persons deprived of any office in consequence of improvements in the law. They ought to do so, not only in justice but in policy, because the slightest disposition on the part of Parliament to act illiberally towards persons so situated would make the passing of any measure of reform matter of great difficulty. What was the worth of these two-penny-half-penny questions compared with the great good which would be gained by a reform like the one now proposed? He thought, that the Court of Exchequer had behaved admirably on this occasion, as Lord Abinger had offered no opposition to a bill which would strip him of a great deal of patronage."*"That he meant to vote for the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Exeter, on the ground that Lord Abinger had a right to appoint a person to the office, and that the individual so appointed, had therefore a right to compensation on being deprived of it."*752The Solicitor-General
: His hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, had asked a question to which no distinct answer had been given. His hon. Friend had asked, whether the Government would agree to limit the compensation to be given to Mr. Scarlett, to the value of those offices stated to be abandoned by him when he accepted the situation in the Exchequer? That was a plain, simple question, and it would be satisfactory to have it replied to one way or the other.Viscount Palmerston
 said, there was no subject which had more engrossed the attention of the late Master-general of the Ordnance than the quality of the muskets given to the British army. He had been long sensible that that arm was not such a one as ought to be put into the hands of British troops, and had devoted a great deal of time and attention to different experiments on the various improvements which had taken place, with the view of arriving at an opinion as to what was the best arm to be given to the army. It would be in the recollection of the House, that his noble Friend had proposed a vote for the purpose of supplying a large portion of the army with a musket of a new construction. It had been a subject of great anxiety to him, that circumstances had prevented him from supplying the army more generally with that musket; he had been anxious to do so as fast as Parliament would supply him with the means.Viscount Palmerston
 concurred in the hon. Member's remark, but would reserve what he had lo say for a future occasion.Captain Plumridge
lllThat all the Exchequer bills so to be deposited with the governor and company of the Bank of England shall be delivered over to the Paymasters of Exchequer Bills to be cancelled; and that all monies so to be received shall be paid into the receipt of the Exchequer, to be applied from time to time to such services, for Great Britain and Ireland, as shall have been voted by this House in this Session of Parliament, that the Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury shall be authorised to complete the sum requisite to discharge the services granted by this House in this Session of Parliament, and the interest on Exchequer bills charged on the aids or supplies of the present year, amounting in the whole to 2,467,432llllThat subscribers shall be at liberty to pay the said instalments in advance, and shall in such case be entitled, if the payment be made in Exchequer Bills, to interest thereupon, to the period when the instalment will be due; and if payment be made in money, to interest at the rate of two pence farthing per diem upon every 100lThat interest shall be allowed upon all Exchequer bills deposited in payment of each instalment, up to the date of such instalment; and upon each instalment paid in money, interest on the same from the 27th day of September 1841 to the date of such instalment.l20ll20ll20ll20lThat the several subscribers shall complete their respective subscriptions at the Bank of England, by instalments, in the proportions and at the times under mentioned; that is to say,lslsll836l"That the several persons who have engaged to subscribe towards funding the sum 5,000,000 of Exchequer Bills charged on aids or supplies dated in March and June 1841, (or in any antecedent month, provided the same have not been advertised to be paid off,) and who have made deposits of 20lslsll836l835l834 meant half the amount. Of course, under the present circumstances of the country, he need not say, especially after all that had lately passed in that House, that it would be impracticable upon the present occasion to provide for the deficiency that existed by additional taxation. Under the present circumstances he should recommend the House to make a temporary provision to meet the deficiency. It was the one that seemed to be expected by every man who had spoken upon this subject, and, however, in his opinion, it was to be deprecated as a permanent mode of meeting a deficiency in the revenue, yet it was one that, under the present circumstances, he believed no reasonable man would object to. He was sure that the House would see that so soon after the accession of the present Government to office, with the general indisposition manifested not to embark in lengthened discussions of this nature, it must be impossible, with any effect to propose additional taxation to the country because it would be impossible, too, to make such an accurate examination of the expenditure, as to enable him to say whether or not it was susceptible of such a reduction as might lessen the amount required for the pub-
lllThat all the Exchequer bills so to be deposited with the governor and company of the Bank of England shall be delivered over to the Paymasters of Exchequer Bills to be cancelled; and that all monies so to be received shall be paid into the receipt of the Exchequer, to be applied from time to time to such services, for Great Britain and Ireland, as shall have been voted by this House in this Session of Parliament, that the Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury shall be authorised to complete the sum requisite to discharge the services granted by this House in this Session of Parliament, and the interest on Exchequer bills charged on the aids or supplies of the present year, amounting in the whole to 2,467,432llllThat subscribers shall be at liberty to pay the said instalments in advance, and shall in such case be entitled, if the payment be made in Exchequer Bills, to interest thereupon, to the period when the instalment will be due; and if payment be made in money, to interest at the rate of two pence farthing per diem upon every 100lThat interest shall be allowed upon all Exchequer bills deposited in payment of each instalment, up to the date of such instalment; and upon each instalment paid in money, interest on the same from the 27th day of September 1841 to the date of such instalment.l20ll20ll20ll20lThat the several subscribers shall complete their respective subscriptions at the Bank of England, by instalments, in the proportions and at the times under mentioned; that is to say,lslsll836l"That the several persons who have engaged to subscribe towards funding the sum 5,000,000 of Exchequer Bills charged on aids or supplies dated in March and June 1841, (or in any antecedent month, provided the same have not been advertised to be paid off,) and who have made deposits of 20lslsll836l835l834The Chancellor of the Exehequer
"That, after twenty-five years of peace it is inexpedient to add to the funded debt the amount of the deficiency of the revenue to meet the expenditure of the present and four preceding years; that such deficiency might, and ought to be made good by the observance of rigid economy and retrenchment in the public expenditure,"851l"Every office seems to be lord of its own will, and every officer seems to have unlimited power over the purse of the nation, instead of their being, as the spirit of the constitution directed, under the constant check of the Treasury."ds.850lllll849llll—746,194
—746,194191,194Excess of the navy in two years
191,194Excess of the navy in two years155,000Expenses in Canada
155,000Expenses in Canada£400,000For the expedition to China
£400,000For the expedition to China
—746,194
—746,194191,194Excess of the navy in two years
191,194Excess of the navy in two years155,000Expenses in Canada
155,000Expenses in Canada£400,000For the expedition to China
£400,000For the expedition to Chinall848llll, said that the right hon. Gentleman was very much mistaken, if he supposed that he should recommend any imposition of fresh taxes to meet the wants of the Exchequer. He thought the effects of the bad economy which had been practised might be met by a plan which would not work any detriment to the public service. The proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for relieving himself from his financial difficulty was, no doubt, the easiest and least troublsome to himself; it was the course always pursued by the profligate spendthrift, so long as he has credit to borrow, of getting out of present difficulties, by plunging deeper into debt; but every thinking man, who reflected upon what the end must be of adding year after year to a debt exceeding eight hundred millions would hear the proposition with painful regret. During the last seven yea is, from 1834 to 1840, there was added to the debt permanently 33,977,250"That, after twenty-five years of peace it is inexpedient to add to the funded debt the amount of the deficiency of the revenue to meet the expenditure of the present and four preceding years; that such deficiency might, and ought to be made good by the observance of rigid economy and retrenchment in the public expenditure,"851l"Every office seems to be lord of its own will, and every officer seems to have unlimited power over the purse of the nation, instead of their being, as the spirit of the constitution directed, under the constant check of the Treasury."ds.850lllll849llll—746,194
—746,194191,194Excess of the navy in two years
191,194Excess of the navy in two years155,000Expenses in Canada
155,000Expenses in Canada£400,000For the expedition to China
£400,000For the expedition to China
—746,194
—746,194191,194Excess of the navy in two years
191,194Excess of the navy in two years155,000Expenses in Canada
155,000Expenses in Canada£400,000For the expedition to China
£400,000For the expedition to Chinall848llllMr. W. Williams
 intimated that it would be informal to move such an amendment as that proposed on the resolution of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer.The Chairman
891Sir James Graham890 said, that he felt for the embarrassment of the hon. Member who had just sat down, when he recollected the declaration made by him on the hustings at the West Riding of Yorkshire against the Poor-law, and when he saw him now called on, either to take the course proposed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Dorchester, or to adopt the amendment proposed by the hon. Member. The course which the hon. Gentleman had proposed, would, he thought, be unbecoming the dignity of the House to adopt. The hon. Member did not wish the leading features of the Poor-law to be discussed—he did not seem to consider the separation of man and wife as a point calling for their interference, but gave his support to the instructions which sought to prevent the commissioners from extending the Unions to places in which they had not, as yet, been introduced. He must own, that since they were not to discuss the great question, as the right hon. Baronet had been forced to announce, after much expostulation, they ought not to make a deviation in regard to a question which it might be convenient for some Gentlemen opposite to discuss. If they were not to discuss this question, in conjunction with the question of the Corn-laws—if Gentlemen opposite, whose miraculous powers had been so loudly proclaimed, had really not advised the Crown, because they had nothing to advise—if that was the case, then he thought that the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Dorchester, was not an unfair one on the present occasion. The hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire must attribute his embarrassment to the course pursued by Gentlemen opposite. They had introduced a hill to continue the expiring laws from December next; but it was the commission only that expired. Why had the hon. Gentleman not come forward, and told them the terms on which he meant to continue the commission? He would not move any amendment, because he believed that hon. Gentlemen opposite
891Sir James Graham890Mr. V. Smith
ex officio900 thanked the hon. Member who spoke last, for having restored the tone of good humour in which such a debate ought to be carried on, and he sincerely hoped that nothing would induce them to conduct the discussion of this most important question with the feelings of partisans. For his part, he did not think the proposition of the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, at all so unreasonable as to the minds of
ex officio900(Brecon)Colonel Wood, (Brecon)
 said, that to every one of the amendments he had originally advocated, he still adhered. He was now, as he had previously been, of opinion, that the administration of the Poor-law ought to be transferred from the commissioners to a responsible. Minister of the Crown, who would always have a seat in that House, and he did not think that such a Minister—still less that the commissioners —should possess the power of legislating: he should limit their authority to the mere execution of the law, for he was unwilling to trust any man with the power of affixing a stigma upon one who had not been convicted of any offence. He well knew that separation could not be avoided in the present state of the unions, and, therefore, he held that out-door relief ought to be granted. He should support neither the one instruction nor the other, but, on the contrary, vote for postponing the whole matter till the entire machinery of the Poor-law could be brought under their consideration.Mr. H. Hinde
902 had recently received two letters from constituents of his in Preston, expressing in the strongest terms the objections which they felt to the re-enactment of the Poor-law. He should not then go into the general question, for he quite agreed with those who thought that it ought to be postponed till the House next met. He wished, however, to say, that he hoped during the approaching recess, no parish not now under the law would be placed within the scope of its provisions. According to one of the letters which he held in his hand, a petition on the subject of the present measure had been forwarded to his hon. colleague, the late Member for Yorkshire, signed by 1,260 of his constituents, every one of whom had appended to his name a statement of his residence and his trade. These petitioners were all out of employment, and were now living upon the bounty of such amongst their neighbours, as were able to give them any support. It surely might be allowed to persons to act on behalf of their own funds, instead of having to look for their administration to the poor, to what he should always consider the uncon-
902Sir H. Fleetwood
913"And whereas, by an act passed in the seventh year of the reign of his late Majesty, intituled,' An Act for the Commutation of Tithes in England and Wales it was among others enacted
913, on the question for going into Committee on the Expiring Laws Bill, moved: the following instruction which was agreed; to, viz.—
913"And whereas, by an act passed in the seventh year of the reign of his late Majesty, intituled,' An Act for the Commutation of Tithes in England and Wales it was among others enacted
913The Solicitor-General
statu quo889"That it shall not be lawful for the commissioners, from the date of the passing of this bill, to declare the formation of any new Unions in districts which are not already placed under the operation of the Act 4 and 5 William 4th, c. 76."888Cheers from the Opposition.887 thought that the House must see the very great reasonableness of what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, and he trusted that the hon. Member would consider that he would be placing even those who were willing to support him in a position of some difficulty, if he should persist in his motion. The hon. Member would place them in a position of some difficulty for this reason, that it would be repugnant to their inclination to give a vote affirming a principle contrary to the instruction which the hon. Gentleman wished to submit to the House; but, on the other hand, they must feel that to vote with the hon. Member in favour of the instruction, and to take the opportunity of passing a mere contingent bill for the purpose of making an alteration in the Poor-law Act, would only have the effect of opening the door to alterations of all kinds in the law, and that the House would then, in fact, be undertaking to do that which the proposal of Government had for its object to prevent—namely, to commence the entire discussion of this great and extensive question. Under these circumstances he could not help thinking that it was no unreasonable request to make to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Yorke), that he should give way upon the present occasion, in order to leave the point involved in his instruction as a part of the great question to be discussed hereafter. In saying this he did not intend in the slightest degree to give any countenance, so far as anything that he could say, or do could be taken as affording a countenance to any proposition—he did not intend, he said, to give any countenance to the principle which the hon. Gentleman wished to condemn—the principle which was said to justify the separation of the sexes to the extent to which it had been carried under the operation of the Poor-law Amendment Act. But what the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) had said, was perfectly true—that this question with respect to the separation of the sexes depended upon the question also as to whether large numbers of paupers should be collected in one House. Therefore if the House entered into the discussion of whether the sexes should be separated, it must also enter into a discussion of the prohibitory order, and go through the whole question as to the propriety of enforcing that order, namely, that all those who received relief should be brought into one
statu quo889"That it shall not be lawful for the commissioners, from the date of the passing of this bill, to declare the formation of any new Unions in districts which are not already placed under the operation of the Act 4 and 5 William 4th, c. 76."888Cheers from the Opposition.887Mr. S. Wortley
"Was there any alternative, if the Corn-laws were to be considered at all—was there any other alternative than that of fully stating the measure of the Government? And was it not infinitely better that nothing should be said till the plan was maturely prepared, ready for the consideration of Parliament? What advantage would there be in merely hinting at details, and then postponing consideration of them? It is impossible to deny that we are familiar with the subjects of finance, Corn-laws, and the Poor-laws."857"Distress renders a man hopeless; he becomes desperate, and preys upon society, and careless even of what little honest advantages are in his way, and then comes the last wretchedness. Such a man is not likely to be a good husband, a good father, or a good neighbour, or even a good subject. Can we wonder if, while brooding in forced inactivity over his misfortunes, he listens to the agitators, who tell him they are all owing to bad legislation? When we consider how much evil he really suffers from the Corn-laws, can we wonder that he exaggerates their influence, or that, finding all alteration in them steadily refused, he cherishes wild visions of organic changes?""We find by experience, that if we lose a market one year, we lose it altogether. It is not wise to trifle with trade by trying experiments for only one year; we might shut ourselves out. Once in possession of a market, they would keep it."856"Then are we not, by this system, undermining the very means by which public taxation and public revenue are supported? —I think that we not only check the collection of the revenue immediately, but that we are also undermining our resources. I cannot help often looking at the consequences with considerable alarm. I think the country cannot stand such a system as this for a long period.""Does not every limitation in the importation of food, and every rise in the price of food, tend to undermine the manufactures of the country upon which we depend? I conceive that it must be so, because we place ourselves at the risk of being surpassed by the manufactures in other countries; and as soon as it happens, if ever the day should arrive, that we should be put to a severe trial as to our manufacturing power, I can hardly doubt that the prosperity of this country will recede much faster than it has gone forward.855854Hansard's Debates853 said, that the debate took, as he expected it would, a somewhat more enlarged range than the financial statement of the right hon. Gentleman would seem to warrant. He should not attempt to alter the course of the discussion, and should say, for his own part, that he did not believe that the expectations which had been raised on the accession of the right hon. Gentleman to office would be at all realised. He was confirmed in this conviction by a reference to the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman and noble Lords who composed the Administration. He should urge, as a strong ground for imputing weakness to the Government, that the different members of it entertained various and conflicting political opinions. Take the question of the Corn-laws—that question which agitated the kingdom from one end to the other, and which involved its prosperity. From a Government holding such opposite opinions as the Members of this did, how could any satisfactory measure be expected on the subject of the Corn-laws? Just examine their speeches. The right hon. Member for Dorchester said, a fixed duty was an impossibility. To the commercial world, looking to that change as the means of curing the present evils of the system, and to a still wider circle, whose comforts and even existence the present state of things affected, the right hon. Gentleman announced, that that which was supported by practical and theoretical writers, was an impossibility. Well, the Master-general of the Ordnance, who held a conspicuous station, said just the the reverse. He announced a small fixed duty as the panacea for our present evils. The noble Lord at the head of the woods and forests—no unimportant Member of the Government—thought the present scale should be altered. But if we looked to the speech of the Duke of Buckingham, he announced his intention of abiding by the law as it was, and that he would sanction no backsliding, no change of opinion. He referred, even since he was raised to
"Was there any alternative, if the Corn-laws were to be considered at all—was there any other alternative than that of fully stating the measure of the Government? And was it not infinitely better that nothing should be said till the plan was maturely prepared, ready for the consideration of Parliament? What advantage would there be in merely hinting at details, and then postponing consideration of them? It is impossible to deny that we are familiar with the subjects of finance, Corn-laws, and the Poor-laws."857"Distress renders a man hopeless; he becomes desperate, and preys upon society, and careless even of what little honest advantages are in his way, and then comes the last wretchedness. Such a man is not likely to be a good husband, a good father, or a good neighbour, or even a good subject. Can we wonder if, while brooding in forced inactivity over his misfortunes, he listens to the agitators, who tell him they are all owing to bad legislation? When we consider how much evil he really suffers from the Corn-laws, can we wonder that he exaggerates their influence, or that, finding all alteration in them steadily refused, he cherishes wild visions of organic changes?""We find by experience, that if we lose a market one year, we lose it altogether. It is not wise to trifle with trade by trying experiments for only one year; we might shut ourselves out. Once in possession of a market, they would keep it."856"Then are we not, by this system, undermining the very means by which public taxation and public revenue are supported? —I think that we not only check the collection of the revenue immediately, but that we are also undermining our resources. I cannot help often looking at the consequences with considerable alarm. I think the country cannot stand such a system as this for a long period.""Does not every limitation in the importation of food, and every rise in the price of food, tend to undermine the manufactures of the country upon which we depend? I conceive that it must be so, because we place ourselves at the risk of being surpassed by the manufactures in other countries; and as soon as it happens, if ever the day should arrive, that we should be put to a severe trial as to our manufacturing power, I can hardly doubt that the prosperity of this country will recede much faster than it has gone forward.855854Hansard's Debates853Mr. Hawes
status quostatus quo899898897 said, that he so entirely concurred with what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman in the latter part of his speech, that he should make no further allusion to the former part than to say, that he hoped the next time the hon. Member came down with the intention of addressing to the House his exhortations to lay aside party and political feelings, he would not allow himself to be seduced into every possible irritating subject. In the substance of the hon. Member's admonition he fully agreed, and he hoped that on a question which concerned interests that would last, not for a day or a year, or for the duration of a Ministry, on a question which so much and so deeply affected the permanent interests of the people of Eng-
status quostatus quo899898897Mr. C. Buller
 called upon Mr. Roebuck, who had given notice of a motion, but that Gentleman was not in the House. The right hon. Gentleman then called upon.The Speaker
852 observed, that for the last ten years, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, never lighted upon this new mode of saving the public money. The reason was obvious—the blow would come home to himself, for the hon. Gentleman had extracted a considerable sum from the pockets of the people of this country before, unfortunately, he could stop him. No doubt the hon. Gentleman, or his Friend near him, looked forward to be Chancellor of the Exchequer one of these days; but God forbid he should see that day. Whatever the personal ambition of the hon. Gentleman opposite was, one thing was quite clear, that during the very short time the present Government held office, every attempt had been made to bully them. But they were too strong in
852Colonel Sibthorp
879878877876875llslllllNo, no.l874 corroborated the statements of the hon. Member for Oldham, that throughout the manufacturing districts generally, many of the mills were working short time, and that many of the mill-owners were working even that time almost as much, if not more, on account of the consideration they felt for the people in their employ, than for any profit they made. These persons, one and all, looked upon some measure, such as that proposed by the late Government, as the only means of amending the state of their trade; and, indeed, of enabling them to carry it on at all. He, however, had arisen more particularly for the purpose of obtaining some information from the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He concurred with the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the right hon. Gentleman had made the whole matter less clear than it was before.
879878877876875llslllllNo, no.l874Mr. C. Wood
l said, his right hon. Friend (Mr. Baring's) opinion was, when he brought forward his budget, that a sum of 700,000lMr. C. Wood
907906 deprecated the introduction into the discussion of this question of party and political feelings; and he really felt that nothing had fallen from his side of the House to justify the observations which had been made by the noble Lord. Hon. Members on his side of the House fully admitted the right of openly expressing opinions on this as on other subjects. It was a right they claimed for themselves. He had expressed to his constituents his entire approbation of the whole principle and general tenour of the Poor-law Bill, without, at the same time, agreeing to all its details; and he should, therefore, be the last person to deny to the noble Lord the right of expressing to his constituents his opposition to the measure. But what he and those around him objected to was, that the opposition to the Poor-law Bill had been made use of as an engine of political warfare. That was what they objected to, what they had a right to object to, and what he was sure his noble Friend would not venture to justify. Now, in that part of the country with which he was connected such a course had been pursued, and the best proof of it was, that until the election of 1837 no warmth of feeling whatever had existed upon the subject of the Poor-law in the West Riding of the county of York; while the best proof that the feeling existing at the period of elections was fictitious was to be found in the fact that strong opinions had been expressed in those parts of that riding only where, practically speaking, the due administration of the Poor-law had never come into operation. A petition had been presented to that House last year complaining of the operation of the Poor-law, and the hardship of the workhouse test in the Halifax union. But on
907906Mr. C. Wood
881 said, the right hon. Gentleman opposite had proceeded on the idea, that the amount he stated would be made up either by additional consumption of colonial or foreign sugar. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) said at the time, that consumption would greatly increase according to the fall in the price of sugar, and this prediction had been verified, for sugar had since fallen to the price at which foreign sugar could be sold. He had, therefore, been fully justified in the view he had
881The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ds said, when the sugar duties were discussed, the simple question between them was—was British plantation sugar likely to be reduced to such a price as foreign sugar could be imported and sold for, namely, 61dsThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
lll rose to answer a question put to him by the right hon. Member opposite (Mr. Baring), in consequence of a misunderstanding of what he had stated. When the Budget was brought forward by the right hon. Member for Portsmouth last year, the right hon. Gentleman distinctly said, that he included in his estimates the whole of the probable revenue from corn. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to mean, in reference to his statement of the amount of the customs, not that he could tell the exact produce of the various items but that he had formed his opinion as to the total result on the usual probabilities. With respect to corn—and this principle was admitted in every discussion on the subject, what the revenue gained by corn was abstracted from the produce of other items, and that what the revenue lost by corn was gained by an increase upon other articles. On these principles his calculations had now been founded; and all that he had meant to say was, that, balancing one set of duties against another set, and comparing the weekly returns of consumption, the calculations he had submitted to the House, would be found to turn out accurate. With respect to what he had inferred respecting the sugar duties, he would explain the grounds on which he had formed his conclusions. Last year, there was a reduction in the sugar duties of 163,000lllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
847846bonuslslbonusds.bonus845llll844843 said, that the right hon. Gentleman had concluded with a sentiment which he had often uttered when on the other side of the House—namely, that he saw no reason at
847846bonuslslbonusds.bonus845llll844843The Chancellor of the Exchequer
lldsds833Mr. F. T. Baringlll832831llll830llllll829 said, as the House has made all the grants of supply that arc necessary for the public service, I rise, conformably to the usual
lldsds833Mr. F. T. Baringlll832831llll830llllll829The Chancellor of the Exchequer
883882"That it be an instruction to the Committee, that they have power to make provision that the commissioners be not empowered to enforce indiscriminate separation between man and wife; and that in no case shall they sanction or permit separation, when the application for relief shall be substantiated as arising from positive inability to obtain work, or from physical infirmity, and not from idleness, vice, or crime:", who rose to move,
883882"That it be an instruction to the Committee, that they have power to make provision that the commissioners be not empowered to enforce indiscriminate separation between man and wife; and that in no case shall they sanction or permit separation, when the application for relief shall be substantiated as arising from positive inability to obtain work, or from physical infirmity, and not from idleness, vice, or crime:"Mr. H. B. Yorke
904 said, he was one of those who had suffered so much from the cry against the Poor-law, which had been get up upon the hustings by hon. Gentlemen opposite, that he should support the motion of the hon. Member for York. He really thought, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had brought this question upon themselves, by their conduct on the hustings. He much deprecated, that hon. Members should use questions of this kind in order to mislead and rouse the passions of their constituencies. If the hon. Member for York felt it necessary to divide the House on this question, he (Mr. Wigney) should vote with him. But he thought there was much good sense in the observations of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Dorchester, that it was the determination of the Government to take this measure into deliberate consideration, and to weigh well all its difficulties, in order to bring forward a good measure; yet he had been so used on the hustings and elsewhere on
904Mr. Wigney
l was glad the hon. Member for Coventry had called the attention of the House to the subject of the great expense incurred in the collection of the revenue. The hon. Gentleman referred to a Parliamentary Return, from which it appeared that a sum of more than 6,000,000lDr. Bowring
873ll was understood to say, that the distress of the manufacturing population in his neighbourhood, and Other manufacturing districts was so great, that they could not get bread to eat; they were begging about the streets in crowds, and unable to get relief from the Unions sufficient to alleviate their wants. As a general justification of what had been stated by the hon. Member for Ashton-under-line, he would remind the right hon. Baronet, that the hon. Member had presented a petition from the inhabitants, complaining of the increase of local taxation, and showing that the county rates, which in the year 1836 amounted only to 70873llMr. Fielden
ssssll908 said he was extremely anxious, if the consideration of the question were to be deferred, and he thought it
ssssll908Mr. Hardy
 denied that agricultural associations were in any way made political engines. He was to have presided over a meeting only last Friday; and, as he could not attend, he had begged a Whig friend to take the chair.Colonel Rushbrooke
861 had been entrusted with two petitions from Walsall, the borough which he represented stating, in the strongest terms, the distress which prevailed in that town, and praying that Parliament would not seperate without devising some remedial measures. Under these circumstances he protested against the question of the Corn-laws being excluded from the budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was a question of vital importance as affecting the interests of the country. Whether or not the Chancellor of the Exchequer succeeded in raising a revenue sufficient for the expenditure, still would the Corn-laws remain to be considered for the interest of trade and commerce. The state of the country as admitted on all hands, was deplorable, trade was every day becoming worse and worse, hundreds were thrown out of employment, and if this state of things should continue through the winter it would be impossible to foresee the result
861Mr. Robert Scott
: The hon. and gallant Member was not present at the meeting. I was informed by a gentleman who was present, and he said he heard the proceedings with great pain, and that many other gentlemen had expressed the same feeling—he himself heard some few hisses.Mr. Gibson
827the Ipswich JournalExpress, said that if the House would allow him to make a few remarks in reply to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member, he should first observe that there was a wide difference between proposing a toast and drinking it. He could well conceive that the noble Lord in the chair had proposed the health of her Majesty in very becoming terms, but it did not therefore follow that the meeting responded to those terms with that feeling which might have been expected on the occasion. The hon. and gallant Member had stated that he had been at the meeting, and that the health of the Queen was drunk in the usual manner. But he could say that a friend of his, who had also been present, had assured him that, not only was there a marked preference shown to the toast of the Queen Dowager over that of the Queen, but that he had actually heard some hisses. The hon. and gallant Gentleman did not hear the hisses, but they might had been given. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had not heard him mention the Association the other evening, though he was sitting opposite. But look to the public prints, and see what they said. The Ipswich Express said that the chairman proposed successively the health of her Majesty the Queen, Prince Albert, the Queen Dowager, and the rest of the Royal Family, which were drunk in the usual way, but the name of the Queen Dowager created the loudest applause. The 827the Ipswich JournalExpress,Mr. M. Gibson
903 said, he should consent to the delay in the settlement of this question which was demanded, and was anxious to state his reasons for so consenting. When they looked at the number of notices of amendments in the law, which had been given from both sides of the House in the last Session of Parliament, very little less than 140, he thought it would be very inexpedient and undesirable to legislate hastily on this subject; and, therefore, he entreated the hon. Member for the city of York not to press his amendment. He was firmly of opinion, that this law might be carried into effect without the central and unconstitutional power of the Poor-law commissioners. He would undertake 10 say, that in any given district of England—let them take Sheffield, if they thought proper, where the commissioners had been more fortunate than in other districts—if they canvassed the opinions of the middle classes of the people of this country, they would find, that the system on which this law was carried out was universally condemned. The working of the system of the New Poor-law was doing serious injury to our social system—it was drying up the sources of private charity and doing more mischief than the House was aware of. But in the present unprepared state of the Government, he thought it most unfair to press on this subject for discussion. He trusted, that in any bill which
903Mr. Grimsditch
910909 said, that as several allusions had been made to him in the course of this debate, he wished to make a few observations upon the subject before the House. In the first place, he would tell the hon. Member for Chester, that he had no more engagements in this House than he ought to have as the representative of-one of the metropolitan constituencies. He had heard, with pain and sorrow, much of the language used to-night on the Poor-law; he had heard it with a sense of pain that it was impossible to describe, because he was satisfied the result would be to produce throughout the public mind the greatest possible dissatisfaction. The new Poor-law had been commended by the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. C. Wood), the Member for Droitwich (Mr. Pakington), and, indeed, by both sides of the House; it was spoken of in the highest terms of admiration; it was referred to as one of the brightest specimens of legislative wisdom that was ever produced in a civilised country. He only wished, however, that hon. Members who thus spoke of the law felt its effects. He only re-
910909Mr. Wakley
 expressed a hope that, considering the late hour of the night, this bill would not be proceeded with, The parties who were opposed to the Poor-law Bill, had made a very great concession in not resisting it in the present Session. He thought, therefore, that they were entitled to consideration, and that the subject should not be brought forward at a time when it could not be fully discussed. If, however, it were the wish of the House to proceed, he would not interpose to prevent it.Mr. Wakley
"Mihi res, non me rebus, subjungere conor."860No," from the Chancellor of the Exchequer.d859charlatanerieSir Robert PeelHear," from Sir R. Peel858 said, that whatever might be inferred from the elections to be the voice of the constituency, the voice of the country, or of that part of the country which complained, should be heard; and it was
"Mihi res, non me rebus, subjungere conor."860No," from the Chancellor of the Exchequer.d859charlatanerieSir Robert PeelHear," from Sir R. Peel858Mr. Ewart
cries from the Ministerial benches, "They are, they are. said, that the letter received by the hon. and gallant Member for Suffolk, stated, that there was such a feeling towards the Queen Dowager, in consequence of her Christian virtues, that the noble Lord who wrote it was afraid of making a speech on the occasion, in proposing the Queen Dowager's health, was a confirmation of the observations made by his hon. friend. Were not he, would ask, the Christian virtues of her Majesty equal to those of the Queen Dowager, [cries from the Ministerial benches, "They are, they are.Mr. Ewart
 was confident that a grosser insult was never offered to the Queen of this country than that report. He believed that at public meetings persons were at liberty lo express their goodwill towards any one without any imputaton of disloyally. The charge in the present case was as unjust as it was indifferent to the party against whom it was made. In his opinion, the evidence was not sufficient to justify the charge.Sir C. Burrell
828 said, that the applause was given at the mention of the Queen Dowager's name from long ac-
828Sir C. B. Vere
"Henham, Sept. 26." "STRADBROKE."I remain, dear Sir Charles, faithfully yours,"Dear Sir Charles—I understand that Mr. Gibson has been deceived into the belief that the East Suffolk Agricultural Society is formed for political purposes, and that he has publicly stated that the health of her Majesty was not responded to; on the contrary, that the toast was hissed, and that all the cheers were reserved at the last annual meeting for the Queen Dowager. I need not tell you that if such a statement has been made by any person, every part of it is devoid of truth. If I can claim credit for anything, it is, that during the ten years this society has been formed, I have never allowed a sentence of party feeling to escape my lips; and it is remarkable, that on the last occasion I gave the health of the Queen Dowager and the Royal Family purposely without any remark, because I was aware that the popularity of the Queen Dowager, on account of her exemplary moral character, her Christian virtues exhibited in the public and private charities, and the consequent esteem which her Majesty enjoys in the hearts of the British nation, is so great, that if I had given an opportunity for a loud and honourable expression of public feeling, it would have been considered by bigots as a proof that the toast was political. You will oblige me by making an open use of this letter whenever an opportunity offers.825 requested the indulgence of the House for a few moments. He believed it was not strictly regular to allude to a former debate, but he felt called on to take notice of some remarks made the other night by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Gibson), upon the late dinner of the Agricultural Association of Saxmundham. He did not hear the name at the time, or he should have risen, but he had since received a letter from the noble Lord who was President of the Association, complaining of the remarks of the hon. Member. The House would recollect that the hon. Member had spoken of the Saxmundham Agricultural Association as having shown the symptons of becoming a Conservative Association; because, while they had received the health of her Majesty with cold indifference, they drank that of the Queen Dowager with nine times nine. The hon. Member also remarked upon the course which the Association had taken in having labourers brought in, and spoke in such a manner as to cast a reflection on the motives of the Association. The Earl of Stradbroke was in the chair on that occasion, and in introducing the Queen's health he said, he had the honour to propose a
"Henham, Sept. 26." "STRADBROKE."I remain, dear Sir Charles, faithfully yours,"Dear Sir Charles—I understand that Mr. Gibson has been deceived into the belief that the East Suffolk Agricultural Society is formed for political purposes, and that he has publicly stated that the health of her Majesty was not responded to; on the contrary, that the toast was hissed, and that all the cheers were reserved at the last annual meeting for the Queen Dowager. I need not tell you that if such a statement has been made by any person, every part of it is devoid of truth. If I can claim credit for anything, it is, that during the ten years this society has been formed, I have never allowed a sentence of party feeling to escape my lips; and it is remarkable, that on the last occasion I gave the health of the Queen Dowager and the Royal Family purposely without any remark, because I was aware that the popularity of the Queen Dowager, on account of her exemplary moral character, her Christian virtues exhibited in the public and private charities, and the consequent esteem which her Majesty enjoys in the hearts of the British nation, is so great, that if I had given an opportunity for a loud and honourable expression of public feeling, it would have been considered by bigots as a proof that the toast was political. You will oblige me by making an open use of this letter whenever an opportunity offers.825Sir C B. Vere
 was present when the charge was made by the hon. Member, and then he knew it to be unfounded. He had the honour to know Lord Stadbroke well, and felt quite certain that no man exceeded him in loyalty, and that the charge was false. How did the hon. Member justify that other charge he made, that all agricultural associations were turned into political ones? He denied that charge emphatically. He was president of an agricultural association in the county of Suffolk; and, in order to render it wholly free from having any political bearing, he asked for and obtained the assistance of a Whig friend to act as secretary. Me went further, and introduced into the rules and regulations one which was to the effect, that any member who thought proper to talk politics in the association should be excluded the society.Sir E. Kerrison
 remarked, that the sum stated by the right hon. Gentleman was only half the amount.Mr. F. T. Baring
Cheers.No, no.842841840839bonus838837 said, that he ahould
Cheers.No, no.842841840839bonus838837Mr. F. T. Baring
l880l explained. He had stated in June, when he brought forward hi budget, that he expected the customs, in eluding corn, to produce 22,000,000l880lMr. Baring
824 said, he regretted the absence of the right hon. Member for Dorchester, but he could not omit the opportunity of expressing his sentiments seeing the misapprehensions on the part of military men upon the subject, which had been brought before the House by his hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Marylebone. That hon. Member stated the unfitness of certain stores for the use, either of the army or navy, and that a naval officer should be placed over the Board of Ordnance, to which the Member for Tamworth replied, that there was no occasion for a naval officer being so placed
824Captain Pechell
901 did not regard the present as a factious opposition; but he wished to know whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to take those towns out of the operation of the measure which had local acts of their own, and whether it was intended, under the new bill, to comprehend places now
901Captain Pechell
885884 would avail himself of the opportunity afforded by the motion just made, of announcing to the House the course that he proposed to take, as well with respect to the motion then under its consideration as to the other motions relating' to the same subject which had been placed upon the notice paper. It was impossible to over-estimate the importance of the subject which was thus incidentally brought under the consideration of the House. He did not believe, that it was possible to discuss any subject which touched—more nearly touched—the feelings, or which was more immediately connected with the interests of so large a portion of our fellow-subjects. Feeling this, as lie did most sincerely, he considered it necessary lo approach the subject with particular caution. If he followed the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken into the discussion of this particular instruction, involving a portion of the workhouse regulation, he clearly saw that it would be impossible for him not to follow other Gentlemen in other instructions into other details; and thus incidentally and gradually, but with his eyes open, he should be betrayed into a consideration of all the details of the measure. He thought it necessary to be thus explicit. The object of the Government in the introduction of the present bill was, to avoid precisely the course to which the hon. Gentleman would now lead him. Government introduced the bill simply and solely for the continuance of the Poor-law commission till the 31st of July next, with the view of affording to themselves and to the Legislature time and opportunity carefully and
885884Sir James Graham
 moved the order of the day, for the House to go into Committee on the Poor-law Commission Bill.Sir J. Graham
Hear, hear, from Sir R. Peel.893No, no892 was at a loss to understand how what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite could dissuade those who were opposed to this measure from giving their opposition to it. It might be a reason if the hon. Gentleman fairly represented the views taken by the hon. Member for Northampton, but it was no ground whatever for calling upon those who had formerly opposed the law, or those who were returned for the express purpose of so doing, not now to press on the present Government this question, on which at all events, the Secretary of Stale for the Home Department, and the Members of the Government, must be prepared to ex-
Hear, hear, from Sir R. Peel.893No, no892Mr. Jervis
896895No, no.894 deprecated the acrimony with which it seemed that this debate was to be carried on. With respect to the question of separation of the sexes in workhouses, he believed he might go beyond the right hon. Member for Dorchester (Sir J. Graham), because, not only in the Gilbert union workhouses, but in every well regulated workhouse throughout the kingdom, the separation of the sexes was carried into effect. For his part, he regretted that the House should be
896895No, no.894Mr. Pakington
: The hon. Gentleman is so much excited on tins subject, that, wishing to calm down his subordinate indignation in the absence of his leader, I beg to acquaint him that it was intimated to me at an early period of the present session that the noble Lord the Member for London, and then the leader of the House of Commons, intended that some Bill should be introduced for the purpose of continuing the Poor-law commission to the end of the next Session. And the measure which is now proposed is exactly in conformity with that which the noble Lord, if he had remained in office, intended to introduce. The noble Lord the Member for the City of London, lately at the head of her Majesty's Government, thought it impossible in the present session to proceed with the consideration of those modifications in the Poor-law, to which it was his intention to call the attention of the House at a future time; and it was his intention to have given notice of a Bill for the purpose of continuing the commission during the interval. That was intimated to me on the part of the late Government; it did appear to me rational to make such a proposition, and I confess I was very much surprised when the hon. Gentleman favoured the House with the display of so much unnecessary indignation.Sir R. Peel
867dsStandardTimes"Right hon. Sir—At the petty Sessions, in Oldham, yesterday, I called the attention of the overseer of Royton to the enclosed statement in the StandardTimes"Oldham, Sept. 21, 1841."866ds"He (Mr. Hindley) had lately met with an individual, a working man, who had been obliged to go from master to master in consequence of the introduction of improvements in machinery. He had been last with a master who failed, and he was at present in consequence, thrown out of all employment. He (Mr. Hindley) said, he was afraid that under these circumstances he must go upon the parish. The man answered to the parish he had gone. He went to the parish of Royton, near Oldham where he received from the overseer 1866ds865"That from week to week and from day to day there has been a gradual and decided depression in trade—that the workpeople cannot exist because the masters cannot afford to employ them—that debts cannot be recovered or payments made for want of means to meet them—and he draws a piteous picture of the stagnation of all kinds of trade, and the universal and complete prostration of business."864Williams863l862—Sir, I hope the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth, and the hon. Member who followed him, as well as the hon. Gentlemen who spoke last will not think that it is from any disrespect to them that I repeat my expressed determination to adhere to the course I have already laid down on the subject under debate, that is to say in my determination of not making any statement of my intentions on the subject of permanent legislation during the present Session of Parliament. For, Sir, I think it is more consistent with the duty which her Majesty's Government owes to Parliament and to the country, to consider calmly the state of affairs in all their bearings, and to make use of all the information which their position enables them to command, before they submit their measures to the opinion of Parliament, than that I should bring them forward, in a crude hasty form now, or to use the expression of the right hon. Gentleman, the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, that if I did not give the country a full view of my plans, I should at least give it a glimpse of them. On that point, Sir, I must again repeat my intention to adhere to my determination, as I expressed it the other night; and I must add that I think the country would be less benefited than injured by such partial glimpses, as the right hon. Gentleman wishes for. This course I consider more calculated to mislead the country than to set it right; and I should disappoint the right hon. Gentleman's view of my character, in the panegyric he was pleased to bestow on me if I departed from the course that I have laid down for myself on this occasion. The right hon. Gentleman has been pleased to say that force of character and reserve, such as he has described me to possess, are seldom found combined in an individual. I am much mistaken in my estimate of myself if I deserve the right hon. Gentleman's panegyric, but he has one consolation at least, if it be true, and that is that if they be found not combined in an individual, they will be found combined in my Government. Sir, in the course of this debate the late Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to state that I
867dsStandardTimes"Right hon. Sir—At the petty Sessions, in Oldham, yesterday, I called the attention of the overseer of Royton to the enclosed statement in the StandardTimes"Oldham, Sept. 21, 1841."866ds"He (Mr. Hindley) had lately met with an individual, a working man, who had been obliged to go from master to master in consequence of the introduction of improvements in machinery. He had been last with a master who failed, and he was at present in consequence, thrown out of all employment. He (Mr. Hindley) said, he was afraid that under these circumstances he must go upon the parish. The man answered to the parish he had gone. He went to the parish of Royton, near Oldham where he received from the overseer 1866ds865"That from week to week and from day to day there has been a gradual and decided depression in trade—that the workpeople cannot exist because the masters cannot afford to employ them—that debts cannot be recovered or payments made for want of means to meet them—and he draws a piteous picture of the stagnation of all kinds of trade, and the universal and complete prostration of business."864Williams863l862Sir R. Peel
872871870869868 did not rise for the purpose of making any particular objection to the measures that had been proposed that evening to the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; as the Government have determined not to increase the revenue by removing the fetters which now cramp the industry of the country, he was ready to admit that the course which the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to pursue was much better than adding to the amount of taxation. The electors of the United Kingdom had returned to that House a majority, who placing their confidence in the Gentlemen opposite had resolved to transfer the Government to their hands. But if the opinion of the majority of that House was really the opinion of the country, and if the country had therefore now obtained a Ministry to its mind, he hoped that the people would at least recollect that they were now about to pay two millions and a half for that gratification. The price which was to be paid for the gratification of having the hon. Gentlemen opposite in power and for having no relaxation of our commercial system, was an addition of two millions and a-half to the permanent debt of the country. He wished that the people might not find the hon. Gentlemen somewhat too dear at the money. However, he was perfectly prepared, along with his right hon. Friends, to concur in the course now proposed to be taken by her Majesty's Ministers, as being, under the circumstances the least of the evils from which they had chosen to make a selection. But having stated that, he must repeat that he could not but express his entire disapprobation of the general course which her Majesty's Ministers seemed determined to take. It was perfectly true that it would be unreasonable to expect that they should come down at that time and state in detail the system of increased taxation which they might intend to propose for the ensuing year in order to make the expenditure and revenue equal. He did not indeed suppose that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, though it had slipped from his lips in the course of what he said, could hope to be able in the course of the next year to devise any plan by which the revenue and expenditure of the country could be per-
872871870869868Viscount Palmerston
905 said, as one of those Gentlemen who had been guilty of the heinous crime of having expressed his opinion on the Poor-law, he begged to rise to vindicate his opinion. It was the first time that this language had been used in the House—that on great questions of internal policy Members who appeared before their constituents for the purpose of explaining their opinions should be told they ought to suppress them. Was it only to be allowed to a Whig or a Radical to have an opinion and to express it? Why was it that a Tory alone was not to express his opinion? Why was it lo be allowed to Whigs and Radicals to oppose and abuse the Poor-law if they thought fit, but that a Conservative was to be thought to be only tampering with the feelings of his constituents if he expressed his opinion? This tyranny of opinion was not to be tolerated. The Conservatives had a right to express their opinions; and he would not be deterred by any statements which might be made on the other side of the House from expressing boldly those opinions which he entertained to his constituents. And certainly, for Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House to talk of "appealing to the passions of the people," as if they so carefully abstained from appealing to their passions, was most inconsistent. The trick of the big loaf and the little loaf was not forgotten, nor yet their habitude of calling the Conservatives tyrants and oppressors. It really came with a bad grace for them to say that those who took the liberty of dissenting from the wisdom and humanity of the Poor-law did so only to inflame the passions of the people. He for one would not submit to such dictation, that a Conservative alone was to be forbidden to express his opinion on that or any other measure. The proposition of the hon. Member for York might be good, but he was not to be driven out of season and out of place to support it. By voting for one or two instructions here or there, they should not do justice to the measure. The question was one of extreme difficulty, and one that required to be looked at as a whole and not in part; and he could conceive nothing more important for the proper consideration of this question than that
905Viscount Sandon
 said that neither the Welsh judges nor Mr. Brougham had made any sacrifice in accepting their offices. Neither had been obliged to abandon the bar. But with respect to the situation held by the hon. Member for Horsham, it was absolutely necessary that it should be filled up, and that the person filling it should give up the bar, and sacrifice his professional prospects. Before the present bill passed, he wished to press upon the attention of her Majesty's Government that whatever merits the measure might have, it was by no means all that the public had a right to expect for the improvement of the Court of Chancery. He was extremely anxious to take the earliest opportunity of expressing his hope that her Majesty's Government would pay early attention to the subject, and that they would be prepared to introduce early in the next Session some measure which would afford more satisfaction to suitors and the public than was possible in the present condition of the Court of Chancery, the appellate tribunal of the House of Lords, or the privy council.Mr. Pemberton
994 rose amidst cries of "Divide" and "Question," and a cry in an undertone of "Yorke, you are not wanted." He begged the attention of the House for a few minutes while he addressed to them a few words, not in answer to the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, for to answer the hon. Member he should not attempt, because, having a Parliamentary connexion with that part of the country, and knowing, therefore, the great power of lungs, and great facility of expression without an adequate power of comprehending a continuous idea, which was sometimes found in persons who came thence, he should not venture to trespass so far on the time of the House. He would only say, in reference to the speech of the hon. Member for the West
994Mr. R. Yorke
993992991" With respect to the hope expressed by the hon. Member for Marylebone, that the commissioners would not interfere with parishes which are well regulated, I will only say that I hope so too. All the interference that need be had with them will be to follow their example."" It certainly will not be a part of the duty of the commissioners to include all the parishes of Ibis country in unions. They will have the power of forming parishes into unions wherever they may think it desirable to do so; but there is no clause in the bill which makes such a duly imperative on them."990bonâ fide989" There never was such a bugbear conjured up to fright men's minds as to suppose that the parishes of a whole county are to be united, and that all the paupers of large districts, whether agricultural or manufacturing, are to be brought together and to be placed in one immense prison. If the commissioners be not absolutely deranged they will never attempt anything of this kind. The sole object of this clause is to put a convenient number of parishes together—probably some six or seven—for the purpose of having a common workhouse, and of managing it economically."" The parish of Marylebone has quite sufficient to do with paying attention to its own affairs; and it is utterly absurd for hon. Gentlemen opposite to think of there being any union formed with a parish of that description and extent."988987986985984 had, on the night previous, expressed the view which he took of a part of this subject. It appeared to him that the instruction offered by the hon. Member for York was one that went to open up the whole subject of the Poor-law Amendment Act, and that, under the circumstances now existing, it would be more consistent with the dignity and regularity of the proceedings of the House, and, indeed, with common sense and reason, that they should defer a question of the sort involved in the hon. Gentleman's motion until they could take the whole subject in hand, and deal with it as became a legislative body. But there was one of the instructions, now moved by the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Crawford), to which he thought that objection did not so strongly apply, namely, that the question being at this moment in a state of abeyance, it was but fair that the act should not be carried further into effect during the time that the Government and the legislature were making up their minds as to what the law should ultimately be. He certainly thought it no unreasonable request to make, that no more of the unions should be obtruded upon parts of the country where they did not at present exist until it was known what the new system was to be. That he understood to be the whole effect of the hon. Gentleman's first instruction, and it appeared to him that the adoption of it would not offer any impediment or obstruction to
993992991" With respect to the hope expressed by the hon. Member for Marylebone, that the commissioners would not interfere with parishes which are well regulated, I will only say that I hope so too. All the interference that need be had with them will be to follow their example."" It certainly will not be a part of the duty of the commissioners to include all the parishes of Ibis country in unions. They will have the power of forming parishes into unions wherever they may think it desirable to do so; but there is no clause in the bill which makes such a duly imperative on them."990bonâ fide989" There never was such a bugbear conjured up to fright men's minds as to suppose that the parishes of a whole county are to be united, and that all the paupers of large districts, whether agricultural or manufacturing, are to be brought together and to be placed in one immense prison. If the commissioners be not absolutely deranged they will never attempt anything of this kind. The sole object of this clause is to put a convenient number of parishes together—probably some six or seven—for the purpose of having a common workhouse, and of managing it economically."" The parish of Marylebone has quite sufficient to do with paying attention to its own affairs; and it is utterly absurd for hon. Gentlemen opposite to think of there being any union formed with a parish of that description and extent."988987986985984Mr. S. Wortley
 wished to ask, in reference to a letter he had seen that day in the newspapers, and that referred to the denunciations of the Irish by a magistrate, what was the result of the inquiry instituted by the right hon. Gentleman, and whether he was disposed to communicate the correspondence to the House.Mr. Otway Cave
 observed that he had made no representation on any former occasion, on behalf of these parties. There was so little ground for hope, in the answer of the right hon. Baronet, that he must turn to the Attorney-general.Mr. Hawes
 supported the claims of these parties. They saw on the one side Mr. Scarlett, after eighteen months' service, about to receive ample compensation; and on the oilier were these parties who had served for thirty years receiving nothing, and demanding sympathy and assistance. Would it be given to them? Might he ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if these poor men were to be deprived of the emoluments of their office— if they were to be left destitute of the means of subsistence, and not even one civil word said of them; but then when they had before them the case of a son of a peer—of a man of high rank and of ample means—they beheld one right hon. Gentleman after another, and cabinet minister after minister rise to take up such a case; while there was no one to take up the case of these parties. He hoped he might elicit from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Dorchester that the services of these men would not be overlooked.Mr. Hawes
922ll had seen no reason to alter the opinions which he formerly expressed; and if he had been present at the division he certainly should have voted for the compensation. In any changes, such as that which this case had reference to, it was sound policy as well as justice for the House to act with liberality to persons whose vested interests were concerned in any reforms which they might think necessary to make. In pursuance of this principle he should call the attention of the right hon. Baronet opposite to the situation of the copying clerks, who, by this bill, would be materially affected. If they looked to large interests, he hoped that the interests of poorer persons would not be overlooked. Those copying clerks, to whom he wished to direct the attention of the right hon. Baronet opposite, had, by their constant exertions, been enabled to procure an income of from 100922llMr. C. Buller
995s.s. said, that an hon. Member had been talking something about the luxurious enjoyment in the Poor-law union workhouses, and that hon. Gentleman had asked him in what part of Lincolnshire it was that the independent labourer—for independent labourers he asserted that there were in that county— ever took those luxuries, namely, meat, except on Christmas-day and one other day in the year. Now, he (Colonel Sib-thorp) could tell him that in the very parish in which he resided, and in other parts of Lincolnshire, the independent labourer had from 12995s.s.Colonel Sibthorp
 could not understand the law laid down by the Attorney-general, with respect to the case of Mr. Scarlett. When Lord Brougham appointed his brother to the office that had been referred to, the greatest opposition was given to it by Gentlemen on the other side of the House. The Attorney-general's doctrine was, that persons who had a legal title to a place, and being in possession of that place, were entitled to compensation. Now, he wanted to know how Mr. Scarlett was entitled to compensation and Mr. Brougham was not?Mr. C. Wood
 wished it to be understood, that the vote he then intended to give, was not to bind him on any future occasion. He was glad, that the Government intended to communicate with the commissioners, and he wished to give them the full benefit of that opportunity.Mr. Darby
 recollected the case of the Welsh judges perfectly. His brother had been appointed when he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was in the Government, and knew of its intention to abolish the situation, His brother, therefore, received no compensation, and the case was precisely parallel to that of Mr. Brougham, but not at all to the appointment made by Lord Abinger.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
918 thought the hon. Gentleman deserved great credit for the diligence with which he ransacked the Parliamentary debates for the present case, but he could not give him equal credit for the analogy which he seemed to think subsisted between the two cases. The hon. Gentleman, he was
918The Chancellor of the Exchequer
998 said, that he should support the amendment, and he thought, that the House was bound to support it. The House had been informed from several quarters, that distress prevailed in particular parts of the country, and he thought that the House ought to show some disposition to take measures for relieving that distress, by giving to guardians authority to exercise a discretionary power, according as circumstances might require. He should not have troubled the House with any further observations, were it not that the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Sheffield, had addressed the House just now in a tone which did not indicate a kindly feeling on his part; and the hon. Member had, he thought, given him just cause of complaint, for he had imputed to him expressions which he had not used; and the hon. Member for Sheffield had thought proper to read him a lecture, in the course of which he imputed to him cowardice for not having divided last night in conformity with the sentiments which he had expressed in the course of the debate. He supposed, that the language of the hon. Member was Parliamentary—that such language was admitted in debate. He should be the last in the world to wish to curtail the freedom of debate; but he must take the liberty to say, that the hon. Member ought not to have taken upon himself to read such a lecture to any one. The hon. Member ought to have been the last man in that House to have done anything of the sort. It would be recollected, that at the commencement of the present Session the hon. Member for Rochdale had moved an Amendment to the Address, and on that occasion who amongst the hon. Members opposite was the first to resort to a
998Mr. Wakley
: I spoke of the doctrines of the Utilitarians.Mr. Wakley
" A case has just occurred this last week, where a neighbouring medical man, not the one attached to the union, was sent for to visit an individual, the father of a small family of seven or eight children, and who, when he arrived, found him suffering under deep-seated disease of the lungs, apparently the consequence of neglected bronchitic inflammation, with but faint hopes of recovery. This poor fellow, on being asked why he sent for the medical man in question, and not the union doctor, seeing that he owed for a former attendance, in fact, had not been able to pay for any part of it, replied, ' how could he send so far, a distance of seven miles, and no money to pay the messenger, first for fetching the surgeon, and then the medicine: he had but half a crown in the world, and tendered two shillings of it to pay for the journey, leaving,' as he faintly said, ' to his wife sixpence to pay for a bit of coal they then stood in need of.' This could not be taken, the poor man is still attended to, and the half crown was left as a something to defray the cost of other necessaries a large and poor family may easily be supposed to want, with the principal wholly incapacitated; but who, with proper treatment early enough applied, might have been well and hearty. This is the language of the medical man attending, and whose name I am at liberty to give, and will gladly do so should you wish it."968" What guarantee have you that the lowest tender is not put in by a surgeon incompetent to perform the duties of the office of medical attendant?"967966l" Sir,—I beg leave to forward to you the following particulars relating; to the administration of medical relief in the Basford Union:—They have been communicated to me by a friend, on whose accuracy I can fully rely. In that union, a medical gentleman, who has only recently passed his examination as medical practitioner, holds two districts, consisting of twelve different parishes, including a population of 12,410 persons (according to the census taken ten years ago, since which it has considerably increased), situate in an agricultural and manufacturing country, the salary which he receives for fulfilling the medical duties its the whole of those two districts being only 87966l965Member"And without any gratitude or any of the feeling which induces the industrious labourer 10 make the most and the best of his hard-earned gains.""A pauper likewise commonly receives the public relief as his due."964963962961960Hawes:959958 said, it was now understood, that the Government had resolved to adhere to the principles of the existing law, and the right hon. Baronet, with a candour which did him credit, had admitted, that such was the case. It now appeared, then, that the Whig aristocracy of England, and the Tory aristocracy of England, were pledged to the maintenance of the existing law in its principles. But when
" A case has just occurred this last week, where a neighbouring medical man, not the one attached to the union, was sent for to visit an individual, the father of a small family of seven or eight children, and who, when he arrived, found him suffering under deep-seated disease of the lungs, apparently the consequence of neglected bronchitic inflammation, with but faint hopes of recovery. This poor fellow, on being asked why he sent for the medical man in question, and not the union doctor, seeing that he owed for a former attendance, in fact, had not been able to pay for any part of it, replied, ' how could he send so far, a distance of seven miles, and no money to pay the messenger, first for fetching the surgeon, and then the medicine: he had but half a crown in the world, and tendered two shillings of it to pay for the journey, leaving,' as he faintly said, ' to his wife sixpence to pay for a bit of coal they then stood in need of.' This could not be taken, the poor man is still attended to, and the half crown was left as a something to defray the cost of other necessaries a large and poor family may easily be supposed to want, with the principal wholly incapacitated; but who, with proper treatment early enough applied, might have been well and hearty. This is the language of the medical man attending, and whose name I am at liberty to give, and will gladly do so should you wish it."968" What guarantee have you that the lowest tender is not put in by a surgeon incompetent to perform the duties of the office of medical attendant?"967966l" Sir,—I beg leave to forward to you the following particulars relating; to the administration of medical relief in the Basford Union:—They have been communicated to me by a friend, on whose accuracy I can fully rely. In that union, a medical gentleman, who has only recently passed his examination as medical practitioner, holds two districts, consisting of twelve different parishes, including a population of 12,410 persons (according to the census taken ten years ago, since which it has considerably increased), situate in an agricultural and manufacturing country, the salary which he receives for fulfilling the medical duties its the whole of those two districts being only 87966l965Member"And without any gratitude or any of the feeling which induces the industrious labourer 10 make the most and the best of his hard-earned gains.""A pauper likewise commonly receives the public relief as his due."964963962961960Hawes:959958Mr. Wakley
" Oh, oh."978" I have now been paying rates for twenty years, I am becoming indigent, and I have no prospect before me but the gaol or the workhouse."977976"The two great objects of this statute seem to have been,—1. To relieve the impotent poor, and them only. 2. To find employment for such as are able to work. And this principally by providing stocks of raw materials to be worked up at their separate homes, instead of accumulating all the poor in one common workhouse, a practice which puts the sober and diligent upon a level, in point of their earnings, with those who are dissolute and idle, depresses the laudable emulation of domestic industry and neatness, and destroys all endearing family connections, the only felicity of the indigent."No, no !975974dss973l" Infirm persons, and those above seven years of age, to be allowed one ounce of tea with milk, seven ounces of sugar, and three ounces and a half of butter instead of gruel; and twice a week—namely, on Tuesday and Friday, twelve ounces of suet and rice pudding. Children under ten years of age to be dieted at discretion, and above ten years of are, according to the dietary of the women; and the sick according to the orders of the medical officers. The refractory to be allowed sixteen ounces of bread with water per diem."972s971970Member969sds said, from the calculation which had been made, it would be from 6" Oh, oh."978" I have now been paying rates for twenty years, I am becoming indigent, and I have no prospect before me but the gaol or the workhouse."977976"The two great objects of this statute seem to have been,—1. To relieve the impotent poor, and them only. 2. To find employment for such as are able to work. And this principally by providing stocks of raw materials to be worked up at their separate homes, instead of accumulating all the poor in one common workhouse, a practice which puts the sober and diligent upon a level, in point of their earnings, with those who are dissolute and idle, depresses the laudable emulation of domestic industry and neatness, and destroys all endearing family connections, the only felicity of the indigent."No, no !975974dss973l" Infirm persons, and those above seven years of age, to be allowed one ounce of tea with milk, seven ounces of sugar, and three ounces and a half of butter instead of gruel; and twice a week—namely, on Tuesday and Friday, twelve ounces of suet and rice pudding. Children under ten years of age to be dieted at discretion, and above ten years of are, according to the dietary of the women; and the sick according to the orders of the medical officers. The refractory to be allowed sixteen ounces of bread with water per diem."972s971970Member969sdsMr. Wakley
: I made use of no such terms.M r. Wakley
919 said, that the office to which Mr. W. Brougham was appointed was not
919Mr. Ewart
sssdsds949ds" I am one of those who have derived our fortunes from the industry of the operative classes, and I trust that others, who owe their prosperity to the same causes, will feel, as I do, that it is our duty to relieve the public, by taking on ourselves the charge of a just requital to those classes from whom our prosperity has sprung."948" But for the operation of the Poor-laws in binding down the labourers to their respective parishes, in the mode and to the degree I need not attempt to explain to you, of all men, there would have existed a free circulation of labour throughout the country, to the benefit alike of the southern and northern parts.""Namely, the propriety of opening a communication between our (strange to say) under-peopled districts and the southern over-peopled ones. It is at (his moment a most important suggestion, and deserves to be put into immediate operation. It must be looked upon as a happy coincidence that, at the period of depriving or curtailing perhaps the facilities of gaining a livelihood to the people of one half of England, and causing a fall in their present low wages, and a scramble amongst them for employment, there should exist a difficulty in obtaining labourers at extravagant wages in these northern counties. This fortunate occurrence should be taken advantage of."947"Manchester, Sept. 17, 1839.—I have for some time, thought of addressing you on the same matter as my friend Ashworth did some time ago."" I am most anxious that every facility be given to the removal of labourers from one county to another, according to the demand for labour; this would have a tendency to equalize wages, as well as prevent, in degree, some of the turn-outs which have been of late so prevalent."sdsss946" I take the liberty of forwarding for thy consideration, a few observations on the proposed New Poor-law Bill, the leading principle of which I most cordially approve, whilst in some of its details I fear it will be found prac-
sdsss946ll2,6637,3376,1335,090Holbeck
2,6637,3376,1335,090Holbeck2,5597.4416,2135,286Leeds
2,5597.4416,2135,286Leeds2,54l7,4596,1134,939Bolton
2,54l7,4596,1134,939Bolton2,6337,3676,0054,879Stockport
2,6337,3676,0054,879Stockport2,6817,3196,0174,864Bury
2,6817,3196,0174,864Bury2,5387,4626,0834,947Preston
2,5387,4626,0834,947Preston2,8837,1175,9114,790Wigan
2,8837,1175,9114,790Wigan2,7007,3005,8894,462Macclesfield
2,7007,3005,8894,462Macclesfield2,9397,06l5,8964,687Bradford, YorkshireFactory Districts.
2,9397,06l5,8964,687Bradford, YorkshireFactory Districts.3,8896,1114 5803,805London
3,8896,1114 5803,805London4,9695,0313,7562,865Rutland
4,9695,0313,7562,865RutlandLived above 40 years.Died under 40 years of age.Died under 20 years of age.Died under 5 years of age.Places.
Lived above 40 years.Died under 40 years of age.Died under 20 years of age.Died under 5 years of age.Places.
2,6637,3376,1335,090Holbeck
2,6637,3376,1335,090Holbeck2,5597.4416,2135,286Leeds
2,5597.4416,2135,286Leeds2,54l7,4596,1134,939Bolton
2,54l7,4596,1134,939Bolton2,6337,3676,0054,879Stockport
2,6337,3676,0054,879Stockport2,6817,3196,0174,864Bury
2,6817,3196,0174,864Bury2,5387,4626,0834,947Preston
2,5387,4626,0834,947Preston2,8837,1175,9114,790Wigan
2,8837,1175,9114,790Wigan2,7007,3005,8894,462Macclesfield
2,7007,3005,8894,462Macclesfield2,9397,06l5,8964,687Bradford, YorkshireFactory Districts.
2,9397,06l5,8964,687Bradford, YorkshireFactory Districts.3,8896,1114 5803,805London
3,8896,1114 5803,805London4,9695,0313,7562,865Rutland
4,9695,0313,7562,865RutlandLived above 40 years.Died under 40 years of age.Died under 20 years of age.Died under 5 years of age.Places.
Lived above 40 years.Died under 40 years of age.Died under 20 years of age.Died under 5 years of age.Places.945''-The official ' comparative table of the duration of life ' proves to a demonstration, that the unremitting labour of the factories is actually more destructive to human life than famine, war, or pestilence ! I started from the perusal of that table with indescribable horror —I could scarcely believe my eyes! But the facts are indisputable !—the data most correct! The horrible factory system is making a charnel-house of England—it cuts off life at both ends—it works the living to death— it genders death, untimely death, even in the womb ! It destroys the stamina of both father and mother—it ushers into the world children who are incapable of life !—it actually cuts off one-half of the years of human existence I
945Hear, hear.944" Now, Sir, if you take the average of the above nine factory districts, and compare it with Rutland and London, the result will be as follows—As compared with Rutland, an increase of deaths under five years of age of 2,017; under twenty years of age, 2,272; under forty years of age, 2,287. As compared with London, the increase of deaths will be found to be under five years of age, 1,077; under twenty years of age, 1,448; under forty years of age, 1,207. In Rutland the survivors at forty years are more by 2,287, out of every 10,000, and in London by 1,207, than they are on the average in these nine factory districts. In fact, the murderous result developed by this official table is, that about as many human beings die before their twentieth year, in the factory districts, as before their fortieth year, on an average elsewhere ! It is necessary I should inform you, that Manchester is excluded from this official table, because the returns of burials from that place were so incomplete as to render them useless for this comparison. But we have the evidence of Mr. Assistant Poor-law Commissioner, Dr. Kay, that' in Manchester more than one-half of the offspring of the poor die before they have completed their fifth year/ And, in proof that the factory system impoverishes and degrades, as well as kills its victims, the Doctor adds, ' more than one-half of the inhabitants of Manchester are either so destitute or so degraded, as to require the assistance of public charity, in bringing their
944" Ok, oh,"943" Look again at the crowded streets of our great manufacturing towns; peruse the various statistic accounts by impartial observers of the terrible destitution, the fearful want, disease, degradation, misery—physical and moral—in every shape that reigns there. Look at the wan and haggard faces of the workpeople that come into our courts of justice, that attend our public meetings. See how the very race of Englishmen is dwindling down and degenerating under the effects of the unremitting labour, the insufficient and unwholesome food that their country's laws allow them to enjoy."Cobden 942eclat941In the union of Keighley, in the West Riding of Yorkshire, it was common for old and destitute persons, sixty, seventy, eighty, and even ninety-three years of age, for he had known such an instance, to have to travel in the most inclement days of winter a distance of seven, eight or nine miles, to attend upon the board of guardians; to arrive at ten or eleven o'clock in the morning, to stand out of doors in the rain, perhaps, for a long time, for they were let in one by one; and the poor decrepid creature who could not find his or her way to the door at an early hour was obliged to stand half dead from wet and cold before receiving relief. It often happened that they did not receive more than 6d. or Is., that was all that was
Cobden 942eclat941Thus making a distance of sixty-six miles which tills poor diseased and suffering paupers, has been obliged to travel before he could be legally acknowledged as belonging to his parish, although he had formerly received assistance from it, and though the parish he belongs to, is in some parts touching the bounds of the parish of Charmouth, in which he resides, and notwithstanding the county magistrates reside in the to we of Lyme, not two miles distant from Charmouth."26" On the 2nd of August, conveyed a second time to Beaminster and returned to Charmouth
26" On the 2nd of August, conveyed a second time to Beaminster and returned to Charmouth26"On the 26th of July, he was conveyed to Beaminster, a distance of thirteen miles, and brought back to Charmouth
26"On the 26th of July, he was conveyed to Beaminster, a distance of thirteen miles, and brought back to Charmouth14"On the 7th of July he went from Charmouth to the Bridport Union, a distance of seven miles, and returned
14"On the 7th of July he went from Charmouth to the Bridport Union, a distance of seven miles, and returnedMiles.
Miles.
26" On the 2nd of August, conveyed a second time to Beaminster and returned to Charmouth
26" On the 2nd of August, conveyed a second time to Beaminster and returned to Charmouth26"On the 26th of July, he was conveyed to Beaminster, a distance of thirteen miles, and brought back to Charmouth
26"On the 26th of July, he was conveyed to Beaminster, a distance of thirteen miles, and brought back to Charmouth14"On the 7th of July he went from Charmouth to the Bridport Union, a distance of seven miles, and returned
14"On the 7th of July he went from Charmouth to the Bridport Union, a distance of seven miles, and returnedMiles.
Miles.ss940"— is a labourer, aged fifty-five years who has resided and laboured in the parish of Charmouth nearly forty years, but belonging to the adjoining parish of Whitchurch-common, in the Bridport Union, county of Dorset. He has brought up a family of eight children without parochial assistance of any kind, except in
ss940" H. G. MORRIS, Capt. R.N."" Sir,—Having observed the good part you are taking in the amendment of the Poor-Iaw Bill, I am induced to write to you upon the subject; and to take the liberty of suggesting, if it has not already occurred to yourself, or some other Member of the House of Commons, or if already suggested, to strengthen by a very strong case, the necessity of having a clause introduced into the bill, which will give a right to a pauper who has been many years resident in a parish not his own to receive the relief afforded him by the union to which his proper parish is annexed, in that to which by residence he is attached, and in which he has lived and laboured, say for five years. You may be surprised that one of my profession should lake so much interest for the adoption of this particular clause, but an instance has very lately occurred in which, from my long acquaintance with the pauper, the hard ships and sufferings to which persons under similar circumstances arc liable have been so forcibly intruded upon my notice, that I must indeed have been either indifferent or dead to feelings of commiseration for the miseries of my poorer follow-creatures, if I had not used the only means in my power of alleviating them, or at least in endeavouring to do so. I have enclosed you the case above alluded to, with the blanks not filled up with the names, fearing the publicity of them may excite the unkind feelings of the guardians of his parish, when they perceive their injustice has been publicly noticed. I have, however, given the names in order to a reference, should you deem it necessary. Upon perusing the statement herewith enclosed, and which can be verified upon oath, I hope you will allow that a case sufficiently strong has been made out to excuse an entire stranger from intruding upon you, and for presuming to suggest an alteration in an existing law. I do not think that because this part of the law was the same in the old as in the New Poor-law, it should be permitted to remain so. Oppression, under whatever law or form of it, should, if possible, be removed. I have the honour to be, Sir, your most obedient servant." Charmouth, Saturday, Sept. 25, 1841.939" No, no."938Brotherton," If the Poor-law requires amendment in any of its provisions, I am ready to consider whatever may be proposed with that view. I am decidedly of opinion that every security ought to be given for its being administered in tenderness to the poor. If such security does not now exist, I am desirous that it should be provided."937 rose to second the motion. He assured the House he did so with the greatest diffidence, but when he stated that he had taken the most active part for many years in bringing before the notice of the public what he considered to be the most objectionable parts of this bill, and that there had been a strong feeling in support of his views among that class of the people whom hon. Gentlemen opposite described as unrepresented in that House, he felt he should have a kind indulgence shown him from that (the Ministerial) side of the House after the sympathy they had expressed on the hustings; for he believed it came from the heart, for the poor never appealed to them in vain, their hand was always open to relieve distress; while, on the other hand, he should have the attention of hon. Gentlemen opposite when he told them he was in possession of the pre-
sssdsds949ds" I am one of those who have derived our fortunes from the industry of the operative classes, and I trust that others, who owe their prosperity to the same causes, will feel, as I do, that it is our duty to relieve the public, by taking on ourselves the charge of a just requital to those classes from whom our prosperity has sprung."948" But for the operation of the Poor-laws in binding down the labourers to their respective parishes, in the mode and to the degree I need not attempt to explain to you, of all men, there would have existed a free circulation of labour throughout the country, to the benefit alike of the southern and northern parts.""Namely, the propriety of opening a communication between our (strange to say) under-peopled districts and the southern over-peopled ones. It is at (his moment a most important suggestion, and deserves to be put into immediate operation. It must be looked upon as a happy coincidence that, at the period of depriving or curtailing perhaps the facilities of gaining a livelihood to the people of one half of England, and causing a fall in their present low wages, and a scramble amongst them for employment, there should exist a difficulty in obtaining labourers at extravagant wages in these northern counties. This fortunate occurrence should be taken advantage of."947"Manchester, Sept. 17, 1839.—I have for some time, thought of addressing you on the same matter as my friend Ashworth did some time ago."" I am most anxious that every facility be given to the removal of labourers from one county to another, according to the demand for labour; this would have a tendency to equalize wages, as well as prevent, in degree, some of the turn-outs which have been of late so prevalent."sdsss946" I take the liberty of forwarding for thy consideration, a few observations on the proposed New Poor-law Bill, the leading principle of which I most cordially approve, whilst in some of its details I fear it will be found prac-
sdsss946ll2,6637,3376,1335,090Holbeck
2,6637,3376,1335,090Holbeck2,5597.4416,2135,286Leeds
2,5597.4416,2135,286Leeds2,54l7,4596,1134,939Bolton
2,54l7,4596,1134,939Bolton2,6337,3676,0054,879Stockport
2,6337,3676,0054,879Stockport2,6817,3196,0174,864Bury
2,6817,3196,0174,864Bury2,5387,4626,0834,947Preston
2,5387,4626,0834,947Preston2,8837,1175,9114,790Wigan
2,8837,1175,9114,790Wigan2,7007,3005,8894,462Macclesfield
2,7007,3005,8894,462Macclesfield2,9397,06l5,8964,687Bradford, YorkshireFactory Districts.
2,9397,06l5,8964,687Bradford, YorkshireFactory Districts.3,8896,1114 5803,805London
3,8896,1114 5803,805London4,9695,0313,7562,865Rutland
4,9695,0313,7562,865RutlandLived above 40 years.Died under 40 years of age.Died under 20 years of age.Died under 5 years of age.Places.
Lived above 40 years.Died under 40 years of age.Died under 20 years of age.Died under 5 years of age.Places.
2,6637,3376,1335,090Holbeck
2,6637,3376,1335,090Holbeck2,5597.4416,2135,286Leeds
2,5597.4416,2135,286Leeds2,54l7,4596,1134,939Bolton
2,54l7,4596,1134,939Bolton2,6337,3676,0054,879Stockport
2,6337,3676,0054,879Stockport2,6817,3196,0174,864Bury
2,6817,3196,0174,864Bury2,5387,4626,0834,947Preston
2,5387,4626,0834,947Preston2,8837,1175,9114,790Wigan
2,8837,1175,9114,790Wigan2,7007,3005,8894,462Macclesfield
2,7007,3005,8894,462Macclesfield2,9397,06l5,8964,687Bradford, YorkshireFactory Districts.
2,9397,06l5,8964,687Bradford, YorkshireFactory Districts.3,8896,1114 5803,805London
3,8896,1114 5803,805London4,9695,0313,7562,865Rutland
4,9695,0313,7562,865RutlandLived above 40 years.Died under 40 years of age.Died under 20 years of age.Died under 5 years of age.Places.
Lived above 40 years.Died under 40 years of age.Died under 20 years of age.Died under 5 years of age.Places.945''-The official ' comparative table of the duration of life ' proves to a demonstration, that the unremitting labour of the factories is actually more destructive to human life than famine, war, or pestilence ! I started from the perusal of that table with indescribable horror —I could scarcely believe my eyes! But the facts are indisputable !—the data most correct! The horrible factory system is making a charnel-house of England—it cuts off life at both ends—it works the living to death— it genders death, untimely death, even in the womb ! It destroys the stamina of both father and mother—it ushers into the world children who are incapable of life !—it actually cuts off one-half of the years of human existence I
945Hear, hear.944" Now, Sir, if you take the average of the above nine factory districts, and compare it with Rutland and London, the result will be as follows—As compared with Rutland, an increase of deaths under five years of age of 2,017; under twenty years of age, 2,272; under forty years of age, 2,287. As compared with London, the increase of deaths will be found to be under five years of age, 1,077; under twenty years of age, 1,448; under forty years of age, 1,207. In Rutland the survivors at forty years are more by 2,287, out of every 10,000, and in London by 1,207, than they are on the average in these nine factory districts. In fact, the murderous result developed by this official table is, that about as many human beings die before their twentieth year, in the factory districts, as before their fortieth year, on an average elsewhere ! It is necessary I should inform you, that Manchester is excluded from this official table, because the returns of burials from that place were so incomplete as to render them useless for this comparison. But we have the evidence of Mr. Assistant Poor-law Commissioner, Dr. Kay, that' in Manchester more than one-half of the offspring of the poor die before they have completed their fifth year/ And, in proof that the factory system impoverishes and degrades, as well as kills its victims, the Doctor adds, ' more than one-half of the inhabitants of Manchester are either so destitute or so degraded, as to require the assistance of public charity, in bringing their
944" Ok, oh,"943" Look again at the crowded streets of our great manufacturing towns; peruse the various statistic accounts by impartial observers of the terrible destitution, the fearful want, disease, degradation, misery—physical and moral—in every shape that reigns there. Look at the wan and haggard faces of the workpeople that come into our courts of justice, that attend our public meetings. See how the very race of Englishmen is dwindling down and degenerating under the effects of the unremitting labour, the insufficient and unwholesome food that their country's laws allow them to enjoy."Cobden 942eclat941In the union of Keighley, in the West Riding of Yorkshire, it was common for old and destitute persons, sixty, seventy, eighty, and even ninety-three years of age, for he had known such an instance, to have to travel in the most inclement days of winter a distance of seven, eight or nine miles, to attend upon the board of guardians; to arrive at ten or eleven o'clock in the morning, to stand out of doors in the rain, perhaps, for a long time, for they were let in one by one; and the poor decrepid creature who could not find his or her way to the door at an early hour was obliged to stand half dead from wet and cold before receiving relief. It often happened that they did not receive more than 6d. or Is., that was all that was
Cobden 942eclat941Thus making a distance of sixty-six miles which tills poor diseased and suffering paupers, has been obliged to travel before he could be legally acknowledged as belonging to his parish, although he had formerly received assistance from it, and though the parish he belongs to, is in some parts touching the bounds of the parish of Charmouth, in which he resides, and notwithstanding the county magistrates reside in the to we of Lyme, not two miles distant from Charmouth."26" On the 2nd of August, conveyed a second time to Beaminster and returned to Charmouth
26" On the 2nd of August, conveyed a second time to Beaminster and returned to Charmouth26"On the 26th of July, he was conveyed to Beaminster, a distance of thirteen miles, and brought back to Charmouth
26"On the 26th of July, he was conveyed to Beaminster, a distance of thirteen miles, and brought back to Charmouth14"On the 7th of July he went from Charmouth to the Bridport Union, a distance of seven miles, and returned
14"On the 7th of July he went from Charmouth to the Bridport Union, a distance of seven miles, and returnedMiles.
Miles.
26" On the 2nd of August, conveyed a second time to Beaminster and returned to Charmouth
26" On the 2nd of August, conveyed a second time to Beaminster and returned to Charmouth26"On the 26th of July, he was conveyed to Beaminster, a distance of thirteen miles, and brought back to Charmouth
26"On the 26th of July, he was conveyed to Beaminster, a distance of thirteen miles, and brought back to Charmouth14"On the 7th of July he went from Charmouth to the Bridport Union, a distance of seven miles, and returned
14"On the 7th of July he went from Charmouth to the Bridport Union, a distance of seven miles, and returnedMiles.
Miles.ss940"— is a labourer, aged fifty-five years who has resided and laboured in the parish of Charmouth nearly forty years, but belonging to the adjoining parish of Whitchurch-common, in the Bridport Union, county of Dorset. He has brought up a family of eight children without parochial assistance of any kind, except in
ss940" H. G. MORRIS, Capt. R.N."" Sir,—Having observed the good part you are taking in the amendment of the Poor-Iaw Bill, I am induced to write to you upon the subject; and to take the liberty of suggesting, if it has not already occurred to yourself, or some other Member of the House of Commons, or if already suggested, to strengthen by a very strong case, the necessity of having a clause introduced into the bill, which will give a right to a pauper who has been many years resident in a parish not his own to receive the relief afforded him by the union to which his proper parish is annexed, in that to which by residence he is attached, and in which he has lived and laboured, say for five years. You may be surprised that one of my profession should lake so much interest for the adoption of this particular clause, but an instance has very lately occurred in which, from my long acquaintance with the pauper, the hard ships and sufferings to which persons under similar circumstances arc liable have been so forcibly intruded upon my notice, that I must indeed have been either indifferent or dead to feelings of commiseration for the miseries of my poorer follow-creatures, if I had not used the only means in my power of alleviating them, or at least in endeavouring to do so. I have enclosed you the case above alluded to, with the blanks not filled up with the names, fearing the publicity of them may excite the unkind feelings of the guardians of his parish, when they perceive their injustice has been publicly noticed. I have, however, given the names in order to a reference, should you deem it necessary. Upon perusing the statement herewith enclosed, and which can be verified upon oath, I hope you will allow that a case sufficiently strong has been made out to excuse an entire stranger from intruding upon you, and for presuming to suggest an alteration in an existing law. I do not think that because this part of the law was the same in the old as in the New Poor-law, it should be permitted to remain so. Oppression, under whatever law or form of it, should, if possible, be removed. I have the honour to be, Sir, your most obedient servant." Charmouth, Saturday, Sept. 25, 1841.939" No, no."938Brotherton," If the Poor-law requires amendment in any of its provisions, I am ready to consider whatever may be proposed with that view. I am decidedly of opinion that every security ought to be given for its being administered in tenderness to the poor. If such security does not now exist, I am desirous that it should be provided."937Mr. Ferrand
"I. That it be an instruction to the committee, that they have power to introduce a clause that it shall not be lawful for the commissioners from the date of the passing of this bill, to declare the formation of any new unions in districts which are not already placed under the operation of the act 4th and 5th of William 4th, c. 76."936" Cork Union.—At a meeting of the guardians held on the 20th ult. (the 26th of January, 1841), Mr. Gould drew attention to a disgraceful and demoralizing trade carried on in that house, that of ' procuresses' going in as paupers and mixing with the young females, whom they endeavoured to deprave in mind, and then got them to seek their discharges to become prostitutes. The truth of Mr. Gould's statement was assented to by the other guardians."935" We find that for children under two years old, left with their mothers, an allowance was given out of boiled bread and milk twice a day, but the mothers were not allowed to heat it except in the morning and in the evening, unless when the children were in hospital. Children from two to five rose at eight in the morning, but got no breakfast till eleven. In the female ward there were eighty children in twenty-two beds. In another female ward and closet, intended for the accommodation of 100, there were 180 children; there were seven in one bed and six in each of four beds. In one boys' ward, there were 126 boys of from two to five; one pauper woman had the night charge of them all, although several of them had sore heads, sore eyes, itch, and dysentery. The board on this representation ordered one woman to every ten children. No ticks on beds,
935" In the proceedings of the board of guardians of the North Dublin union, reported in the "Freeman" of the 6th of March, 1841, a complaint was made that a boy named Walter Wheelan was struck on the back of the head with the handle of a hammer, by the master of the workhouse, so that the boy fell down in a faint, senseless. A witness swore, that he saw the boy struck and fall on his back, and that she master desired him (witness) to bring water to throw on the boy's face to revive him. The board ruled it a false statement, because they did not believe that, being struck behind, he would fall on his back; and, on this ground alone, acquitted the master, and ordered the man and the boy to be expelled from the workhouse. Again, in the same day's proceedings, a complaint was made of the unreasonable severity with which a boy had been punished by the schoolmaster. The cat-o'-nine-tails was brought before the board; it is described as a monstrous weapon; the use of it was condemned, and ordered to be discontinued. But it appeared that the mother of the child had remonstrated when she saw the child beaten with it; and what was her punishment? She was put into one of the solitary cells and confined, from eight o'clock in the morning till seven in the evening, and yet no censure was passed against the master either for the punishment of the mother or the boy. In the same day's proceedings, it was moved by one of the guardians, that children of from two to five years old should be allowed to sleep with their mothers. The proposition was rejected l>y a majority of two to one."934" We have the satisfaction of informing your Lordship that, although last winter was unusually long and severe, the main provision of the prohibitory order (the withholding outdoor relief from the able-bodied in health) was supported, with only a few exceptions, in the unions in which it had for some time been in force, and in the majority of unions to which it had been recently issued; and that even in the unions of the latter class, which were unable to carry it fully into effect, a considerable progress was made towards its observance."933" We have the satisfaction to state to your Lordship that more progress has been made in extending the provisions of the Poor-law Amendment Act to new districts in the year to which our present report relates, than was made in the preceding year."932" I had occasion, not long before my removal, to complain in the chaplain's book of two most improper grown-up girls having been put with the school children, and in three different entries to entreat that they might be re-
932The Times," We find that Elizabeth Friry died from fever, brought on by the want of food and sufficient nourishment; and that the jury cannot separate without expressing their disapprobation of the conduct of the relieving officer and of the surgeons in not being more prompt in: their attention to the wants of the deceased.""The jury cannot separate without expressing in the strongest manner their abhorrence of such a system of oppression to the poor, and hope that no similar case will be refused attention on the part of the overseer or relieving officer in future."Times,931" In August, 1836, the commissioners' dietary was introduced. The inmates were then generally healthy, according to the return. On the 25th of October the return was, ' Much sickness among the children and old people, The medical officer reported the dietary was producing disease. The committee made a like representation, and that the house was infectious. The guardians answered, that the dietary having been fixed by the commissioners must be abided by, and that whilst there was room fresh applications must be admitted. Notwithstanding numerous deaths, this system was continued from the 25th of October, 1836, to the 21st of April, 1837."" That the deceased died from exhaustion, consequent on starvation, arising from her not having made application to the parish for relief, and from her refusal to go to the workhouse."" Oh, no, no, I'll not go to the workhouse, while I can scrape a few halfpence by selling Congreves."" I certainly do say so."" Do you really mean to say, that poor creatures coming from Fulhain, or from Kensal-green on the Harrow-road, to the Workhouse at Kensington, and, miscalculating their strength, take half an hour longer to walk it, if they reached it after eleven o'clock, they would be excluded?"930" If applicants are not in the workhouse by
930" Mr. Coroner, there have been cases in which persons while waiting have fallen down from exhaustion- During the winter they have frequently waited from eleven in the forenoon until eight and nine o'clock at night, in all the frost and snow, and then some of them have been sent back without relief to the next day. Some of the cases of exhaustion have appeared in the papers."" The deceased's case was revised by the board every fortnight, and his ghastly appearance induced both me and the board to advise him to come into the House, thinking it would be a charity to take him in; but he always said, 'No, I thank you.' The jury found a verdict, that the deceased died from exhaustion, gradually produced by a scantiness of nourishment.' "929" I have seen Dart washed in cold water several times. I have seen him taken from his room across the court to the washhouse, and washed naked with a mop, James Tremlett took him, and he was hardly able to walk. I have seen Robert Tucker and Tremlett wash him with a mop and cold water. I was present at the time, and Mr. Leach (the master of the workhouse) was there. I have seen Mr. Leach present when he was washed with cold water. It was after Christmas. It turned me so much, that I hoped I should never come to the pass of that poor fellow. I have seen Pius draw a bucket of cold water from the cock and throw it right down over Dart, and there was Tucker washing him down with a mop all over his body and legs. Pitts said, ' Will one bucket do?' and Tucker answered, ' Heave five over him, and I'll make a soager of him.' Pitts kept heaving cold water over him; Dart said, ' Now you are a mind to kill me.' Dart's senses were almost gone; it was enough to kill any man in his perfect health. Tremlett was there twice when he was washed with cold water; Leach was there when the five buckets were thrown over him, and the answer Leach made was, Not too ill usage,' and he went away. I said, ' He can't stand this long,' and the answer Leach made was, that it would be no sin to give him laudanum to put him to sleep out of the way."928" About a fortnight ago a woman came out of the house under the following circumstances:—While she was out in the yard the porter went, unseen by her, into the ward and snatched up her baby, only eight months old, and carried it away. She did not discover the robbery until the porter had arrived at the other side of the yard door, where the unfeeling monster stood ridiculing the anguish of the parent, whose cries were very nearly making her for hours an inmate of the black-hole. The poor creature nothing able to endure the thoughts of her infant crying and moaning all the night through, immediately left the house for the purpose of weaning it by degrees."The Times,927" That from and after the passing of the act it should be lawful for the commissioners, by such rules, orders, and regulations, as they might think fit to issue, to declare to what extent, and to what purpose, relief to able-bodied paupers should be administered throughout the kingdom, and in what proportions, to what persons and classes of persons, at what time and in what place and manner, such outdoor relief should be afforded."926 rose and said, that he had to solicit the kind indulgence of the House, while he endeavoured to bring before them the important subject which he proposed to submit to their consderation—a subject which he was aware might, in the opinion of the House and of the country, have fallen into abler hands than his. No other hon. Member, however, having given notice on the same subject, he felt it his duty to come forward, and if he failed in his advocacy of that great cause the consequences were not his fault, but that of his constituents, in not having sent a more worthy representative to the House. In so important a subject as this he was fully aware how necessary it was to avoid all party recriminations, and he, therefore, wished to cast no imputation on Gentlemen on either side of the House who had supported the principle of the bill, but only to call on them to consider whether the further extension of it ought not in some degree to be suspended during a period of such great distress, and while the further consideration of it was pending. The right hon. Baronet opposite and the Government had asked for time to consider all the provisions of the Poor-law Act, and he thought he was therefore entitled to assume that the measure might have its defects, and if there were those defects it must be admitted that they might operate disadvantageously on the poor during the time when they would be under consideration. For that reason, and with a view of preventing that evil, it was, that he now claimed from the House a consideration of the propriety of suspending the powers of the commissioners to a certain extent during the time while this vote for the temporary renewal of the commission would take effect. By the Poor-law Bill the commissioners were intrusted with absolute powers over the boards of guar-
"I. That it be an instruction to the committee, that they have power to introduce a clause that it shall not be lawful for the commissioners from the date of the passing of this bill, to declare the formation of any new unions in districts which are not already placed under the operation of the act 4th and 5th of William 4th, c. 76."936" Cork Union.—At a meeting of the guardians held on the 20th ult. (the 26th of January, 1841), Mr. Gould drew attention to a disgraceful and demoralizing trade carried on in that house, that of ' procuresses' going in as paupers and mixing with the young females, whom they endeavoured to deprave in mind, and then got them to seek their discharges to become prostitutes. The truth of Mr. Gould's statement was assented to by the other guardians."935" We find that for children under two years old, left with their mothers, an allowance was given out of boiled bread and milk twice a day, but the mothers were not allowed to heat it except in the morning and in the evening, unless when the children were in hospital. Children from two to five rose at eight in the morning, but got no breakfast till eleven. In the female ward there were eighty children in twenty-two beds. In another female ward and closet, intended for the accommodation of 100, there were 180 children; there were seven in one bed and six in each of four beds. In one boys' ward, there were 126 boys of from two to five; one pauper woman had the night charge of them all, although several of them had sore heads, sore eyes, itch, and dysentery. The board on this representation ordered one woman to every ten children. No ticks on beds,
935" In the proceedings of the board of guardians of the North Dublin union, reported in the "Freeman" of the 6th of March, 1841, a complaint was made that a boy named Walter Wheelan was struck on the back of the head with the handle of a hammer, by the master of the workhouse, so that the boy fell down in a faint, senseless. A witness swore, that he saw the boy struck and fall on his back, and that she master desired him (witness) to bring water to throw on the boy's face to revive him. The board ruled it a false statement, because they did not believe that, being struck behind, he would fall on his back; and, on this ground alone, acquitted the master, and ordered the man and the boy to be expelled from the workhouse. Again, in the same day's proceedings, a complaint was made of the unreasonable severity with which a boy had been punished by the schoolmaster. The cat-o'-nine-tails was brought before the board; it is described as a monstrous weapon; the use of it was condemned, and ordered to be discontinued. But it appeared that the mother of the child had remonstrated when she saw the child beaten with it; and what was her punishment? She was put into one of the solitary cells and confined, from eight o'clock in the morning till seven in the evening, and yet no censure was passed against the master either for the punishment of the mother or the boy. In the same day's proceedings, it was moved by one of the guardians, that children of from two to five years old should be allowed to sleep with their mothers. The proposition was rejected l>y a majority of two to one."934" We have the satisfaction of informing your Lordship that, although last winter was unusually long and severe, the main provision of the prohibitory order (the withholding outdoor relief from the able-bodied in health) was supported, with only a few exceptions, in the unions in which it had for some time been in force, and in the majority of unions to which it had been recently issued; and that even in the unions of the latter class, which were unable to carry it fully into effect, a considerable progress was made towards its observance."933" We have the satisfaction to state to your Lordship that more progress has been made in extending the provisions of the Poor-law Amendment Act to new districts in the year to which our present report relates, than was made in the preceding year."932" I had occasion, not long before my removal, to complain in the chaplain's book of two most improper grown-up girls having been put with the school children, and in three different entries to entreat that they might be re-
932The Times," We find that Elizabeth Friry died from fever, brought on by the want of food and sufficient nourishment; and that the jury cannot separate without expressing their disapprobation of the conduct of the relieving officer and of the surgeons in not being more prompt in: their attention to the wants of the deceased.""The jury cannot separate without expressing in the strongest manner their abhorrence of such a system of oppression to the poor, and hope that no similar case will be refused attention on the part of the overseer or relieving officer in future."Times,931" In August, 1836, the commissioners' dietary was introduced. The inmates were then generally healthy, according to the return. On the 25th of October the return was, ' Much sickness among the children and old people, The medical officer reported the dietary was producing disease. The committee made a like representation, and that the house was infectious. The guardians answered, that the dietary having been fixed by the commissioners must be abided by, and that whilst there was room fresh applications must be admitted. Notwithstanding numerous deaths, this system was continued from the 25th of October, 1836, to the 21st of April, 1837."" That the deceased died from exhaustion, consequent on starvation, arising from her not having made application to the parish for relief, and from her refusal to go to the workhouse."" Oh, no, no, I'll not go to the workhouse, while I can scrape a few halfpence by selling Congreves."" I certainly do say so."" Do you really mean to say, that poor creatures coming from Fulhain, or from Kensal-green on the Harrow-road, to the Workhouse at Kensington, and, miscalculating their strength, take half an hour longer to walk it, if they reached it after eleven o'clock, they would be excluded?"930" If applicants are not in the workhouse by
930" Mr. Coroner, there have been cases in which persons while waiting have fallen down from exhaustion- During the winter they have frequently waited from eleven in the forenoon until eight and nine o'clock at night, in all the frost and snow, and then some of them have been sent back without relief to the next day. Some of the cases of exhaustion have appeared in the papers."" The deceased's case was revised by the board every fortnight, and his ghastly appearance induced both me and the board to advise him to come into the House, thinking it would be a charity to take him in; but he always said, 'No, I thank you.' The jury found a verdict, that the deceased died from exhaustion, gradually produced by a scantiness of nourishment.' "929" I have seen Dart washed in cold water several times. I have seen him taken from his room across the court to the washhouse, and washed naked with a mop, James Tremlett took him, and he was hardly able to walk. I have seen Robert Tucker and Tremlett wash him with a mop and cold water. I was present at the time, and Mr. Leach (the master of the workhouse) was there. I have seen Mr. Leach present when he was washed with cold water. It was after Christmas. It turned me so much, that I hoped I should never come to the pass of that poor fellow. I have seen Pius draw a bucket of cold water from the cock and throw it right down over Dart, and there was Tucker washing him down with a mop all over his body and legs. Pitts said, ' Will one bucket do?' and Tucker answered, ' Heave five over him, and I'll make a soager of him.' Pitts kept heaving cold water over him; Dart said, ' Now you are a mind to kill me.' Dart's senses were almost gone; it was enough to kill any man in his perfect health. Tremlett was there twice when he was washed with cold water; Leach was there when the five buckets were thrown over him, and the answer Leach made was, Not too ill usage,' and he went away. I said, ' He can't stand this long,' and the answer Leach made was, that it would be no sin to give him laudanum to put him to sleep out of the way."928" About a fortnight ago a woman came out of the house under the following circumstances:—While she was out in the yard the porter went, unseen by her, into the ward and snatched up her baby, only eight months old, and carried it away. She did not discover the robbery until the porter had arrived at the other side of the yard door, where the unfeeling monster stood ridiculing the anguish of the parent, whose cries were very nearly making her for hours an inmate of the black-hole. The poor creature nothing able to endure the thoughts of her infant crying and moaning all the night through, immediately left the house for the purpose of weaning it by degrees."The Times,927" That from and after the passing of the act it should be lawful for the commissioners, by such rules, orders, and regulations, as they might think fit to issue, to declare to what extent, and to what purpose, relief to able-bodied paupers should be administered throughout the kingdom, and in what proportions, to what persons and classes of persons, at what time and in what place and manner, such outdoor relief should be afforded."926Mr. S. Crawford
" That it bean instruction to the committee, that they have power to make provision in the bill, that it shall not be lawful for the commissioners to disallow, by any general or other order, any payments which shall be made by the authority of a board of guardians for the relief of any poor persons or their families out of the workhouse, notwitlistandiagany powers given to them by the Act 4 and 5 Will. 4, c. 76, to the contrary." moved the second instruction, of which he had given notice as follows:—
" That it bean instruction to the committee, that they have power to make provision in the bill, that it shall not be lawful for the commissioners to disallow, by any general or other order, any payments which shall be made by the authority of a board of guardians for the relief of any poor persons or their families out of the workhouse, notwitlistandiagany powers given to them by the Act 4 and 5 Will. 4, c. 76, to the contrary."Mr. Crawford
l924l had noticed that that House was always most liberal in dealing with any case where any gentleman of the law was concerned. It was not long since they voted 3,500l924lSir C. Napier
920 thought that the distinction drawn on the part of the hon. and learned Gentleman, as well as by the right hon. Gentleman, formed no justification nor explanation of the case in point. The right hon. Gentleman had put the case on its right footing when he instanced the case of his brother. There the party was informed that it was the intention of the Minister to bring in a bill to abolish the office, and of course he had no right to compensation. Here the learned Gen-
920Mr. F. T. Baring
957llll956 should not have trespassed upon the attention of the House had it not been for the exceedingly personal character of the speech which had been delivered by the hon. Member for Knaresborough—a speech far different in tone from that which had just been delivered, and a speech which he listened to with a great deal of pain. He had listened to that speech in the expectation of hearing the hon. Member for Knares-borough support the motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale. But, unless bold declamation was to be taken as argument, there was not much argument in the speech. As to the opinions the hon. Member had expressed of the manufacturers, he would not go much into that subject, not wishing to be betrayed into any undue warmth, even in debating, and very unwilling to follow the example of the hon. Member himself in that respect. He would content himself with just adverting to the manner in which, as he imagined, quite unjustifiably, the hon. Member had alluded to the manufacturers, as if they were necessarily without feeling, and as if their sole object was their aggrandizement at the expense of the blood and sinews of their fellow-citizens. This he would tell the hon. Member, that he had formed a very wrong estimate of the character of those among whom it appeared he had been in the habit of living. Though it was not for him to pretend that the manufacturers, as a body, were more merciful or liberal than any other
957llll956Mr. M. Philips
: appeal to the House.Mr. Ward
979 would make no apology for troubling the House, after the roost extraordinary speech just delivered by the hon. Member for Finsbury, for he was not one disposed to sit down quietly under the imputation of giving a vote or pursuing a course, being actuated in so doing by what the hon. Member termed the foulest feelings that could disgrace the human
979Mr. Ward
983982981980: The hon. Member had said that the Poor-law Bill had originated with an Utilitarian Society of which the Bishop of London was the head, and said that all who approved of that bill, who concurred in its principles, were men who were prepared to grind the bones of the poor, if they thought it would answer their own unworthy ends. What had been the hon. Member's ground of attack? He had said that the effect of the law was to take from the rate-payers, the management of their own funds. No such thing. The effect of the law had been to institute a better system of management of those local funds, which theretofore had been most miserably mismanaged, and to restore the true meaning of the noble act of Elizabeth. Did not the hon. Member know that the Administration of that law of Elizabeth had been characterised by the grossest absurdity and most miserable fatuity? And
983982981980Mr. Ward
ex officio999 hoped, that the House would, under the circumstances, allow him to say a few words. If he had used the word "cowardly" in any unparliamentary manner — if he had used any language that was too strong, he now begged to express his regret. He had not forgotten: the course which he had himself pursued on the occasion of the amendment to the Address moved by the hon. Member for Rochdale. He neither forgot that occasion, nor desired to apologise for his conduct, or to retract anything that he had said, and he was now prepared to say, that under similar circumstances he should again pursue a line of conduct precisely similar. With respect to the hon. Member for Finsbury, what he endeavoured to do on the former occasion, was to contrast the boldness of his language with the diffidence of his acts. He had told the House that he, above all men, was the best enabled to give them advice —that he had paid the closest attention to the working of the Poor-laws; yet this
ex officio999Mr. Ward
pro tempore917 said, he wished to take that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to a case which he conceived added much strength to the arguments he suggested the other evening against the proposed compensation to the hon. Mr. Scarlett, and which would recall to the minds of hon. Members opposite the course which they pursued, when, on a former occasion, a precisely similar claim to that of Mr. Scarlett was brought under their consideration. The case to which he alluded was that of Mr. Brougham, who was appointed in 1832, to the office of registrar of affidavits in the Court of Chancery. At the period of his appointment some intention existed of abolishing the office at a future period, which period was not defined, and respecting which no distinct proposition had been made to the Legislature no bill had been brought in, no one act had been done giving to the public a right to claim the immediate abolition of the office. The moment the vacancy arose the then Lord Chancellor filled it up by the appointment of his brother, Mr. Brougham. The late Member for Ripon, and present Lord Chancellor of Ireland, lost not a moment in calling the attention of the House to the subject, but that right hon. Gentleman was then sitting on the Opposition Benches, which might account, perhaps, for the change in his sentiments, as evinced by
pro tempore917Mr. Ward
921 stated, that he could only form an opinion of the cases adduced from analogy and from the arguments as he had listened to them. In the first case, Lord Brougham was, as Chancellor, the head of the law, and upon his responsibility was about to bring forward a me as re Doing so, he announced his intention of abolishing a particular office, and he nominated his own brother to that office. The whole authority of the Government was pledged to the passing of the measure. The measure passed, and then the question was this—was Lord Brougham's brother entitled to compensation? He said—no. This was not the case with Mr. Scarlett. He had nothing to do with the passing of the bill. He was appointed by Lord Abinger, and he did not think it material at what stage of the bill the appointment took place. Lord Abinger was no party to the measure. So far was Lord Abinger from being a consenting party to it, that he decidedly objected to the abolition of the equity jurisdiction of the Court of Exchequer; so did Sir E. Sugden and other high law authorities. Now, in the case of the appointment of Mr. Brougham, the person who conferred the appointment was not only a consenting party, but he was the very author of the bill which abolished the office. His fight hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), who had been alluded to, had also been one of the authors of the bill
921Sir James Graham
923 must be allowed to say, and without meaning the least offence to the hon. Member for Lambeth, that his advocacy of these claims was not so judicious as that of the hon. Member for Liskeard. He agreed with the hon. Member for Liskeard that there could be no greater impediment to any reform, such as that which was more immediately connected with the subject before them, than to refuse to consider the interests of those affected by it, rich as well as poor. That was not, however, the view which was taken by the hon. Member for Lambeth, who repudiated the vested rights of a gentleman, who had filled a regular appointment, and spoke of those who had no regular appointments, but were employed from day to day. It was extraordinary that he never heard those claims till now; he never heard them in the last Parliament, when the hon. Member for Liskeard and the hon. Member for Lambeth might have been able to render great assistance to those persons whose claims they advocated. He understood that those persons were occupied day by day in the Office of the Six Clerks copying, and as the object of the Bill was to give greater facility to equity business generally, if those gentle-
923Sir James Graham
955" Lastly, where relief was required by the wife and child, or children, of any able-bodied man who shall be in the service of her Majesty as a soldier or sailor."954" In case such person, being a widow, shall have a legitimate child or children dependent upon her, &c, then, in that case, the willow shall, without stint or limit, receive relief out of the workhouse, and in her own home; sixthly, when such person shall be confined in any gaol or place of safe custody."" Thirdly, where such person requires relief for defraying the burial expense of any part of his family; fourthly, where such person, being a widow, shall be in the first six months of her widowhood, even if childless."" First, when such person shall require relief in consequence of sudden or urgent necessity; secondly, where such person requires relief on account of any sickness, accident, or bodily or mental infirmity affecting such person, or any of his or her family."" Every able-bodied person, male or female, requiring relief from any of the said parishes shall be relieved in the workhouse, and shall, together with such family as may be resident with him or her, and who may not be employed," &c, be resident in the workhouse,— "save and except the following cases."953952ex parteex parte951950 said, he was painfully aware of the duty that attached to him on the present occasion, but he could assure the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that no eagerness of manner, or warmth of declamation, could spare him from endeavouring faithfully to discharge his public duty, and that, conscious of that duty, he should not hastily abandon a measure the importance of which he felt so deeply, and to the principle of which measure, although it might require some consideration, and be susceptible of some amendment, he was conscientiously pledged, and from which he would not recede. He thought it; necessary to state thus much in the outset; of his observations; but having stated that, he hoped the House would permit him to add that on the measure which he had that night brought under discussion, he did not ask any hon. Member in that. House to pledge himself to the maintenance of the Poor-law in its present state. He; carefully reserved, as he stated on the previous night, the discussion of all the: details of that measure; nay, the decision of the House on the principle of the measure itself, until the next Session of Parliament. And all he would then ask the House to do was to pass a measure for the continuance of the commission for the
955" Lastly, where relief was required by the wife and child, or children, of any able-bodied man who shall be in the service of her Majesty as a soldier or sailor."954" In case such person, being a widow, shall have a legitimate child or children dependent upon her, &c, then, in that case, the willow shall, without stint or limit, receive relief out of the workhouse, and in her own home; sixthly, when such person shall be confined in any gaol or place of safe custody."" Thirdly, where such person requires relief for defraying the burial expense of any part of his family; fourthly, where such person, being a widow, shall be in the first six months of her widowhood, even if childless."" First, when such person shall require relief in consequence of sudden or urgent necessity; secondly, where such person requires relief on account of any sickness, accident, or bodily or mental infirmity affecting such person, or any of his or her family."" Every able-bodied person, male or female, requiring relief from any of the said parishes shall be relieved in the workhouse, and shall, together with such family as may be resident with him or her, and who may not be employed," &c, be resident in the workhouse,— "save and except the following cases."953952ex parteex parte951950Sir J. Graham
925 had no hesitation in telling the hon. Gentleman, that having seen the statement of a declaration from a magistrate from the judicial bench, he did think it to be his duty to call upon the worthy magistrate to explain that statement; and in doing so he expressed his earnest hope that such expressions had not fallen from him, because, if true as reported, they were calculated to cast an imputation upon the due administration of justice that was highly dangerous, and also to sow dissension between large classes of her Majesty's subjects. He then called upon the worthy magistrate to explain the report to which he alluded. The worthy magistrate offered an explanation, and in so doing declared that the report was in
925Sir James Graham
: What will the probable expense be?Sir R. Peel
 understood that the principle on which compensation was granted of late years was founded upon an inquiry as to whether the party seeking compensation had a legal vested interest in the office or not, and that whoever had not was disentitled to compensation. Those persons to whom the hon. Members alluded had no legal rights, as they were merely employed from day to day, and had no fixed employment. Mr. Scarlett held the office to which he had been appointed on a footing as certain as any gentleman in that House held his estates, and he was to receive compensation according to all the rules that were established for granting it. With respect to the copying clerks, he believed that this Bill would increase their business.The Attorney-General
l916 presented a petition, signed by 9,000 of the citizens of Quebec, in Canada, stating the apprehension of the petitioners at the proposition made by the late Government to reduce the duties levied on Baltic limber, and enhance the duties laid on the timber of the North American colonies. The petitioners begged to call the attention of the House to the fact, that the present duties only afforded them a bare protection, considering the disadvantages under which they lay as compared with the Baltic; and that if the proposed alteration were made, it would involve those connected with the timber trade in ruin, as well as many other interests; that the subject of the discriminating duties between Baltic and Canadian timber was fully considered in 1821, and the present scale of duties was then adopted. In 1831, the subject was again considered, and the proposal for an alter-
l916Lord Sandon
1005 said, that Dr. Madden having been sent out as a commissioner by the late Government to make various inquiries of a confidential nature with reference to the state of our settlements on the western coast of Africa had furnished four reports, one relating to Sierra Leone, another to the Gambia, and another to the Gold Coast. The fourth was confined exclusively to medical subjects. To the production of that he believed there was no objection; but the other three treated of matters of the greatest importance and secrecy, of matters connected with individuals, affecting our foreign policy, and our relations with the trade legally and illegally carried on on the coast of Africa. In the present position of the Government he should not feel himself warranted in laying on the Table of the House, the whole of these matters,
1005Lord Stanley
 had already stated that the Board of Ordnance was ignorant of the views and wishes of Mr. Warner. He had the authority of the Master-General for stating, that he did not feel himself authorised to take upon himself the responsibility of appointing a committee upon the subject, without the previous sanction of her Majesty's Ministers.Captain Boldero
 said, that the only answer he could give to the hon. Member's question was, that since the formation of the present Board of Ordnance, neither the Master-General nor the Board itself had received any communication whatever from Mr. Warner respecting the weapon of destruction which he had invented.Captain Boldero
1003 said, that he believed that the Master-General of the Ordnance, Lord (lately Sir Hussey) Vivian, had wished to refer Mr. Warner to the usual committee at Woolwich, for the investigation of inventions of the nature of that brought forward by Mr. Warner, and that Gentlemen had refused to submit his invention to that committee. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Marylebone the other evening, in relation to the muskets supplied to the navy, he supposed that the observation s of that gallant Officer applied only to the old arms formerly issued; and not to those which had recently been given out. His noble Friend's (Lord Vivian's) attention had been most closely directed to the subject for the last three or four years. He knew that upwards of 50,000 muskets, with the percussion lock, had been constructed—most of them had been distributed. They had received the approba-
1003Colonel Fox
, who said he felt it necessary to call the attention of the House, to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury. The rule of the House was, that when an hon. Member stated, in his place in the House, anything which had occurred to him, such a statement was considered to be made upon the honour of the hon. Member. Such a statement was not to be questioned either in the House or out of it. Therefore he had to call the hon. Member for Finsbury to order for making allusion to steps to be taken to question a statement made to the House in the manner referred to.The Speaker
 said, the hon. Member was again out of order. According to the strict rule of the House, he could not refer to a former debate.The Speaker
1004 said, in the debate referred to by the hon. Member for Finsbury, he had entered his protest against the Government giving their sanction in offering a reward to men who exercised their talent and ingenuity in discovering some infernal machine for the destruction of human life. If a man used his talents to promote the happiness of his race he was entitled to reward, but not for using them for an opposite purpose. He had heard, with great delight, the announcement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) that he would use all his influence to diffuse those sentiments in society which would lead men to discourage war. He must say his heart had burned within him, when, on a previous evening, he heard the
1004Mr. Brotherton
, seeing the noble Lord the Secretary of State in his place, wished to ask him a question. He observed in the estimates which the House voted the other night a sum of money charged as paid to a Dr. Madden towards the expenses of a mission to the west coast of Africa. He understood that gentleman had returned to this country, and, after a very short stay in Africa, had made a very long report to Government. The question he wished to ask the noble Lord was simply this, when we might expect to see that report laid on the Table of the House?Mr. Forster
 was disposed to bow implicitly to the decision of the chair. The hon. Member opposite disclaimed the idea of calumny, but the hon. Member had not quoted all the words he made use of last night.Mr. Wakley
: Then I do not know how a Member is ever to get an explanation.Mr. Wakley
1006 had no objection to the course taken by the hon. Member, if the House thought fit that Members should State conversations which they had held with parties, those conversations involving calumnies of the most atrocious kind against other Members of the House. If this was to be permitted, he was content to yield to such a species of warfare. If he was to be attacked by unfair weapons, and the use of them was considered quite correct, lawful, and parliamentary, he presumed he would be admitted to defend himself with weapons of a similar description. The hon. Member for Sheffield, in stating, the conversation last night, admitted that the language was not respectful with regard to him (Mr. Wakley). Now he (Mr. Wakley) considered the matter of so much importance that, without entertaining any enmity or hostility to the hon. Member—as he trusted he should always be enabled to conduct himself without entertaining such feelings towards a political opponent—he should feel it his duty to sift the matter to the bottom. He felt it due to the character of the House to do so. It was a matter of safety and security with regard to hon. Members. If conversations of the kind he referred to were to be related in that House by persons under no responsibility he should like to know what was the protection for individual character. The hon. Gentleman objected to give the name
1006Mr. Wakley
 observed, that both humanity and economy might recommend the use of such weapons as that invented by Mr. Warner.Mr. Wakley
 begged to ask the hon. Member for Sheffield whether he was prepared to state to the House the name and address of the Poor-law guardian with whom he said in his speech the night before he had held a conversation in which his (Mr. Wakley's) name had been introduced.Mr. Wakley
 would put another question, which he hoped would be answered more satisfactorily. The gallant general, at the head of the Board of Ordnance, had witnessed the operation of this weapon, and had expressed a favourable opinion of it, an opinion which all must admit was deserving of attention. He was anxious to know, therefore, whether there was any intention, founded upon the information which the Board of Ordnance already possessed, to investigate the matter any further?Mr. Wakley
 said, he wished to put a question to the gallant Secretary of the Board of Ordnance, relating to the invention of Mr. Warner. The subject had been brought before the House last Session, on which occasion many Members had borne evidence to the extraordinary nature of the invention; and in the debate on the estimates the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had admitted that he had seen one of the experiments, and that he had witnessed the most extraordinary effects. Statements had been made the other night by the hon. and gallant Member for the Tower Hamlets, and by some other hon. Members, that Mr. Warner had objected to the appointment of a Committee to investigate the nature of his invention. Mr. Warner and his friends complained of that statement. The fact was, that Mr. Warner was most anxious to have a committee appointed to investigate his invention, andMr. Wakley
 was not prepared to do so. He gave his word to the House that the conversation was as he had stated it. It took place six months ago, and it was very improbable that the Gentleman would give permission to have his name mentioned.Mr. Ward
 rose, but was interrupted byMr. Ward
1007, with the utmost deference to the observations of the Speaker, hoped he might be permitted to say that there was nothing in the conversation he had repeated which could be called a calumny. There was nothing calumnious in the expression of an opinion, on the part of a member of a board of guardians who had seen the warm and violent speeches made by the hon. Member for Finsbury upon the Poor-law—that he felt great horror at having the interpretation of the new Poor-law left to boards of guardians, when they might have a Wakley at every board, putting his own interpretation on those principles, and forcing others to adopt it by raising an outcry against them if they did not, and denouncing them for inhumanity. Such a person was perfectly entitled to hold such an opinion, and express horror at such a prospect, and there was nothing in it to affect the hon. Member's Parliamentary conduct, or to prevent his discharging his duties in the House in any manner he thought proper. He disclaimed the idea of any calumny, in the matter. But he was connected with three boards of guardians, and after what had fallen from the hon. Member, he was less disposed
1007Mr. Ward
 begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, what were the reasons for appointing an engineer officer to be governor of the Falkland Islands?Captain Fitzroy
 said, that Lieutenant Moody, an engineer officer, had been appointed to the Falkland Islands; but as that appointment had taken place before his accession to office, he could not tell what were the reasons for making it.Lord Stanley
 said, in allusion to a statement which had been made by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets in regard to Mr. Warner's invention, he begged to be permitted to read a letter from Mr. Warner to Lord Melbourne, written on the 8th of May, 1840. His Lordship read the letter, which set forth the readiness of Mr. Warner to refer his invention to one of the Lords of the Admiralty and an engineer officer, and requesting that the inspection should take place in the presence of Lord Ingestrie. He had nothing more to add. This was all that Mr. Warner wished for.Viscount Ingestrie
1017 expressed a hope that the British Government would take steps to procure the restoration of Don Carlos to liberty. He had never taken up arms
1017Lord Ranelagh
 said, that, in reading over this bill, he found that it would add five millions to the permanent funded debt of the country, and on looking through the cumbrous machinery of the bill, he had come to the conviction that a more straightforward course might have been pursued. If the right hon. Gentleman had gone into the market with the proposition of a loan, he was impressed with a belief that a better bargain might have been made for the country, at the same time that the right hon. Gentleman would have secured his own object more effectually. He might have funded two millions and a half of Exchequer bills, and have issued an equal amount of new Exchequer bills to replace them; and, though he did not now expect the right hon. Gentleman to adopt such a course, he felt assured that if it had been adopted, it would have been found a much easier course than that now proposed. The present amount of outstanding Exchequer Bills was twenty-one millions, which was less than the average for many years past. Too large a floating debt, no doubt, was dangerous to the public service, but on turning back to the experience of former years, it did not appear to him that the present amount of twenty-one millions of outstanding Exchequer bills could be deemed too large.Mr. Williams
 trusted Parliament would not be prorogued till a question so important to the peace of the country had been placed on a safe footing. He himself would rather have seen the House remain together for the purpose of taking the public distress into consideration; but if they could not be induced to postpone the prorogation by a motive of charity, if they could not be influenced by a feeling of abstract benevolence, he would appeal to their patriotism, and implore them not to prorogue Parliament while a question of so much difficulty remained undecided.Mr. Yorke
 said, that he had asked if the commission were to be a paid one, thinking, perhaps, that a number of professional gentlemen would be appointed, whom it would be reasonable to remunerate.Mr. Hawes
 wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet. The committee which had sat for the purpose of seeing how far the fine arts might be promoted in connexion with the new houses of Parliament had pointed out some means of making further inquiry; and he was anxious to know whether the Government had any intention of acting upon the recommendations of that committee, or whether the right hon. Baronet had any information to give to the House upon the subject.Mr. Hawes
1041primá facie1040 thought there was great disadvantage in thus contradicting statements that had been made, without giving due notice to the hon. Member who made the statements. He had heard enough in
1041primá facie1040Mr. C. Buller
 said, that the granting of the latter portion of the motion would be a breach of the privileges of the House.The Speaker
 complained of the manner in which general statements of distress were mixed up with other subjects. The hon. Member for Stockport had just said, that 1837 and 1838 were the years in which distress had reached its lowest point, in which the admissions into fever hospitals were most numerous, and the receipts of the savings-banks least considerable; but that in 1839 and 1840 things had mended, and an increase in the amount of receipts at the banks, and a decrease in the number of patients at the hospitals took place. The hon. Member had thus himself admitted, that an improvement had taken place since 1837 and 1838. The ground of the hon, Member's complaint seemed to be, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had caused an inquiry to be instituted in consequence of the statements that had been made, and the hon. Member was now angry when it turned out that a considerable improvement had taken place, and that too by his own admission.Mr. Darby
1042 did not object to the general tone of the lecture which the noble Lord had been pleased to address to his side of the House; but he did object to its exclusive application. The noble Lord ought, in justice, to have addressed part of it to hon. Members on his own side of the House. If the noble Lord had been in his place not many nights ago, he would have heard from a Member on the Ministerial side of the House, a speech characterised by considerable violence of expression, exceeding anything he had ever heard from the Opposition side. He entirely concurred with the noble Lord in thinking that highly coloured statements, such as the House had lately heard, exaggerating the distress of the people, were calculated not only to do harm to the public interests, but to the very cause which they were intended to serve. Many Members were very anxious that a remedy should be found for the distress which prevailed; but they mistook the best mode of effecting their object, when they indulged in exaggerated statements and
1042Mr. Aglionby
l.l1045 said, that he wished to impress it upon the attention of the House, that what he proposed to do was not to create a new debt, but rather to convert one kind of debt into another. The House had determined that certain expenses should be incurred, and the natural consequence was, that the House must make good the means by which those expenses were to be provided for. The only question, therefore, that remained, was, whether those means should be raised by an augmentation of the funded or the unfunded debt. The hon. Member for Coventry said he would have preferred a loan; but the hon. Gentleman
l.l1045The Chancellor of the Exchequer
10201019ss.ds1018 observed, that if as had been declared by the Speaker, it was one of the Privileges of the House, that nothing stated by any of its Members should be called in question either within or without its walls, it became a peremptory duty to make no rash or unsupported averments—and if betrayed into any error to take the earliest opportunity to correct or to explain it. He had, some time since, stated an incident of very great distress, which had so much excited the sympathies of the right hon. Baronet, the head of her Majesty's Government, that he had been induced to establish local inquiries, with a view to the investigation of the melancholy facts to which he had called the attention of the House. And he was ready to acknowledge, that it was peculiarly incumbent on him not to come forward with an exaggerated statement; though to say the truth, such was the distress of the people, that it stood in no need of exaggeration, in order to awaken the deepest interest. His connection with Bolton was a very peculiar one. He went there without local knowledge or influence, and though his being sent to that House as the representative of Bolton was in itself an abundant and striking evidence of the distress that prevailed amongst the inhabitants, still he owned, that the circumstances under which he had been elected, did, in themselves, impose upon him the obligation to make himself thoroughly acquainted with the condition of the people, and to state to Parliament such facts as he could rely on. He could have wished, indeed, that his hon. Colleague had been present to confirm his assertion as to the extent of distress existing in Bolton. But he repeated, the statements he had made were substantially true. One of the guardians of Bolton, he must say, had, in an uncourteous and uncalled for manner, ventured to impeach his personal veracity, and to represent him as unworthy of belief. He would tell the House how he had proceeded, and leave it to judge whether he had acted unbecomingly. At a public meeting held in Bolton he heard tales of
10201019ss.ds1018Dr. Bowring
 said, that an hon. Member on the Opposition side, had condescended to go into particulars of the distress that existed, and made a statement with regard to a certain poor family whom he named. Now, what did the right hon. Baronet do as to this particular statement? Why, he sent an officer into the country to make inquiry at the fountain head, and ascertained from the family itself whether the facts were such as had been stated in that House. The result was, that the information thus derived did not bear out the statement of the hon. Gentleman opposite. Then an hon. Member made a general statement, of thousands dying of typhus fever, induced by a want of the necessaries of life. And what did the right hon. Baronet do with respect to this statements. Why, he sent to that source which was the best, and indeed the only one to apply to. He sent to the Fever Hospital to learn the number of patients, and so forth. What other step could the right hon. Baronet take? And the result was similar to that in the case of the family which had been particularised. As to what had been said on the subject of empty houses in our manufacturing towns, no information had been given as to what was the description of those houses, whether they were old ones which had been inhabited before, or recently built. The fact was, that in the manufacturing districts, as trade flourished, new mills and new houses might be seen rising all round, and when a flatness took place in the market, the mills stopped, and the houses in the vicinity became uninhabited. He believed that the cause of all this was over-production. The conclusion hon. Gentlemen opposite drew from houses being uninhabited was, that the people had been obliged to abandon them to take care of their stomachs. He thought it to be unfair, also, to impute the distress that prevailed in any part of the country to the operation of the Corn-law; in his opinion, they could not properly attribute consequences to the Corn-law in 1841 which it had not produced in 1835 and 1836.Mr. Hardy
1039R. Peel:1038 said, that having been referred to by the right hon. Baronet, he wished to say a few words, and he must express his concurrence in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester as to the great inconvenience of those incidental allusions to statements which involved matters of great importance, requiring much time and pains to verify the truth of them. With respect to the savings-banks of Manchester, if the right hon. Baronet had taken the trouble to inquire whether they had formed any new district branches, he believed the right hon. Baronet would have found they had done so, and thus any increase in the amount of deposits would have been accounted for by the extension of their branches. As to the case of Bolton, the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had referred to a great mass of statistics, none of which he happened to have an opportunity
1039R. Peel:1038Mr. Cobden
Much laughter from the Ministerial benches.1037 thought the right hon. Baronet misunderstood what he had stated. It was not that he wished to enforce any technical rule of the House in order to prevent notice being taken of statements that had been made. But what he objected to was, that due and sufficient notice was not given to hon. Members upon whose statements an attack was to be made, because want of notice was just the very thing that would bring about what the right hon. Baronet so much deprecated— namely, spreading delusion in the country, and preventing it from ascertaining the truth. If the right hon. Baronet was disposed on any future day to make a distinct motion, to appoint a committee to inquire into the distress of the people, he should be most happy to justify on that occasion the statements he had made, or if on any future day the right hon. Baronet would enter into the particular question of typhus fever, he should be happy to meet him. As to what the right hon. Baronet had said about fever hospitals, of them he (Mr. Gibson) had said nothing. He had been told by medical men that they did not put persons who had got typhus fever into hospitals, be-
Much laughter from the Ministerial benches.1037Mr. Gibson
Hon. Members:1034 rose to order. The Speaker had laid it down from the Chair, that it was contrary to the rules of the House, and would be very inconvenient in practice, for hon. Members to allude to remarks made by speakers in former debates; and he felt this was precisely one of those occasions in which the inconvenience of the practice would be most strikingly manifested. This was his case. Let the House sbserve what was going to take place. The right hon. Baronet, after a week's preparation, with all the means a Prime Minister had at his disposal, having made every inquiry, came down to the
Hon. Members:1034Mr. Gibson
1044l.l.l. did not wish it to go forth to the world that the woollen manufacture was in a perfectly satisfactory slate. During the summer there had been much complaining amongst the persons engaged in manufactures. The state of things was now, however, much better, because the trade always improved in autumn on account of the winter demand. But this autumn there had been indications of a different nature from those observed heretofore at the same season. At this season there was usually a rise in price, and a scarcity of goods; but these results had not taken place this autumn, and a person who had been in the business for forty years, had informed him that he had never known such a state of things to exist before. When the winter demand ceased, as it naturally would, in the course of trade, prices would fall, and there would be less work, and therefore it was probable that there would be distress in the woollen manufacturing districts, as there now was in those which were the seats of the cotton manufacture. He found by Mr. Porter's tables, that the value of the exports of woollen manufactures for the year 1840, was nearly 1,000,0001044l.l.l.Mr. Aldam
 said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the fact, that the trial of Mr. M'Leod was to come on on the l27th of the month, and it was, therefore, to be hoped that Parliament would not be prorogued before means had been taken to protect Mr. M'Leod, who might else be exposed to the danger of Lynch-law.Sir Charles Napier
1013 begged to observe, that in the remarks he made some evenings ago, relative to the imperfect state of the arms in use in the army and navy, he did not mean to include those which were now being issued, which he had the authority of a noble Lord connected with the Ordnance Department for saying had never yet been equalled. He must again ex-
1013Sir C. Napier
1012 begged for the indulgence of the House, which had before been given on a similar occasion, whilst he gave an explanation of a remark of his in a former debate, which bad been hurtful to the feelings of a noble Lord. An observation that had fallen from him in the course of the debate on the Administration of Justice (No. 2.) Bill had given great pain to the feelings of a noble Lord, inasmuch as it touched the memory of a departed brother, and as he (Sir James Graham) was a Friend of that Gentleman he felt hurt by the same allusion. Nothing generally could be more accurate than the reports of what passed in that House, and therefore, if the expressions which were reported to have fallen from him were inaccurate, he would take the inaccuracy upon himself rather than impute it to any misrepresentation in the report. The hon. Member for Sheffield had asked, with reference to the compensation to be given to Mr. Scarlett for the loss of an office in the Court of Exchequer, whether that appointment was not of the same character as that given to Mr. W. Brougham who received an appointment to an office in the Court of Chancery in 1832, which the Lord Chancellor intended to abolish at the time of the appointment. The hon. Member for Sheffield said, the cases were
1012Sir James Graham
s.s.s.1028d.s."He visited the widow of the deceased, and the statement made by her certainly did not justify the original statement of the hon. Member. She informed him that her husband died in February, 1840, a year and a half ago; that he was sixty-five years of age, that he had been ill for eighteen weeks, that he had plenty of work when he was well, and worked at intervals while he was ill; that she herself and her two daughters were fully employed, and earned 91028d.s.prima facieseriatim10271026 said, that if it had not been for the technical difficulty referred to by the Speaker, he would gladly have seconded the motion. He would, however, suggest an amendment which would avoid this difficulty. He would propose that the words "or extracts "be inserted, and as the hon. Member for Bolton had in his hands the entire report exactly as it had been received, he would see that the extracts given would exclude nothing from the report that in any way bore upon the facts of the case. With this single reserve, therefore, out of deference to the privileges of the House, he would consent to the motion of the hon. Member. If such caution was to be observed on account of the privileges of that House in
s.s.s.1028d.s."He visited the widow of the deceased, and the statement made by her certainly did not justify the original statement of the hon. Member. She informed him that her husband died in February, 1840, a year and a half ago; that he was sixty-five years of age, that he had been ill for eighteen weeks, that he had plenty of work when he was well, and worked at intervals while he was ill; that she herself and her two daughters were fully employed, and earned 91028d.s.prima facieseriatim10271026Sir James Graham
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.,1033l.l.,l.Cobden:Cobden:1032"The prevalence of increased mortality in those counties which comprise the largest proportion of manufacturing population, may probably arise from the circumstances to which the manufacturing classes are peculiarly exposed; but a further examination showed, that not only has the increase varied very much within those counties, but that there has been a decreased mortality in some of those districts which are peculiarly the seats of manufactures. Such has been the case in Manchester, Salford, Ashton, Oldham, Stockport, and Leeds."1031 wished to take this opportunity for making some reference to statements which were made on a former evening as proofs of the distress prevailing in certain districts of the country. He was sure the House would recollect that no man could admit more fully than he did that in certain districts of this country, particularly the districts connected with the cotton manufacture, considerable distress existed, and that the manufacturing population had to submit to severe privation and suffering, which no one could deplore more sincerely than he did. But the question was not as to the extent of the distress, but as to the accuracy of certain statements of it. The distress was not denied; but he did venture to state, that he thought there was great exaggeration on the subject of that distress in certain statements of individual facts, and he ventured to caution hon. Members against
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.,1033l.l.,l.Cobden:Cobden:1032"The prevalence of increased mortality in those counties which comprise the largest proportion of manufacturing population, may probably arise from the circumstances to which the manufacturing classes are peculiarly exposed; but a further examination showed, that not only has the increase varied very much within those counties, but that there has been a decreased mortality in some of those districts which are peculiarly the seats of manufactures. Such has been the case in Manchester, Salford, Ashton, Oldham, Stockport, and Leeds."1031Sir R. Peel
 said, that he thought the motion had very much the appearance of having been suggested by a claimant who felt disappointed at the delay. To some of the returns he had no objection; but he certainly could not consent to those which implied any reflection upon the commissioners. What he should suggest to his noble Friend was, to withdraw the motion for the present, that he might have an opportunity of considering, with his noble Friend, to what extent he should limit it. If his noble Friend would withdraw the motion until the next day, he would then be prepared to give him all the information he could fairly require.Sir R. Peel
 was happy at the opportunity afforded him of publicly stating, that there would be no remuneration.Sir R. Peel
1015Hawes:1014 said, that he had read with the greatest attention the report of the committee referred to by the hon. Member, and the very interesting evidence taken before that committee. He certainly thought that the opportunity afforded for the encouragement of the arts, by the building of the Houses of Parliament ought to be taken advantage of, at least for the purpose of fully investigating, upon mature reflection, whether or not the construction of those Houses might not be made conducive to the encouragement of the higher branches of the arts, It was, doubtless, a subject deserving of the most serious attention. He thought that the committee which had been appointed last Session, had conducted the inquiry, as far as time had permitted, in a very satisfactory manner, and that it would have been most useful to have carried that inquiry further. That, however, the committee were prevented from doing by the close of the Session, although there were many more persons whose opinions they would have been glad to receive, and many points which they had not an opportunity of fully
1015Hawes:1014Sir R. Peel
 said, he was unable to give the hon. and gallant Member any assurance on the subject.Sir Robert Peel
1036" I beg to send you that which appears to me to be the best document upon such a subject—namely, the returns of the Fever Hospital at Manchester. The report from the Fever Hospital is conclusive on the point, as that charity is open to all the population of Manchester and the surrounding districts, and is the general resort of the poor in cases of fever, both on the recommendation of the subscribers, and also as the place to which the workhouse patients are generally brought, so that the annexed comparative statement of the amount of patients admitted in the last five year appears lobe conclusive on this point. The year of the House of Recovery, or Fever Ward, commences in June of the past year, and terminates with May inclusive in the next. In 1837, 799 patients were admitted; in 1838, 1,372 were admitted; in 1839, 1,040 were admitted; in 1840, 843 were admitted; in 1841, 691 were admitted."1035 said, that if he had referred to former debates for the purpose of argument, or for the purpose of infringing upon the wise rule of the House, he should be subject to the animadversion of the hon. Gentleman, but when a statement of great importance with respect to the distress of the country was made in that House, he did not think, when his sole object was an explanation of that statement—an explanation which it was his duty to make—he did not think that in attempting to ascertain the truth of that statement by inquiry, and in stating what the result of that inquiry was, that he would be called to order as he had been. Whether he was referring to any argument he left the House to judge; whether he was about to be guilty of any infraction of the rules of Parliament which would justify any Member in protesting against the course he was pursuing, he left the House to judge. It had been asserted in that House, that with respect to Manchester, thousands were deprived of employment, and thousands were actually suffering from typhus fever, produced by the want of sufficient food. He appealed to the House whether it were right that a Minister of the Crown should hear a statement so appalling as that without inquiry, and whether the result of his inquiry should not be in some way or the other communicated to Parliament? He left it t the House to judge whether it would be a wise enforcement of technical rules that should permit this country and other countries in Europe to labour under
1036" I beg to send you that which appears to me to be the best document upon such a subject—namely, the returns of the Fever Hospital at Manchester. The report from the Fever Hospital is conclusive on the point, as that charity is open to all the population of Manchester and the surrounding districts, and is the general resort of the poor in cases of fever, both on the recommendation of the subscribers, and also as the place to which the workhouse patients are generally brought, so that the annexed comparative statement of the amount of patients admitted in the last five year appears lobe conclusive on this point. The year of the House of Recovery, or Fever Ward, commences in June of the past year, and terminates with May inclusive in the next. In 1837, 799 patients were admitted; in 1838, 1,372 were admitted; in 1839, 1,040 were admitted; in 1840, 843 were admitted; in 1841, 691 were admitted."1035Sir R. Peel
 moved, that a new writ be issued for the borough of Wilton, in the room of Viscount Fitzharris, who has been called to the House of Peers as the Earl of Malmesbury.Sir T. Fremantle
 begged to observe, that the delay had arisen from the difficulty which the British and Portuguese Governments found in coming to an arrangement about some of the details.Viscount Palmerston
 had no objection to acquiesce in the arrangement proposed by his right hon. Friend. The noble Lord accordingly postponed his motions.Viscount Sandon
" Date of the disbanding of the respective naval and military forces; the date of the mixed British and Portuguese Commission, appointed to examine and decide upon the claims of British subjects who served in the army and navy during the war of restoration in Portugal; copy of the rules for the guidance of the commissioners; the dale of the installation in office of the commissioners; the date of the decision of the Belgian Minister on the question of contracts; the date of the commencement of the reception of claims; the number of days, and of hours per day, during which each commissioner respectively has been engaged in the labours of the commission; whether any accounts have been examined by one commissioner in the absence of the other; the number of claims received, and the number, if any, investigated and adjudicated upon, and of claimants to whom notice of such adjudication has been given; the number of secretaries, clerks or others, employed under the commissioners, the dates of their several appointments, with their respective salaries; the salaries of the commissioners, and from what source paid, together with an account of all other expenses incidental to the commission."1016" Date when the Legion was disbanded; copy of the mixed British and Spanish Commission, relating to the claims of the British Auxiliary Legion in the service of Spain; copy of rules for the guidance of the commissioners; the date when the commission commenced the reception of claims; the number of claims sent in and adjudicated upon, and the respective dates of such adjudications; the mode in which such claims were agreed to be paid, and have been paid and satisfied the number of com-
1016 rose to move for certain papers relating to the Anglo-Spanish Commission, and the Anglo-Portuguese Commission, which he said would fully prove to the House, that while the claims of the Anglo-Spanish Legion had been settled in one year, the Anglo-Portuguese Commission, which had already been sitting for one year, presented no prospect of its termination for two years longer, and that the instalments which might then be agreed on, would not be all paid off before the expiration of two years more. The Anglo-Portuguese claimants were now enduring great hardships, and if their claims were to remain so long unsatisfied, they would derive but little benefit from the settlement of them. The noble Lord concluded by moving for the following papers: —
" Date of the disbanding of the respective naval and military forces; the date of the mixed British and Portuguese Commission, appointed to examine and decide upon the claims of British subjects who served in the army and navy during the war of restoration in Portugal; copy of the rules for the guidance of the commissioners; the dale of the installation in office of the commissioners; the date of the decision of the Belgian Minister on the question of contracts; the date of the commencement of the reception of claims; the number of days, and of hours per day, during which each commissioner respectively has been engaged in the labours of the commission; whether any accounts have been examined by one commissioner in the absence of the other; the number of claims received, and the number, if any, investigated and adjudicated upon, and of claimants to whom notice of such adjudication has been given; the number of secretaries, clerks or others, employed under the commissioners, the dates of their several appointments, with their respective salaries; the salaries of the commissioners, and from what source paid, together with an account of all other expenses incidental to the commission."1016" Date when the Legion was disbanded; copy of the mixed British and Spanish Commission, relating to the claims of the British Auxiliary Legion in the service of Spain; copy of rules for the guidance of the commissioners; the date when the commission commenced the reception of claims; the number of claims sent in and adjudicated upon, and the respective dates of such adjudications; the mode in which such claims were agreed to be paid, and have been paid and satisfied the number of com-
1016Viscount Sandon
 said, he would advise hon. Members opposite, henceforth, when speaking of the distresses of the people, not to indulge in vague rumours and exaggerated statements, multiplying thousands into tens of thousands. In making statements respecting the condition of the people, which were intended to go forth, not only to this country, but to the whole world, nothing could be more reprehensible than the practice of indulging in conversational looseness of expression. It was absurd to object to the right hon. Baronet bringing forward his statement that evening without notice. It must be expected that a Minister would take the opportunity of replying to such assertions as had been advanced upon this subject. Distress to a great extent doubtless prevailed, but exaggerated statements upon the subject could have no other effect than to excite alarm, and shake public confidence.Viscount Sandon
 would not press his motion.Lord Ingestrie
 said, he had intended moving for a return of all the Commissions (with the names attached) signed by the Board of Admiralty since the 4th Day of June last, up to the issuing of the patent of the present Board of Admiralty, distinguishing those Commissions signed after the 30th day of August; also, return of the ships put in commission during the same period making the like distinction, and of the probable date of each ship being ready for service; but if the Secretary to the Admiralty had any objection to grant it, he would not press the motion.Lord Ingestrie
1081No, no1080 wished to state the reasons why he should vote for the third reading of this bill. He had not offered any opposition to the progress of the bill, neither did he intend to do so, as the question was merely "for a renewal of the present act for a limited period;" but his objections to many of its provisions were in no degree removed. He had not changed his opinions with his seat in that House, and treated with perfect indifference and contempt the insinuations that had been thrown out from the other side, that the late Opposition had used this as a party question, and were now prepared to support the measure they had so lately reprobated. Though a very humble Member of that House, he had ventured to express his opinion on this subject, and would do so again, knowing that he had every opportunity since the commencement of the New Poor-law Act, of observing its practical effect upon the condition of the labourer in the agricultural districts. He was not insensible to the crying evils of the old system. He could enumerate as many scenes of moral degradation produced by the old law, as had been depicted by the hon. Gentleman opsite, and to that system he never wished to return; but was this to render him blind and insensible to all the evils of the present bill? Because he was willing to admit that the New Poor-law Act had
1081No, no1080Mr. C. Hamilton
 said, it was not usual to grant such returns, and it might create an inconvenient precedent.Mr. S. Herbert
1075 said, he was going neither to support nor oppose the measure. He had objections to several provisions of the New Poor-law; but he would not go into the detail of them, because he was fully persuaded that hereafter there would be
1075Mr. Baldwin
1077s.sss.ds.1076ds.ds. was aware that it was not regular to allude to what had passed in a former debate; but, as the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had, on Monday night, made an attack upon him in his absence, he trusted he might now be allowed to say a few words in his own vindication. He would not complain that the right hon. Baronet had made that attack upon him in his absence, or that he had read a letter from an anonymous magistrate who had not ventured to give his name; but he would simply state to the House what be believed the circumstances of the case to be. With respect to the Poor-law, although, as the right hon. Gentleman in the chair well knew, he had opposed it in all its stages, yet he had never agitated the subject out of doors, and if the right hon. Baronet wished to have a proof of it, he could tell him that the Tory candidate who had opposed him (Mr. Hindley) at Ashton, was pleased to post on the walls a placard bearing a portrait of himself with an immense plum-pudding under it, and the motto, "If you wish this, vote for Harrop; if you wish for starvation in a bastile, vote for Hindley." Being in the country at the time when the right hon. Baronet made his statement, he had thought it his duty at once to go to the house of the family, and examine them as to the amount they had been receiving from the overseer, which he had stated at 11077s.sss.ds.1076ds.ds.Mr. Hindley
1074 said, as he had called on the Government on a former occasion, for some expression of their opinions, he wished to take this opportunity of mentioning that the declaration of the right hon. Member for Dorchester, made two or three nights ago, was to him perfectly satisfactory. Such a declaration was necessary to enable the commissioners, who were intrusted with the superintendence of the Poor-law, to discharge their duty in a manner fitted to give confidence to the public. Before the intimation to which he had alluded, it was generally thought that Government were shrinking from the general support they had given to the principles of the law. That impression had now been entirely removed by the declaration of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department, with which he, for one, was perfectly satisfied. He thought it would be exceedingly unreasonable to ask the Government to pledge themselves to anything more, or to expect that they should not leave themselves perfectly unfettered for the consideration of any amendments which might be proposed next Session.
1074Mr. C. Wood
1086" Your petitioners beg, further, respectfully to remonstrate against the power given to the Poor-law commissioners—a power exercised without any consultation with the guardians, and in a way detrimental to the interests of each union; and your petitioners do think, that when it is considered that these officers are largely paid, and that the guardians are the real practical administrators of the law without payment, it would be found advisable to allow the influence of the said guardians a more extensive scope, while that of those overpaid officers might be judiciously curtailed." said, he felt himself in a peculiar position, seeing that in the late Parliament, upon the passing of the Irish act, he had been in perfect ignorance as to the administration of the Poor-law. He had, therefore, given his consent to the institution of a commission, without at all anticipating the evils which had since resulted from it. He would read an extract from a petition which had been presented from his constituents, and which should be his justification of the vote which he meant to give on this occasion. This petition was signed by the mayor and many of the respectable inhabitants of Cork. In the part of it to which he referred, it was said,
1086" Your petitioners beg, further, respectfully to remonstrate against the power given to the Poor-law commissioners—a power exercised without any consultation with the guardians, and in a way detrimental to the interests of each union; and your petitioners do think, that when it is considered that these officers are largely paid, and that the guardians are the real practical administrators of the law without payment, it would be found advisable to allow the influence of the said guardians a more extensive scope, while that of those overpaid officers might be judiciously curtailed."Mr. Callaghan
 trusted, that when the bill came again before the House, it would be of such a nature, that opposition to it would not be called for. If it did contain the objectionable clauses of the present one, the House would then have full time and opportunity to discuss those clauses, and, if the majority thought proper, they might be thrown out. For these reasons, he should oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Oldham. He gave credit to that Gentleman for kind and humane intentions, and he would say in that House, as he had said out of it, that the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had the cards in his own hands, and he had not the slightest doubt, he would play them judiciously. At the same time, he was of opinion, that some alterations, and very material ones, must be made in this bill to satisfy the country at large. Hon. Members, on the other side of the House, had taunted the Conservatives with endeavouring to create agitation at the late elections, by bringing forward the Poor-law; but, with respect to himself the could safely assert, that the only way in which he had mentioned the subject in his canvass was one which he considered perfectly constitutional—viz., asking his constituents whether they approved of the votes he had given on the Poor-law in the previous Session of Parliament, and to his satisfaction, they expressed their full assent to those votes.Captain Polhill
1082 said, his impression was, that the effect of this bill was gradually undermining the good feeling which ought to exist between the poorer and the upper classes of society. If the administration of the bill as at present constituted were persisted in, ere long the lower classes would feel they were so unjustly treated by the Government of this country, that he very much feared the consequences that might ensue. But, in his opinion, the chief
1082Mr. Rennie
1070Manchester Advertiser106910681067" He trusted that they would not lose the opportunity they now possessed of passing the bill; for if it were postponed to another Session, he must be a bold man who would then undertake an amendment of the Poor-laws."imperium in imperio" The clause by which the affairs of the poor are to be placed in the hands of delegates or commissioners, who are to exist as a sort of central board, appeared to him to establish such an imperium in imperio rose to oppose the third reading of-the bill, and to move that it be read that day three months. The right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had distinctly told the House that he is pledged to the principles of the new Poor-law. A dogged perseverance in adhering to the new law had overthrown his predecessors in office, and the present Government might rest assured that if they imitated the example of the last, they would not long hold office. To hear from a Cabinet pledged to govern on constitutional principles, that they will hold to the principle of a despotic law was what he could not understand. The delegation of extraordinary and undefined powers to a board of commissioners was declared by many learned persons on the passing of the bill through Parliament to be unconstitutional; and Mr. Scarlett, now Lord Abinger, stated distinctly, that—
1070Manchester Advertiser106910681067" He trusted that they would not lose the opportunity they now possessed of passing the bill; for if it were postponed to another Session, he must be a bold man who would then undertake an amendment of the Poor-laws."imperium in imperio" The clause by which the affairs of the poor are to be placed in the hands of delegates or commissioners, who are to exist as a sort of central board, appeared to him to establish such an imperium in imperioMr. Fielden
 wished to explain what might appear an inconsistency at first sight in his having voted for the motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale, and his now voting, as he felt bound to do, against the hon. Member for Oldham. The reason was, that the former motion did not, and the present did, involve the total abolition of the commission, to which he was not prepared at present to agree. He considered that in now voting for the bill he was merely voting for the continuance of the act till (as he understood the Home Secretary to pledge himself) the provisions of the act could be fully considered.Mr. Hardy
1073 felt it his duty to those constituents who had with unexampled generosity elected him in his absence without any pledge, to state why he could not now vote with the hon. Member for Oldham. At the same time he would say, that were the question before them simply one of principle, he should have had no hesitation in supporting the hon. Member. The objection of the hon. Member for Oldham, did not apply to the present measure only, but also to the general principle of the Poor-law Act—a subject that was not now under discussion. Hon. Members did not seem to agree as to what the principle of the Poor-law Amendment Act was. The hon. Member for Finsbury declared the principle to be that of centralization—to gather up the power from the local authorities, and repose it in the commissioners; and he maintained that all the other principles of the bill were subordinate to this. The commissioners, however, declared the great principle of the measure to be to train the poor to a love of independence; and the hon. Member for Droitwich, adopted the same principle. To such a principle every one must cordially assent; but at the same time the operation of the present Poor-law was calculated to offer to it the most formidable opposition. The principle of the old Poor-law of Elizabeth was, that every member of the community, so long as he was industrious, was entitled to eat and to be clothed; but the kind of independence the commissioners seemed to contemplate was of a very different character. They seemed to desire to invest relief with so much of the character of harshness, as that the poor man would rather prefer independence, even if accompanied by actual misery. To such a principle he must offer his most strenuous opposition. He did most solemnly entreat the Government not to adopt the interpretation put upon the principle of the measure by either the one side or the other, and particularly not to adopt that of the hon. Member for Halifax, but that they would apply themselves to the consideration of it without being influenced either on the one side or the other. He (Mr. Borth-
1073Mr. Borthwick
1079†Hansard, vol. xxix. p. 1018.**" If you render the purchase of the poor man's means of subsistence beyond what his wages will afford, you must revert to the system followed during the war, of paying the wages of the agricultural labourer out of the poor-rate."†" Other countries differed very materially from this, with respect to the consumption of corn. In other countries, when corn was high there was a much less consumption; but here, the price of labour rose generally in proportion to the rise of bread; and the poor-laws also enabled the poor to consume the same quantity, whatever the price was; as, if they were unable to purchase, the parish was obliged to provide for them."1078 being a young Member, and not having, therefore, had an opportunity of delivering his opinion on this subject, wished to state why he should vote for the amendment. In common with a great number of individuals, he was persuaded, that the nature and effects, if not the object (for he did not wish to attribute improper motives) of this law, was to avert the consequences arising out
1079†Hansard, vol. xxix. p. 1018.**" If you render the purchase of the poor man's means of subsistence beyond what his wages will afford, you must revert to the system followed during the war, of paying the wages of the agricultural labourer out of the poor-rate."†" Other countries differed very materially from this, with respect to the consumption of corn. In other countries, when corn was high there was a much less consumption; but here, the price of labour rose generally in proportion to the rise of bread; and the poor-laws also enabled the poor to consume the same quantity, whatever the price was; as, if they were unable to purchase, the parish was obliged to provide for them."1078Mr. Cobden,
1085Loud Laughter, and Hear, hear.10841083 would detain them but a very few moments from more substantial enjoyments. He did expect a long debate, and that he should have had the satisfaction of hearing many hon. Members who had not spoken, express their opinions on the Poor-law bill. But the time was past; the die was cast, and the Government had resolved what course to take. The principles of this bill were to be upheld, but the power of the Government would not be sustained. It might be expected from him, situated as he was, unpleasantly situated in many respects, that he should state the course his party was going to pursue. It was usual in times like these, that persons having some influence over a party, should state the course they intended that party should take. In that respect, he was following the example of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and in one respect his case resembled that of the right hon. Baronet very closely, for his was a perfectly united Cabinet. He was not in the slightest degree troubled by his Colleagues; they entertained the most perfect unanimity of opinion on all the great questions of state; and he, like the right hon. Baronet, had resolved most firmly not to bring forward any measure into the House, unless he conscientiously approved of it. He should not produce any measure there, whatever might be the entreaties or exhortations of any of his Colleagues. But, after all, it was amusing to be situated as he was, for he believed that no man had been more misrepresented; certainly none within so short a space of time had been more cordially abused. And why? Because he had not changed his place on the Benches in that House; not because his principles were unchanged, but because he had not changed his place. In former times, an adherence to a place indicated an adherence to principles; but now it seemed it indicated that some change of mind had been undergone. He hoped that, at least,
1085Loud Laughter, and Hear, hear.10841083Mr. Wakley
 wished to explain for a moment in reference to what had been said the other night by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, as to his constituency of Rochdale not having been brought under the Poor-law, that they were under the greatest dread lest the local act, under which they were at present, should be set aside, and lest they should be brought under the New Poor-law. He might be permitted to add, he was pleased to find the Government bent upon inquiring carefully into the condition of the poor, and he hoped sincerely that during the recess the subject would not be lost sight of by the Home Secretary.Mr. S. Crawford
1071 wished to state the reason why he could not support the present motion of the hon. Member for Oldham, in order to protect himself from misconstruction. The occasion appeared to him scarcely a fit one for the speech of the hon. Member, because the question before the House did not involve the general merit of the Poor-law Amendment Act, but only the continuance of the commission for a given period. When on former occasions, votes of a similar nature to the present had been brought forward, he had felt it his duty to oppose them, because they had been introduced under different circumstances, having emanated from a Government that had bad ample opportunity of acting on the official information which they had been able to collect. Last year the noble Lord, then at the head of the Government in that House, proposed to continue the commission until the end of the then next Session of Parliament; but the proposition being vehemently opposed by him and other hon. Members, the noble Lord gave way, and fixed the end of the present year for the duration of the commission, upon which he said, that the noble Lord had better have named some time of the year when Parliament usually separated, such as August or September. The proposition of the right hon. Baronet to continue the commission only until July next, showed a disposition to afford an opportunity for considering the principle of the measure; and he (Sir C. Douglas) only feared that he might lay himself open to a factious opposition, and whether his (Sir C. Douglas's) suggestion of last year might not be adopted by him with advantage. In opposing, as he had done by his vote, the proposition of the hon. Member for Rochdale, the other evening, he had not been actuated by any less strong opinion against the refusal of out-door relief, but he had done so because he did not think it necessary then to vote on such a subject as he would otherwise have done, when the proposition of the right hon. Baronet was only to continue the commission for five months, and because he thought it would have been wiser
1071Sir C. Douglas
1072 had never made this question the subject of party feeling, and on the present occasion he had quite sufficient reason for opposing the bill to relieve him from any such necessity. He alluded, among other things, to the manner in which the powers of the commissioners affected the parishes incorporated under Gilbert's Act. He could speak as to one parish, where the commissioners had issued rules and regulations which went to forbid the poor from going to church on Sunday and to prevent their being trusted out of the workhouses. Thus, the power of the guardians only extended to giving out-door relief to persons whom they might not think it necessary to send into the workhouses; and the Poor-law commissioners, though they had not the power to dissolve the union, nevertheless, could make such rules and regulations as produced the utmost dissatisfaction to the guardians, to the rate-payers, and to the receivers of the rates. This fact afforded to his mind a very strong reason for limiting the powers of the Poor-law commissioners. In the town which he represented (Brighton) the commissioners had not the power to make these regulations, and they had not attempted to introduce them, because they knew there was a watchful constituency who would prevent them, but they had succeeded in appointing a paid chaplain to the union, though the public refused to pay him a salary. He
1072Captain Pechell
l begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether or no the whole amount of 5,000,000lMr. Williams
dChancellor of the Exchequer:l1089ll said, that if the whole amount of 3,500,000dChancellor of the Exchequer:l1089llMr. Williams
1090 begged to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Home Department, upon a subject to which he felt that public attention ought to be called. The right hon. Gentleman was aware that the last report from the Inspectors of Prisons had been for some time on the Table. He (Mr. Hawes) had gone through the report, and it struck him that it contained accounts of some
1090Mr. Hawes
 said, that such being the case, the interest on Exchequer Bills was greater than the interest in the funds, and the public would gain the difference of some shillings in the rate of interest. With regard to the bill, it gave to the Lords of the Treasury the power of making up the sum necessary at the completion of the subscription by the issue of Exchequer Bills, or the sale of stock in the market. The hon. Gentleman would not wish him to state which course the Government intended to take, as it might produce an influence on the market, which the hon. Gentleman must feel, would not be desirable. The Government had the power to do whatever might seem to them at the time most advantageous for the public interests.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l had staled the other evening, that the amount subscribed for altogether was 3,644,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was glad to have an opportunity of stating, that he was aware the last report of the Inspector of Prisons, did contain matters worthy of the most serious attention of the Executive Government. He had not yet had time to give to it that attention which the importance of the subject imperatively demanded, but it had not been altogether overlooked. He had issued instructions to the Inspectors of Prison Discipline, to add to their reports an appendix, dividing the subject matter into two heads; first, matter to which the attention of the Executive Government should be directed, as being immediately subject to the control of the Secretary of State; and, secondly, such farther matter as, in the opinion of the Inspector, might, in a future Session, require the attention of Parliament. As soon as he received such a report, he would turn his attention more particularly to the subject; and, with regard to the last report, he partook in the views of the hon. Gentleman opposite, as to the necessity of his attention being directed to it.Sir James Graham
 wished to know from the right hon. Baronet what was about to be done with respect to the petitions to her Majesty (praying Parliament not to be prorogued), and which had been forwarded to the Secretary of State? There was no official letter acknowledging the receipt of these petitions.Mr. Broherton
 moved, that the Standing Orders be read. Orders read seriatim. The noble Lord then proposed the adoption of several alterations in the Standing Orders relative to the regulation of the Private Business.Lord Granville Somerset
1129 wished to know from the Secretary
1129Sir C. Napier
 said, he was sure, that the gallant Admiral must feel, that it would not be proper for her Majesty's Government, at this moment, to be called on to give information as to what steps would be taken in case of a certain contingency in which Mr. M'Leod might be involved. On consideration, he was sure, it would occur to the gallant Admiral, that it would not be right to press for an answer.Sir R. Peel
 knew, that it was the intention of his right hon. Friend to go down, tomorrow, to Windsor, for the purpose of presenting all the petitions, that had been received, to her Majesty.Sir R. Peel
— My observations were only intended to apply to the small constituencies.Mr. Etvarl
 wished to ask the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department, how many signatures were attached to the Tamworth memorial?Mr. W. Williams
 wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether, in consequence of the addresses which had been presented to her Majesty, Government had altered their intentions respecting the prorogation.Mr. Thornley
bonâ fide recommended his hon. and learned Friend to withdraw the motion. For his own part, he was prepared to abide by the words of the act; for he thought it a dangerous precedent to give this House the power of deciding whether a petition against the return of a Member was bonâ fideMr. Hawes
 felt obliged to follow the unpalateable advice of his hon. Friend, the Member for Lambeth, and was willing to withdraw the motion. He hoped, however, that what had occurred would cause petitioners to attend more carefully to the words of the actMr. C. Buller
" That Lord George Paget be allowed to present another petition, complaining of the last election and return for the borough of Carnarvon, pursuant to the prayer of the said petition.''1131 rose to call the attention of the House to the petition of Lord G. Paget (presented the 1st of October,) complaining of the decision against the sufficiency of the recognizance in respect of his former petition, on the ground that it was not taken before a magistrate having jurisdiction in Westminster; and praying to be allowed to present another petition, complaining of the election and return for the borough of Carnarvon. If the question were to be decided upon the ground of strict law, he was quite aware that there was at once a decisive answer to the motion which he was about to make. But it was not on that ground he placed it; and he hoped the House would regard it as a question of equity, and give relief to the petitioner, who had been disappointed by the decision of the examiner Upon a point of law for the first time raised. The ground of the failure of the recognizances was, that the magistrates before whom they were entered into was not a magistrate acting in his own county— was not a magistrate of Middlesex. The petitioner had been led into the error by no omission or negligence" of his own. He had acted upon the authority of legal advisers of eminence in the profession, who informed him that the act of Parliament directing affidavits and recognizances to be sworn and taken in these matters, authorized such affidavits to be sworn before one of her Majesty's justices of the peace, and that any and every justice had power to act ministerially in the taking of such affidavits and recognizances, without reference to his local jurisdiction. Relying upon that opinion, the petitioner had acted as he did, believing that he was entering into a valid recognizance. Had he been apprised of the error in time, he could have rectified it, -while it was owing to the
" That Lord George Paget be allowed to present another petition, complaining of the last election and return for the borough of Carnarvon, pursuant to the prayer of the said petition.''1131Mr. C Buller
bonâ fidell1148 said, it was one of the inconveniences of adverting to statements made elsewhere that the House could never be very accurately informed of the precise words alluded to, and it was a still greater inconvenience that, as in the present case, the person of whom the explanation was asked had often no opportunity of conferring with the individual whose language was referred to. For, as he had told the right hon. Gentleman, he had not even seen the printed statement to which he had adverted, until it had been shown to him by the right hon. Gentleman that evening; and, having since been waiting in the expectation of the matter being mentioned, he had not been able to see the distinguished individual referred to. But on leading the statement he confessed that
bonâ fidell1148The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the right hon. Baronet had been pleased to say, that bribery was as extensive, and more so, since the Reform Bill than before; but he would not suggest to the right hon. Baronet the inference, that a reform of the Reform Bill was necessary, and that a new system would be better calculated to win the respect of the country than the present, which was allowed to be productive of so much corruption.Mr. H. R. Yorke
 begged to ask the right hon. Baronet if he did not think that the introduction of the vote by ballot would do away with the system of bribery?Dr. Bowring
 begged to know whether it was intended to revive the committee which sat last year upon the subject of machinery?1130Mr.
1130
 wished to say a few words before the motion was withdrawn. He believed, that in the most corrupt times, in the most corrupt state of the representation, there never was more bribery, corruption, or intimidation than at the last election. He believed, that most of the Members of the present House owed their seats to such means. He did not mean to blame one side of the House more than another; for he believed the hands upon that side were not a whit cleaner than those on the other side. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) whether it were his intention to propose a remedy in the course of the next Session, to put an end to bribery and intimidation?Mr. T. Duncombe
1141GEORGE FLINT, J. P."JOHN FAWCETT, J. P." JOHN DIXON, Mayor of Carlisle." On Wednesday, the 21st day of July, 1841, Mr. William —was brought before us, having been pursued from Scotland by Dr.—, from a private asylum near Glasgow, who wished us to detain him, he having escaped from that asylum; but on examining the said William—, he showed no symptoms of insanity, and consequently we refused to interfere.(Signed)1140" JAMES DOUGLAS, Surgeon."" I have this day visited Mr. William—, and see nothing insane about him at present. "—House, June 21, 1841." JOHN WALKER, Keeper."" June 24,1841.— I certify that I have seen Mr. William — daily for more than ten months, during which time he has always been of sound mind, and very quiet. I also heard Dr.— declare, that he was quite well on the 26th of December last, and I told that to Dr.—11391138 said, he did not rise for the purpose of submitting any motion to the House; but if he was out of order in addressing it, without making a motion, he would do so. The question connected with the custody of insane persons, was one of great importance, and the general impression respecting the law on the subject was, that it required improvement, not only with regard to the manner of sending persons to the asylum, but also with regard to the manner in which they were treated when there. The first law on this subject relating to Scotland was passed in the year 1815, and he believed that it was designed in a beneficent spirit. However, cases had occurred, which proved that it was ineffectual in securing the object for which it was passed. It appeared that by that statute, the custody of insane persons was intrusted to the sheriffs, who had the power, not only to 6end persons to a lunatic asylum, but to issue orders for their proper care after
1141GEORGE FLINT, J. P."JOHN FAWCETT, J. P." JOHN DIXON, Mayor of Carlisle." On Wednesday, the 21st day of July, 1841, Mr. William —was brought before us, having been pursued from Scotland by Dr.—, from a private asylum near Glasgow, who wished us to detain him, he having escaped from that asylum; but on examining the said William—, he showed no symptoms of insanity, and consequently we refused to interfere.(Signed)1140" JAMES DOUGLAS, Surgeon."" I have this day visited Mr. William—, and see nothing insane about him at present. "—House, June 21, 1841." JOHN WALKER, Keeper."" June 24,1841.— I certify that I have seen Mr. William — daily for more than ten months, during which time he has always been of sound mind, and very quiet. I also heard Dr.— declare, that he was quite well on the 26th of December last, and I told that to Dr.—11391138Mr. Wakley
 trusted the unfortunate gentleman, whose case he had laid before the house would obtain the protection he solicited, and he hoped the whole subject of the treatment of the insane would undergo investigation next Session, as the state of many private madhouses in this country was a disgrace to the age. He would suggest, that before a party could be confined in any madhouse, whether public or private, he should betaken before a public tribunal and examined.Mr. Wakley
: I hope that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government will now admit some doubt as to the surpassing purity of Tamworth.Mr. Wakley
 could not answer the question. There were many important questions connected with the Board of Trade, with reference to which it was impossible, in so short a time, to come to any positive determination; and that relating to the exportation of machinery was one. It should, however, be fully considered before next Session.Mr. Gladstone
 wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether he would go to meet the real source of the evil by adopting a different distribution of the constituencies? He could assure the House, that, as he believed, as long as they had small constituencies they never could eradicate the evil.Mr. Ewart
1149 said, he was quite satisfied
1149Mr. Baring
ll1147l, as he might not have another opportunity, wished now to advert to a statement, which he perceived through those channels of information to which all had access, had been made in another place, bearing upon his own conduct while he had the honour to hold that office now filled by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge. The statement to which he alluded had been made on an authority entitled to respect, not only from himself, but from every one, and he should he glad to hear the view taken of the subject by the right hon. Gentleman. It was said, that besides the deficiency of 2,500.000ll1147lMr. F. T. Baring
: The mayor of a town is not always an impartial authority.Mr. Ward
 expressed his regret that the hon. Baronet had not resorted to a public inquiry. The report could at best be considered merely as a one-sided report.Mr. Ward
 wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, relating to a circumstance which had excited great surprise in Tamworth. A memorial had been sent up from that borough to be presented to her Majesty by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. A report was current that a copy of the memorial, with signatures appended, had been sent from the Home Office to the mayor of Tamworth, and subjected to a scrutiny of the signatures. The person who had stated this to him was a man of the greatest respectability, who was incapable of circulating any assertion destitute of foundation. A hand-bill had also been published in the place, stating that the names to the petition were all genuine, and that every person had given his address, which showed that the impression of the truth of the report was genuine. He had never heard that the course of making an inquiry into the signatures of a petition had been hitherto adopted, and he hoped to receive from the right hon. Baronet a denial of the fact, or an explanation of the circumstances.Mr. Ward
" It is evident that but few of the signatures are the hand-writing of the persons whom they are intended to represent, and we find that people have gone from house to house obtaining names of whole families, without regard to age, and having entered these names in a book, have added them afterwards to the petition, though, at the time, the names were taken, no petition was produced, and the names thus taken would be given by one member only of a family, and that not unfrequently a child."1145" The names of vagrants in lodging-houses have been numerously attached, and the names of Joseph Fenton, of William Taylor, and of
1145" The names of John and Ann Westbury are attached entirely without their knowledge or consent, and these names also occur twice over. The names of William Farebrother and his wife, of Joseph, Thomas, and Henry Woodcock, of Mary and William Coleman, and of John Coleman, are each attached without consent, and the latter twice over, unless it be of an infant of that name, only two years of age. The names of Samuel, of Sarah, and of Ellen Bailey, are of the same class; as are also those of William Wilcox, of his wife, and an apprentice, and many other instances of the same kind could be added, if requisite."It also appears that very many inhabitants, whose names are attached to the petition, neither signed it themselves, nor consented to have their names put down by others. The following are a few of the instances:— " There is also throughout the list of names a very frequent repetition of signatures; as, for instance, the name of George Starkey occurs three times, when in fact, they are only two of that name. The name of Thomas Starkey occurs three times, although there is only one of that name. The name of John Starkey occurs three times, there being only one of the name; there are the names of two William Starkeys, neither of whom consented to have his name put down; also two Sarah Starkeys and two Elizabeth Starkeys, although in fact there is only one of each, and Chas. Siarkey's name appears, though there is no such person. The name of William Deville occurs three times, though there is but one of that name. The name of John Clarson occurs three times, though, in fact, there are only two of that name, excepting an infant two years old; and none who consented to sign. The names of Charles Clarson occurs twice, there being only one who consented to sign the petition. The name of Ann Clarson also occurs, though there is no such person; and the name of Catherine Clarson occurs twice, though none of that name can be found. The name of Buxton occurs twenty times; though there are only seven of that name. We have not thought it requisite further to multiply instances of this kind, and, therefore, our inquiry has been limited to only a few names but we have no doubt, were we to extend our inquiry, that the same sort of repetition would be found to occur through-out." In the first place we found a very great number of the names to be those of persons totally unknown to us, which could not have been the case had they been really inhabitants of this borough. Whether, therefore, as to this portion, the names be of persons who exist or not elsewhere, neither I nor any friends can undertake to assert.bonâ fide1144"The assistance to which I have alluded has been rendered by such persons as I considered, from their extensive and familiar knowledge of the inhabitants, would the most
bonâ fide1144"Sir— Having had the honour to receive your letter of the 25th inst., together with the address which I now return, I proceeded with the assistance of some of my friends lo collect the following information:— "Tamworth, Sep. 30,1841.1143 was not aware, until about fire minutes ago, that the hon.
" It is evident that but few of the signatures are the hand-writing of the persons whom they are intended to represent, and we find that people have gone from house to house obtaining names of whole families, without regard to age, and having entered these names in a book, have added them afterwards to the petition, though, at the time, the names were taken, no petition was produced, and the names thus taken would be given by one member only of a family, and that not unfrequently a child."1145" The names of vagrants in lodging-houses have been numerously attached, and the names of Joseph Fenton, of William Taylor, and of
1145" The names of John and Ann Westbury are attached entirely without their knowledge or consent, and these names also occur twice over. The names of William Farebrother and his wife, of Joseph, Thomas, and Henry Woodcock, of Mary and William Coleman, and of John Coleman, are each attached without consent, and the latter twice over, unless it be of an infant of that name, only two years of age. The names of Samuel, of Sarah, and of Ellen Bailey, are of the same class; as are also those of William Wilcox, of his wife, and an apprentice, and many other instances of the same kind could be added, if requisite."It also appears that very many inhabitants, whose names are attached to the petition, neither signed it themselves, nor consented to have their names put down by others. The following are a few of the instances:— " There is also throughout the list of names a very frequent repetition of signatures; as, for instance, the name of George Starkey occurs three times, when in fact, they are only two of that name. The name of Thomas Starkey occurs three times, although there is only one of that name. The name of John Starkey occurs three times, there being only one of the name; there are the names of two William Starkeys, neither of whom consented to have his name put down; also two Sarah Starkeys and two Elizabeth Starkeys, although in fact there is only one of each, and Chas. Siarkey's name appears, though there is no such person. The name of William Deville occurs three times, though there is but one of that name. The name of John Clarson occurs three times, though, in fact, there are only two of that name, excepting an infant two years old; and none who consented to sign. The names of Charles Clarson occurs twice, there being only one who consented to sign the petition. The name of Ann Clarson also occurs, though there is no such person; and the name of Catherine Clarson occurs twice, though none of that name can be found. The name of Buxton occurs twenty times; though there are only seven of that name. We have not thought it requisite further to multiply instances of this kind, and, therefore, our inquiry has been limited to only a few names but we have no doubt, were we to extend our inquiry, that the same sort of repetition would be found to occur through-out." In the first place we found a very great number of the names to be those of persons totally unknown to us, which could not have been the case had they been really inhabitants of this borough. Whether, therefore, as to this portion, the names be of persons who exist or not elsewhere, neither I nor any friends can undertake to assert.bonâ fide1144"The assistance to which I have alluded has been rendered by such persons as I considered, from their extensive and familiar knowledge of the inhabitants, would the most
bonâ fide1144"Sir— Having had the honour to receive your letter of the 25th inst., together with the address which I now return, I proceeded with the assistance of some of my friends lo collect the following information:— "Tamworth, Sep. 30,1841.1143Sir J. Graham
: It. is the report of the mayor of the town.Sir James Graham
: I do not recollect the exact number— somewhere about two thousand; but the hon. Member will, of course, make some abatement after the statement I have read.Sir J. Graham
bonâ fidebonâ fidebonâ fide1132 observed, that his hon. and learned Friend had only entered on the law of the case, in order to show that
bonâ fidebonâ fidebonâ fide1132Mr. J. Jervis
, in explanation, observed, that the petitioner's agent had taken counsel's opinion on the subject.Mr. J. Jervis
1135mala fidesbonâ fidesbonâ fides"The decision of the examiner of recognizances shall be final and conclusive against all parties.""The committee shall decide and report their decision to the House, which decision shall be final and conclusive between the parties to all intents and purposes."1134 said, it seems to me somewhat remarkable, that the learned counsel, whose opinion was taken, did not refer to the form of the recognizances. If he had looked to the form of the recognizances, there arc some words in them, which ought to have excited some suspicion in his mind that no other justice of the peace could take the recognizances, except a justice acting within his own jurisdiction. The words in the Act of Parliament are, "Any justice of the peace in the county of (blank)." It appears to me, that the Act of Parliament distinctly directs, that the justice of peace before whom the recognizances are entered into, should be a justice of the peace acting within his own jurisdiction, and not merely a justice of the
1135mala fidesbonâ fidesbonâ fides"The decision of the examiner of recognizances shall be final and conclusive against all parties.""The committee shall decide and report their decision to the House, which decision shall be final and conclusive between the parties to all intents and purposes."1134Sir R Peel
1146: In answer to the question of the hon. Member, I beg to state that Government have not thought it expedient to alter the advice they had previously given
1146Sir R. Peel
 moved that the House do now adjourn.Sir R. Peel
: Quite the reverse. If strangers come to Tamworth and endeavour to contaminate the electors, that is no reason why I should doubt the purity of the latter. Surely the hon. Member would not class the prisoners in Stafford gaol amongst the electors of Tamworth.Sir R. Peel
 said, he would not enter into the discussion (which the noble Lord while professing to deprecate, seemed disposed to invite) regarding the Corn-laws, or our commercial policy; as to these questions, the determination which he had frequently stated was unshaken, and it was not to be expected that on the eve of a prorogation be should deviate from his resolution of abstinence from premature disclosures. And as to what the noble Lord had kindly dropped in the way of advice, he could assure the noble Lord that the result of his experience of former Governments was, that he entertained a very deep dislike and distrust of any dependence on the "chapter of accidents."Sir R. Peel
l1150l said, unfortunately there had been a discussion upon that very subject in that House when the right hon. Gentleman was not present; and although he had not had the opportunity of examining the precise terms of the reported statement, he thought it would not be doubted that his noble Friend (it was idle to affect ignorance of who was intended) had the same impression in making that statement as he (Sir R. Peel) had given expression to in the discussion of which he was speaking. In the observations which he had then made in the presence of the noble Lord lately at the head of the Colonial Department, he had not at all impeached the accuracy of the right hon. Gentleman's estimates for the present year; on the contrary, his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had adopted those estimates, and had said, that though there had been circumstances which might have accounted for any errors, yet upon the whole, he believed the calculations of the right hon. Gentleman opposite as to the probable deficit, might be assumed to be correct. When he (Sir R. Peel) had spoken on the former occasion he had reason to apprehend considerable expenses not falling within the estimate of what was lobe provided for in the present year— not at all impugning the accuracy of the right hon. Gentleman's calculations, yet considerable expenses which must be calculated in attempting an estimate for future years. He had particularly referred to the state of New South Wales, quoting a despatch (to which certainly, the right hon. Gentleman had not referred, nor had opportunity of referring) showing that engagements had been entered into by the governor entailing an expense of 900,000l1150lSir R. Peel
— I will not at present enter into that question; but my great objection to the vote by ballot is that it tends to increase, rather than diminish, bribery and corruption.Sir R. Peel
: I should deprecate the logical interference to be drawn from the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman, which would be a repeal of the Reform Bill.Sir R. Peel
— I will tell the hon. Member at once that my confidence in the particular remedy he has suggested has been much abated by recent experience. The hon. Member for Finsbury has said, that at the last election bribery and corruption prevailed to a greater extent than was ever before known. I think there cannot be a question that the Reform Bill made a great increase in the constituencies. One of the benefits expected from the Reform Bill was that it would diminish bribery; but yet we hear it avowed that since the extension of the constituencies, bribery and corruption have prevailed to a greater extent than before. When I hear this I am compelled to doubt whether a further increase of the constituencies would be an. effectual remedy for bribery and corruption.Sir R. Peel
1137— Some of the worst cases which I heard of took place in the large towns. In some places the extent of bribery and corruption was enormous. It would be invidious to name particular places, but I believe that the metropolitan towns of certain counties might be named. If certain election petitions which have been presented should be persevered in, and which I hope will be the case, it will show that some of the worst cases of bribery
1137Sir R. Peel
1136— I have no personal experience of the extent of the evils of which the hon. Member complains, as I happen to represent a remarkably pure constituency, and I do not believe that there is any person in the town which I represent accessible to the influence of bribery. At the same time I am afraid that the general impression is well founded, that of late years the practice of bribery at elections has rather increased than diminished. I am sure that nobody more sincerely laments the prevalence of such practices than I do. I also regret the prevalence of treating, and I volunteered last year to give my cordial co-operation to the noble Lord when he introduced a bill for the purpose of putting an end to bribery, and putting an end, as far as was practicable, to the practice of treating. I am sure the hon. Member opposite is himself aware of the difficulty of dealing with a matter of this kind, and of the extreme danger in
1136Sir R. Peel
bonâ fidebonâ fide1133 hoped the House would not countenance this application, as it went materially to interfere with the whole object which his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tarn worth had had in view, in introducing his measure on the subject
bonâ fidebonâ fide1133The Solicitor-General
 said, that the utmost strength of the case on behalf of the petitioner was this— that he had made a mistake, and now threw himself upon the consideration of the House, to allow him to stand in the same position as if he had not committed it. it seemed to him, however, very difficult to misunderstand the meaning of the clause in the act in question, which empowered the justice of the peace to take the recognizances, the justice of the peace being understood to mean the justice of the peace of the jurisdiction mentioned in the act. Out of his own jurisdiction the individual could not act as justice of the peace, nor was he held as such. As far, therefore, as the law of the case was concerned, there could not, he conceived, be a doubt that the decision against the petitioner had been a correct one. But an appeal was made to the good feeling of the House to allow the petitioner to retrace his steps. He could not but look with much alarm to such applications, if successful, as they opened the door to continued and indefinite appeals on the same ground from the decisions of the tribunal appointed by the act, founded on a plea to which no limit could be put; so that, in fact, the House would not know where to draw the line and stop. The Sessional orders also stood directly in the way of this application, the fourteen days having elapsed. Whether on that ground alone the House would feel itself competent to entertain the application, was a matter to be decided by the Chair.The Attorney-General
1142 said, that nothing could be more distressing- than that a person of sound mind should be imprisoned in a lunatic asylum. He gave the hon. Gentleman due credit for the caution he had observed in not mentioning the names of the individuals. He would have wished that he had observed the same caution with respect to the place from which the complaint came, for he had mentioned that the individual was confined in a private asylum near Glasgow. He thought the wiser course would have been for the hon. Member to have mentioned the case to him some days before, and he would have inquired into the matter, and be enabled to afford some explanation, but until the hon. Member rose to state the case, he knew nothing of it whatever. All he could promise the hon. Member was, that he would make the most minute and anxious inquiry into the facts of the case. The subject was one to which he had paid much attention, and in which he felt the deepest possible interest. Under the present state of the law, if any person received into a lunatic asylum an individual without a warrant from the sheriff of the county, he was liable to a pecuniary penalty. The course of proceeding in such cases was to make an application to the sheriff to lodge the party in the asylum. The sheriff could only grant the requisite authority on a medical certificate of a particular description. The members of the University of Edinburgh, and of the faculty of Glasgow, had four members of their number appointed inspectors of madhouses in Scotland, and the medical certificate should be written by one of those inspectors, and by one of them alone. From his own experience as frequent official visitor to lunatic asylums, he knew that many persons who were insane would
1142Sir W. Rae
bonâ fide1151 said, when the statement alluded to had been pointed out to him, his impression had been certainly the same with that expressed by his right hon. Friend; however, an explanation had been made, which, coupled with the correct representation given by the right hon. Baronet of the discussion the Other night, was satisfactory. As this was the last opportunity he might have he would avail himself of it, not to renew former discussions— the Government had taken their time as to the prorogation and the postponing of all announcements of intention as to important measures; he would not attempt to revive those discussions, but he did hope the Government would feel that the questions he alluded to were of such a nature that they must be prepared to come to a decision upon them; and that it was not to be supposed that "the chapter of accidents" would lead to such a change of circumstances as to dispense with the necessity for coming to such a decision; and, above all, he begged of them, to bear in mind that no circumstances could reasonably be apprehended "which could dispense with the obligation on the part of the Government to prove and to declare to Parliament their determination on that great question— the
bonâ fide1151Viscount Palmerston
 said, he wished to know, in regard to the Tamworth petition, whether the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, would have any objection to lay before the House the information on which he acted, and the sources from whence it was obtained.Mr. Yorke
 said, that the petition was not one which prayed for immediate redress, and, therefore, the hon. Member was irregular.The Speaker
 said, it was necessary to give notice of such a motion.The Speaker
 said, that his reasons for having the petition printed, were, because it complained of the conduct of certain Members in violating the privileges of the House, by interfering in the free election of Members of Parliament. It was his intention to call the attention of the House to this subject next Session, and he, therefore, thought that the petition ought to be printed. In connection with this question, he might take that opportunity of stating, that he was sorry to hear the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, declare, while he admitted the extent of the bribery and corruption, that he was not prepared, and that he did not intend to bring forward any bill for the purpose of putting an end to so disgraceful a system. A noble Lord, a Member of that House, last Session had given notice of his intention to bring in a bill on the subject, but such a measure, he thought, ought to come from a Minister of the Crown; and that noble Lord would have some cause to complain if the right hon. Baronet, while occupying the seat which that noble Lord occupied some months ago, threw on him the duty, while the right hon. Baronet pocketed what had been called the fee.Mr. T. Duncombe
1157 said, he would in that case read the prayer of the petition, which was to the effect, that some measures might be adopted, in order better to secure the freedom of election, or, if such steps were not adopted, to take away from them the right of voting. The petitioners stated they were ready to prove the facts alleged, and besought the House to give such protection to the voter, in the free exercise of his vote, as to the House might
1157Mr. T. Duncombe
 was surprised, that so old a Member as the right hon. Baronet should call him to order when he was so disorderly himself. He was not presumed to know anything about the knocks which the right hon. Baronet anticipated. He was merely arguing that the petition which he had presented should be printed, to which course he hoped there would be no objection.Mr. T. Duncombe
 did not see why it ought to be left in the hands of the noble Lord. In his opinion, it ought to be a Government measure.Mr. T. Duncombe
Cries of "Order, order." presented a petition from eight electors in Chippenham, complaining of what was not only a breach of privilege of that House, but also an infringement in the freedom of election. He had only received the petition that morning, and had not been able to show it to either of the Members for Chippenham; but it appeared from the petition that the petitioners were tenants at will of one of those hon. Members, and that they had declined to support him at the last general election, inasmuch as they had voted for the Liberal Member. This conduct it appeared, had not satisfied Mr. Neeld, and they had received notice to quit their holdings, in consequence of the vote which they had given. The petitioners complained that this was not only a positive infringement of the liberties of the House, but also a direct violation of the freedom of election. He was afraid that this was not a solitary instance, and that Mr. Neeld was not more to blame than many others. [Cries of "Order, order."Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, that under the circumstances, he must decline producing the information sought for, inasmuch as the hon. Member for Sheffield had given notice of a motion on this subject for next Session. Notwithstanding this, he should have hesitated complying with the wish of the hon. Member for "York, but since such a notice had been given, he would postpone, till that motion came before the House, any further explanation that might be called for.Sir James Graham
 rose to order. However amusing this might be, yet while they were waiting for certain knocks, he thought it was contrary.Sir R. Inglis
1158 did not say that he would not bring forward any bill on the subject referred to by the hon. Member for Fins-bury, because he had determined not to make any promise which various circumstances might prevent him from fulfilling; all that he had said on the subject was, that he hoped the hon. Gentleman would
1158Sir R. Peel
28272625242322212019181716 did not mean to go over the topics on which his noble Friend had addressed their Lordships; but although quite aware that an address, in answer to a speech from the Throne, in no way whatever pledged those who agreed to the address to any one proposition contained in it; although this had been often repeated with respect to addresses in both Houses of Parliament, yet, as it was apt to be forgotten in discussions, and at an after period of the Session also apt to be forgotten, he thought it peculiarly incumbent on him not to allow the present address to pass in silence. He meant to offer no opposition to it, but generally to remind their Lordships that no one who concurred in that vote pledged himself to any one proposition contained in the address. This would dispense with the necessity, on his part, of protesting against a very large portion, he was sorry to say, of the speech which had just been made by his noble Friend. But there was one part of that speech to which he was compelled to advert. Would that he could believe that the statements of his noble Friend were authorized by her Majesty's Government. His noble Friend had congratulated their Lordships, as well he might, if there was any foundation for it, on the Crown having received unabated assurances from all foreign powers of their disposition to maintain the most friendly relations with this country. But that was not in the present Speech from the Throne. It was in the
28272625242322212019181716Lord Brougham
, in explanation, denied that he had said anything to justify the assumption that this country ought to go to war under no circumstances whatever. It was one thing, however, going to war in consequence of an attack on the possessions of this country, or the seizure of our shipping, or an insult to the national flag; and altogether a different matter doing so in the supposition that the balance of power in Europe was affected by the state of affairs in Syria.Lord Brougham
 regretted that he had in any way given pain to the noble Duke, but he must be excused for saying, that if he had only been the unintentional means of calling from the noble Duke the statement which the House had just heard with so much satisfaction, he felt that he had rendered one of the most important services that man could do at the present moment.Lord Brougham
1514131211"Intricate, concentric, intervolved"—109 said, that in rising to second the Address which had just been moved by the noble Earl, he was conscious of so many deficiencies on his own part, and of his utter inability to perform the task which now devolved upon him in the manner in which he always wished to perform every duty before their Lordships, that, at the very outset, he would put forward an humble claim for their kindness and indulgence. If left entirely to his own inclination he would rather have shrunk from the performance of the duty altogether, but his duty urged him onward to the task, feeling assured that he should experience at the hands of their Lordships forgiveness in all those points in which he should feel himself inadequate to the importance of the occasion. He felt deeply on the one hand his own insufficiency, but on the other hand he was willing to confess that, when he glanced for a moment at the topics mentioned in the royal speech, or ran, however briefly, over the great and interesting events brought before them from the Throne, as soon as he looked away from himself and looked only at the cause which he was called upon to support, his courage returned—he felt the strength of the cause which had been put by the noble Earl—strength not to be weakened or impaired even by the weakness of his advocacy. He thought, that if ever men in the position that night occupied by the noble Earl and himself were entitled to speak confidently, and to anticipate
1514131211"Intricate, concentric, intervolved"—109Lord Lurgan
8765 rose and said, it appeared to him to have always been the custom in that House, in moving the Address in answer to the Speech from the Throne, to fix upon the most inexperienced person for that purpose. His noble friend (Viscount Melbourne) had not on the present occasion proved himself a very strenuous reformer, and he hoped that their Lordships would not prove such unusual reformers as not to concede to him that courteous forbearance which had hitherto been conceded to persons similarly situated. It was most gratifying to
8765The Earl of Ducie
32313029 said, that certainly from the appearance of the House, he had anticipated that they should come to a unanimous vote on the address, but at the same time, considering the events that had recently occurred, the policy which had been pursued, and the consequences resulting therefrom, he had equally anticipated that some remarks would be made on the line of conduct which had been taken, on the course of events, and their probable results, and therefore he had not felt at all surprised at the speech they had just heard—an eloquent and able speech, he would add, in the general principles of which, he for the most part agreed, though he was sorry at the same time that he could not concur in the application of those principles. His noble and learned Friend had stated with perfect truth, that the address did not pledge the House, or any noble Member of the House, to approve or concur in any one of the measures which were mentioned in that address. The address he would beg leave to say had been framed with singular care and caution in this respect, and he believed noble Lords, on reading it, would find they could safely vote for it, without binding themselves to any opinion or any subject in it, and without in the least fettering themselves in the exercise of their free judgment, and the discretion which they might think fit to exercise on it hereafter. Their Lordships were of course a ware that the policy which had been pursued, that the course which had been taken, that the events which had happened, were all of deep and great importance. They must, see that the policy which had been pursued
32313029Viscount Melbourne
3736353433 said, that after what had fallen from the noble Viscount,
3736353433The Duke of Wellington
 called the attention of the House to the unhappy dissensions that had so long prevailed in the Church of Scotland, and to the position in which the civil court and the church courts stood towards each other. He wished to ask the noble Viscount opposite whether it was the intention of Government to introduce any measure with a view to allay the prevailing heats and animosities, and to produce, as much as any legislative measure could effect that object, a settlement of the question; or whether, being satisfied with the existing state of the law, seeing no ground for alteration, and being determined that the law should have its full effect, and that those who obeyed it should receive protection, the Government thought it better to make no application to Parliament for any change of the law?The Earl of Haddington
138 said, that as
138The Earl of Haddington
 was exceedingly glad to hear the noble Viscount say so; but from the nature of the discussions that had taken place, and from all the circumstances of the case, he thought it was impossible that the question could be brought to a satisfactory termination without the intervention of Parliament.The Earl of Haddington
: That is a matter of course.Viscount Melbourne
 entirely agreed with the noble Earl as to the great importance of this question. He could assure the noble Earl that Government had given the most serious consideration to the question, and having done so, he must say, that he was not prepared to bring in any measure at present to alter the law respecting the Church of Scotland.Viscount Melbourne
 announced to the House that the Lords appointed to present the Address of the House to her Majesty had waited on her Majesty accordingly, and that her Majesty had been graciously pleased to return the following answer;—The Lord Chancellor
137"The right hon. the Lord High Chancellor."J. B. BOSANQUET.""My Lord—In answer to your Lordship's inquiry respecting the proceeding at the Central Criminal Court, in the case of the Karl of Cardigan, in October last: I have the honour to acquaint your Lordship, that an indictment having been found by the grand jury against the Earl of Cardigan for feloniously shooting, with a loaded pistol, at Harvey Garnell Phipp Tuckett, with intent to murder, to maim, and disable him, and to do him grievous bodily harm against the form of the statute in that case made and provided, Mr. Adolphus (as counsel for the Earl) moved the court to direct, that the recognizances of the Earl and his sureties for his appearance at the Central Criminal Court might be respited to the ensuing sessions, on the ground, that the Earl being a Peer could not be tried in that court, whereupon it was ordered, that the recognizances should be respited accordingly, to afford an opportunity of removing the indictment to be tried before a proper tribunal, either of the Lord High Steward, or of the [Souse of Peers. I have further ascertained by inquiry of the clerk of arraigns, that similar orders have been made at each subsequent sessions for the respite of the recognizances. —I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's obedient servant."Montague-place, Jan. 28, 1841. had to inform their Lordships that he had felt it his duty to hold a communication with Mr. Justice Bosanquet, who presided as senior judge at a recent sitting of the Central Criminal Court, upon a matter connected with certain proceedings which had taken place respecting a Member of their Lordships' House. He had received from Mr. Justice Bosanquet the following answer:—
137"The right hon. the Lord High Chancellor."J. B. BOSANQUET.""My Lord—In answer to your Lordship's inquiry respecting the proceeding at the Central Criminal Court, in the case of the Karl of Cardigan, in October last: I have the honour to acquaint your Lordship, that an indictment having been found by the grand jury against the Earl of Cardigan for feloniously shooting, with a loaded pistol, at Harvey Garnell Phipp Tuckett, with intent to murder, to maim, and disable him, and to do him grievous bodily harm against the form of the statute in that case made and provided, Mr. Adolphus (as counsel for the Earl) moved the court to direct, that the recognizances of the Earl and his sureties for his appearance at the Central Criminal Court might be respited to the ensuing sessions, on the ground, that the Earl being a Peer could not be tried in that court, whereupon it was ordered, that the recognizances should be respited accordingly, to afford an opportunity of removing the indictment to be tried before a proper tribunal, either of the Lord High Steward, or of the [Souse of Peers. I have further ascertained by inquiry of the clerk of arraigns, that similar orders have been made at each subsequent sessions for the respite of the recognizances. —I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's obedient servant."Montague-place, Jan. 28, 1841.The Lord Chancellor
139 begged to lay upon the Table a bill to which he would request their Lordships to give a first reading. He should feel it his duty, in a future stage, to call their Lordships' attention to the bill in detail, and he was sure their Lordships would readily give their attention, when they understood the nature of the bill, and when they were informed that it had for its object not only the social condition, but the bodily health of large classes of our fellow-subjects. The bill he proposed to be read a first time was entitled, "An Act for the better drainage and improvement of Buildings in large Towns and Cities." The commission which had been appointed to enquire into this subject had collected a great mass of information, which had been laid before their Lordships. At the conclusion of the Session, he had directed his attention to the evidence collected; in fact, he had read every word, and would strongly recommend the perusal of it to such of their Lordships as had not already bestowed their attention upon it, and for that purpose he would allow a sufficient period to elapse between the first and second read-
139The Marquess of Normanby
 was exceedingly glad that the noble Marquess had laid this bill on the Table. He had read the evidence with the greatest pain and apprehension, and with the greatest compassion for those who were compelled to inhabit the dwellings referred to, and he would certainly assist the noble Marquess in the progress of this bill, to the best of his ability.Lord Ellenborough
144143 said, that before he proceeded to answer the precise question put to him, he must say, that he felt sincerely obliged to the noble Baron for having read again the opinion of the learned Judge who passed sentence upon Messrs, Frost, Williams and Jones, upon the nature of their offence, and the enormity of their acts, he thought, however, that course was less necessary in the present instance, because, from the peculiar circumstances attending the conviction, the matter was discussed in that House last year, at the period when a determination was come to, on account of the nature of the conviction, not to carry into execution the extreme sentence, but to commute it to that next in severity. Upon that occasion he had had an opportunity of repeating, in the language of the learned Chief Justice, his own opinion of the extreme enormity of the offence of the parties—an offence not merely partaking in its worst form of the atrocious crime of high treason, but attended by many circumstances that gave it the character of deliberate murder on a large scale. Having said thus much with reference to the opinion he had then expressed, he now begged to state, that all he had heard since, all that he had seen and observed of the conduct of the people of this country, some portion of whom had been misguided by these individuals and others, tended to convince him of the justice of their punishment, and of the delusion that had been occasioned by the selfishness, the insane selfishness, of these individuals who had put themselves forward as leaders. His noble Friend asked him as he understood these questions
144143The Marquess of Normanby
145 had no objection whatever to do so. It was generally supposed that the same indulgence had been given to these parties as to other political offenders; but political offenders were of various degrees. It was to be
145The Marquess of Normanby
 wished to know whether the noble Marquess would have any objection to lay any further information which the Government might receive upon the Table.Lord Wharncliffe
142"I was intimated, I do no not know how truly, that there were instructions from the highest authority, and that it was intended to favour us."I am at Port Arthur, a place to which the very worst of men are sent, and where human misery may be seen to probably its greatest extent. I was not, however, sent here for what is called punishment. The governor told us repeatedly that we were not sent to Port Arthur as a punishment, but to fill certain offices."141140"In the case of all ordinary breaches of the law, the mischief of the offence does for the most part terminate with the immediate injury sustained by the individual against whom it is levelled. The man who plunders the property or lifts his hands against the life of his neighbour, does by his guilty act inflict in that particular instance, and to that extent, a loss or injury on the sufferer or his surviving friends. But they who by armed numbers, or violence, or terror, endeavour to put down established institutions, and to introduce in their stead n new order of things, open wide the flood-gates of rapine and bloodshed, destroy all security of property and life, and do their utmost to involve a whole nation in anarchy and ruin. It has been proved in your case that you combined together to lead from the hills, at the dead hour of night, into the town of Newport, many thousands of men, armed in many in-
140 said, he wished to put a question to the noble Marquess opposite, upon a subject which had caused, among the sound part of the population, very great excitement. Their Lordships would remember that, last year, three persons, Frost, Williams, and Jones, were condemned to death for high treason, and that their sentences were afterwards commuted to transportation for life, he could not describe the nature of the crime of which these men were found guilty, in better terms than those employed by the learned Chief Justice of the Common Pleas in passing sentence. That learned Judge used these words—
142"I was intimated, I do no not know how truly, that there were instructions from the highest authority, and that it was intended to favour us."I am at Port Arthur, a place to which the very worst of men are sent, and where human misery may be seen to probably its greatest extent. I was not, however, sent here for what is called punishment. The governor told us repeatedly that we were not sent to Port Arthur as a punishment, but to fill certain offices."141140"In the case of all ordinary breaches of the law, the mischief of the offence does for the most part terminate with the immediate injury sustained by the individual against whom it is levelled. The man who plunders the property or lifts his hands against the life of his neighbour, does by his guilty act inflict in that particular instance, and to that extent, a loss or injury on the sufferer or his surviving friends. But they who by armed numbers, or violence, or terror, endeavour to put down established institutions, and to introduce in their stead n new order of things, open wide the flood-gates of rapine and bloodshed, destroy all security of property and life, and do their utmost to involve a whole nation in anarchy and ruin. It has been proved in your case that you combined together to lead from the hills, at the dead hour of night, into the town of Newport, many thousands of men, armed in many in-
140Lord Wharncliffe
175 presented a petition from the East India and China association, praying for a repeal of the destructive duties levied on East Indian produce in Australia and Ceylon. It had been laid down as a general principle, that the commercial regulations affecting the intercourse between the United Kingdom and the colonial dependencies, and the mutual intercourse of these dependencies with each other should be based on perfect equality, subject to certain exceptions where the permanent interest of all the members of the community might render such exceptions necessary. There was to be no advantage given to one party over another, either in the colonial ports or in any of the ports of the United Kingdom. Parliament was not to secure to any persons or companies trading to these ports any partial advantages whatever. He would now state to their Lordships that British manufactured goods were imported into Australia free of duty, while a duty of 5 per cent, was imposed upon the manufacture of India. Now, it did so happen, that the main part of the Indian produce imported into Australia was grain, and that was only imported in times of distress and privation, and yet that duty of 5 per cent, was levied upon all the grain imported. When he had the honour of preparing the report for the committee, he had suggested to them the propriety
175Lord Ellenborough
"3. That Tuesday, the 16th day of February, be fixed for the said trial, and that all the judges be summoned to attend.""2. That as the destruction by fire of the two Houses of Parliament, renders access from this House to Westminster-hall inconvenient, reason aforesaid, that the trial should take place at the Bar of this House."1. That as a very considerable delay has occurred since the bill of indictment was preferred against James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, it appears desirable, for the said James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, should take place with all convenient speed. brought up the Report of Committee appointed to inspect the journals of the House on the forms of the trial of Peers, and also to consider the proper mode of proceeding, in order to bring James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, to a speedy trial. The Report was not a final one, and he, therefore, begged leave to move, that the Committee should be allowed to report from time to time. The Committee had considered the matter referred to them, and had come to the following Resoulutions:—
"3. That Tuesday, the 16th day of February, be fixed for the said trial, and that all the judges be summoned to attend.""2. That as the destruction by fire of the two Houses of Parliament, renders access from this House to Westminster-hall inconvenient, reason aforesaid, that the trial should take place at the Bar of this House."1. That as a very considerable delay has occurred since the bill of indictment was preferred against James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, it appears desirable, for the said James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, should take place with all convenient speed.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 moved, "That the Lord Chancellor be requested to write letters to all Lords to attend on Tuesday, the 16th of February, at eleven o'clock in the forenoon; and that all letters addressed to member of the Royal Family shall state that 'the House desire their presence.'"—Ordered.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 moved, "That an humble Address be presented to her majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to give directions for the necessary fitting-up of this House, and to appoint a Lord High Steward to preside at the trial."—Ordered.The Earl of Shaftesbury
176 was glad of the opportunity of stating that having himself presented a petition last year upon the subject, which had been at the suggestion of the noble Baron and with his own entire concurrence in the suggestion, referred to a committee of their Lordships' House, he took a warm interest in the subject to which the petition referred. He had thought inquiry necessary from the great importance of the trade with India, and from the still greater importance of the claims of the people of India themselves, to the fullest measure of justice from that House in all that regarded their interests. He still retained the same opinion, and was glad to find that his wish was participated in by the noble Baron, of extending to them without unnecessary delay those advantages to which he believed them justly entitled. Having said so much, he would state his entire concurrence with the views the noble Baron
176The Marquess of Lansdowne
 moved, "That James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, be taken into custody by the Black Rod, touching the matter of an indictment preferred against him."— Ordered.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 moved, "That her Majesty's Clerk of the Crown in Chancery be directed to issue a writ of certiorari to return into this House an indictment against James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan."— Ordered.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 moved, "That James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, be admitted to bail."— Ordered.The Earl of Shaftesbury
ll then moved, "That James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, be called on to find two sureties in 5,000llThe Earl of Shaftesbury
 moved, "That James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, be discharged from the bail into which he had entered before he was taken into custody by Black Rod."The Earl of Shaftesbury
"16. That the solicitor of the said James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, have a copy of the indictment.""The Lords thereupon ordered accordingly, and—"15. That during the said trial the avenues to this House be guarded, and care taken that none be admitted but Lords' servants and the necessary attendants of the house."14. That considering the want of space in the present House of Lords, the Lord Great Chamberlain be desired to provide such accommodation as the House can in its present state afford for the admission of such persons as have a right to be admitted, or have usually been admitted on such occasions, and to communicate to the committee the arrangements that can be made for the purpose."13. That a room be allotted for the use of the prosecutor and his counsel and attendants."12. That no person whatsoever shall be admitted to be present in the court at the said trial, but those who have a right to be there; and that the Lord Great Chamberlain do give order, and that the officers of this House do take special care, that this order be observed accordingly."11. That no person be admitted about the Throne, except such Peers of Great Britain and Ireland as do not sit in the House, minor Peers, and the eldest sons of Peers."10. That all proclamations to be made in the court during the said trial be made in the Queen's name."9. That every Peer, when he gives his judgment, shall declare his opinion upon his honour, laying his right hand upon his breast.180"8. That if any doubt shall arise during the said trial, no debate shall be had thereupon
180"7. That in case the Lord indicted should plead guilty to his indictment, strangers do immediately withdraw."6. That no person, whatsoever, except the Lords of the House, be admitted within the Bar."5. That the Lords do keep their places in the Court during the said trial."4. That the Lord High Steward do acquaint the Lord to be tried, and all other persons who may have occasion to speak to the Court, that they address themselves to the Lords in general, and not to the Lord High Steward."3. That every day during the trial, the names of the Lords be called over before they proceed on the said trial, and that the names of the absent Lords be set down by the clerk of this House."2. That on the day appointed for the said trial every Peer who hath a right to sit and vote in Parliament do appear at and attend such trial; and that the whole body of the House of Peers do meet in the House of Lords in their Robes, at 11 of the clock in the forenoon."1. That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, to request, that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to order, that such guards do attend, during the said trial, as have been usual in cases of trials; and also that her Majesty will be graciously pleased further to order, that a sufficient police force be in attendance to keep clear the approaches leading to the House during the said trial."Second report made from the committee appointed to inspect the journals of this House upon former trials of Peers in criminal cases, and to consider of the proper methods of proceeding, in order to bring James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, to a speedy trial, and to report to the House what they shall think proper thereupon; and to whom leave was given to report from time to time to the House: that the committee have again met, and have further considered the matter to them referred, and have come to the following resolutions, viz.: — brought up the following additional report from the committee of their Lordships appointed to inspect the journals of the House, which was read and adopted.
"16. That the solicitor of the said James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, have a copy of the indictment.""The Lords thereupon ordered accordingly, and—"15. That during the said trial the avenues to this House be guarded, and care taken that none be admitted but Lords' servants and the necessary attendants of the house."14. That considering the want of space in the present House of Lords, the Lord Great Chamberlain be desired to provide such accommodation as the House can in its present state afford for the admission of such persons as have a right to be admitted, or have usually been admitted on such occasions, and to communicate to the committee the arrangements that can be made for the purpose."13. That a room be allotted for the use of the prosecutor and his counsel and attendants."12. That no person whatsoever shall be admitted to be present in the court at the said trial, but those who have a right to be there; and that the Lord Great Chamberlain do give order, and that the officers of this House do take special care, that this order be observed accordingly."11. That no person be admitted about the Throne, except such Peers of Great Britain and Ireland as do not sit in the House, minor Peers, and the eldest sons of Peers."10. That all proclamations to be made in the court during the said trial be made in the Queen's name."9. That every Peer, when he gives his judgment, shall declare his opinion upon his honour, laying his right hand upon his breast.180"8. That if any doubt shall arise during the said trial, no debate shall be had thereupon
180"7. That in case the Lord indicted should plead guilty to his indictment, strangers do immediately withdraw."6. That no person, whatsoever, except the Lords of the House, be admitted within the Bar."5. That the Lords do keep their places in the Court during the said trial."4. That the Lord High Steward do acquaint the Lord to be tried, and all other persons who may have occasion to speak to the Court, that they address themselves to the Lords in general, and not to the Lord High Steward."3. That every day during the trial, the names of the Lords be called over before they proceed on the said trial, and that the names of the absent Lords be set down by the clerk of this House."2. That on the day appointed for the said trial every Peer who hath a right to sit and vote in Parliament do appear at and attend such trial; and that the whole body of the House of Peers do meet in the House of Lords in their Robes, at 11 of the clock in the forenoon."1. That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, to request, that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to order, that such guards do attend, during the said trial, as have been usual in cases of trials; and also that her Majesty will be graciously pleased further to order, that a sufficient police force be in attendance to keep clear the approaches leading to the House during the said trial."Second report made from the committee appointed to inspect the journals of this House upon former trials of Peers in criminal cases, and to consider of the proper methods of proceeding, in order to bring James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, to a speedy trial, and to report to the House what they shall think proper thereupon; and to whom leave was given to report from time to time to the House: that the committee have again met, and have further considered the matter to them referred, and have come to the following resolutions, viz.: —The Earl of Shaftesbury
 appeared at the Bar, in the custody of Sir Augustus Clifford, Gentleman Usher of the Black RodThe Earl of Cardigan
— My Lord, this is the fit opportunity for your Lordship to address the House, if you wish to say anything; if not, you may retire.The Lord Chancellor.
— Call in Lord Cardigan.The Lord Chancellor.
ll said,— I have to inform your Lordship, that this House has been pleased to order, that your Lordship may be admitted to bail, yourself in 10,000llThe Lord Chancellor
"The thanks of the House to Admiral Sir R. Stopford, G.C.B., for the operations conducted by him on the coast of Syria, particularly for the decisive attack on the fortress of Acre on the 3d of November 1840; to Commodore Sir C. Napier, K.C.B., and the several captains and officers of the fleet employed on the coast of Syria; and that the House highly approves of the services of the seamen and Royal marines employed on the occasion. Also, that the thanks of the House be given to Major-General Sir C. Smith and the Royal Artillery and Engineers serving under his command on the coast of Syria; to Rear-Admiral Baron Bandeira and the naval force under his command, for their valuable assistance and cooperation during the proceedings on the coast of Syria; and to Sir B. Walker, commander of the navy of his Highness the Sultan; and that the Lord Chancellor be directed to signify the same to Admiral Sir Robert Stopford."251250 rose, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, to move the thanks of the House to Admiral Sir Robert Stopford, G.C.B., and the officers and men employed under his command in the late operations on the coast of Syria. In doing so, he should detain their Lordships for a very few moments, because he felt that it was really unnecessary that he should enter into any details with reference to events with which their Lordships must be perfectly familiar. It was true, that, on many former occasions, the British fleet had been called into action against more formidable enemies, and had been engaged in more sanguinary contests; but he was sure their Lordships would admit that throughout the whole course of these operations on the coast of Syria, abundant proofs were given of the skill, of the bravery, of the resources, of that originality of enterprise, and of character, which had always distinguished the British navy. But there was one very peculiar circumstance connected with these operations which he wished particularly to press on their Lordships' attention. He alluded to the singular rapidity with which, and the very short space of time in which, those many brave and gallant enterprises, all of which ended in the most complete success, were effected. On the 9th of September, after receiving the refusal of the Pacha to accede to the terms proposed by the Sultan, Sir Robert Stopford appeared before Beyrout; and, without the loss of a single day, nay, he might say, without the loss of a single hour, he launched Commodore Napier on that career of victory and success, which he so unremittingly continued to pursue throughout the whole of the campaign. On the 9th of September, Commodore Napier landed at Djouni, a bold and able operation in the midst of superior forces; and on the 3rd of November, the contest was concluded by the reduction of the fortress of Acre. In those few weeks, the mountaineers had been armed and organized, and every gar-
"The thanks of the House to Admiral Sir R. Stopford, G.C.B., for the operations conducted by him on the coast of Syria, particularly for the decisive attack on the fortress of Acre on the 3d of November 1840; to Commodore Sir C. Napier, K.C.B., and the several captains and officers of the fleet employed on the coast of Syria; and that the House highly approves of the services of the seamen and Royal marines employed on the occasion. Also, that the thanks of the House be given to Major-General Sir C. Smith and the Royal Artillery and Engineers serving under his command on the coast of Syria; to Rear-Admiral Baron Bandeira and the naval force under his command, for their valuable assistance and cooperation during the proceedings on the coast of Syria; and to Sir B. Walker, commander of the navy of his Highness the Sultan; and that the Lord Chancellor be directed to signify the same to Admiral Sir Robert Stopford."251250The Earl of Minto
 begged to express his perfect concurrence in the approbation which had been bestowed on that part of the service which at all times, and on every opportunity, had been distinguished for its valour and good conduct. It also gave him pleasure to find included in the vote of thanks, his gallant friend Sir Charles Smith, and the officers of the engineers.Lord Hill
256 begged to assure the noble Duke, that in attempts against fortresses by ships of war, he was fully sensible, from conversation with able men (and he never met with an able man who was not a sensible one), of the great disadvantages under which ships must always labour when brought to operate against walls and fortresses. He thought, however, that we might trust to the prudence and discretion of our officers so to govern their love of enterprise as not to undertake any attack of this description without a fair prospect of success—such a fair prospect of success as the gallant Admiral felt he had before him when he went to Acre. Of late years, a great and remarkable improvement had taken place in gunnery. The practice before Acre was one of the greatest examples of this; in it the fire was such as it was almost impossible to withstand with any degree of steadiness. This he considered was a new power acquired to the navy of late years, and one which rendered an attack on stone walls and fortresses a much less dangerous undertaking than it might have been in the days of more random firing. The attack on Algiers had been made under much greater disadvantages than the recent one on Acre, owing to the great improvements in gunnery since that time. Knowing that the noble Duke only meant to give a
256The Earl of Minto
"That the Serjeant-at-Arms be within the House to make proclamations, which are to be made in the Queen's name, for keeping silence.""That none be covered at the said trial but the Lords.640
64036Seats below the bar
36Seats below the bar184
18464In the new gallery in front of the same (to be reserved for the tickets issued to the Royal Family, Peeresses, the wives of the eldest sons of Peers, and Peers' daughters)
64In the new gallery in front of the same (to be reserved for the tickets issued to the Royal Family, Peeresses, the wives of the eldest sons of Peers, and Peers' daughters)120In the present gallery at the west end of the House
120In the present gallery at the west end of the House420
42060In the gallery on the left-hand side of the House
60In the gallery on the left-hand side of the House60In the gallery on the right-hand side of the House
60In the gallery on the right-hand side of the House300In the body of the House
300In the body of the House
640
64036Seats below the bar
36Seats below the bar184
18464In the new gallery in front of the same (to be reserved for the tickets issued to the Royal Family, Peeresses, the wives of the eldest sons of Peers, and Peers' daughters)
64In the new gallery in front of the same (to be reserved for the tickets issued to the Royal Family, Peeresses, the wives of the eldest sons of Peers, and Peers' daughters)120In the present gallery at the west end of the House
120In the present gallery at the west end of the House420
42060In the gallery on the left-hand side of the House
60In the gallery on the left-hand side of the House60In the gallery on the right-hand side of the House
60In the gallery on the right-hand side of the House300In the body of the House
300In the body of the House brought up the third report from the "committee appointed to inspect the journals upon former trials of peers in criminal cases, and to consider the proper methods of proceeding, in order to bring James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, to a speedy trial, and to report to the House what they shall think proper thereupon," &c. It referred first to the accommodation that can be provided on the occasion of the said trial, viz.:—
"That the Serjeant-at-Arms be within the House to make proclamations, which are to be made in the Queen's name, for keeping silence.""That none be covered at the said trial but the Lords.640
64036Seats below the bar
36Seats below the bar184
18464In the new gallery in front of the same (to be reserved for the tickets issued to the Royal Family, Peeresses, the wives of the eldest sons of Peers, and Peers' daughters)
64In the new gallery in front of the same (to be reserved for the tickets issued to the Royal Family, Peeresses, the wives of the eldest sons of Peers, and Peers' daughters)120In the present gallery at the west end of the House
120In the present gallery at the west end of the House420
42060In the gallery on the left-hand side of the House
60In the gallery on the left-hand side of the House60In the gallery on the right-hand side of the House
60In the gallery on the right-hand side of the House300In the body of the House
300In the body of the House
640
64036Seats below the bar
36Seats below the bar184
18464In the new gallery in front of the same (to be reserved for the tickets issued to the Royal Family, Peeresses, the wives of the eldest sons of Peers, and Peers' daughters)
64In the new gallery in front of the same (to be reserved for the tickets issued to the Royal Family, Peeresses, the wives of the eldest sons of Peers, and Peers' daughters)120In the present gallery at the west end of the House
120In the present gallery at the west end of the House420
42060In the gallery on the left-hand side of the House
60In the gallery on the left-hand side of the House60In the gallery on the right-hand side of the House
60In the gallery on the right-hand side of the House300In the body of the House
300In the body of the HouseThe Earl of Shaftesbury
259llsll258l257 said he had a petition to present from the in-
259llsll258l257Lord Brougham
: That answer only applies to this particular moment?Lord Brougham
 was sorry to say, that he must take the answer of the noble Viscount to be a negative to his whole question. He was sure, that his noble and learned Friend would not answer him negatively with respect to the Ecclesiastical courts.Lord Brougham
260 said, he thought a misunderstanding had gone abroad respecting the course of proceedings in a very important judicature in this country—the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. He thought it right, in consequence of something which passed in another place, that their Lordships should have an opportunity of seeing whether there had been any neglect of duty on the part of the said judges who constituted that court. It had been said, that they had not sufficiently complied with the Act of Parliament in holding the sittings which ought to be held in the exercise of their jurisdiction. No personal complaint whatever had been made against these judges. It was only said, that by the constitution of the court their meetings were accidental, that it depended upon the chance of the case whether meetings were held or not, and that parties were brought down again and again, and much
260Lord Brougham
255 said, their Lordships must feel, after the very lucid statements which had been made to them by the noble Lord, and by the noble Duke, that it would be perfectly absurd for him to enter into any further statements, and
255The Earl of Hardwicke
253252 heartily concurred in the tribute of praise which the noble Earl had bestowed on the navy in moving this vote of thanks. Great as must be the satisfaction of the noble Earl, that these
253252Lord Colchester
 said, that he was unable now to state, that any such intention existed.Viscount Melbourne
 said, it was not in his power to say, that there was any such intention.Viscount Melbourne
254 expressed his cordial approbation of the services performed by the navy in the Mediterranean, which well deserved the thanks of the House. He was sorry that the noble Earl had adverted to any supposed complaints or cavils with respect to the degeneracy of the naval service. For his own part he had never heard any such charge made in that House. The noble Earl had also adverted lo the time when these operations had taken place, and he could not avoid expressing his regret that the noble Earl had made the remark on this occasion. That was a matter entirely irrelevant to the present question, for all they had to do was to record their thanks for the services that had been performed by those who were engaged in this glorious expedition. He had had a little experience in services of this nature, and he thought it
254The Duke of Wellington
 did not mean to say that ships of war should never do such a thing. He stated a fact.The Duke of Wellington
 said, it was his intention to introduce a measure on the subject as early as possible.The Lord Chancellor
"That it is the opinion of this committee that the judges be allowed to sit covered at the trial of James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan.""That it is the opinion of this committee that a room be allowed for the attendants of James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan.364"That it is the opinion of this committee,
364"That it is the opinion of this committee, that during his trial, James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, shall be allowed a stool inside of the bar, where he may sit uncovered and without his robes."That it having been intimated that her Majesty does not intend to be present on the occasion of the trial of James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, it is the opinion of this committee that no directions shall be given for making those preparations that are usual on the occasion of her Majesty's appearance in that House. presented an additional report from the committee appointed to inspect the journals of the House upon former trials of Peers in criminal cases, and to consider of the proper methods of proceeding in order to bring James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, to a speedy trial, as follows:—
"That it is the opinion of this committee that the judges be allowed to sit covered at the trial of James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan.""That it is the opinion of this committee that a room be allowed for the attendants of James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan.364"That it is the opinion of this committee,
364"That it is the opinion of this committee, that during his trial, James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, shall be allowed a stool inside of the bar, where he may sit uncovered and without his robes."That it having been intimated that her Majesty does not intend to be present on the occasion of the trial of James Thomas, Earl of Cardigan, it is the opinion of this committee that no directions shall be given for making those preparations that are usual on the occasion of her Majesty's appearance in that House.The Earl of Shaftesbury
366365 said, he perceived that some correspondence had taken place between Mr. Fox, the British Minister to the United States, and Mr. Forsyth, the American Secretary of State, relative to the arrest and imprisonment of Mr. M'Leod, by the state of New York, on a charge of murder and arson; but no official information had been laid before the House on the subject. It appeared from the public prints that certain members of Congress had spoken in a violent manner—not alone disrespectful to the Government of this country, but in a manner exceedingly harsh and violent towards the accused individual. He therefore felt it to be his humble duty to bring the matter before their Lordships, for the purpose of eliciting some information or statement from her Majesty's Government. At the same time, he much feared that what transpired in that House would not arrive in America in sufficient time to save this unfortunate gentleman, who appeared to be most falsely and unjustly accused. He begged leave to state, that he had the opportunity of knowing, through the means of Captain Drew, that Mr. M'Leod was not present when the schooner Caroline was burnt, and that he was, in fact, on shore at the time, doing his duty, in obedience to the commands of his superiors. It would therefore appear, that the persons who came forward with the charge had made a false and unjust accusation. He had, in the hopes of saving the life of a British subject, brought this matter before the House. It was, in a public point of view, a matter of more importance than some individuals might suppose. It was, in fact, very nearly connected with our honour as a nation; and he did hope and trust that the Government would take active and energetic steps to assert, maintain and uphold, the character of this great country. He hoped that they would not, by tamely submitting to insult and wrong, suffer the national character to
366365The Earl of Mountcashell
 would answer the question without entering into the facts and arguments with which the noble Lord had prefaced it. Her Majesty's Government had certainly received information that an individual of the name of M'Leod had been arrested by the authorities of the state of New York, and by them committed to prison to take his trial upon a charge of murder and arson, which it was stated he had committed upon the occasion of the seizure and destruction of the Caroline steamer. Upon hearing this Mr. Fox, our Minister at Washington, demanded his liberation from the General Government, and received for reply, that the matter entirely rested with the authorities of the State of New York, and that it was neither in the power nor the inclination of the Federal Government of America to interfere. That was the way in which the matter stood at present. What her Majesty's Ministers meant to do their Lordships would not expect him then to state. At the same time, the noble Lord might be perfectly sure of this, that they would take those measures which in their estimation would be best calculated to secure the safety of her Majesty's subjects, and to vindicate the honour of the British nation.Viscount Melbourne
 announced a message from her Majesty relative to Lord Keane, for which see the Commons' report, post page 387.The Lord Chancellor
455: I most cordially concur in this address, but I must express my surprise (and I think the noble Viscount admits the justice of my doing so), that it has been so long delayed, whatever be the cause. I entirely agree with the noble Viscount in thinking, that the honours which have been conferred have been most fully deserved, and in coming to that opinion I do not look solely to the brilliant exploit by which the noble Lord, in a remarkably short time, got possession of Ghuznee, however great the decision with which he carried that formidable fortress. What I regard with most admiration in his conduct is the fortitude of mind and character which enabled him to face the unparalleled difficulties he had to overcome in the long march where he was exposed to such hazardous passes as the Bolan. It is not so much where all men
455Lord Ellenborough
454 having moved the Order of the Day, and the message from the Crown brought down yesterday having been read, said: I beg leave to call your Lordships' attention to her Majesty's gracious message, and I feel perfectly certain that it would be unnecessary for me to state in detail the grounds and reasons on which her Majesty was advised to send down that message to your Lordships, or the grounds and reasons on which I shall move your Lordships that an address to her Majesty be agreed to entirely in concurrence with that message. When your Lordships recollect the services to which that message refers; when your Lordships recollect the unanimous vote of thanks given by Parliament for those services, and the houours conferred on those who rendered them, with the concurrence and consent of your Lordships and of the whole community, I apprehend that your Lordships will be inclined to ask rather why this proceeding has been so long delayed, than why it has been brought forward now. Into the reasons of that delay it is not my intention to enter, nor do I conceive it necessary: but I must say this much, that the delay has not arisen from any doubt whatever on the part of her Majesty's Government whether it were fitting and proper to mark
454Viscount Melbourne
"4. That in case the said trial shall last more than one day, the Earl of Cardigan shall remain in the custody of the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod."508"3. That upon the appearance of James"2. That notice be forthwith given to the bail of the said Earl, to acquaint them with the said requisition."1. That notice be given forthwith to Thomas James Earl of Cardigan to appear at the bar of the House on Tuesday, the 16th day of this inst. February, at 11 of the clock in the forenoon, in order to answer to the indictment which has been found against him. brought up a further Report of the Committee, and moved for an order for the attendance of certain witnesses on the trial of the Earl of Cardigan on Tuesday next. His Lordship also moved
"4. That in case the said trial shall last more than one day, the Earl of Cardigan shall remain in the custody of the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod."508"3. That upon the appearance of James"2. That notice be forthwith given to the bail of the said Earl, to acquaint them with the said requisition."1. That notice be given forthwith to Thomas James Earl of Cardigan to appear at the bar of the House on Tuesday, the 16th day of this inst. February, at 11 of the clock in the forenoon, in order to answer to the indictment which has been found against him.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 having moved for the production of certain returns relative to the working of the Poor-law in Ireland,Lord Hawarden
 said, the statement of the noble Earl was the first he had heard of the subject, but he would certainly make the inquiries he desired; but from his knowledge of the character of the Assistant Commissioner, he did not believe he could have acted in a manner that would be so contrary to the spirit of his instructions.The Marquess of Normanby
509 presented petitions from the members of the Universal Rational Religious Society, Reading, Glasgow, and Northampton, complaining that their doctrines had been misrepresented, and praying for an inquiry into them. He presented these petitions because they were respectfully worded, and because the parties complained of misrepresentation. He, therefore, deemed it his duty, as the petitions had been put into his hands, to submit them to their Lordships, although he was himself unacquainted with the subject and totally uninformed whether the
509Lord Brougham
 wished to ask of the noble Marquess (Normanby) whether he had received any information respecting the Surveyor of the Coleraine Union, in the county of Tipperary, having entered in the book from which the official returns were made against certain erasures in the list, the word "Tory," as he (the Earl of Devon) had received information that such was the case; and he thought that if the surveyors so far forgot their duty as to indulge in this manner their political feelings, it was a practice much to be deprecated. If the noble Marquess had received no information on the subject, he requested that he would make inquiries, and if he found that it was the case, express the disapprobation of the Government at the practice.The Earl of Devon
, after presenting a petition from the mayor and burgesses of Leeds in favour of Drainage, said, the object of this petition was, in a great measure, answered by the leading provisions of the noble Marquess's (the Marquess of Normanby's) bill. This measure was a good beginning and it was most necessary to apply its provisions to the great towns throughout the country. It would make a great advance towards improving the moral condition of the people, and securing the appliances of religion. To give the working people habits of cleanliness, and to imbue them with a taste for ordinary domestic comfort, was an improvement which no provisions of this bill could effect, though it would go a greater length towards that desirable end than any efforts could do with which he was acquainted. He recollected that about two years ago, a number of benevolent individuals in London endeavoured by a p0rivate society to ensure cleanliness in the dwellings of the poor. But they found such difficulty in the opposition offered often by the owners of extensive sites, that they were obliged to abandon their undertaking and return the greater proportion of the subscription money. He hailed the bill of the noble Marquess as the first step towards the eradication of what, in its present state, must be a continual germ of social and moral disease.The Bishop of London
539538537 so entirely agreed with the most rev. Prelate, that he preferred saying the very few words which he intended to address to their Lordships at that time, rather than on the second reading of the noble Marquess's bill. He believed the moral and religious improvement of the poor to be totally inconsistent with their physical degradation. To build churches, to build school-houses, and to employ clergymen and schoolmasters, was in his opinion utterly idle, while the physical wants and destitution of the poor, con-
539538537Lord Ellenborough
542ll"On the south side of my immediate district there is one court, called Back Bear-alley, in which, within the last twelvemonths, I may say within the last six months upwards of forty cases of typhus fever have occurred; there are not more than nine houses in that court, two people cannot walk abreast in it; they have one common privy, and sometimes there are packed in one room six or seven of the poorest and most destitute of our fellow-creatures; this is under the surveillance of the inquest. The drainage was deficient in that Back Bear-alley; I directed the attention of the inquest to it, and they sent notice to the parties concerned, that they were coming: the consequence was, they had their houses put in order; they were washed and cleansed, and in some instances, where the fever cases had occurred, they took the precaution of whitewashing; six cases having occurred, some of which were sent to the fever Hospital, and others treated at home; notwithstanding these precautions, thirty-four cases afterwards occurred, and five or six deaths. Is that from want of cleansing and draining?—Those are co-operating causes. Is the drainage bad there?—The drainage was quite defective. I directed the attention of the authorities, and sent a report to the commissioners: Mr. Kelsey is the paid surveyor; I received this reply, in which they state that twenty-two miles of sewers had been explored and cleansed in the city of London, and the ventilation improved: then they go to state, that they will attend further to this, and they have since laid out in that place, I believe, 800ll541540, in moving the Order of the Day for the scond reading of Drainage of Towns' Bill, said, that though he was at all times unwilling to trespass on their Lordships' attention, the paramount importance of this bill induced him somewhat to depart from the rule; and the observations which had fallen from the right rev. Prelate and from the noble Baron opposite confirmed him in the opinion that he did not exaggerate the importance of this measure when he solicited for it their Lordships' careful consideration. It was stated by the noble Baron that this bill was of too limited a nature; but in the course of his observations he thought he should be able to satisfy the noble Baron that the course which he had selected was the most expedient, and likely to be the most successful. But his first business was to call the attention of the House and of the public to the existence of the evil; for he felt sure, that when he did so, the Legislature and the public would feel that their neglect had produced a state of things which at this moment affected not only the health and comfort, but, by violating in many places the decencies of life, brutalized the condition of a large portion of our industrious countrymen. If, thirty years ago, the bill which he was now moving had passed, many of the present evils would not only not have attained their present alarming state, but would never have existed at all. As to the bill which he was proposing to their Lordships,
542ll"On the south side of my immediate district there is one court, called Back Bear-alley, in which, within the last twelvemonths, I may say within the last six months upwards of forty cases of typhus fever have occurred; there are not more than nine houses in that court, two people cannot walk abreast in it; they have one common privy, and sometimes there are packed in one room six or seven of the poorest and most destitute of our fellow-creatures; this is under the surveillance of the inquest. The drainage was deficient in that Back Bear-alley; I directed the attention of the inquest to it, and they sent notice to the parties concerned, that they were coming: the consequence was, they had their houses put in order; they were washed and cleansed, and in some instances, where the fever cases had occurred, they took the precaution of whitewashing; six cases having occurred, some of which were sent to the fever Hospital, and others treated at home; notwithstanding these precautions, thirty-four cases afterwards occurred, and five or six deaths. Is that from want of cleansing and draining?—Those are co-operating causes. Is the drainage bad there?—The drainage was quite defective. I directed the attention of the authorities, and sent a report to the commissioners: Mr. Kelsey is the paid surveyor; I received this reply, in which they state that twenty-two miles of sewers had been explored and cleansed in the city of London, and the ventilation improved: then they go to state, that they will attend further to this, and they have since laid out in that place, I believe, 800ll541540The Marquess of Normanby
551550"I have known a man and his family, with a good income, go from a good cottage to a bad one to save a shilling a-week; but in our own case, for twenty years, we have continued to make every successive lot of cottages more expensive and more convenient; and the most expensive cottages are the most sought after by our own people; and thus a man, with a very moderate income, will desire to bespeak beforehand the first opportunity of getting into a better cottage; and families who have obtained the privilege of a better cottage, when I have enquired subsequently into their previous condition, they have scarcely been able to account to me as to what has been the inducing cause to their improved condition: but, when questioned further, have acknowledged that the opportunity of putting better furniture into their houses has imperceptibly accumulated a large and valuable stock of furniture.""Many of the working people employed in factories and other workshops of our neighbourhood obtain good wages as a whole family, because frequently the various branches, both the boys and girls, are employed; and it not unfrequently occurs, that a family may have forty or fifty shillings per week of income in one cottage; the houses, built back to back, afford only one room to live in, and do the cooking, washing, and other necessary domes-tie operations of the house; in such cases, when the head of the family and the boys come from work on Saturday evening, the necessary domestic occupations of washing or cooking being obliged to be carried on in the same room, renders it extremely uncomfortable, and consequently the father of the family is induced to go out for recreation and amusement to the public-house; besides which, there is little room for filling such a cottage with furniture; and I have remarked that families, with large incomes, have not unfrequently, in such cottages, a very small amount of furniture; and I have further remarked, that in our own establishment, when a family has removed into a larger house, they have frequently occupied the spare rooms with a better class of furniture, which of itself induces them to better habits and a more respectable feeling in society."549"How do they employ the Sunday afternoon?—The whole Sunday is too frequently lost in either drinking or inactive idleness. It is a most painful thing at Manchester, with the full knowledge that there is a vast labouring population around you, to observe that the whole Sunday is passing away without seeing the great mass of the labouring classes, as you would see them here, with their wives and children walking out, and you wonder whore they are; they are too numerously at home in their dirt."548547"In 1821 it was one in thirty-nine; in 1831 it was one in thirty; in 1835 it was one in twenty-nine; in the last year it was one in twenty-five."the Vital Statistics of Glasgow, in his work on "551550"I have known a man and his family, with a good income, go from a good cottage to a bad one to save a shilling a-week; but in our own case, for twenty years, we have continued to make every successive lot of cottages more expensive and more convenient; and the most expensive cottages are the most sought after by our own people; and thus a man, with a very moderate income, will desire to bespeak beforehand the first opportunity of getting into a better cottage; and families who have obtained the privilege of a better cottage, when I have enquired subsequently into their previous condition, they have scarcely been able to account to me as to what has been the inducing cause to their improved condition: but, when questioned further, have acknowledged that the opportunity of putting better furniture into their houses has imperceptibly accumulated a large and valuable stock of furniture.""Many of the working people employed in factories and other workshops of our neighbourhood obtain good wages as a whole family, because frequently the various branches, both the boys and girls, are employed; and it not unfrequently occurs, that a family may have forty or fifty shillings per week of income in one cottage; the houses, built back to back, afford only one room to live in, and do the cooking, washing, and other necessary domes-tie operations of the house; in such cases, when the head of the family and the boys come from work on Saturday evening, the necessary domestic occupations of washing or cooking being obliged to be carried on in the same room, renders it extremely uncomfortable, and consequently the father of the family is induced to go out for recreation and amusement to the public-house; besides which, there is little room for filling such a cottage with furniture; and I have remarked that families, with large incomes, have not unfrequently, in such cottages, a very small amount of furniture; and I have further remarked, that in our own establishment, when a family has removed into a larger house, they have frequently occupied the spare rooms with a better class of furniture, which of itself induces them to better habits and a more respectable feeling in society."549"How do they employ the Sunday afternoon?—The whole Sunday is too frequently lost in either drinking or inactive idleness. It is a most painful thing at Manchester, with the full knowledge that there is a vast labouring population around you, to observe that the whole Sunday is passing away without seeing the great mass of the labouring classes, as you would see them here, with their wives and children walking out, and you wonder whore they are; they are too numerously at home in their dirt."548547"In 1821 it was one in thirty-nine; in 1831 it was one in thirty; in 1835 it was one in twenty-nine; in the last year it was one in twenty-five."the Vital Statistics of GlasgowDr. Cowan
 said, that if he had any objection to the present bill, it was that it did not go far enough. He need hardly say that he had no objection to the second reading of the bill, but he begged to remind the House that it would interfere with many existing rights. He would not, at that stage of the measure, trouble the House with any observations, but he would strongly recommend the noble Marquess to refer the bill to a committee up stairs, so that all its provisions might be carefully considered.The Marquess of Salisbury
552 said, he conceived it almost impossible, that any individual could have read the report referred to by the noble Marquess, and refuse to give to the noble Marquess a most active co-operation in endeavouring to remedy the evils there described. After reading that report, what struck him most was, that the bill appeared too little. There were many evils left untouched by this bill, but he was glad to hear the noble Marquess state, it was his intention to introduce other measures similar to the bill before the House. There was one great evil which this bill did not touch, he meant the letting of lodging houses. It was a common thing at present for such house? to be let after the immediate death of the former tenant from fever, and as many as three, or even four families, had thus been successively carried off, owing to the neglect and cupidity of the proprietors of lodging houses. He thought a most beneficial amendment might be made in the bill by the introduction of a clause to compel landlords to clean and whitewash every house before letting it. Another omission caused him some surprise, namely, the omission of Scotland from the operation of this bill. If there was any portion of the empire that required a measure of this sort, it was Scotland, for he believed, that the condition of Glasgow and Edinburgh was worse than that of any towns of England. He wished to call the attention of the noble Marquess to the
552The Earl of Wicklow
 begged pardon for interrupting the noble Earl, but if they were to have a committee up stairs, he thought that the most proper place to discuss the details of the bill.The Marquess of Westminster
 did not understand the noble Marquess to consent to refer the bill to a committee up stairs.The Earl of Wicklow
 had no objection to refer the bill to a select committee, as their Lordships appeared to think that a more satisfactory course.The Marquess of Normanby
: In that case he would not trouble the House with any further observations.The Earl of Wicklow
"That it should not be lawful to build any two opposite rows of houses in any town or village, which shall be separated from each other by a space not less than twenty-five feet wide where there is a carriage-way between such houses, or not less than twenty feet in the case of alleys and foot passages where there is no carriage-way. begged to make one observation. The 22d clause of the bill enacted,
"That it should not be lawful to build any two opposite rows of houses in any town or village, which shall be separated from each other by a space not less than twenty-five feet wide where there is a carriage-way between such houses, or not less than twenty feet in the case of alleys and foot passages where there is no carriage-way.The Marquess of Northampton
 begged, in answer to his noble Friend opposite (Earl of Wicklow), to state, that the provisions of the bill were to be extended to Ireland, although he did not know whether it might be found advisable to employ the same machinery in that country as in England. It was also his intention to have a similar bill introduced for Scotland, but he thought it would be better to leave the framing of it to some of the law officers of that country, as the bill might have particular interests to deal with. As to dwelling in cellars, it certainly was his intention, if possible, to cause a discontinuance of that practice, unless under the restrictions imposed by the bill.The Marquess of Normanby
 moved that the trial of the Earl of Cardigan be forthwith printed and published.The Earl of Shaftesbury
732 hoped it would not go forth to the public, that if the right rev. Prelates had been present at the conclusion of the trial they would have considered themselves, more than any other Member of their Lordships' House, implicated in any expression of sentiment made use of by the Attorney-general. If he had been present on the occasion, he should have listened to the expression of those sentiments to which reference had been made with deep regret; and he felt it his duty to state, that there was not, in the matter before their Lordships, anything, in his opinion, that called for the expression of any such sentiments on the part of the legal officer of the Crown who filled the situation of public prosecutor on that occasion; and who, it appeared to him, had gone beyond the limits of his province in making them. The noble Earl having alluded to the absence of the right rev. bench (the reasons for which absence their Lordships would no doubt justly appreciate), he felt himself bound to say that he entirely concurred in the sentiments which the noble Earl had expressed; and although, had he been present on the occasion, he should have forborne from any attempt to give expression to his own sentiments (because, looking to the whole princip'e of the proceeding, it was hardly competent for their Lordships to enter into discussion on such a subject), yet he now expressed a strong hope that the recent unfortunate occurrence, together with other cases which had occurred during the last few years,
732The Bishop of London
 said, with reference to the statement made by the noble Earl (Eldon), that all the peers and judges were ordered to attend on the trial; but the Masters in Chancery, by virtue of their office, as messengers of the House, had no claim to attend on that occasion.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 was of opinion, that the bishops were no more compelled to ask for leave to quit the House, in cases of trials for criminal offences, than any other members of it. The House, it was true, could compel the attendance of peers at all its proceedings, but the House had no power to compel any Peer to give his vote. Cases might arise when a noble Lord could not conscientiously give an opinion on the subject before the House, and he was at perfect liberty to retire. He well recollected, at what was called the Queen's trial, the understanding was, that any peer who thought proper might withdraw from the decision.Lord Ellenborough
735 wished to ask a question of the noble
735The Earl of Glengall
 was perfectly ready to say, that the attention of her Majesty's Government had already been turned to this point, and care would be taken that the future elections should, as far as possible, be placed on an unobjectionable footing. He saw no reason to alter the law; but the resident commissioner, Mr. Nicholls, had suggested that the clerks of the unions, as in many cases in England, should be employed as returning officers, and they would perform the duty without any party or political feeling. The elections would take place next month, and he had every confidence that the result would be found satisfactory.The Marquess of Normanby
 felt, that in many respects the clerks of the unions were as objectionable as any other parties. It was his intention, in a few days, to bring the whole subject before the House.The Earl of Glengall
 said, the substitution of the clerks of the unions for special returning officers would not remove the difficulty complained of by the counties. The mode of voting by papers was highly objectionable. It would be very desirable that the mode of voting should be open—that the names should, in fact, be taken down, so that it might be properly ascertained whether those who came forward had any right whatsoever to vote. One of the worst parts of the system was, that where improper persons were elected there was no remedy. There was no mode by which they could be removed. The number of petitions that was presented last year on this subject sufficiently proved the dissatisfaction that prevailed.The Marquess of Westmeath
 said, he had no recollection of the petitions to which the noble Earl alluded. All he could say was, that although the law might be liable to occasional abuse, every intention existed on the part of the Government to remedy the evil.The Marquess of Normanby
736 did not think the system was liable to that degree of abuse
736The Earl of Fingall
 admitted that the point was well worthy of consideration, but the suggestion of Mr. Nicholls would be acted on in the meantime as an experiment.The Marquess of Normanby
 reminded the noble Marquess that the duties of clerks of unions in England were so different from those in Ireland as to afford no analogy whatever in this matter.Lord Fitzgerald and Vesey
 said, the experiment had already been tried in Tipperary, where a protest had been signed against it by upwards of eighty rate-payers, and a considerable number of the board of guardians.Lord Glengall
 presented a petition from Isaac Winter, of Wilton, in the county of Somerset, complaining of delays in the courts of law. The petitioner stated, that having attained the age of 70, he had been a litigant for the last twenty years in the courts of Westminster, and during the greater part of that time in their Lordships' House, The proceedings arose out of an action of ejectment, which was tried twenty years ago, and still remained undecided. The case involved points of extreme difficulty, upon which arguments were held repeatedly in the courts below, where great difference of opinion prevailed. When brought before their Lordships by writ of error, the assistance of the judges was given; it was again argued at great length, but the difference of opinion among the judges was by no means lessened. A second argument was ordered about a year and-a-half since; but the doubts and difficulties of the case were not apparently lessened, for the learned judges had not yet made up their minds upon the subject. Without imputing blame to any person, he hoped the long delay which had taken place was drawing towards an end, and that shortly after the return of the learned judges from circuit this most difficult and embarrassing case would be finally disposed of.Lord Brougham
738737 in moving that
738737Lord Brougham,
"It is very important that these examinations and comparisons should be conducted as quietly as possible, and in a way to excite the least attention and remark; and you are requested to be particularly guarded on that head in your communications with the union functionaries, and with any other persons to whom you may have occasion to apply." rose to move for copies of the letters addressed by Mr. Nicholls to the Assistant Poor-law Commissioners of Ireland, respecting inquiries they were directed to make regarding the valuations of unions, in obedience to the directions of the Irish government. It appeared by a letter published in the newspapers, that Mr. Nicholls, the resident commissioner, had written to the other Poor-law Commissioners, desiring them to give every facility to Messrs. Decie and Haig, "in comparing the number and description of rate-payers entered on the valuation with the persons registered as being entitled to exercise the Parliamentary franchise." He had no doubt, from facts which had come to his knowledge, that the letter was authentic, and his reason for moving for its production was, that any calculations which could be founded on such inspection of the valuations must be fallacious. Few valuations had been completed in any of the Irish unions; in the south, with very few exceptions, there were none, and where they did exist, so many objections had been lodged, that it would be impossible to form any calculation until the appeals had been disposed of. There was another point deserving of some notice. It appeared that these inspections were to be conducted with the greatest possible secresy. The letter concluded thus:—
"It is very important that these examinations and comparisons should be conducted as quietly as possible, and in a way to excite the least attention and remark; and you are requested to be particularly guarded on that head in your communications with the union functionaries, and with any other persons to whom you may have occasion to apply."Lord Glengall
739 had no objection to the production of the corres-
739The Marquess of Normanby
 said, he had lost no time in making inquiry into this very extraordinary proceeding; and he had found that on the very day the noble Earl had directed his attention to it, a communication had been forwarded from the board of guardians to the Poor-law commissioners, stating, that they had discovered that such interpolations as those referred to by the noble Earl, had been made in the valuation papers; that they acquitted the valuators of any share in the proceeding; and that they had traced it to one of the clerks, whom they had in consequence severely reprimanded. The board of guardians expressed themselves very strongly upon the subject. The Poor-law commissioners followed in the same strain, adding, that the valuation papers in question had been prepared by a clerk named John O'Donnell, who had inserted the objectionable terms without the knowledge of the valuators; that they had approved of the course adopted by the board of guardians in reprehending the conduct of the person who had committed the offence, and they trusted that the board of guardians would continue upon all occasions to discountenance political and party distinctions of every description by those who might be employed under them, as otherwise the law could not have the good effect it was intended to produce. He had likewise heard from Mr. Nicholls, who said that they had felt it their duty to require Mr. O'Donoghue, the assistant-commissioner, to make further inquiry upon the subject, the result of which he would make known to their Lordships.The Marquess of Normanby
 could not help thinking, that if the individual in fault had had no compunction in committing the act complained of, he would be likely to feel very little upon being reprimanded. In his opinion he ought to have been dismissed.The Marquess of Westmeath
 said, it appeared to him that the guardians themselves ought to be held responsible for the acts of those persons whom they appointed.The Marquess of Salisbury
 admitted that, but as further inquiry was now being made, he did not wish to say anything more upon the subject until that inquiry was completed.The Marquess of Normanby
 believed the proceedings would be found to have been conducted in the usual form. It was customary for the bishops to ask leave to retire, without voting, on criminal cases, and it had been done on this occasion as on former trials. The question was put to their Lordships not on any interlocutory point, but when they approached a verdict of guilty or not guilty. It was at that period that the Archbishop of Canterbury asked leave for the Lords spiritual to retire.The Earl of Shaftesbury
734 wished to put a question to her Majesty's Government on the subject which had recently been brought under their Lordships' attention. He wished to know whether the act of the 1st of Victoria was framed with intent to put an end to duelling? If so, the trial which had occurred, could only be considered a mockery of justice. If their Lordships were really of opinion that duelling ought to be put an end to, then another measure, stronger than that now in existence, ought to be adopted. No later than yesterday morning, he found by the public prints, a duel had been fought between a Mr. Marsden and a Colonel Paterson, in which one of the parties was severely wounded. He, therefore, thought, that this was a proper occasion for noticing the subject. He was one of those who held the opinion, that by proper means duelling might be put a stop to, the more especially if measures were taken to afford just redress for different offences, out of which duels frequently arose. Some mode, he conceived, ought to be adopted, to give due satisfaction in cases of minor offences, as well as those of a more grave and serious nature. For instance, a man received some degree of insult, and immediately called the aggressor out. Why did he thus call him out? Because the law afforded him no proper satisfaction. There was no law to prevent or punish the offence under which the challenger felt himself aggrieved. In this respect the law was extremely defective. Again, if a man's daughter were seduced, he could only sue the seducer for the worth of her services; and who would be satisfied with such a
734The Earl of Mountcashell
ll.741l. observed, that five of the persons to whose names those distinctive terms had been attached were tenants of his, holding 10ll.741l.The Earl of Glengall
 had only to observe, in consequence of the noble Earl having said, that the conduct of the clerk was not unpalatable to the majority of the board of guardians, that they had expressed their strongest disapprobation of all such proceedings. He agreed with his noble Friend that the valuators had evinced great neglect in not having looked over the books; but he could only repeat that the Poor-law commissioners, who were fully persuaded of the impropriety of the proceedings, were at this moment investigating it. He was aware how very invidious it was, to attach party distinctions to names contained in public documents; but while they all knew what was meant by the word "Tory," he should wish his noble Friend would give them a definition of the word "Disturber."The Marquess of Normanby
 had no doubt that a peer had a right to withdraw, and not to vote, if he pleased. But he apprehended the reason why the bishops, when they wished to retire, did so under protest was, lest, if they did not adopt that course, it might be inferred, that they retired because they had no right to vote. Their object was to assert and maintain their right of sitting at all proceedings, and of giving their votes, if they deemed it necessary.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that the right rev. bench in retiring from the House had acted, on this occasion, in accordance with the established practice. It was customary for them in criminal cases to hear the evidence on both sides, but to ask leave to retire when the verdict was about to be considered and given.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, the bishops, in the case of the Duchess of Kingston, had retired under a similar protest. He believed the Lords spiritual always put in this claim, by protest, because the Peers denied their right of sitting in judgment on Peers.Lord Redesdale
731 said, there were some matters connected with the subject of the noble Earl's motion, that he could not allow to pass without notice. On the occasion of the trial of the noble Earl it appeared that an order was issued calling on those who had business at the House to attend in their places. Now, by an order of the House, which was on their Lordships' table, it appeared that Masters in Chancery were considered in the light of messengers to their Lordships, and were therefore included in the order to attend on that occasion. One of the Masters had, in consequence, come down to the House, and applied for admission, but he was refused, on the ground that he had no order from the Lord Chamberlain. One would suppose, that standing in such a situation, he did not require such an order. There was another point, which he conceived demanded the attention of the House. It would be perceived, by the statement of the proceedings on that day, that the right rev. Prelates towards the latter part of the trial asked permission to withdraw, and withdrew accordingly. In a portion of the address made by the Attorney-general to their Lordships, the learned Gentleman made use of a certain expression, no doubt out of his kind regard towards the noble Earl at the bar, in which his feelings seemed to have carried him a little beyond what he originally intended. The expression to which he alluded was this—" That he (the Attorney-general) was glad that nothing of moral delinquency had occurred in this case." He was perfectly prepared to say, that in the present state of society in this country, it was difficult to suppose that it could go on as it now did, unless certain allowances were made for the feelings of respectable individuals placed in situations of great difficulty, where, perhaps, their sentiments differed materially from the line of conduct which they were pursuing. No man was more ready to make that allowance than he himself was. But, even admitting that, it appeared to him that the Attorney-general, in making the observation to which he had alluded, had gone a little beyond the true line of duty. Now, as the trial had gone off on matter totally irrelevant to that point—as no opinion of their Lordships had been given on the subject—as, in point of fact, the matter was now placed before the public
731The Earl of Eldon
 would decline, for the same reason, to offer any opinion upon the matter at present.The Earl of Devon
 begged to know from the noble Marquess the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether he had received any information relative to the books of the valuators of the Poor law Union of Cloghereen, in the county of Tipperary, several of the names in which, it was alleged, as he had stated a few evenings ago, had been marked by distinctive words, such as "Tory" and "Disturber?"The Earl of Devon
 was fully sensible of the great importance of the subject to which the noble Earl had directed the attention of the House; but, in answer to his question, had only to state, that her Majesty's Ministers did not mean to bring forward any measure of such a nature as the noble Earl had referred to. He apprehended that the noble Earl on a more mature consideration of the subject, would find that the actual state of the law, as it now existed, was not deficient in force, and that it was hardly capable of being made more stringent than it was at present.Viscount Melbourne
 suggested, that instead of converting the clerks of unions into returning officers, it would be better to adopt a stricter method for the election of special returning officers.Lord Fitzgerald
 said, that a noble Friend of his had intended to take the matter up, but would not, of course take it out of the hands of the noble Baron opposite.The Marquess of Normanby
764 presented a petition from the National Charter Association at Bloomsbury, praying for the recall of Frost, Williams, and Jones. Formerly, in presenting a petition from the same association for the release of persons confined for mere opinions and not acts, he had taken occasion to refer to the unfortunate conduct pursued by her Majesty's Ministers with regard to the repeal agitation in Ireland; but he had since heard that the Government hail put a sort of mark upon every person who took part in this question. He was told that a gentleman named Roche, who stood first on the list selected by the judge for persons to fill the office of high sheriff for the county of Cork, had been rejected on the ground that he was favourable to the repeal of the union. He was told that that gentleman had been asked whether, in case of his being selected to fill the office, he would pledge himself to abstain
764Lord Brougham
 had had no direct communication on the subject with his noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant for Ireland; but from what he had heard he had no hesitation in saying that a correspondence did take place with Mr. Roche, in consequence of which his noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant had selected for the office of sheriff the gentleman whose name was second on the list.The Marquess of Normanby
 I believe, my Lords, that no one will think that I hold different opinions on the subject of the repeal of the union from those of my noble Friend, or of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. But I must say again that I do not think this the way to expose the error, or to put down the discussion of that question. I cannot see why the repeal of the union is to be excepted from other questions, and why men should be prevented from taking part in the discussion upon it just as much as upon any other, the discussion being no offence known to the law.Lord Brougham—
 did not know whether there were any such record. He did not think it was usual, but he would make inquiry.The Earl of Shaftesbury
776775774 I perfectly agree with the noble Earl as to the importance of the subject which he has now brought before the House, and agreeing with him on this point, I think it was quite natural that he should so bring it forward. I agree with him also in opinion, that he has brought it forward most discreetly, without any passion or improper warmth, but with that prudence which characterises every step which the noble Earl takes in your Lordships' House. It is our knowledge and full conviction of the great importance of this subject—a conviction which we share with the noble Earl—which, though the differences between this country and Persia are not completely settled, and the points of dispute are not so adjusted as to permit the renewal of diplomatic intercourse, yet, notwithstanding all this, has induced us, feeling what has been so strongly impressed upon us by the noble Earl, that no public mischief or injury whatever could arise from the pursuit of such a course, to lay before the House the correspondence which has taken place between her Majesty's Government and the Court of Persia. We have determined to adopt this step, and to agree to the motion of the noble Earl, in order that every information may be given to your Lordships on the points of difference which have arisen, and, accordingly, we have not availed ourselves—as in perfect accordance with the custom and practice and constitutional precedent of Parliament, we were entitled—of the excuse for the non-production of those papers, that the settlement of such differences is still in progress. I feel that the noble Earl, who has taken several objections to the proceedings of her Majesty's Government, will, by the production of these documents, be in a position
776775774Viscount Melbourne—
 said, that he wished to call their Lordships' attention to a matter of some importance. It appeared by the votes, that on the 29th of last month, certain ordinances from Canada were laid on the Table and ordered to be printed. Some delay having occurred, he sent to the Queen's printer, and the answer was, that the ordinances were sent to the Colonial Office for revision, and that there were some deficiencies to be supplied. This answer, he must say, he thought rather extraordinary. According to the Act of Parliament, these ordinances must lay thirty days on the Table of the House, before they could become law; but they were not printed till the 16th of this month, and so there remained only eight or ten clays for their consideration. He did not know what the proper course was, whether the Queen's printer should be called to the Bar to answer what questions might be put to him on the subject. He should like to know what was the proper course. Before he presented the petition to-morrow, of which he had given notice, he would ask the noble Viscount what explanation he could give on the subject?The Bishop of Exeter
773772771770769l768767re infectâ766765 said, that in making the motion of which he had given notice, though he had lately understood that that motion would not be opposed by the noble Viscount or her Majesty's Ministers, yet he felt it to be his duty to state the grounds on which that motion was made. He had been led to this course from the great importance of the subject to which it related. Reluctant as he always was, on general grounds, to call for the production of papers during the course of the negotiations of which those papers were a part, and to which they alluded, yet he thought that the present position of our affairs in Persia—the relation in which we at present stood to that country—the differences which had arisen respecting it—warranted him on the present occasion in violating the rule which he had laid down for the guidance of his general conduct. He thought that the circumstances of the case justified him in making the motion, and he did not, when he had first given notice of it, imagine that any public inconvenience could possibly result from compliance with it or from his giving such
773772771770769l768767re infectâ766765The Earl of Ripon
 thought it important to publish the address of the Lord High Steward, as it would put an end to a great deal of the nonsense that had been talked on the subject. He would also give notice that immediately after the holidays, if the matter were not taken up by some other of their Lordships, he would bring in a bill to clear up all doubts as to a Peer pleading his privilege in case of conviction for felony. He thought it would be very much to the discredit of their Lordships if that matter were not cleared up, after what had been said, in respect to the late trial.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, that seeing that the publication of the proceedings in the recent trial of the Earl of Cardigan had been ordered by their Lordships, he wished to ash the noble Lord on the Woolsack, (the Earl of Shaftesbury) whether there were any record of what had been said by the learned Lord the Lord High Steward.Lord Wharncliffe
855 objected to the petition as irregular, on account of its seeking to have the new bill, now before the House of Commons, improved and al-
855The Marquess of Normanby
 observed, that the same objection would operate in point of form against their Lordships receiving the petition brought forward by the noble Earl. He (the Marquess of Normanby) had, however, listened to the observations of the noble Earl with the greatest attention, and could assure the noble Lord that all who were anxious for the good working of the law would be happy to receive suggestions for its improvement. He could not state at present what provisions he should introduce into the bill, but he would give the noble Lord's suggestions his very best attention.The Marquess of Normanby
Fitzwilliam had not understood from the noble Lord whether the order alluded to was a general one, applying to all unions, or a particular one applicable only to some. [Earl FitzwilliamLord Ellenborough
 had no doubt that the order alluded to was a particular order. He believed there was no such general order.The Marquess of Normanhy
 brought up the report of the committee on the Copyhold and Customary Tenure Bill. The committee had made many alterations, and had incorporated with the present bill a considerable part of the other bill on the enfranchisement of Copyhold. He believed that the proper way would be to move that the report on the first bill be received, and to move that the report of the other bill be put off for six months.Lord Brougham
858 brought in a bill to amend the laws relating to the destruction of property in Ireland. The Irish act was the 15th and 16th of George 3rd., and it enabled persons whose property was injured in riots and tumults to recover in some cases against the barony, in others against the county. But there was also another act, the 19th and 20th of George 3rd., which formerly was supposed to apply to all the counties, and enabled persons whose property was damaged by burning, or whose cattle were houghed, to recover, under a certain amount from the barony, and above it from the county. Now, on account of the word barony used in that part of the act, it had recently been held, that the law did not apply to the county of the city of Dublin, where there was no barony. He could not doubt that this decision of the judges in Ireland was correct according to the wording of the act. But neither could he think, that it was the intention of the Legislature to except the metropolis of the country from the operation of such an act. The object of this bill, which he now begged leave to propose, was to explain the 19th and 20th of Geo.
858Lord Brougham
 said it would be in the recollection of their Lordships, that on a previous occasion he had referred to the delays which had taken place in printing certain ordinances which had been laid on the Table of their Lordships' House. Having been then informed that the delay was caused by the Colonial-office sending a fresh order to be printed, the noble Lord near him undertook to make inquiry upon the subject, and he begged leave now to ask him if he had done so?The Bishop of Exeter
ter859Laugh said, it was for their Lordships to say, whether they were satisfied with the noble Viscount's explanation, but, for his own part, he must beg to be excused from indicating the slightest symptom of approval of it. The noble Viscount had stated, that on the 29th of last month he laid certain ordinances upon the Table of the House, and moved, that they should be printed, but it unfortunately happened, that an ordinance which ought to have been amongst those laid upon the Table was not in its place, because it was at the time under the consideration of the law officers of the Crown. What course was taken upon this discovery? Instead of coming down to the House and informing their Lordships, that the ordinance in question had been omitted, and obtaining an order for its being printed among the rest, as it was the noble Viscount's bounden duty to have done, he smuggled it into its place, and now expected their Lordships to pass over such a gross act of indiscretion—he was unwilling to use a stronger word. [ter859LaughThe Bishop of Exeter
: That was the 16th of the month.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, he would not then trouble the House that night by presenting the petition of which he had given notice. He would present it on a future day, and state the grounds upon which the petitioners came before their Lordships, and thus afford an opportunity for considering the question before he submitted any motion on the subject. He gave notice that he would present the petition on Thursday, the 4th of March.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that if the right rev. Prelate intended to bring forward a motion taking the same view of the question as the petitioners, it would be a great convenience to the House if he would allow some days to intervene between the presentation of the petition and the motion.Lord Ellenborough
 said that was his intention. He hoped, when he presented the petition, to hear the opinions of noble Lords on the question, and their opinions would, as they ought, have great effect upon his decision as to whether or not he should found any motion on the petition.—Subject at an end.The Bishop of Exeter
 suggested that in future a copy of the ordinances should remain upon the Table, and another copy be sent to the printer.Lord Ellenborough
 wished to know distinctly whether the noble Viscount would undertake that the cabinet would advise her Majesty not to give her consent to the ordinances until thirty days had expired from the 16th instant.The Bishop of Exeter
: Certainly.Viscount Duncannon
 begged to inform the right rev. Prelate that he had no wish to treat the matter with any undue levity.Viscount Duncannon
 replied, that the delay had been occasioned by the ordinance No. 129 being under the consideration of the law officers of the Crown. It had not therefore been laid before their Lordships. The rest of the papers then printed were taken back to the Colonial-office, in order that the paper in question might be inserted in its proper place. This caused a delay of eleven days, and to make up for it, he would undertake, on the part of the Government, that the ordinances should now remain on the Table eleven days longer than had originally been intended.Viscount Duncannon
861 begged to cull the attention of the noble Viscount
861Lord Lyndhurst
 said, that there was no compensation clause in the bill when it went down to the Commons, because their Lordships had no power to insert one. He had spoken now as a matter of caution.Lord Lyndhurst
 thought it was an unusual and extraordinary proceeding to address observations to him in that House respecting a bill in the other House of Parliament, and especially with respect to the money part of it. However, he could only say he would take care that a compensation clause should be introduced with respect to all who had a real right to compensation.Viscount Melbourne
860 did not believe that any injury had resulted from the mistake which had furnished the right rev. Prelate with the ground of his complaint. It certainly was a matter of regret that all the papers in the list had not been laid upon the Table of their Lordships' House at once. It was impossible to deny that there had been some little irregularity; but there was no pretence for charging his noble Friend with any want of ingenuous, ness; and he must say that the right rev. Prelate, in doing so, reminded him of those persons who were in the habit of accusing others of wanting that in which they were most deficient themselves. The right rev. Prelate greatly exaggerated the inconvenience which might arise from the irregularity which had occurred. The ordinance in question was not one of great importance, nor one to which the right rev. Prelate was likely to call the attention of the House. He (Viscount Melbourne) was desirous that the spirit of the act should be complied with, and that their Lordships should have the fullest opportunity for considering the ordinances, and to address her Majesty with respect to them if they thought proper. It would be impossible, by any agreement, as the right rev. Prelate seemed to imagine, to give to an address of their Lordships a force which it did not possess by law. The address must be made within thirty days after the ordinances were laid upon the Table. He spoke doubtingly on this point, however, and if it could be arranged, the thirty days should commence from
860Viscount Melbourne
 said the intention of the act was, to give Parliament a full opportunity of considering the ordinances issued by the Canadian government. The practice adopted had last Session given general satisfaction. If upon the present occasion a little delay had occurred, the right rev. Prelate had only to bring forward any motion he might think necessary a few days earlier.The Duke of Wellington
 observed, that the petition only incidentally referred to the bill in the House of Commons, but in order to prevent any discussion, he would at once withdraw it.Lord Abinger
 presented a petition from Norwich complaining of the operation of the Poor Law Act, particularly as regarded the separation of husband and wife, and against some of the provisions in the bill for extending and renewing the Poor-Law commission before the House of Commons.Lord Abinger
856 said, that before the noble and learned Lord withdrew his petition, he (Earl Fitzwilliam) wished to call the attention of their Lordships to a petition he held in his hand, and in which the noble and learned Lord opposite would feel considerable interest. The petitioners strongly objected to the duration proposed to be given by the bill in the other House to the power of the poor-law commissioners. They did not object to the duration, or even the establishment of a permanent office for the superintendence of the local boards, but they did object to those powers with which the commissioners were now gifted, and which appeared to partake almost of a legislative character. They thought, and in this he agreed with them, that the poor-law commissioners seemed to act like most persons in power, as if they were desirous to stretch that power to the utmost. They had recently issued an order, which he considered highly improper, namely, that the return of the guardians, when elected, should be made by the clerk of the union, instead of, as formerly, by one of the parochial officers. As the clerk was generally a person of legal habits, and the guardians, on the contrary, persons ignorant of law, the clerk would have a great advantage over them in the event of any dispute arising between him and them, or of his acting improperly. Residing in the centre of the union, he would exercise a control over the election of the guardians in the remotest districts. Such of their Lordships as had seen the bill brought into the other House would be aware that it gave power to the commissioners entirely to alter the form of the present unions as regarded three classes of the poor—the insane, the infirm, and the infant. Now, with respect to those three classes, the commissioners were to be empowered to alter the form of every union in the country, with the view, as it were, of calling those classes out of the present workhouses, and placing each of them in separate unions. With regard to the insane poor, he did not entertain much objection to the proposed arrangement; but, with respect
856Earl Fitzwilliam
857 entirely concurred in the views expressed by the noble Lord. He suspected there were many unions in which the clerks endeavoured to become the masters of the guardians instead of their servants. He would take the oppor-
857Earl Fitzwilliam
 was not aware that the bill stood for a second reading that evening. He, however, had listened to the noble Earl's explanation with great attention, and he certainly was not prepared to offer any opposition to the measure in its present stage. Further than this, he would promise to consider the provisions of the bill one by one, and to determine which of them it would be desirable to invest with the power of law. By assenting to the second reading of the bill, he was, he conceived, only admitting what was already sufficiently clear; namely, that the present condition of the law was anomalous, and that it was desirable to ascertain whether a system of summary conviction could not be adopted, and how far the obvious convenience and substantial justice of such a system could compensate for what would, no doubt, be felt by many persons to be a great evil; namely, the abrogation of trial by jury in certain cases. At present he would not say more; he assented to the principle of the bill, and would give his best assistance to render its provisions as perfect as possible.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that from his experience in the district in which he lived, he thought it was hardly possible that the bill could be carried into effect there. It would be impossible to secure the attendance of magistrates every fortnight. Every gentleman in the district, who ought to be a magistrate, was in the commission; and yet they were very few in number. He hardly knew how his own absence was supplied when he was in town. He feared the same objection, arising out of the limited number of magistrates, would apply to many other parts of the country. He was fully aware of the inconvenience of the existing system, which the bill of his noble Friend professed to remedy. In many instances persons accused of small offences, of which probably they would be acquitted, were confined for several months before being brought to trial. This was a serious hardship on those individuals. Another evil was this, that frequently when a man was committed for trial for some petty offence, his wife and children would, the next day, apply to the board of guardians for relief. He very much desired to see a remedy applied to evils of this nature, but he feared that in many parts of the country it would be impossible to carry the present bill into execution.Lord Ellenborough
 approved of the principle of the bill, but thought that some of its details might be improved in committee.The Marquess of Salisbury
1019 said, that in assenting to the second reading of the bill, he wished it to be understood that he would not thereby consider himself committed to its principle. He was glad his noble Friend had brought the subject before the House, and his noble Friend deserved the greatest possible commendation for the pains which he had bestowed upon it. That the existing system was productive of great evils every one admitted, but whether the present, bill provided the best mode of removing those evils, was a question which he was not then prepared to decide. He would not say a word against the bill, and only wished it not to be supposed that he had made up his mind in its favour. He hoped that his noble Friend would afford the Law Lords ample opportunity for considering the bill, and for taking the sense of the House upon its principle, if they objected to it. That might be done upon the question for
1019Lord Brougham
 had intended to move for some papers, in order to give the first Lord of the Admiralty, whom he saw in his place, an opportunity of offering any explanation he might think proper respecting the case of Mr. Snow Harris, as to whom an idea was generally entertained that he had been unfairly treated by the Admiralty. Circumstances, however, had occurred, elsewhere which induced him to suppose that the attention of the Lords of the Admiralty was at present turned to the subject. If the noble Lord would state that such was the case he would rest content for the present; but if he stated the contrary, he would give notice that he would move for certain papers.The Earl of Mount Edgecumbe
 said, he did not precisely understand what the noble Earl's object was.The Earl of Minto
 said, he wished to know whether the Lords of the Admiralty had at present under their consideration any claim of Mr. Snow Harris to remuneration on account of his invention for preventing accidents occurring to ships by lightning?The Earl of Mount Edgecumbe
 said, that nothing in the shape of negotiation between Mr. Harris and the Admiralty was in progress at present; but very recently—within a few days—Mr. Harris had made a claim to a large amount upon the Admiralty. The Admiralty had informed that Gentleman that they were not prepared to recommend any remuneration on such a scale as that to which he seemed to consider himself entitled. If the committee appointed on this subject adopted a plan which was more desirable than that suggested by the Gentleman alluded to, he did not say, that he might not have some ground for remuneration. There was nothing in the shape of negotiation pending at the present moment between Mr. Harris and the Admiralty. He did not mean to say, that the Admiralty was not open to consider his claims; but he could not say, that he was himself favourable to them.The Earl of Minto
 understood the noble Lord to consent to entertain this claim. If his decision with regard to it did not satisfy the claims of justice, he (Lord Mount Edgecumbe) should bring forward the question again.The Earl of Mount Edgecumbe
 said, that he would attend to the suggestions of his noble and learned Friend.The Earl of Devon
1017 moved the second reading of the Petty Sessions Bill. He felt confident when their Lordships should have come fully aware of the present state of the law, and the manner in which it operated upon public interests, they would agree with him that it ought to be immediately altered; and he hoped it would be considered that the present bill would effect the
1017The Earl of Devon
1132, in moving, that the committee on the Copyhold's Enfranchisement Bill be fixed for next Thursday, said, he was anxious an early day should be fixed for the committee, in order that no delay should take place in for-
1132Lord Brougham
1206 begged to know of the noble Marquess opposite whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to introduce a bill into Parliament in con-
1206The Marquess of Salisbury
 was not unmindful, he said, of the great interest felt upon the matter alluded to by the noble Marquess, whom he assured that a measure was in preparation to be brought into the other House of Parliament as soon as the great pressure of public business in that department had been got rid of.The Marquess of Normanby
1207 rose, pursuant to the notice which he had given on the preceding evening, to put a question to his noble Friend near him, with respect to a bill introduced to the House by his noble Friend in the last Session, regarding the admission of ministers to the Church of Scotland. That bill had been read a second time, but was not proceeded with further; and he wished to know what were the intentions of his noble Friend with respect to the question to which it related. After the statement made by the noble Viscount opposite, that it was not the intention of her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure on the subject, it became very desirable that the uneasiness which prevailed in Scotland with respect to the course that was to be taken on this question should, as soon as possible, be relieved. If the measure of his noble Friend had been carried last year, either by the unanimous concurrence of the House, or by a large majority of their Lordships, it would have put an end to the hopes of the extreme party in Scotland, and, he believed, would have been attended by all the beneficial effects that were expected from it, But, since that measure was withdrawn, the clergy had carried their demands much further than before. Instead of calling for the sanction of parliament to a mere veto on the admission of ministers, they now demanded the abolition of patronage altogether. The extreme party had prepared and brought forward a bond which bore on the face of it the character of a solemn covenant. It was headed "An Engagement in defence of the liberty of the Church of Scotland," and by it they engaged in "holy covenant to maintain at all hazards, the principles therein set forth, and on no account to make any sur
1207The Earl of Dalhousie
FelixFrederick said, that a clerical error had occurred in the motion for a vote of thanks to the officers who had served on the coast of Syria, which he was anxious to correct. The name of Sir Charles FelixFrederickThe Earl of Minto
121012091208 was not sorry, he said, to have heard the question which had been just put to him, for he had received communications from numerous parts of Scotland, making similar inquiries. He was therefore glad of the present opportunity of answering the question. In doing so, he would state the course that he intended to pursue, and the reasons of doing so. He was perfectly well aware of the fact, that the subject had lost none of its interest in Scotland since last Session. It had, however, of late, assumed a new feature. It might seem strange that he should not persevere in a measure which had last Session been so dealt with—a measure which a large majority of the House supported—a measure which was responded to by so large a portion of the parochial clergy of Scotland (when he spoke of the parochial clergy, he did not include the chapel ministers)—a measure which was sanctioned by so large a body of the laity of all ranks and conditions. Nevertheless, he could not forget that her
121012091208The Earl of Aberdeen
l"Bound, no less by his personal feelings, than by the sacred obligations of that station to which Providence has called him, to watch over the interests of all the Protestant churches within his dominions, his Majesty could never consent to abandon those interests with a view to any objects of temporary and apparent expediency."1329"But, I am not in a situation, hampered as the Crown is by its previous engagements, to take such a course, and, therefore, for the same reasons, I come to the same conclusion as those to whom I have above referred have done."1328"Undoubtedly, if I considered the Crown
13281327"The claim of the Crown to the seignory of Montreal."1326"Statement of all the sources, whether at
1326"In order to furnish a further idea of the extent of the sacrifices, not only present, but prospective, which will be made by the proposed cession, we also annex a list (see App., No. 4), as far as the same can be made out, of all the descriptions of property belonging to the Crown in Lower Canada, as well as of the rights of the Crown, which though they are at present unproductive, may, in the course of time, become sources of revenue.""We have now stated the conditions we should think necessary in giving up the right of appropriating the King's casual, territorial, and hereditary revenue; but in order to render our report complete, it appears desirable that we should preserve the best view in our power of the extent of cession that is to be made.—p. 13.""I have received the commands of our most gracious Sovereign, to acquaint you that his Majesty is disposed to place under the control of the representatives of the people all public monies payable to his Majesty, or to his officers in the province, whether arising from taxes, or from any other Canadian source; but that this cession cannot be made, except on conditions which must maturely be weighed"l.l."With the payment to her Majesty of two several sums of 45,000l.l.1325cum jure successionisin partibuspartibus1324Melbourne1323or hereafter shall be1322spiritualprelate"That no foreign prince, person, or hereafter shall be1322spiritualprelate13211320habitans1319habitanhabitanshabitans"The bulk of the population "said Lord Durham," is composed of the hardworking yeomanry of the country districts, commonly called habitans1319habitanhabitanshabitans1318"That all missionaries amongst the Indians, whether established under the authority of, or appointed by the Jesuits, or by any other ecclesiastical authority of the Romish church, shall be withdrawn by degrees, and at such times, and in such manner, as shall be satisfactory to the said Indians, and consistent with the public safety, and Protestant missionaries appointed in their place."1317"The actual vicars-general, and the bishop, when the episcopal see shall be filled, shall have leave to send them new missionaries, when they shall see it necessary.""That establishment is frequented by upwards of 260 young men, who are taught (gratis) reading, writing, arithmetic, grammar, geography, the elements of geometry, and lineal drawing, &c. 8. Public and private alms, and subscriptions for public improvements."1316i. ebelles lettres"1. The service of the parish of Montreal, containing about 20,000 Roman Catholics; one third of which are English, Irish, or Scotch. For these the seminary maintains from 15 to 18 priests. 2. The Mission of the Lake of Two Mountains, for the instruction of two tribes of Indians. 3. The Little Seminary or College; 5 priests and 15 masters. Here are taught French, English, Greek, Latin, the i. ebelles lettres1315"Finally, the terms of this bill are so chosen, that I apprehend they would terminate the question so long disputed, whether the corporate character asserted by the priests of the seminary of St. Sulpice really belongs to them or not. The decision of that question in favour of the seminary would involve consequences which every Canadian, whatever his national origin or religious persuasion, would alike have reason to deprecate—such as the holding a great commercial city upon a feudal tenure, &c.; the dedication of a vast territory to purposes now become, in a great measure, obsolete, and for which, to the advantage of every class of society, other public objects of the same general character might be substituted." &c.1314ipso facto13131312occupy"New instructions were given to the Governor of Canada on the 3d of January, 1775, in consequence of the passing of the Quebec Act in the preceding year; the 21st section related to the exercise of the Roman Catholic religion; and by the 11th head of it, it was directed that the seminaries of Quebec and Montreal should remain in possession of all houses and lands of which they were in possession on the 13th of September, 1759.""That the societies of Romish priests, called the seminaries of Quebec and Montreal, should continue to possess and occupy their houses of residence, and all other lands and houses to which they were lawfully entitled on the 13th of September, 1759."131113101309"Having stated our reasons for calling on her Majesty to refuse her sanction to any ordinance for incorporating the seminary of St. Sulpice, we humbly pray that the funds collected for that seminary may be applied to those public purposes from which all classes of the population will derive equal and commensurate advantages."post hocpost hoc, ergo propter hoc130813071306Gazette ExtraordinaryGazette Extraordinary"I have every reason to believe, that notwithstanding the clamour raised by a few individuals in this city (Montreal), and the violence of the press, the measure was approved by the moderate men of all parties."1305"I expect that great advantage will result from the presence of the Chief Justice in Council, and from his presiding over its deliberations, which I find are not carried on in the presence of the Governor-general; and I am happy to say, that this opinion is common to the whole of the council."13041303"I am happy to say that all excitement on the subject has now subsided, and I can conceive no probability of its being renewed, except it were that there was a probability of the ordinance being interfered with in England. How little such an interference would accord with the interests or wishes of those who last year petitioned the Crown, your Lordship will easily understand from perusing the inclosed list."1302, in rising to present the petition of which he had given notice, said, he thought it would, perhaps, be convenient to their Lordships, considering the peculiar circumstances of the case, if he entered somewhat at length into the merits of the subject as they appeared in the petition. His reason for thinking that this would be the more convenient course was, that as he should that evening only move, that the petition do lie upon the Table, an opportunity would thereby be afforded to their Lordships to consider the case more fully before a motion were made for any ulterior proceedings on the part of their Lordships' House.
l"Bound, no less by his personal feelings, than by the sacred obligations of that station to which Providence has called him, to watch over the interests of all the Protestant churches within his dominions, his Majesty could never consent to abandon those interests with a view to any objects of temporary and apparent expediency."1329"But, I am not in a situation, hampered as the Crown is by its previous engagements, to take such a course, and, therefore, for the same reasons, I come to the same conclusion as those to whom I have above referred have done."1328"Undoubtedly, if I considered the Crown
13281327"The claim of the Crown to the seignory of Montreal."1326"Statement of all the sources, whether at
1326"In order to furnish a further idea of the extent of the sacrifices, not only present, but prospective, which will be made by the proposed cession, we also annex a list (see App., No. 4), as far as the same can be made out, of all the descriptions of property belonging to the Crown in Lower Canada, as well as of the rights of the Crown, which though they are at present unproductive, may, in the course of time, become sources of revenue.""We have now stated the conditions we should think necessary in giving up the right of appropriating the King's casual, territorial, and hereditary revenue; but in order to render our report complete, it appears desirable that we should preserve the best view in our power of the extent of cession that is to be made.—p. 13.""I have received the commands of our most gracious Sovereign, to acquaint you that his Majesty is disposed to place under the control of the representatives of the people all public monies payable to his Majesty, or to his officers in the province, whether arising from taxes, or from any other Canadian source; but that this cession cannot be made, except on conditions which must maturely be weighed"l.l."With the payment to her Majesty of two several sums of 45,000l.l.1325cum jure successionisin partibuspartibus1324Melbourne1323or hereafter shall be1322spiritualprelate"That no foreign prince, person, or hereafter shall be1322spiritualprelate13211320habitans1319habitanhabitanshabitans"The bulk of the population "said Lord Durham," is composed of the hardworking yeomanry of the country districts, commonly called habitans1319habitanhabitanshabitans1318"That all missionaries amongst the Indians, whether established under the authority of, or appointed by the Jesuits, or by any other ecclesiastical authority of the Romish church, shall be withdrawn by degrees, and at such times, and in such manner, as shall be satisfactory to the said Indians, and consistent with the public safety, and Protestant missionaries appointed in their place."1317"The actual vicars-general, and the bishop, when the episcopal see shall be filled, shall have leave to send them new missionaries, when they shall see it necessary.""That establishment is frequented by upwards of 260 young men, who are taught (gratis) reading, writing, arithmetic, grammar, geography, the elements of geometry, and lineal drawing, &c. 8. Public and private alms, and subscriptions for public improvements."1316i. ebelles lettres"1. The service of the parish of Montreal, containing about 20,000 Roman Catholics; one third of which are English, Irish, or Scotch. For these the seminary maintains from 15 to 18 priests. 2. The Mission of the Lake of Two Mountains, for the instruction of two tribes of Indians. 3. The Little Seminary or College; 5 priests and 15 masters. Here are taught French, English, Greek, Latin, the i. ebelles lettres1315"Finally, the terms of this bill are so chosen, that I apprehend they would terminate the question so long disputed, whether the corporate character asserted by the priests of the seminary of St. Sulpice really belongs to them or not. The decision of that question in favour of the seminary would involve consequences which every Canadian, whatever his national origin or religious persuasion, would alike have reason to deprecate—such as the holding a great commercial city upon a feudal tenure, &c.; the dedication of a vast territory to purposes now become, in a great measure, obsolete, and for which, to the advantage of every class of society, other public objects of the same general character might be substituted." &c.1314ipso facto13131312occupy"New instructions were given to the Governor of Canada on the 3d of January, 1775, in consequence of the passing of the Quebec Act in the preceding year; the 21st section related to the exercise of the Roman Catholic religion; and by the 11th head of it, it was directed that the seminaries of Quebec and Montreal should remain in possession of all houses and lands of which they were in possession on the 13th of September, 1759.""That the societies of Romish priests, called the seminaries of Quebec and Montreal, should continue to possess and occupy their houses of residence, and all other lands and houses to which they were lawfully entitled on the 13th of September, 1759."131113101309"Having stated our reasons for calling on her Majesty to refuse her sanction to any ordinance for incorporating the seminary of St. Sulpice, we humbly pray that the funds collected for that seminary may be applied to those public purposes from which all classes of the population will derive equal and commensurate advantages."post hocpost hoc, ergo propter hoc130813071306Gazette ExtraordinaryGazette Extraordinary"I have every reason to believe, that notwithstanding the clamour raised by a few individuals in this city (Montreal), and the violence of the press, the measure was approved by the moderate men of all parties."1305"I expect that great advantage will result from the presence of the Chief Justice in Council, and from his presiding over its deliberations, which I find are not carried on in the presence of the Governor-general; and I am happy to say, that this opinion is common to the whole of the council."13041303"I am happy to say that all excitement on the subject has now subsided, and I can conceive no probability of its being renewed, except it were that there was a probability of the ordinance being interfered with in England. How little such an interference would accord with the interests or wishes of those who last year petitioned the Crown, your Lordship will easily understand from perusing the inclosed list."1302The Bishop of Exeter
133413331332"That whether or not the legal title be in seminary, the King has done numerous acts which would render it very derogatory to the honour of the Crown to contest it, except for
133213311330: Perhaps, my Lords, in presenting a petition relating to a matter of great importance, and embracing a subject the details of which were, in some degree, involved in obscurity and not very familiar to your Lordships, the rev. Prelate may be considered as taking no unusual or improper course, in stating somewhat more particularly j than would be necessary on another occasion, the whole of his views on the question, and entering upon it at great length; but, at the same time, I am sure your Lordships will feel that it is not necessary for me to go over the whole of
133413331332"That whether or not the legal title be in seminary, the King has done numerous acts which would render it very derogatory to the honour of the Crown to contest it, except for
133213311330Viscount Melbourne
13361335 must say that the House should feel indebted to the right rev. Prelate for bringing this question forward, and for throwing so much light upon it. The manner in which the attention of the House had been called to it would enable it to decide whether or not they were bound to take further steps in the matter. He must say that the noble Viscount did not, in his opinion, do exact justice to the arguments of the right rev. Prelate, particularly that with respect to the first part of the speech, in relation to the consideration of the ordinance in the Council of Lower Canada. It was perfectly true that, in the consideration of every legislative question, there was generally a great difference of opinion. There was this difference, however, in this question, the noble Viscount had passed over what the right rev. Prelate had so ably dwelt upon, namely, that this question had been considered by the Council, which had met under the actual superintendence of the Governor-general,—that the representative of her Majesty had presided over this council. All those irregularities had been noticed by the right rev. Prelate—namely, that this measure had been passed under the Governor-general's view; that he had knowledge of every debate that related to it, and that it was he who had actually to urge the adoption of this measure, notwithstanding all the objections which he had to it, as stated at length by the right rev. Prelate, and to which he (the noble Duke) must say no answer whatever had been given by the noble Viscount. There was no doubt that that body had been made a corporation—a Roman Catholic corporation—by means of that ordinance; yet, until that property had been legally vested in them by the ordinance, they had no legal right whatever to it. True they had an equitable right, which was recognised by the commissioners, and that title the noble Viscount seemed to consider as very high in the discussion of this question.
13361335The Duke of Wellington
 wished to state to their Lordships that if no other Peer undertook the task, he should feel it to be his duty to introduce a bill upon the subject of patronage in the Church of Scotland.The Duke of Argyle
défendus par la charte et lâ decenceCan CancanailleBal Chicard1343bal de l'operafoyer"Each successive masquerade clearly convinces us that England is not yet ripe to this sort of amusement. There were all kinds of dresses, splendid and fantastical, Turks, Greeks, Romans, Yankee Doodles, Hindoos, and even the ecclesiastical,' which Byron tells us was prohibited at Venice when Beppo ogled his wife. But the one thing wanting was the joyous spirit of raillery and repartee, which is only to be met with in the défendus par la charte et lâ decenceCan CancanailleBal Chicard1343bal de l'operafoyerMorning Post said, it certainly appeared that the noble Earl had done all in his power; but if it were not in the noble Earl's power to remedy glaring abuses of this nature, then he must complain of the state of things which placed it out of the Lord Chamberlain's power. The character of the performances given by one evidently not fastidious upon matters of this kind was thus described in the columns of the défendus par la charte et lâ decenceCan CancanailleBal Chicard1343bal de l'operafoyer"Each successive masquerade clearly convinces us that England is not yet ripe to this sort of amusement. There were all kinds of dresses, splendid and fantastical, Turks, Greeks, Romans, Yankee Doodles, Hindoos, and even the ecclesiastical,' which Byron tells us was prohibited at Venice when Beppo ogled his wife. But the one thing wanting was the joyous spirit of raillery and repartee, which is only to be met with in the défendus par la charte et lâ decenceCan CancanailleBal Chicard1343bal de l'operafoyerMorning PostThe Bishop of London
 would certainly make inquiries upon the subject. If exhibitions of an indecent nature were made at the theatre, he had no doubt but that the law would furnish the means of punishing those who were engaged in them. The matter should be inquired into.The Marquess of Normanby
1344 as chairman of the committee of the theatre, might, perhaps, be permitted to say that when the committee became aware that that lessee was about to give masquerades, they recommended that such exhibitions should not take place, but under the lease which they had granted they had no power of preventing them. That lease would expire to-morrow. When the committee learnt from the reports in the newspapers, that conduct of an improper character had been pursued by some of the people who assisted at the entertainment, they immediately made inquiries upon the subject, and were informed that the reports were very much exaggerated. However, they insisted upon it, that if the masque-
1344The Earl of Glengall,
 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for copies of correspondence between the Poor-law commissioners and landowners at Clonmel. For the last forty years no measure of greater importance had passed than the act which gave Poor-laws to Ireland, and it was of the utmost consequence that those laws should be administered with impartiality. He wished he could believe, that such had been the line of conduct pursued by the commissioners, but he thought he should be able to prove that such was not the case. The subject comprised two parts—one, the conduct of the commissioners with respect to the appointment of the returning officer; the other, the result which ensued from that conduct. On neither of these points did he think the commissioners had acted with impartiality. He thought the commissioners had neglected their duty in the appointment of a violent political partisan, and in refusing all inquiry, by means of which heavy legal expenses had been saddled upon the Clonmel union. The noble Earl concluded by moving for certain papers connected with the subject, including the correspondence that had taken place between the Poor-law commissioners in Ireland, and the guardians and landowners of the Clonmel union. The Earl of Glengall
1345 regretted that his noble Friend had given no notice of his intention to bring the subject before their Lordships. A few days would have enabled him to communicate with the Poor-law commissioners. He was per-
1345The Marquess of Normanby
 thought it very extraordinary that he should have received such strong assurances from the gentlemen to whom he had referred within the last ten days. If the dominant party in the church should continue to press their views upon the subject of non-intrusion without aiming at all at the abolition of patronage, he should certainly feel it to be his duty to bring forward a measure in the course of the Session.The Duke of Argyle
1341bal masqué1340bal masqués seeing the Lord Chamberlain of her Majesty's household in his place, begged to put a question to him respecting certain performances which, as he was informed, had lately been given at Drury-lane theatre. Their Lordships would be aware that formerly dramatic representations were not allowed to take place at the larger theatres on Wednesdays and Fridays in Lent. Two years ago, in consequence of a motion in the House of Commons, the practice was altered, and dramatic performances were now allowed every evening during Lent, with the exception of Wednesday and Friday in the first and last week. He was not then going to express to their Lordships the feeling with which he viewed that vote of the House of Commons. He looked upon it as a hopeless task to seek the revocation of it, and therefore would allow it to pass without comment; but he believed it was not understood at the time that the House of Commons came to that vote, that the leave to keep the theatres for dramatic performances was to extend to another kind of performances of a far more objectionable nature, namely, to masquerades or 1341bal masqué1340bal masquésThe Bishop of London,
: Would the noble Duke have any objection to postpone his motion until Thursday, for the purpose of allowing time to communicate with the Poor-law commissioners.The Marquess of Normanby
1346 said, it appeared to him, upon looking over the papers handed to him by his noble Friend (the Earl of Glengall), to be doubtful whether their Lordships ought to be satisfied with an explanation proceeding from the noble Marquess. It appeared that a gross breach of privilege had been committed, deserving the severest punishment. There was an official letter, of which a copy had not been given in the return, and a letter was
1346Lord Ellenborough
primâ facie admitted that a primâ facieThe Marquess of Normanby
 said, with regard to due notice not having been given, their Lordships would remember that last year the case of the Clonmel union had been entered into twice at considerable length, and then no satisfactory explanation had been given.The Earl of Glengall
1339"The question of patronage,(said this speaker), was now thrown loose from the difficulties which were formerly said to attach to it. Formerly anti-patronage men were met with a cry, that they were making a change— that it was impossible to get a suitable settlement, and a great many weak pretences; but all these were now out of place—they were now in a situation in which they would no longer tolerate patronage; but were compelled to go to Parliament and demand its abolition."1338 observed, that the bill which he had brought forward in the last Session of Parliament upon the subject of Church patronage, had had the advantage of the support of the noble Duke. He took it for granted, therefore, that the measure which the noble Duke now proposed to introduce could not be very materially different from that which their Lordships had already considered. To any proposition coming from the noble Duke, he (the Earl of Aberdeen) should be disposed to pay the utmost attention. At the same time, he could not help saying, that he thought the noble Duke would find the task he proposed to undertake somewhat more difficult than he was at present aware of. He (the Earl of Aberdeen) knew it had been said, and by some of the leaders of the General Assembly, that there were ambiguities in the measure which he (the Earl of Aberdeen) had introduced, which, of course, might be removed by any subsequent measure brought forward by the noble Duke. If the noble Duke thought lit to introduce a bill for that purpose, it should receive his (the Earl of Aberdeen's) most respectful attention. With respect to the anti-patronage desire, on the part of the dominant party in the Church of Scotland, he could only say, that he most cordially wished, that the noble Duke might be right, and he wrong upon that point. He was, last year, of the same opinion as the noble Duke. At that time, he believed, that the dominant party did not wish for the abolition of patronage; and he expressed that conviction over and over again, in their Lordships' House, fully believing the declarations, that were made to him upon the subject. But when he
1339"The question of patronage,(said this speaker), was now thrown loose from the difficulties which were formerly said to attach to it. Formerly anti-patronage men were met with a cry, that they were making a change— that it was impossible to get a suitable settlement, and a great many weak pretences; but all these were now out of place—they were now in a situation in which they would no longer tolerate patronage; but were compelled to go to Parliament and demand its abolition."1338The Earl of Aberdeen
1342 in answer to the question of the right rev. Prelate, begged to state that the performance of the 22nd February, to which the right rev. Prelate had referred, took place, not only without his sanction, but even without his knowledge. His attention was first called to the subject by the announcement of a second entertainment of a similar kind. He then desired a letter to be written to Mr. Dunn, the secretary of the Drury-lane committee, of which he held a copy in his hand. The noble Earl read the letter to this effect: that the Lord Chamberlain's attention having been called to a bill announcing a masquerade at Drury-lane theatre, for Friday evening, he (the Lord Chamberlain) desired to intimate to the committee, that
1342The Earl of Uxbridge,
: Thursday be it.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that, considering all that had passed upon the subject of the Poor-law, and the confidence expressed by many of their Lordships that the commissioners would fairly and honourably exercise the powers intrusted to them, he thought that those officers would have properly fulfilled their duty. He would now give notice that on Monday he would submit a motion to their Lordships for an exact copy of the minutes of the Poor-law commissioners, under the particular clause of the Act of Parliament under which, he said, all the correspondence ought to be recorded. He thought it necessary that their Lordships, should be furnished with an exact copy of those minutes in order to show how these mistakes had arisen. Such matters required explanation. He had supported the measure, and many noble Lords had done the same, in the full confidence that it would be fairly and properly carried into execution. He, for one, had been greatly disappointed with the working of the measure, and he felt certain that it was owing to the Poor-law commissioners not having performed their duty. With that he charged them, and he should make his motion on Monday, in order to show their Lordships how one clause of the act had been carried into execution, and that their Lordships might be able to trace every act of the commissioners to its origin.The Duke of Wellington
32 wished to put a question to the noble Viscount opposite, respecting certain information which had just arrived from America, of great importance to this country and which had produced not only a great sensation in the city, but he believed had also had a material effect on the funds. He referred to the report made to the Congress of the United States, by the committee of foreign affairs, on the thirteenth February last, which, although it related principally to the affair of Mr. M'Leod, could not but have great influence in determining the other subjects of dispute between this
32The Earl of Mountcashell
ll.l.76"Mr. Butler having applied to me for an introduction to the assistant commissioners with the view of obtaining the situation of returning officer, I acceded to his request, feeling satisfied that his general character, business-like habits, and intimate knowledge of the country around Clonmell, and his being otherwise unemployed, are good qualifications for the office; and I shall be greatly disappointed if one of such intelligence and capacity will not discharge his duties faithfully.""I have been intimately acquainted with Mr. Butler for twenty-seven years; during the greater part of that time, he was extensively engaged in the woollen trade, and conducted that business very respectably; he mm also occupier of a tolerably large quantity of land; his character in these capacities Was respectable, and without the slightest reproach.""Assist. P. L. Commissioner."(Signed) "DENIS PHELAN,"I have, &c.Mr. Butler lately retired from business, and resided in Clonmel as a private gentlemen"Mr. Butler lately retired from business, and resided in Clonmel as a private gentlemen5"I have been intimately acquainted with Mr. Butler for twenty-seven years; during
5 said, he was sorry so soon again to bring under the consideration of the House another motion respecting the appointment of the returning officer to the Clonmel union. His motion was rendered necessary in consequence of certain returns which had been laid upon the table of the House, and which, like those to which he referred on Friday last, had been falsified. When noticing the subject the last night the House met, he had made out what every noble Lord who heard him admitted to be a singular and very curious case, and he was compelled to-day to adduce another, which was to the full as extraordinary. In February, 1840, he (Lord Glengall) had moved for certain returns connected with the Clonmel union, together with copies of all the correspondence which had taken place between the Poor-law Commissioners and certain magistrates and others, respecting the election of guardians for the Clonmel union. That return was laid on the table, and in the month of May he had moved for the same return, together with other documents. On examining the two, he found there was a material difference—between that presented in February and the one presented in May; and although both purported to be copies of the same documents, yet the wording of the two were essentially different. He was quite aware that on reading and comparing both, noble Lords might say, that the difference was not material; but when he, who understood the case, and, as he believed, knew the reason why the documents had been falsified, the variation appeared to be important. From the manner in which the statement he had made on Friday, had been received by the House, it was manifest it was their Lordships' intention to have the matter fully investigated, and he had no doubt the House would come to a decision upon it, one way or other, very soon; and it was in order to make the case of falsification of the documents clear, that he brought the subject again before their Lordships on the present occasion. The return to which he meant first to draw their ordships attention, was that presented in February. The document bore no date, but it purported to be an extract from the letter of Denis Phelan, Esq., assistant Poor-law Commissioner, and was as follows:—
ll.l.76"Mr. Butler having applied to me for an introduction to the assistant commissioners with the view of obtaining the situation of returning officer, I acceded to his request, feeling satisfied that his general character, business-like habits, and intimate knowledge of the country around Clonmell, and his being otherwise unemployed, are good qualifications for the office; and I shall be greatly disappointed if one of such intelligence and capacity will not discharge his duties faithfully.""I have been intimately acquainted with Mr. Butler for twenty-seven years; during the greater part of that time, he was extensively engaged in the woollen trade, and conducted that business very respectably; he mm also occupier of a tolerably large quantity of land; his character in these capacities Was respectable, and without the slightest reproach.""Assist. P. L. Commissioner."(Signed) "DENIS PHELAN,"I have, &c.Mr. Butler lately retired from business, and resided in Clonmel as a private gentlemen"Mr. Butler lately retired from business, and resided in Clonmel as a private gentlemen5"I have been intimately acquainted with Mr. Butler for twenty-seven years; during
54The Earl of
4
8 said, he had no objection whatever to grant the return moved for by his noble Friend. Indeed, after the statement that had been made, and after comparing the documents, it became absolutely necessary that this mutter should be sifted to the bottom. It might turn out that the alterations made were of no material consequence; but this would not, in his opinion, exonerate those who falsified the documents. He felt, in justice to those whose characters were implicated, as well as also with reference to the maintenance of their Lordships' privileges, that a full and ample investigation should take place; because it was manifest that if any officer under the Government could, with impunity, make alterations in the correspondence of his department, and which had been ordered to be laid before Parliament, no information could be relied on, and it would be idle to act upon any so supplied. The sooner, therefore, an investigation was had the better. After what occurred on Friday night, he felt it to be his duty to write to Mr. Nicholls, and he directed him to come over forth-
8The Marquess of Normanby
 was unable to answer the question of the noble Lord, as no information had as yet been received from her Majesty's representative at Washington. He apprehended, however, that considering the form of the document, and the manner in which it had reached this country, there could be no doubt of its authenticity.Viscount Melbourne
72 said, if the noble Earl had not taken the unusual course of Refusing to receive the information that was offered to him on the preceding evening, the present discussion would have been unnecessary. The information which he had received with respect to the merits of Mr. Candlish was very different from that which had been supplied to the noble Earl. As to the professorship, the fact was, that although on the recommendation of the commissioners, her Majesty's Government had agreed upon founding a Professorship of Biblical Criticism, the office had not yet been established, and, of course, no professor had been installed. In consequence of many recommendations in favour of Mr. Candlish, her Majesty's Government had been disposed to give him the appointment, but no communication had as yet been made to him of such intention; and the moment they heard that he had placed himself in opposition to the law, they at once put an end to all further proceedings upon the subject. There was no difference of opinion among the Members of her Majesty's Government as to supporting those who obeyed the laws, and discouraging those who violated them. The noble Earl had taken a most unusual course on this occasion. He not only declared who ought not to be professor, but he also suggested who should fill that situation. So far, however, were Ministers from passing over the merits of Dr. Lee, that they had determined upon giving him one of the vacant deaneries of the Chapel Royal of Edinburgh, in connexion with his situation as principal of the university. It was unnecessary for him to defend the intention which existed to create the professorship, for his noble Friend opposite had been on the commission, and had signed the recommendation that it should be established. He (the Marquess of Normanby) would gladly confer one of the deaneries of the Chapel Royal in Scotland, which had formerly been sinecures, upon the individual who might be appointed to the new professorship. The case, however, at the present moment stood thus—the professorship had not yet been created, though
72The Marquess of Normanby
 asked whether Government meant to protect those who had been exposed to inconvenience and injury from obeying the law?The Earl of Aberdeen
70Melbourne:696867Normanby66 rose to call the attention of the noble Viscount at the head of her Majesty's government to certain circumstances which he confessed had filled him with astonishment, and which he was willing to hope had produced no less an effect on the noble Viscount himself. Not many days ago he had occasion to remind the noble viscount of the declaration which he had made in that House, at the opening of the Session, in regard to the distracted state in which the affairs of the Church of Scotland had been, and still continued to be. The noble Viscount then said, that her Majesty's Government had maturely considered the subject, and that they had come to the determination that no alteration in the state of the law ought to be proposed—that it would be executed against those persons violating it, and that those who obeyed it would be protected. The noble Viscount must admit that he had not treated such a declaration in a captious manner, for, however much he lamented the course which Government had thought proper to pursue last year, in regard to the bill which he had introduced, be thought that it would be unwise to throw away any chance of terminating the difficulties which now existed. He held the noble Viscount and his colleagues responsible for the peace and good order of society in Scotland, and it was in consequence of the difficulties in which Government were placed, that he had expressed a disposition to acquiesce in the determination which had been come to
70Melbourne:696867Normanby66The Earl of Aberdeen
71 observed, that there was a great difference between bestowing the patronage of government on persons who had taken part in the agitation of Irish affairs, and on persons in the situation of Mr. Candlish. The Irish agitators had not violated the law; however much he might disapprove of the agitation for the repeal of the Union, he did
71The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that perhaps he was not able to answer the noble Earl in so satisfactory a manner as the noble Marquess near him, who would have saved the noble Earl the trouble of making a long speech if he had been permitted to answer the noble Earl yesterday, when the noble Earl gave notice of his motion. The noble Earl had certainly stated accurately enough the substance of the declaration made by him at the opening of the Session. He did state that he did not think it prudent or expedient for the Government to introduce any new enactment under the present circumstances, and that the law of the land would be allowed to take its course against those who had violated it.Viscount Melbourne
 said, such a question was quite superfluous when addressed to any government, more particularly when addressed to a government like the present. The question, he thought, answered itself. He would not enter into an argument whether, supposing the appointment alluded to by the noble Earl had been made, there would have been in that case any violation of the declaration which he had made. Reference had been made to his having promoted persons to political situations in Ireland who had held opinions opposed to his own. Undoubtedly this might be true; but he could not see how it affected the present case, because no such appointment as that alluded to by the noble Earl had been made. It had been notified to the town council of Edinburgh that it was intended to follow out the recommendations contained in the report, and to establish in the University of that city a professorship of biblical criticism, but no appointment to the chair had as yet taken place.Viscount Melbourne
106 had no objection to the motion, but as he had led their Lordships to expect that Mr. Nicholls would be this day in attendance on the House, he begged to state, that he had to-day received a letter from that gentleman, assigning two reasons for his absence. First, it had happened that he was absent from Dublin at the time the correspondence as to the election of the returning officer of Clonmel took place, and therefore he could give their Lordships no personal information on the subject; and, secondly, at the present moment, in consequence of the elections going on in all parts of the country for guardians, his absence from Dublin would be exceedingly inconvenient to the public service. He thought it right to state, that those letters had been written before Mr. Nicholls had
106The Marquess of Normanby
 having brought forward these complaints relative to the Poor-law commissioners, could assure their Lordships that he was fully prepared to substantiate every allegation he had made, by evidence, either at the bar of the House or before a Committee; and as to there being no intention to deceive, he could prove by evidence, that what was done had been done for the express purpose of deception, and for no other.The Earl of Glengall,
 said, that that would all come out at the proper time. He had not formed a decided opinion, but had only stated, that upon a cursory examination of these papers, there did not appear to him to be any intention to deceive, and that he could not see what object could be obtained by such deception; but, at the same time, he had stated most distinctly that it was clear an irregularity had been committed.The Marquess of Normanby
 then moved, that Mr. Stanley be ordered to attend the House on Monday next.The Marquess of Normanby
 inquired if they were printed?The Bishop of Exeter
 understood that they were, and would be delivered tomorrow.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that their Lordships knew how difficult a thing it was to read papers and proceed at once to debate upon them. He accordingly thought that it would be desirable for the right rev. Prelate to postpone his motion until Monday or Tuesday next, as there would still be ample time to move the address to her Majesty before the thirty days—the time during which the ordinances had to lie on the Table—had expired. Under these circumstances he would not now press other circumstances which appeared to him to be of the greatest importance, but would merely suggest to the right rev. Prelate that it would be for the convenience of the House if he would accede to this proposal.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that he was sure their Lordships would not suppose that any personal inconvenience whatever could induce him to state that he was afraid that it would not be in his power to accede to the application that had been made to him. He was at that moment under the orders of the Court of Queen's Bench, having been subpoenaed to attend at Exeter, at the present assizes, and he was bound to leave London early on Saturday morning. Under these circumstances he would venture to suggest to their Lordships that it was rather hard on the eve of a motion of this kind that an application of this sort should be made, the more especially as the attention of the Government had been called to this subject for a period of eight or nine months, and it had not been until the eleventh hour that they had thought fit to lay upon the Table papers that appeared to be important. He was afraid he could not attend on Monday next without disobeying a mandate of the Court of Queen's Bench.The Bishop of Exeter
: It can only be a matter of twenty-four hours. The right rev. Prelate could not get there before Monday, and if he postpones his motion he may get there by Tuesday night.Lord Ellenborough
108 said, he was bound, previous to his arrival at Exeter,
108The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that the papers had been ordered by the House of Commons, on Tuesday, and he believed that they were now printed.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that the despatch which was referred to, seemed to be held on all sides as of great importance. The question now was, whether they ought to be called on to give an opinion on a very important subject, to which everybody attached the greatest consequence, without their having the means of considering the principles on which the measure rested, and which principles they were told were to be found in a certain despatch which they would not be able to read till to-morrow. He ought to have a perfect recollection of what was contained in that despatch; but, written as it was ten years ago, he could not at that moment undertake to explain to their Lordships either the principles upon which it was founded, or the motives which induced him to advise his Majesty to send that despatch to Canada. Under these circumstances, they ought not to decide on such a question without having more' time to examine into it. If the motion were postponed to the end of the week some arrangement ought, he thought, to be made by her Majesty's Government, as they were concerned in the postponement of the discussion, that the question should be put in the same position as it would have been in if the thirty days required for the ordinance to lie on the Table of the House had not expired. What occurred in the present instance happened last year in the Clergy Reserves Bill. It was impossible to proceed on that occasion without the advantage of an assurance such as he referred to being given by her Majesty's Government; and on the present, if Ministers would give a similar assurance, the right rev. Prelate might be able to postpone the question.The Earl of Ripon
109 would accede to the postponement of the motion until Monday, trusting that, under the circumstances of his attending his parliamentary duties, the judge of assize would consent to
109The Bishop of Exeter
 presented a petition from a very large and influential body of people in Edinburgh, praying for the immediate and total abolition of Church patronage in Scotland. The noble Earl said, that he could give no countenance or support to the prayer of the petition. In his judgment, if the wishes of the petitioners were complied with, it would not remove the difficulties which surrounded the question, nor would it improve the deplorable condition in which that country was now placed with reference to the Church. He thought the mode which the petitioners approved of would turn out to be the worst that could be adopted for insuring a proper choice of Ministers. At the same time, he was decidedly opposed to the intrusion of ministers into parishes contrary to the wishes of the inhabitants.The Earl of Rosebery
110 said, he did not mean to stale what would be the proper remedy against the intrusion of a minister into a parish contrary to the desire of the congregation. Various modes had been pointed out for obtaining that result; but he had not, at any time, made up his mind as to which was the best. Individuals, much better acquainted with the question than he was, and who had considered it deeply, had not, up to this hour, been able to see their way clearly through it. He would not, therefore, be entrapped into saying whether, in his opinion, the legalization of the veto would or would not be the best mode of establishing non-intrusion. He did not give his support
110The Earl of Rosebery
 wished his noble Friend to explain how he meant to prevent intrusion. He supposed his noble Friend did not wish that the veto should be legalized. Did he then wish the course which he (the Earl of Aberdeen) approved of to be adopted—namely, that no minister should be rejected without reasons assigned and cause shown—that no minister should be set aside at the mere caprice of the parties intrusted with the power?The Earl of Aberdeen
: Seeing the noble Marquess (Normanby) in his place, and understanding that there will be no opposition to the motion for papers of which I have already given notice, I will not now trouble your Lordships with any observations on the subject. Your Lordships are aware, that when the Poor-law Amendment Bill passed the House, extraordinary powers were given to the commissioners, but that also measures were taken by Parliament to prevent the abuse of those powers without such abuse coming to the knowledge of the Government, the Parliament, or the public. They were directed to keep an accurate, record in writing of all their proceedings, and no doubt if that direction has been minutely followed, every transaction can be traced from its origin up to the order of the commissioners. I will now therefore move, in consequence of the discussions which have recently taken place, that an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be pleased to order that there be laid before your Lordships' House a copy of the record in writing of all the proceedings of the Poor-law commissioners relative to the unions of Clonmel, Cashell, Naas, and Mountmellick.The Duke of Wellington
139l said, that he had not communicated with the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, on the subject. He was really sorry, however, that the gentleman in question had been so ill-advised as to bring the matter again before their Lordships. He was aware that he was a person very respectably connected, and he believed that he had acquired the good will of a large portion of the people of Lower Canada. At the same time, as the petition had been presented, it was impossible for him to pass over in silence the allegation that he had been dismissed without trial. He would state to their Lordships what had occurred. Mr. Kerr was judge of the Admiralty Court, Lower Canada. In the year 1815, a sum of money, amounting, he believed, to about 1,500139lThe Marquess of Normanby
 laid on the Table a copy of the charter granted to the seminary of St. Nicolet, Lower Canada.The Marquess of Normanby
 wished to know whether the noble Marquess had looked into the report of Chief Justice Stuart, in regard to the legal right of the seminary of St. Sulpice, and whether or not it was to be laid on the Table?The Bishop of Exeter
140 said, he had looked into the report, but he found that there was that objection to the production of it which he stated yesterday. Strictly speaking, the report was the opinion of one of the law officers of the Crown, and, according to the general custom, was to be considered as confidential, and ought not to be given to Parliament. On examining the report, he did not see any special circumstances to induce their Lordships to depart from the usual custom. Supposing that it was produced, he did not think that it would help the rev. Prelate at all in making out his case. He admitted, however, that the opinion was against the legal right being in the Crown; but he hoped, when the discussion came
140The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that he would not press for the production of the paper, but he submitted to their Lordships if it would not have been fairer on the part of the noble Marquess, if he had, on his own responsibility, refused at once to produce the report, than to have said, that there was nothing in it which would support his case. He did not think that a correct mode of proceeding. The despatch of the noble Earl opposite (Earl Ripon) would completely answer his purpose, and enable him to sustain the position which he meant to maintain before their Lordships.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that the accusation of unfairness was so often made by the rev. Prelate, that it now lost much of its force. He would remind their Lordships that he had made the admission that the legal opinion was, that the right was not in the Crown, and that therefore, the report could not assist the argument of the right rev. Prelate. Under these circumstances, the right rev. Prelate had asked for that opinion—The Marquess of Normanby
: No, no, no. I asked for the special report of Mr. Stuart, because I understood it dealt with the legal question. The noble Marquess says that the report would not support my argument. Why did he withhold the report, and yet attempt to produce an impression that it was unfavourable.The Bishop of Exeter
 rose to order. The right rev. Prelate had interrupted his noble Friend, and was now making a speech himself.The Earl of Minto
 thought that the noble Marquess had finished.The Bishop of Exeter
141 could not conceive how the right rev. Prelate could have thought that he had finished, for when he interrupted him, he was in the middle of a sentence. The right rev. Prelate said, that he had asked for the special report of Mr. Stuart, and in answer he (the Marquess of Normanby) told him that he considered the report as the opinion of the law-officer of the Crown, and therefore, could not consent to its being laid on the Table. At the same time, he volunteered the admission that he did not think it would be useful to the right rev. Prelate's case, even if produced, because the law-officer in question had stated it
141The Marquess of Normanby
 regretted that the noble Marquess had ever mentioned that the opinion of the law-officer was unfavourable to his argument. He also regretted that the noble Marquess had thought proper to say, that he (the Bishop of Exeter) was in the habit of throwing out insinuations of unfairness. He never did so without giving the parties an opportunity of meeting the charge. He was also sorry to add, that the spirit so frequently manifested of late on that side of the House sometimes provoked him to use such expressions.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that he had no objection to the inquiry being extended, but he thought it would be better if the noble Lord postponed his motion till after the examination of Mr. Stanley. At present, when the annual election of guardians was taking place in Ireland, it would be exceedingly inconvenient for Mr. Phelan to leave that country. If the noble Earl pressed the other part of his motion, he had no objection to the clerk in the office of the commissioners being ordered to attend.The Marquess of Normanby
 thought that the presence of the gentleman to whom he had referred would be so very necessary, that he should consider himself bound to persist in his motion.The Earl of Glengall
 said, that he had a petition to present from a gentleman with whom he was not acquainted, and therefore could not answer for the correctness of the circumstances which he was about to state. Feeling, however, that his case was one of importance, and his complaint of a serious nature, he had asked the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, to communicate with one of his colleagues in that House, as to the truth of the statement. The petition was from a gentleman of the name of James Kerr, a barrister of the Inner Temple, and formerly judge of the Vice-Admiralty Court, Lower Canada. He had held the situation for forty years, but had been deprived of it without any trial, or any opportunity being given him of making any defence. He, therefore, hoped the noble Marquess would state the cause of the gentleman's dismissal.The Duke of Richmond
OrderThe TimesThe Times,"The reporter to The TimesThe Times,"Gallery of the House of Lords, March 15, 1841.239A Laugh from the Marquess ofThe Times,238Normanby:"Always remembering that it is a toleration of the free exercise of the religion of the Church of Rome only, to which they are entitled, but not to the powers and privileges of it as an established church, that being a preference which belongs only to the Protestant Church of England.""Whereas the establishment of proper regulations on matters of ecclesiastical concern, is an object of very great importance, it will be your indispensable duty to take care, that, no arrangements in regard thereto be made, but such as may give full satisfaction to our new subjects in every point to which they have a right to any indulgence on that head."237No, no, noMelbourne:236235l.l.,l.l. felt certain that he should obtain the indulgence of their Lordships, while he made a few observations, as, indeed, he was bound to do, in reply to what had fallen from noble Lords at both sides of the House. And first, with reference to what, had fallen from the noble Person, who had last addressed them, and who on this, as on every occasion, was entitled to the first consideration. However he (the Bishop of Exeter) might be disappointed at the vote which the noble Duke had announced his intention to give, he should not utter the slightest complaint respecting it, or respecting the difference, as might strike himself or others between the noble Duke's declaration that night and his speech on the last occasion, when this subject was before their Lord-ships. Whenever that noble Duke addressed their Lordships, his mind was actuated only by the highest principle, and always, he was sure, intended to advise what was best for the good of his country. Most sincerely, and from his heart, did he say that. It was not in his power (who had the power?) to praise the noble Duke, but most readily and cheerfully did he express the sentiment which he had just uttered. His respect for the noble Duke should not, however, prevent him from remarking, that some of the positions laid down by the noble Duke were not quite correct. With regard to the revenues of the seminary, he (the Bishop of Exeter), had complained of an ordinance which placed 30,000OrderThe TimesThe Times,"The reporter to The TimesThe Times,"Gallery of the House of Lords, March 15, 1841.239A Laugh from the Marquess ofThe Times,238Normanby:"Always remembering that it is a toleration of the free exercise of the religion of the Church of Rome only, to which they are entitled, but not to the powers and privileges of it as an established church, that being a preference which belongs only to the Protestant Church of England.""Whereas the establishment of proper regulations on matters of ecclesiastical concern, is an object of very great importance, it will be your indispensable duty to take care, that, no arrangements in regard thereto be made, but such as may give full satisfaction to our new subjects in every point to which they have a right to any indulgence on that head."237No, no, noMelbourne:236235l.l.,l.l.The Bishop of Exeter
—I rise to order. The right rev. Prelate has no right to read a letter from a person admitted, and very properly, by courtesy, into the Gallery of this House; and then to found a lecture upon it. Really, this is quite out of order.The Earl of Suffolk
"His Britannic Majesty, on his side, agrees to grant the liberty of the Catholic religion to the inhabitants of Canada; he will consequently give the most effectual orders that his new Roman Catholic subjects may profess the worship of their religion, according to the rites of the Romish Church, as far as the laws of Great Britain permit."sub modo240 admitted that this was a violation of order, but it was rendered necessary by the noble Marquess's previous violation of order."His Britannic Majesty, on his side, agrees to grant the liberty of the Catholic religion to the inhabitants of Canada; he will consequently give the most effectual orders that his new Roman Catholic subjects may profess the worship of their religion, according to the rites of the Romish Church, as far as the laws of Great Britain permit."sub modo240The Bishop of Exeter
"That a humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty to withhold her assent to the ordinance for incorporating the Seminary of St. Sulpice, in Montreal."214213"And be it further ordained and enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said ecclesiastics of the Seminary of St. Sulpice, of Montreal, and their successors, as to temporal matters, shall continue and be subject to the same powers of visitation as in like cases were possessed and exercised by the kings of France before the conquest of the province, and are now possessed and exercised in that behalf by her Majesty in right of her Crown."salvâ republicâ212"Ecclesiastical corporations are those of which not only the members are spiritual persons, but of which the objects are spiritual. It is not the description of persons forming the members of the corporation, but its objects, which make it a lay or spiritual corporation."211210Ellenborough."I am commanded again to submit to you the surrender of the casual and territorial revenues of the Crown in exchange for a civil list."eo nomine209208l."You know the situation in which I am placed; I wish you to go on and prosper. If you had in your petition asked the Government to give the seminary something handsome, in consideration of their long possession, I would have signed your petition."207"True it is, they say, that there is now a cessation from active measures of resistance. But this proceeds from the British party being satisfied that they have done all that is in their power against the ordinance, and because they have a confident hope that their petition to Parliament will be successful. Should this hope be disappointed, a feeling of deep dissatisfaction and discontent would be produced, though they may be too loyal to attempt any resistance to what, would then be law. One gentleman, a member of the Special Council, who had himself previously to the ordinance commuted his property and was therefore interested in seeing the claim of the seminary established, was yet strenuously opposed to the ordinance, because, as he publicly said, he considered it most iniquitous, and likely to endanger the safety of the colony, by weakening the attachment of the British population. Many other persons have said the same to these gentlemen, adding that they would gladly sell their property, if they could do so without a ruinous loss, and quit the colony for ever, rather than live there, when it is thus given up to a Romish seminary. They themselves had this feeling. There is a strong feeling on the part of the Protestants that the ordinance deals unfairly with them, who stood by the British Crown in the day of danger. There is scarcely one of the petitioners who did not take up arms and expose his life for the maintenance of the British Crown in Canada. On the other hand, few of the Canadians of Montreal, and those few connected by marriage or otherwise with the British, took up arms."206205204De Jure Belli et Pacis,203202"Louis, by the Grace of God, &c. Whereas the ecclesiastics of the seminary of St. Sulpice, of the Fauxbourg St. Germain de Paris, have humbly exposed to us that the Sieurs Faucamp, &c., have, by deed of gift, bearing date the 19th of March, 1663, given and conveyed to them the seignory of the island of Montreal, in New France, with its appurtenances and dependencies, whither they have sent priests, who have laboured in the conversion of the savages with so much success, that they have determined to send out other priests, to the number of fourteen, to establish a community, if it be our pleasure to grant them the necessary letters patent for this purpose—for these reasons, be well informed that we cannot do anything more advantageous for the propagation of the faith, and for the establishment of the Christian religion in our province of New France, and being willing to
202201l.200l.l.l.l.l.199Lods et VentesCens et Rentesl.,l.,Lods et Ventes,Cens et Rentes,It would occupy too much space to go into a minute detail as to the probable sums to be levied on these two seignories on the terms provided in the ordinance; but it may be assumed with certainty, that the capital represented by the Lods et VentesCens et Rentesl.,l.,Lods et Ventes,Cens et Rentes,"The seignory of St. Sulpice contains about 70,000 acres, all conceded. The population is about 12,000. There are three villages in this seignory, St. Jacques, St. Sulpice, and L'Assomption; the last named contains about 200 houses, many of them costly and commodious stone buildings."The value of the other seignories held by the St. Sulpicians cannot be so satisfactorily established as that of Montreal. The seignory of the lake of the Two Mountains and its augmentations contains about 200,000 acres, a great part unconceded, and having a valuable growth of timber. The number of inhabitants is supposed to be between 9,000 and 10,000, and there are two villages of some magnitude, St. Benoit and St. Scholastique. The seminary has two corn-mills and eight or ten farms in its own management, and several saw-mills and manufactories are possessed by individual proprietors.£394,625
£394,62534,000Lods et Ventes,"The arrears of Lods et Ventes,
34,000Lods et Ventes,"The arrears of Lods et Ventes,50,000"Not much more than one-fourth of the land within the city limits is yet built upon, and, taking that circumstance into view, together with the manner in which the assessment roll is usually prepared, vacant lots being frequently altogether omitted, and the number of valuable buildings erected since 1836, the St. Sulpicians will probably receive for commutation, within the city, over and above the amount already stated, a sum of not less than
50,000"Not much more than one-fourth of the land within the city limits is yet built upon, and, taking that circumstance into view, together with the manner in which the assessment roll is usually prepared, vacant lots being frequently altogether omitted, and the number of valuable buildings erected since 1836, the St. Sulpicians will probably receive for commutation, within the city, over and above the amount already stated, a sum of not less thanl.,l.,l.yield to the St. Sulpicians, on a commutation of 7½ per cent., the sum of 194l.,l.,l.
l.,l.,l.yield to the St. Sulpicians, on a commutation of 7½ per cent., the sum of 194l.,l.,l.
£394,625
£394,62534,000Lods et Ventes,"The arrears of Lods et Ventes,
34,000Lods et Ventes,"The arrears of Lods et Ventes,50,000"Not much more than one-fourth of the land within the city limits is yet built upon, and, taking that circumstance into view, together with the manner in which the assessment roll is usually prepared, vacant lots being frequently altogether omitted, and the number of valuable buildings erected since 1836, the St. Sulpicians will probably receive for commutation, within the city, over and above the amount already stated, a sum of not less than
50,000"Not much more than one-fourth of the land within the city limits is yet built upon, and, taking that circumstance into view, together with the manner in which the assessment roll is usually prepared, vacant lots being frequently altogether omitted, and the number of valuable buildings erected since 1836, the St. Sulpicians will probably receive for commutation, within the city, over and above the amount already stated, a sum of not less thanl.,l.,l.yield to the St. Sulpicians, on a commutation of 7½ per cent., the sum of 194l.,l.,l.
l.,l.,l.yield to the St. Sulpicians, on a commutation of 7½ per cent., the sum of 194l.,l.,l.198l.,l,"The assessment on buildings within the city is, generally speaking, below the real value, and on farms, orchards, and vacant lots, forms no criterion as to the actual worth. The assessed rental of four properties Collectively, is 207l.,l,
l.,l,"The assessment on buildings within the city is, generally speaking, below the real value, and on farms, orchards, and vacant lots, forms no criterion as to the actual worth. The assessed rental of four properties Collectively, is 207l.,l,£310,625
£310,62550,000l.l.l."St. Gabriel Farm, of 300 acres, comprised partly within the city limits. Fief Nazareth, adjoining this property, has been conceded on building leases, at an annual rent of 3l.l.l.
50,000l.l.l."St. Gabriel Farm, of 300 acres, comprised partly within the city limits. Fief Nazareth, adjoining this property, has been conceded on building leases, at an annual rent of 3l.l.l.£260,625Lods et Ventes"The commutation fixed by the ordinance varies from 5 to 12½ per cent., according to the extent of improvement on the land. Assuming an average of 7½ per cent., the St. Sulpicians would receive for the commutation of Lods et Ventes
£260,625Lods et Ventes"The commutation fixed by the ordinance varies from 5 to 12½ per cent., according to the extent of improvement on the land. Assuming an average of 7½ per cent., the St. Sulpicians would receive for the commutation of Lods et Ventes£3,475,000
£3,475,0001,400,000l.The island of Montreal, exclusive of the city, contains about 140,000 acres, mostly in a high state of cultivation. There are several villages in the island, and numerous country seats in the neighbourhood of the city. An average valuation of 10l.
1,400,000l.The island of Montreal, exclusive of the city, contains about 140,000 acres, mostly in a high state of cultivation. There are several villages in the island, and numerous country seats in the neighbourhood of the city. An average valuation of 10l.£.2,075,000l."The assessment on landed property within the city of Montreal is 2½ per cent, on the rental; and, according to evidence furnished to the Commissioners of Inquiry in 1836, the assessments in that year amounted to 4,150l.
£.2,075,000l."The assessment on landed property within the city of Montreal is 2½ per cent, on the rental; and, according to evidence furnished to the Commissioners of Inquiry in 1836, the assessments in that year amounted to 4,150l.
l.,l,"The assessment on buildings within the city is, generally speaking, below the real value, and on farms, orchards, and vacant lots, forms no criterion as to the actual worth. The assessed rental of four properties Collectively, is 207l.,l,
l.,l,"The assessment on buildings within the city is, generally speaking, below the real value, and on farms, orchards, and vacant lots, forms no criterion as to the actual worth. The assessed rental of four properties Collectively, is 207l.,l,£310,625
£310,62550,000l.l.l."St. Gabriel Farm, of 300 acres, comprised partly within the city limits. Fief Nazareth, adjoining this property, has been conceded on building leases, at an annual rent of 3l.l.l.
50,000l.l.l."St. Gabriel Farm, of 300 acres, comprised partly within the city limits. Fief Nazareth, adjoining this property, has been conceded on building leases, at an annual rent of 3l.l.l.£260,625Lods et Ventes"The commutation fixed by the ordinance varies from 5 to 12½ per cent., according to the extent of improvement on the land. Assuming an average of 7½ per cent., the St. Sulpicians would receive for the commutation of Lods et Ventes
£260,625Lods et Ventes"The commutation fixed by the ordinance varies from 5 to 12½ per cent., according to the extent of improvement on the land. Assuming an average of 7½ per cent., the St. Sulpicians would receive for the commutation of Lods et Ventes£3,475,000
£3,475,0001,400,000l.The island of Montreal, exclusive of the city, contains about 140,000 acres, mostly in a high state of cultivation. There are several villages in the island, and numerous country seats in the neighbourhood of the city. An average valuation of 10l.
1,400,000l.The island of Montreal, exclusive of the city, contains about 140,000 acres, mostly in a high state of cultivation. There are several villages in the island, and numerous country seats in the neighbourhood of the city. An average valuation of 10l.£.2,075,000l."The assessment on landed property within the city of Montreal is 2½ per cent, on the rental; and, according to evidence furnished to the Commissioners of Inquiry in 1836, the assessments in that year amounted to 4,150l.
£.2,075,000l."The assessment on landed property within the city of Montreal is 2½ per cent, on the rental; and, according to evidence furnished to the Commissioners of Inquiry in 1836, the assessments in that year amounted to 4,150l.197196195 rose in accordance with the notice which he had given to submit to their Lordships a motion for an address to the Crown, in consequence of the ordinance agreed to by the Governor and Special Council of Lower Canada, relative to the incorporation of the ecclesiastics of the Seminary of St. Sulpice; and, in doing so, he hoped that he should be permitted to state his reasons for adopting this course. When he first brought this matter before their Lordships, it would be in their Lordships' recollection that he said it was his intention to state the reasons which struck his mind in favour of the prayer of the petition, the contents of the petition, and the objects which the petitioners had in view. On that night, if he had experienced any grave opposition to the observations which he had addressed to their Lordships; if he had encountered any grave opposition founded on solid argument, he should have paused and hesitated before he took the decisive step of submitting to their Lordships the motion which he was about to lay before them. But when he found that all he had said on the petition was remarked on by the noble Viscount near him (and he made the observation will all respect to the noble Viscount's fine talents) in a manner that seemed to him to be no answer to his observations, when he saw the importance that was attached to the statement and arguments which he had offered to their Lordships, when he recollected the noble declaration of the noble Duke opposite (that declaration being, that he was strongly and decidedly opposed to this first attempt to break in on the principles laid down at the Reformation); and when, moreover, he found that the sentiments of that illustrious man were re-echoed throughout the empire by every individual who seriously considered the subject, he felt that he had no other course to pursue but that which he had adopted. Such being his impression, he at once informed those who were more immediately interested in the subject, that he meant to give notice of that motion which he now brought forward. And yet, he frankly
"That a humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty to withhold her assent to the ordinance for incorporating the Seminary of St. Sulpice, in Montreal."214213"And be it further ordained and enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said ecclesiastics of the Seminary of St. Sulpice, of Montreal, and their successors, as to temporal matters, shall continue and be subject to the same powers of visitation as in like cases were possessed and exercised by the kings of France before the conquest of the province, and are now possessed and exercised in that behalf by her Majesty in right of her Crown."salvâ republicâ212"Ecclesiastical corporations are those of which not only the members are spiritual persons, but of which the objects are spiritual. It is not the description of persons forming the members of the corporation, but its objects, which make it a lay or spiritual corporation."211210Ellenborough."I am commanded again to submit to you the surrender of the casual and territorial revenues of the Crown in exchange for a civil list."eo nomine209208l."You know the situation in which I am placed; I wish you to go on and prosper. If you had in your petition asked the Government to give the seminary something handsome, in consideration of their long possession, I would have signed your petition."207"True it is, they say, that there is now a cessation from active measures of resistance. But this proceeds from the British party being satisfied that they have done all that is in their power against the ordinance, and because they have a confident hope that their petition to Parliament will be successful. Should this hope be disappointed, a feeling of deep dissatisfaction and discontent would be produced, though they may be too loyal to attempt any resistance to what, would then be law. One gentleman, a member of the Special Council, who had himself previously to the ordinance commuted his property and was therefore interested in seeing the claim of the seminary established, was yet strenuously opposed to the ordinance, because, as he publicly said, he considered it most iniquitous, and likely to endanger the safety of the colony, by weakening the attachment of the British population. Many other persons have said the same to these gentlemen, adding that they would gladly sell their property, if they could do so without a ruinous loss, and quit the colony for ever, rather than live there, when it is thus given up to a Romish seminary. They themselves had this feeling. There is a strong feeling on the part of the Protestants that the ordinance deals unfairly with them, who stood by the British Crown in the day of danger. There is scarcely one of the petitioners who did not take up arms and expose his life for the maintenance of the British Crown in Canada. On the other hand, few of the Canadians of Montreal, and those few connected by marriage or otherwise with the British, took up arms."206205204De Jure Belli et Pacis,203202"Louis, by the Grace of God, &c. Whereas the ecclesiastics of the seminary of St. Sulpice, of the Fauxbourg St. Germain de Paris, have humbly exposed to us that the Sieurs Faucamp, &c., have, by deed of gift, bearing date the 19th of March, 1663, given and conveyed to them the seignory of the island of Montreal, in New France, with its appurtenances and dependencies, whither they have sent priests, who have laboured in the conversion of the savages with so much success, that they have determined to send out other priests, to the number of fourteen, to establish a community, if it be our pleasure to grant them the necessary letters patent for this purpose—for these reasons, be well informed that we cannot do anything more advantageous for the propagation of the faith, and for the establishment of the Christian religion in our province of New France, and being willing to
202201l.200l.l.l.l.l.199Lods et VentesCens et Rentesl.,l.,Lods et Ventes,Cens et Rentes,It would occupy too much space to go into a minute detail as to the probable sums to be levied on these two seignories on the terms provided in the ordinance; but it may be assumed with certainty, that the capital represented by the Lods et VentesCens et Rentesl.,l.,Lods et Ventes,Cens et Rentes,"The seignory of St. Sulpice contains about 70,000 acres, all conceded. The population is about 12,000. There are three villages in this seignory, St. Jacques, St. Sulpice, and L'Assomption; the last named contains about 200 houses, many of them costly and commodious stone buildings."The value of the other seignories held by the St. Sulpicians cannot be so satisfactorily established as that of Montreal. The seignory of the lake of the Two Mountains and its augmentations contains about 200,000 acres, a great part unconceded, and having a valuable growth of timber. The number of inhabitants is supposed to be between 9,000 and 10,000, and there are two villages of some magnitude, St. Benoit and St. Scholastique. The seminary has two corn-mills and eight or ten farms in its own management, and several saw-mills and manufactories are possessed by individual proprietors.£394,625
£394,62534,000Lods et Ventes,"The arrears of Lods et Ventes,
34,000Lods et Ventes,"The arrears of Lods et Ventes,50,000"Not much more than one-fourth of the land within the city limits is yet built upon, and, taking that circumstance into view, together with the manner in which the assessment roll is usually prepared, vacant lots being frequently altogether omitted, and the number of valuable buildings erected since 1836, the St. Sulpicians will probably receive for commutation, within the city, over and above the amount already stated, a sum of not less than
50,000"Not much more than one-fourth of the land within the city limits is yet built upon, and, taking that circumstance into view, together with the manner in which the assessment roll is usually prepared, vacant lots being frequently altogether omitted, and the number of valuable buildings erected since 1836, the St. Sulpicians will probably receive for commutation, within the city, over and above the amount already stated, a sum of not less thanl.,l.,l.yield to the St. Sulpicians, on a commutation of 7½ per cent., the sum of 194l.,l.,l.
l.,l.,l.yield to the St. Sulpicians, on a commutation of 7½ per cent., the sum of 194l.,l.,l.
£394,625
£394,62534,000Lods et Ventes,"The arrears of Lods et Ventes,
34,000Lods et Ventes,"The arrears of Lods et Ventes,50,000"Not much more than one-fourth of the land within the city limits is yet built upon, and, taking that circumstance into view, together with the manner in which the assessment roll is usually prepared, vacant lots being frequently altogether omitted, and the number of valuable buildings erected since 1836, the St. Sulpicians will probably receive for commutation, within the city, over and above the amount already stated, a sum of not less than
50,000"Not much more than one-fourth of the land within the city limits is yet built upon, and, taking that circumstance into view, together with the manner in which the assessment roll is usually prepared, vacant lots being frequently altogether omitted, and the number of valuable buildings erected since 1836, the St. Sulpicians will probably receive for commutation, within the city, over and above the amount already stated, a sum of not less thanl.,l.,l.yield to the St. Sulpicians, on a commutation of 7½ per cent., the sum of 194l.,l.,l.
l.,l.,l.yield to the St. Sulpicians, on a commutation of 7½ per cent., the sum of 194l.,l.,l.198l.,l,"The assessment on buildings within the city is, generally speaking, below the real value, and on farms, orchards, and vacant lots, forms no criterion as to the actual worth. The assessed rental of four properties Collectively, is 207l.,l,
l.,l,"The assessment on buildings within the city is, generally speaking, below the real value, and on farms, orchards, and vacant lots, forms no criterion as to the actual worth. The assessed rental of four properties Collectively, is 207l.,l,£310,625
£310,62550,000l.l.l."St. Gabriel Farm, of 300 acres, comprised partly within the city limits. Fief Nazareth, adjoining this property, has been conceded on building leases, at an annual rent of 3l.l.l.
50,000l.l.l."St. Gabriel Farm, of 300 acres, comprised partly within the city limits. Fief Nazareth, adjoining this property, has been conceded on building leases, at an annual rent of 3l.l.l.£260,625Lods et Ventes"The commutation fixed by the ordinance varies from 5 to 12½ per cent., according to the extent of improvement on the land. Assuming an average of 7½ per cent., the St. Sulpicians would receive for the commutation of Lods et Ventes
£260,625Lods et Ventes"The commutation fixed by the ordinance varies from 5 to 12½ per cent., according to the extent of improvement on the land. Assuming an average of 7½ per cent., the St. Sulpicians would receive for the commutation of Lods et Ventes£3,475,000
£3,475,0001,400,000l.The island of Montreal, exclusive of the city, contains about 140,000 acres, mostly in a high state of cultivation. There are several villages in the island, and numerous country seats in the neighbourhood of the city. An average valuation of 10l.
1,400,000l.The island of Montreal, exclusive of the city, contains about 140,000 acres, mostly in a high state of cultivation. There are several villages in the island, and numerous country seats in the neighbourhood of the city. An average valuation of 10l.£.2,075,000l."The assessment on landed property within the city of Montreal is 2½ per cent, on the rental; and, according to evidence furnished to the Commissioners of Inquiry in 1836, the assessments in that year amounted to 4,150l.
£.2,075,000l."The assessment on landed property within the city of Montreal is 2½ per cent, on the rental; and, according to evidence furnished to the Commissioners of Inquiry in 1836, the assessments in that year amounted to 4,150l.
l.,l,"The assessment on buildings within the city is, generally speaking, below the real value, and on farms, orchards, and vacant lots, forms no criterion as to the actual worth. The assessed rental of four properties Collectively, is 207l.,l,
l.,l,"The assessment on buildings within the city is, generally speaking, below the real value, and on farms, orchards, and vacant lots, forms no criterion as to the actual worth. The assessed rental of four properties Collectively, is 207l.,l,£310,625
£310,62550,000l.l.l."St. Gabriel Farm, of 300 acres, comprised partly within the city limits. Fief Nazareth, adjoining this property, has been conceded on building leases, at an annual rent of 3l.l.l.
50,000l.l.l."St. Gabriel Farm, of 300 acres, comprised partly within the city limits. Fief Nazareth, adjoining this property, has been conceded on building leases, at an annual rent of 3l.l.l.£260,625Lods et Ventes"The commutation fixed by the ordinance varies from 5 to 12½ per cent., according to the extent of improvement on the land. Assuming an average of 7½ per cent., the St. Sulpicians would receive for the commutation of Lods et Ventes
£260,625Lods et Ventes"The commutation fixed by the ordinance varies from 5 to 12½ per cent., according to the extent of improvement on the land. Assuming an average of 7½ per cent., the St. Sulpicians would receive for the commutation of Lods et Ventes£3,475,000
£3,475,0001,400,000l.The island of Montreal, exclusive of the city, contains about 140,000 acres, mostly in a high state of cultivation. There are several villages in the island, and numerous country seats in the neighbourhood of the city. An average valuation of 10l.
1,400,000l.The island of Montreal, exclusive of the city, contains about 140,000 acres, mostly in a high state of cultivation. There are several villages in the island, and numerous country seats in the neighbourhood of the city. An average valuation of 10l.£.2,075,000l."The assessment on landed property within the city of Montreal is 2½ per cent, on the rental; and, according to evidence furnished to the Commissioners of Inquiry in 1836, the assessments in that year amounted to 4,150l.
£.2,075,000l."The assessment on landed property within the city of Montreal is 2½ per cent, on the rental; and, according to evidence furnished to the Commissioners of Inquiry in 1836, the assessments in that year amounted to 4,150l.197196195The Bishop of Exeter
227Ripon:226post hocergo propter hoc,"The Earl of Dalhousie, &c."(Signed)"BATHURST."Should your enquiries lead to a different conclusion, you will confine yourself to communicating to Mr. de Plessis the reasons which now prevent an acquiescence in his wishes, and the regret which his Majesty feels in being compelled, by this undue assumption of authority on the part of the bishop, to withdraw his Majesty's sanction from an arrangement which the Roman Catholic bishop appeared to have much at heart, and to which, but for this circumstance, his Majesty would have had much pleasure in acceding.—I have,&c.225"Should M. de Plessis, however, have been so ill-advised as to assume the title of arch-
225"My Lord—Since I had the honour of conveying to you his Majesty's approval of the appointment of the Rev. J. J. Lartigue and F. Proxencheur, as assistants to the Roman Catholic Bishop of Quebec, in the administration of his diocese, the enclosed paragraph from a North American newspaper has been brought under my consideration. After the communication which took place with the Roman Catholic Bishop of Quebec in this country, I can with difficulty credit the information contained in it; for I cannot believe that the bishop could have so far misunderstood the views of his Majesty's Government as to conceive himself at liberty to assume within the province, the title of archbishop, or to consecrate a bishop for a new diocese within his Majesty's dominions, without his Majesty's authority."Downing-street, 6th April, 1821.224Exeter:Exeter:223"Finally the terms of this bill are so chosen, that I apprehend they would terminate the question so long in debate, whether the corporate character, asserted by the priests of the Seminary of St. Sulpice, really belongs to them or not. The decision of that question in favour of the seminary would involve consequences which every Canadian, whatever his national origin or religious persuasion, would alike have reason to deprecate."222"But there were absolutely higher considerations, which proved the illegality of this ordinance. It professed to be in effect an ecclesiastical incorporation of Romish priests, and this was the first time such an attempt had
222Exetervicaires grandsExeter:221"I voted last Session, if a particular vote could be distinguished in unanimity, for an establishment of the Church of England conjointly with the establishment which was made some years before, by Act of Parliament, of the Roman Catholics in the French conquered country of Canada. At the time of making this English ecclesiastical establishment, we did not think it necessary for its safety to destroy the former Gallican church settlement.""After once fixing the government of Quebec in the hands of this nation, it was a matter of indifference to him what law or religion was established, so that it made the people happy."220"By this bill you establish the Roman religion where it never was established before, and you only permit the practice of your own. You do not even let them go hand in hand. For what purpose is the Ohio and the Illinois to be Roman Catholic?""When their Lordships came to the religious part of the question he directed his discourse to the bench of bishops, telling them that as by the bill, the Catholic religion was made the established religion of that vast continent it was impossible they could be silent on that occasion.""My Lord Halifax—Lui a dit que, quoi-que le Roi d'Angleterre se fut engagé, par le traité, à laisser en Canada le libre exercice de la réligion Catholique et Romaine, suivant les lois d'Angleterre, il ne s'ensuivoit pas que des biens fonds, situés en Canada, pussent continuer d'appartenir à des Francais, vivent en France, et sujets du Roi de France. Que S. M. B. consent que les prétres du séminaire de Montréal continuent à en jouir, mais sans dépendence du séminaire de Paris."219218l.l.l.217216215, before he proceeded to offer such observations as he might think necessary, in opposition to the motion with which the right rev. Prelate had concluded, and in answer not only to the speech with which the right rev. Prelate had proposed that motion, but also to many portions of the speech which the right rev. Prelate had addressed to their Lordships on a previous occasion, could not avoid saying one word on the subject with which the right rev. Prelate commenced, namely, the assurance that but for the manner in which this question was met on the last occasion on which he brought it before the House, and when be addressed their Lordships merely on presenting a petition, he should not have thought it necessary to trouble their Lordships with the present motion. It was, of course, impossible for him to penetrate the right rev. Prelate's intentions; he could only judge by the right rev. Prelate's words; and in the course of the address which the right rev. Prelate made in presenting the petition, long before he was aware of the tone and manner in which that address would be received, or the manner in which it would be answered, he declared his intention of applying to their Lordships for their decision upon this question. Nay, the right rev. Prelate not only made that declaration, but actually stated the character in which he
227Ripon:226post hocergo propter hoc,"The Earl of Dalhousie, &c."(Signed)"BATHURST."Should your enquiries lead to a different conclusion, you will confine yourself to communicating to Mr. de Plessis the reasons which now prevent an acquiescence in his wishes, and the regret which his Majesty feels in being compelled, by this undue assumption of authority on the part of the bishop, to withdraw his Majesty's sanction from an arrangement which the Roman Catholic bishop appeared to have much at heart, and to which, but for this circumstance, his Majesty would have had much pleasure in acceding.—I have,&c.225"Should M. de Plessis, however, have been so ill-advised as to assume the title of arch-
225"My Lord—Since I had the honour of conveying to you his Majesty's approval of the appointment of the Rev. J. J. Lartigue and F. Proxencheur, as assistants to the Roman Catholic Bishop of Quebec, in the administration of his diocese, the enclosed paragraph from a North American newspaper has been brought under my consideration. After the communication which took place with the Roman Catholic Bishop of Quebec in this country, I can with difficulty credit the information contained in it; for I cannot believe that the bishop could have so far misunderstood the views of his Majesty's Government as to conceive himself at liberty to assume within the province, the title of archbishop, or to consecrate a bishop for a new diocese within his Majesty's dominions, without his Majesty's authority."Downing-street, 6th April, 1821.224Exeter:Exeter:223"Finally the terms of this bill are so chosen, that I apprehend they would terminate the question so long in debate, whether the corporate character, asserted by the priests of the Seminary of St. Sulpice, really belongs to them or not. The decision of that question in favour of the seminary would involve consequences which every Canadian, whatever his national origin or religious persuasion, would alike have reason to deprecate."222"But there were absolutely higher considerations, which proved the illegality of this ordinance. It professed to be in effect an ecclesiastical incorporation of Romish priests, and this was the first time such an attempt had
222Exetervicaires grandsExeter:221"I voted last Session, if a particular vote could be distinguished in unanimity, for an establishment of the Church of England conjointly with the establishment which was made some years before, by Act of Parliament, of the Roman Catholics in the French conquered country of Canada. At the time of making this English ecclesiastical establishment, we did not think it necessary for its safety to destroy the former Gallican church settlement.""After once fixing the government of Quebec in the hands of this nation, it was a matter of indifference to him what law or religion was established, so that it made the people happy."220"By this bill you establish the Roman religion where it never was established before, and you only permit the practice of your own. You do not even let them go hand in hand. For what purpose is the Ohio and the Illinois to be Roman Catholic?""When their Lordships came to the religious part of the question he directed his discourse to the bench of bishops, telling them that as by the bill, the Catholic religion was made the established religion of that vast continent it was impossible they could be silent on that occasion.""My Lord Halifax—Lui a dit que, quoi-que le Roi d'Angleterre se fut engagé, par le traité, à laisser en Canada le libre exercice de la réligion Catholique et Romaine, suivant les lois d'Angleterre, il ne s'ensuivoit pas que des biens fonds, situés en Canada, pussent continuer d'appartenir à des Francais, vivent en France, et sujets du Roi de France. Que S. M. B. consent que les prétres du séminaire de Montréal continuent à en jouir, mais sans dépendence du séminaire de Paris."219218l.l.l.217216215The Marquess of Normanby
No, no said, the noble Duke might be quite right, that it might not be desirable to press this subject to a division. He understood the noble Duke to express a doubt, because it was possible that it might be found, that the ordinance was either contrary to the act of Parliament which authorized the Governor with the Special Council to pass it, or that it was inconsistent with the union. He was quite sure, that that was the best way in which it could be left; and he was quite sure, that the noble Lords near him would enter on its consideration with that view. [No, noThe Bishop of Exeter
: I am really very sorry to deprive the right rev. Prelate of any consolation which he can draw from the words of the noble Duke, but I must repeat, that all the circumstances bearing on this ordinance were submitted to the law officers of the Crown after the passing of the Act of Union, and they are decidedly in favour of the legality of the ordinance. I will just ask one question of the right rev. Prelate. He has alluded to a notice said to have been taken by me, somewhat after the manner of Lord Bathurst's despatch to the Earl of Dalhousie, of the Roman Catholic Bishop of Quebec. I wish to know, for my own satisfaction, on what document he founds his assertion?The Marquess of Normanby
l.242: If the noble Marquess had told me, that he required proof of the fact, I should be prepared with it. He had not the paper now with him. It was a return of the Colonial-office when the noble Marquess was Colonial Secretary, and was a statement made of the ecclesiastical establishments in Ca-
l.242The Bishop of Exeter
: So, then, this signal proof of my recognition of the Church of Rome as an established religion is not conveyed in any letter to a Governor of the colonies—is not even my own individual act, but a return made in my official character to this House, and not only by me, but by my predecessor and successor.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that he must really try to set the noble Marquess right; he had totally misunderstood the facts of the case. Instead of this return being one that was regularly laid upon the Table, he believed, that it was never produced until specially moved for in the year 1839.The Bishop of Exeter
 said that all he could say was, that the expression in question was the same as was used in all similar returns which he had seen. He could not undertake to say how far they went back.The Marquess of Normanby
230de facto.229228 said, that although it appeared by the papers on the Table of the House, that he was more or less concerned in the affair before their Lordships, he nevertheless, did not feel it incumbent on him to enter into any lengthened argument in support of the principles or details of the ordinance of the Special Council of Lower Canada, now submitted to their consideration. He had listened to the speech of the right rev. Prelate with attention; but he was completely at a loss to discover on what specific grounds the House could be called on to support his motion. Judging from the speech made the other night on the presentation of the petition, as well as from some expressions which had been dropped to-night, one certainly would have supposed, that the objection of the right rev. Prelate was entirely and exclusively one of principle—that in every part of her Majesty's dominions, in England, Scotland, Ireland, in colonies settled by British subjects, by authority solely of the Crown, or in colonies acquired by conquest, nothing should be done which could be considered as tending to support the Roman Catholic religion. But when, in another part of his speech, the right rev. Prelate referred to the course he would himself have been disposed to pursue in settling this question, he appeared altogether to abandon the high ground of principle. He said, that he, and the petitioners themselves, would have been ready to give
230de facto.229228The Earl of Ripon
233l.232231: My Lords, in consequence of the few observations I made to your Lordships on this subject she week before last, I think it my duty to state to your Lordships the course I shall pursue in regard to the motion of the right rev. Prelate, and also to state to you the reasons which induce me to pursue that course to-night. My Lords, I entirely concur in the latter part of the speech of the noble Marquess opposite, when he says, that whatever might become of the greater portion of the property now in dispute, stated by some to belong legally to the
233l.232231The Duke of Wellington
241 said, he certainly did not state exactly that. His argument for what he stated, as an argument, might be a very bad one. He might be quite mistaken. What he said was, that it might be found, that this ordinance was not the law in Canada at this moment; and that if it were not the law in Canada
241The Duke of Wellington
290 was sorry to hear, that the noble Lord was not prepared to remove his objection, as he was most unwilling to throw any impediment in the way of a measure which was generally so important. He regretted, that none of the legal Lords were in the House, for he was sure he should have their support in saying, that his objection was insurmountable. It was this, that under the bill, as it now stood, any number of persons could be forced into a court of justice without notice, and judgment could be given against them without their being heard, or having any knowledge of the proceedings; and further, that under such circumstances they would be liable to the costs. He had hoped, that in the time which had elapsed since the measure was introduced, his noble Friend would have been able to have so framed the bill as to remove this defect. He did not mean to oppose the bill, but
290The Earl of Wicklow
 said, that the object of the bill was to prevent the necessity of serving 350 or 360 separate notices, and to enable the Attorney-general for Ireland to proceed, not by separate notice, but by one general notice, on all persons resident in the same diocese. There was no possible way of effecting this object without incurring the difficulty which his noble Friend had stated.Viscount Duncannon
 said, there was another serious point which had not been mentioned. When those parties came in to object to the order made for the payment of the money, they must first pay the costs incurred in the previous proceedings. He thought this was a hard case.The Earl of Glengall
 thought it would be the same with separate notices. He regretted these objections had not been mentioned in the discussion that took place a week ago. He had, however, no objection to postpone the bill to this day week.Viscount Duncannon
, seeing his noble Friend opposite (the Earl of Glengall) in his place, begged to state, that Mr. Stanley, the assistant-secretary to the Poor-law Commission in Ireland, was in attendance, and that he was ready to give any explanation, and to answer any questions which might be put to him.The Marquess of Normanby
, secretary to the Poor-law Commissioners for Ireland, appeared at the bar, and having been sworn, was examined at great length. Their Lordships having in the end ordered the evidence to be printed, and no debate of any consequence having arisen in the progress of the examination, we decline to insert it. Nothing short of the whole evidence, which is voluminous, would satisfy the justice of the case. An abridgement, or imperfect report, would not be acceptable to all parties, therefore we refer to the authorised report printed by their Lordships' orders.Mr. Stanley
 said, before his noble Friend opposite moved that the examination of Mr. Stanley be resumed, he felt it right to state to their Lordships, that he had received a letter from Mr. Shaw Lefevre, one of the Poor-law Commissioners, as to the omission of a paragraph in one of the letters which had been laid on their Lordships' Table, relative to the appointment of Mr. Butler as returning officer to the Clonmel Union. Mr. Lefevre stated, that himself and Mr. Lewis had looked over the returns to that House, and had approved of the omission of the paragraph in question, as it had not the slightest relation to any matter conducted either with the election of the returning officer for the Clonmel Union, or to any proceedings connected with the Poor-law. Their Lordships had the letter now printed in their hands, and the passage in question merely stated, that the writer had seen the Attorney general three times, who had seemed well-disposed towards him, but that nothing had been done; and requesting that the person to whom the letter was addressed, would, if he saw the Attorney-general, remind him of the matter. Under these circumstances' the Poor-law Commissioners omitted that portion, the last paragraph of the letter, which they conceived to be of a private nature. With respect to Mr. Nicholls, his impression was the same as that of his noble Friend, that that gentleman's absence from Ireland would be very inconvenient. There were, however, important matters that would detain him in town a few days longer; and he announced this, on the part of Mr. Nicholls, in order that any noble Lord who thought fit might have an opportunity of examining that gentleman.The Marquess of Normanby
335 thought it was better that Mr. Nicholls should appear at the bar. One point had struck him forcibly when the noble Marquess was reading the extract from the letter. It was obvious, he thought, from that let-
335The Duke of Wellington
 could not agree with the noble Marquess when he said, that the concluding paragraph of this letter was unconnected with the appointment of Mr. Butler. His impression was, that when Butler inserted the paragraph in his letter to Mr. Phelan, the idea of the writer was, that if Mr. Phelan showed it to the Attorney-general, the latter would say—"It is true he has been of use to me in Clonmel, and he is a very troublesome fellow. It would be quite as well to get rid of him at once; and if you can give him the place, it would be a great relief to me."Lord Ellenborough
bonâ fide perfectly agreed with the noble Lord, that, on the face of the letter, it would appear that Mr. Butler was a political partisan. At the same time, he believed, that the commissioners were, bonâ fideThe Marquess of Normanby
: I can say so positively, but his brother is.The Earl of Glengall
 had certainly heard the name of Fennell often mentioned in connexion with the party politics of Clonmel,The Marquess of Normanby
: That is Mr. Fennell's brother.The Earl of Glengall
 did not think that there were two Fennells; but he knew that there was one of the name a partisan, if not two. There was no proof at present, that the commissioners ever saw the letter of Mr. Phelan.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, the statement of the noble Marquess was at variance with that of the witness Stanley, for he bad informed them that it was understood that the appointment had taken place on the recommendation of Mr. Phelan.Lord Fitzgerald
 said, Mr. Phelan must have known that Mr. Butler was a politician, for he either proposed or seconded the Member for Clonmel.The Earl of Glengall
 said, there was nothing to show that the Poor-law Commissioners knew that he was a politician.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, Mr. Butler seemed capable of producing evidence of an extraordinary and contradictory nature, for in one of his letters he stated to the Poor law Commissioners not only that he did not attend any political meetings, but that he did not belong to any political party whatever.Lord Ellenborough
 was re-examined at great length. Mr. Wordsworth, a clerk in the Poor-law commissioners office in Dublin was also examined. The evidence was ordered to be printed, and the House adjourned.Mr. Stanley
394 said, if his noble Friend had referred to an earlier period of the Session, and had read the opening speech of the Governor, he would see that there was no necessity to have a Parliamentary committee of enquiry, for the Governor informed the House of Assembly in that speech of the view of some of their proceedings taken by Government at home, and pressed upon the Legislature of the colony the necessity of taking into consideration an amendment of the law of election, so as to afford protection to the voters, and prevent the recurrence of those outrages which had been so justly complained of. He would only add on this point that the colonial session had not yet terminated—at least he had not received any communication of the conclusion of the session; and although the House of Assembly had not shown a very ready spirit to take any steps in furtherance of the objects recommended to them by the governor, yet the Session being still in progress, it was not advisable for their Lordships to interfere until it was ascertained what might be done before its close. He was inclined to give rather a different interpretation to the expression used by the governor in his address to that put upon it By the noble Earl. The noble Earl conceived that the governor was, in his view, constrained by circumstances to take an extreme course, and altogether to decline issuing writs for a new election; but all that the governor meant to say was, that as it was not necessary that
394The Marquess of Normanby
"The scandalous events which occurred at two partial elections during the recess, the ferocious conduct of the mob at Combermere, by which the election was rendered abortive, and the necessity of the interference of the military on those occasions, are matters of general notoriety. I consider the documents laid before the House are sufficiently demonstrative of these evils, and, under existing circumstances, I must decline compliance with this address, believing that no good could possibly accrue to the community by a publication of all the representations I have received on the subject."392l rose to present a petition to which he wished to call the attention of the noble Marquess lately at the head of the Colonial Department. It was on a subject he had brought before the House on more than one occasion; he alluded to the present situation of the colony of Newfoundland, which had been described in a petition presented by him as being the most distracted and unfortunate colony of any under the dominion of this country, but, bad as it was then, it had now become much worse. He was convinced that the only hope there was of any improvement in the state of that colony must be obtained by means of Parliamentary inquiry. The inquiries promised and made by official persons were wholly useless—the evils were of such magnitude that they could only be redressed by an inquiry by that or the other House of Parliament. The great evil consisted in the abuse of the constitution granted to the colony in 1831-32. The House of Assembly was constituted in such a manner that it was wholly impossible they could discharge any legislative duties with any beneficial result to the colony. Their Lordships might judge of what sort of characters it was composed, when it was a fact that one of the members of the assembly (consisting of fifteen in the whole) was a menial servant, receiving wages at 10"The scandalous events which occurred at two partial elections during the recess, the ferocious conduct of the mob at Combermere, by which the election was rendered abortive, and the necessity of the interference of the military on those occasions, are matters of general notoriety. I consider the documents laid before the House are sufficiently demonstrative of these evils, and, under existing circumstances, I must decline compliance with this address, believing that no good could possibly accrue to the community by a publication of all the representations I have received on the subject."392lThe Earl of Aberdeen
452 said, having more fully considered the circumstances which had taken place with regard to the rev. Mr. Candlish, he could not but express his great regret that the noble Marquess opposite should have found himself obliged to act with regard to him as he had done, and this opinion was founded upon his conviction that the rev. Mr. Candlish had broken no law in having disregarded the interdict of the Court of Session, forbidding him to exercise his purely spiritual functions in any place he might think proper. The competency of these interdicts of the Court of Session he entirely denied. The constitution of the Scottish Church, confirmed by the Act of Union, was entire liberty to the ministers of the church to exercise their spiritual functions wherever they chose, and the interdict
452The Duke of Argyll
 understood the noble Duke to express his regret at the course which had been adopted with regard to the rev. Mr. Candlish, and the reason which he had assigned for this opinion was, that that gentleman had not violated the law. He would not now enter into a consideration of that question, ft would be highly improper that he should, as there was a legal inquiry into the circumstances at present going on. He thought that the fairest course to pursue would be, to say nothing until the report upon that inquiry was laid before their Lordships.The Marquess of Normanby
"I have also written on this subject to Lord Normanby.""JOHN BAGWELL.453"My dear Lord—It appears by the Dublin Evening Post of the 18th inst., a copy of which I send you by this post, that in the course of your examination of Mr. Stanley, on the 18th inst., a letter was read from Mr. Hawley, assistant commissioner to the Poor-law Commission in Dublin, in which Mr. Hawley is represented to have stated, that Mr. Butler was the nephew of the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Cashel, a very respectable man, and that the charges brought against him by Mr. Bagwell could only be attributed to the fact, that he
453"Marlfield, March 19, 1841. rose to move, that Mr. Phelan, assistant Poor-law Commissioner in Ireland, should be called to the bar and examined. The noble Earl said, that before doing so, he thought it but justice to say, that he had that day received a letter from Mr. Bagwell, whose name had been mentioned in that investigation, denying that he was actuated by any improper motive in his opposition to the appointment of Mr. Butler as returning officer, or that it was because he happened to be a relative of the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Cashel, as stated by Mr. Stanley in his evidence before their Lordships. He would read the letter he had received:—
"I have also written on this subject to Lord Normanby.""JOHN BAGWELL.453"My dear Lord—It appears by the Dublin Evening Post of the 18th inst., a copy of which I send you by this post, that in the course of your examination of Mr. Stanley, on the 18th inst., a letter was read from Mr. Hawley, assistant commissioner to the Poor-law Commission in Dublin, in which Mr. Hawley is represented to have stated, that Mr. Butler was the nephew of the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Cashel, a very respectable man, and that the charges brought against him by Mr. Bagwell could only be attributed to the fact, that he
453"Marlfield, March 19, 1841.The Earl of Glengall
 said, that he also had received a similar letter from Mr. Bagwell, and that he had written to that gentleman, stating that he disbelieved the imputation.The Marquess of Normanby
 thought that they ought to have Mr. Hawley there, for it appeared to him that Mr. Hawley was the most culpable person engaged in the transaction.The Earl of Wicklow
 thought it would be proper to have Mr Hawley examined at the bar.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, they should recollect where they were going. He was anxious to have Mr. Hawley examined, but it appeared to him that, if they were to make inquiry into the conduct of the commissioners, they had better make it altogether, and not by halves.Lord Ellenborough
 said, the object of their present inquiry was, to ascertain on what grounds an alteration had been made in the language of a letter, and by whose advice and sanction that alteration was made. A general investigation into the conduct of the Poor-law Commissioners would extend the subject to a much greater length.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that the most important part of the inquiry was, by whom was the alteration made?The Earl of Wicklow
 said, his object was to get at the point mentioned by his noble Friend, but an inquiry into the general working of the Poor-laws could only be done by a committee up stairs.The Earl of Glengull
454, an assistant Poor-law Com-
454Mr. Phelan
 thought that it was due to Mr. Hawley, that he should be afforded an opportunity of explanation.Lord Fitzgerald
521"In the events of such prohibition and of the enactment of such regulations, it shall be lawful for her Majesty, by and with the advice
521ds"That this act shall not come into operation until satisfactory proof shall have been laid before her Majesty in Council, that foreign rum and foreign rum-shrub have been prohibited to be imported into any of the British possessions within the limits of the East-India Company's charter, on the importation from which of rum or rum-shrub the duty of 9ds"That if at anytime satisfactory proof shall have been laid before her Majesty in Council, that the importation of foreign sugar into any British possession within the limits of the East India Company's charter is prohibited, it shall be lawful for her Majesty, by and with the advice of her Privy Council, or by an order in Council, to allow the importation of sugar the growth of any British possession at the lower rate of duty specified in the Act of the 6th and 7th of William 4th, under the same restrictions and conditions as sugar the growth of the presidency of Fort William."520 only rose to express his satisfaction with the measure which had been brought forward by the noble Marquess. It had come sooner than he had expected, but not sooner than he had desired. He agreed with the noble Marquess that this measure rested entirely on its own merits. It was only a measure of justice to the East-Indies, while it was not one of injustice to the West-Indies. By diminishing the duties on rum the produce of India, it would, in his opinion, increase the production of sugar; while, at the same time, it would prevent the introduction of foreign grown sugar. He did not think the Government would be in a position to call upon Parliament to admit the sugar of Cuba and Brazil into this country till it was seen what the result of this measure would be, which was calculated he thought to lead to the introduction from India of a very large quantity of sugar. He wished, however, to call the attention of the noble
521"In the events of such prohibition and of the enactment of such regulations, it shall be lawful for her Majesty, by and with the advice
521ds"That this act shall not come into operation until satisfactory proof shall have been laid before her Majesty in Council, that foreign rum and foreign rum-shrub have been prohibited to be imported into any of the British possessions within the limits of the East-India Company's charter, on the importation from which of rum or rum-shrub the duty of 9ds"That if at anytime satisfactory proof shall have been laid before her Majesty in Council, that the importation of foreign sugar into any British possession within the limits of the East India Company's charter is prohibited, it shall be lawful for her Majesty, by and with the advice of her Privy Council, or by an order in Council, to allow the importation of sugar the growth of any British possession at the lower rate of duty specified in the Act of the 6th and 7th of William 4th, under the same restrictions and conditions as sugar the growth of the presidency of Fort William."520Lord Ellenborough
ex parte516 said that he fully felt the force of the arguments which had been put forward by his noble Friend. Every consideration, both of prudence and of justice, was favourable to the bill of which his noble Friend had just proposed the second reading. He doubted, however, whether the recent events which had taken place, the state of labour, and the condition of the colonies, had not been sufficient to induce the postponement of what every one was aware was a measure of justice. There was also another point on which he felt some slight doubt, but that doubt perhaps arose from his own ignorance on the subject. He did not know whether the admission of spirit made from the date-sugar might not be attended with some difficulties. There had been no distinction drawn between the different kinds of spirits, and he thought that this might probably lead to considerable fraud on the revenue, but he took it for granted that the Government had carefully looked to this point. With these doubts, which he had plainly stated to their Lordships, he must confess that he was glad at the introduction of such a measure as the present. But, as this bill referred to the sugar-trade, he would take that opportunity of asking his noble Friend what were the intentions of her Majesty's Government as to the general state of the sugar-trade. He was desirous of knowing whether it was intended to let in sugar from foreign countries. It had been stated to him by many merchants of the first respectability and standing that no satisfactory assurance had been given on this point. In fact great apprehensions existed upon this subject arising chiefly from the belief that the present measure might in some way be connected with the Report on Import Duties which had emanated from a committee of the House of Commons that was
ex parte516Lord Ashburton
 was quite aware of the high talent and integrity of the gentleman whose name the noble Marquess had mentioned (Mr. J. D. Hume), and he had no intention of saying anything disparagingly of that individual. With regard to what the noble Marquess had thought proper to say in answer to the question which he had put respecting the intentions of her Majesty's Government, all he would observe was, that it was precisely such an answer as the committee in the India interest had received from Government, and that committee went away with the impression that further measures were intended to be introduced by her Majesty's Government on the subject of the sugar-trade.Lord Ashburton
518517 was sure
518517The Marquess of Lansdowne
522 had not the least hesitation in stating to the noble Baron that the interpretation which he should put upon the meaning of the clause alluded to, and relating to the power exercised by the Privy Council, was precisely that which the noble Baron had himself collected. He thought there was nothing in the act referred to that required correc-
522The Marquess of Lansdowne
515514513 having moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the East-India Rum bill, proceeded to observe, that as this was a measure of considerable importance, it would naturally be expected that he should state to their Lordships, and to those who were interested in the subject, the grounds upon which this bill was introduced. The question, however, lay within a very narrow compass. Its object was to assimilate the duties on East-India rum imported into this kingdom from British possessions in India, into which the importation of sugar was prohibited, to the duties on West-India rum, as had already been done with respect to sugar the growth of the East Indies. Early in the last Session of Parliament he had had the honour to present to their Lordships a petition from the most important body in this country—the East-India Company—who considered themselves, and justly considered themselves, as the representatives of the cultivators of India. He was not at that time authorized to hold out any immediate hope to those petitioners that the policy which they recommended could be carried into effect; but he had stated that he himself, and others with whom he had the honour of acting, felt the justice and propriety of acceding to the suggestions contained in that petition at as early a period as they possibly could, consistently with their public duty, by proposing to Parliament a measure that would be beneficial to the
515514513The Marquess of Lansdowne
l519l was quite sure the noble Lord who had just sat down must feel that the answer of his noble Friend, the noble Marquess near him, was the only one which he could consistently give, as it would be highly inconvenient to discuss subjects relative to finance till they were brought regularly before the House. He rejoiced that the attention of the House and the public had been drawn to the report on which the noble Lord opposite had commented. No doubt it was a very popular argument to say that if taxation is reduced, the revenue will thereby necessarily be increased, but people out of doors were very apt to take a one-sided view of the question, and to say give us a reduction, and take your chance of an increase of revenue. The extravagance of some of the suggestions that had been made before that committee were practical impediments to the progress of improvement. He would allude to one, being the great question on which his noble Friend had observed, the corn question. What was the evidence given by some of those gentlemen on the subject of the protective duties on corn and provisions? It was that the existence of those protective duties caused a charge upon the people of England equal to twice the whole amount levied by taxation for the treasury—namely, an annual amount of 100,000,000l519lLord Monteagle
609 presented a petition to which he wished to call their Lordships' particular attention. It came from a most respectable body of individuals at Sheffield, and they prayed that measures should be adopted by the British Government to give that full and complete protection to the members of the Christian churches in Syria and the Holy Land, which was not at present extended to them. The petitioners were of opinion, that as, under Divine Providence, the British arms had been successful in Syria, the present opportunity was most favourable for making a representation in favour of those Christians. Individuals professing the Roman Catholic faith in the Ottoman dominion were under the protection of France, those who professed the doctrines of the Greek church were protected by Russia, but there was no specific protection for that class of Christians who approached more nearly to the Reformed Church than any other. He hoped, therefore, that at the present moment their interests would not be lost sight of. By interposing to secure for the Christians of Syria protection for the free exercise of their religion, and the full enjoyment of any privileges which they now possessed, their Lordships would be conferring a very great benefit on those people. No intention existed—no wish was entertained—to withdraw their homage from the Porte, under whose government they lived; but it was most desirable that due protection should be guaranteed to them under the
609The Bishop of London
 would take that opportunity of asking the noble Viscount a question on a subject of considerable importance to the commercial interests of this country. It was notorious that for some time past negotiations had been going on for a treaty of commerce between this country and France. Under less favourable auspices than the present those negotiations might have been interrupted, but he wished to know whether they had been renewed, and whether they were likely to be brought to a satisfactory termination. He was convinced that nothing could tend more to heal past wounds, and prevent the infliction of them for the future, than the establishment of a wise system of commercial intercourse between the two countries.Viscount Strangford
 hoped that care would be taken to give effectual protection to those who produced rum within the territories of the East-India Company, for without some system of certificates rum manufactured out of those territories would derive equal benefit from this Act.Viscount St. Vincent
 said, that it was quite inconsistent with the objects of this bill to require certificates to be obtained from a certain few specified persons. In the valley of the Ganges there were 360,000 square miles capable of producing the sugar, to all of which it was the object of this bill to grant permission to export. It was quite idle, therefore, to apprehend that that object could be materially affected by the small quantity grown out of the company's territories which might be exported. Why, there might be rum enough made in those territories to drown the West Indies.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that in the island of Jamaica a certificate was required of the particular estate upon which the sugar was produced; and in every part of India there were collectors of taxes, under whose hands similar certificates might easily be obtained.Viscount St. Vincent
 did not imagine that the West-India interests would be much damaged by this measure. The practical effect of it was to give to East-India rum the same advantages as now belonged to West-India rum, and he rejoiced at the measure, because it admitted a right principle.Lord Monteagle
610 said, that it was perfectly true that negotiations had taken place in the course of the last year, and been brought to such a state as afforded the prospect of a speedy and satisfactory issue; but they had been interrupted by the events which took place at the close of last year, and had not been since renewed. There was, however, on the part
610Viscount Melbourne
 could assure the right rev. Prelate that Her Majesty's Government had not been inattentive to this subject. Means had been adopted to carry into effect the wishes expressed by the petitioners, and the result, he had every reason to hope, would be satisfactory. It was very true, that the Roman; Catholics in the Turkish dominions were under the protection of France, while the members of the Greek church were under the protection of Russia. It was, therefore, right that the British Government should take proper steps for the protection of the Syrian Christians who were more nearly allied to the Church of England.Viscount Melbourne
657 was happy that his noble and learned Friend had availed himself of the opportunity of explaining the circumstances of this case, but with reference to the imputations which he stated to have been thrown upon his motives, he thought the noble and learned Lord might have left it to a silent appeal to his high character to satisfy their Lordships and the public of the purity of the course which he had pursued. But he rose to say a few words as to the part taken by the commissioners of police, who had acted under his advice. He gathered, from what had fallen from his noble and learned Friend, that he himself felt that compromises of this character ought to be of rare application, and he was sure that his noble and learned Friend felt with him, that offences committed against officers charged to keep the public peace should not be compromised; and that, with respect to those doing duty in the police, it was very desirable that there should not be the slightest suspicion when they were giving evidence in a court of justice, that they would be benefitted by the turn they might give to the case, or receive anything like pecuniary compensation. Following the example of his predecessors, and acting in this matter in full accordance with the commissioners, he had discountenanced the idea of allowing compensation to the police, arising out of charges made upon them. His noble and learned Friend had referred to Mr. Justice Patteson, and from what he had seen during the short time he had been in office, he could cordially concur in all that his noble and learned Friend had said with respect to that learned judge. But with regard to one of the cases to which particular allusion had been made, he felt it right in consequence of that allusion to state, that Mr. Justice Patteson, upon a careful reconsideration of the evidence, had forwarded a recommendation to him to take her Majesty's pleasure as to a commutation of the
657The Marquess of Normanby
656655ex parte654ex partenisi priuscertiorari;653Times652*** said, that the presentation of a petition relating to the administration of justice, which with the permission of their Lordships, he intended to lay on their Table afforded him a not unfit opportunity of taking notice of certain charges which had been brought against himself for the manner in which he had lately acted in his judicial capacity. Perhaps he need not have waited for such an opportunity. From one who owed his seat in that House solely to the situation he held as the head of the criminal justice of the country, their Lordships might expect a justification of himself from charges of a serious nature, at the earliest moment when the performance of his duties permitted his appearance among them. While, indeed these charges were confined to anonymous writings, he did not feel it necessary to take public notice of them: but when he found that a statement was twice made as a grave reason for the adoption of a particular legislative measure, 656655ex parte654ex partenisi priuscertiorari;653Times652***Lord Denman
769 presented the report of the Select Committee to which the Borough Improvement Bill and the Drainage of Buildings Bill were referred. Their Lordships were aware, that the Drainage of Buildings Bill, had been divided into two bills—the Borough Improvement Bill and the Drainage of Buildings Bill. The amendments made in the latter, were of a very important character, and would, he was convinced, be attended with the most beneficial effects. The subject had been carefully investigated, and every sugges-
769The Marquess of Normanby
 thought, that a clause might be introduced to meet the case of all buildings commenced after the introduction of the bill.Lord Ellenborough
 said, there was one great grievance which the noble Marquess had altogether omitted from the bill—the burying of dead bodies in neighbourhoods where there was scarcely room for the living. He thought there ought to be some provision made with respect to that subject.Lord Ashburton
 in moving that the House resolve itself into a Committee on the Drainage of Tow us and Villages Bill, slated, that he had framed a measure, which should be introduced at the proper time, for extending the provisions of the bill to Scotland.The Marquess of Normanby,
 said, the Poor-law Commissioners had been applied to for the papers moved for, which were, he supposed, in the course of preparation. As to the case to which the noble Duke adverted, of the facts connected with which he was not aware, there could be no objection to the production of the documents required.The Marques of Normanby
807 said, he had some time ago moved for certain papers respecting the manner in which the Poor-law was administered in Ireland. Those papers were not yet before the House, and he wished to know when there was any chance of their being produced. He was particularly anxious to have the correspondence between the guardians of the Naas Union and the Poor-law Commissioners, because
807The Duke of Wellington
8661757213722482801
1757213722482801984106010901505Total
984106010901505Total68652321Firing into dwellings12.
68652321Firing into dwellings12.229280330606Attacking houses11.
229280330606Attacking houses11.49655369Administering unlawful oaths10.
49655369Administering unlawful oaths10.415746110Appearing armed9.
415746110Appearing armed9.177180179246Demand or robbery of arms8.
177180179246Demand or robbery of arms8.420413459453Incendiary fires.7.
420413459453Incendiary fires.7.773107711581296Total
773107711581296Total21271712Cutting or maiming6.
21271712Cutting or maiming6.196300154Assault endangering life5.
196300154Assault endangering life5.381501687958Aggravated assault4.
381501687958Aggravated assault4.7455Assault with intent to murder3.
7455Assault with intent to murder3.43564891Firing at the person2.
43564891Firing at the person2.125189247230Homicide1.
125189247230Homicide1.1840183918381837
1840183918381837"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years
"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years
1757213722482801
1757213722482801984106010901505Total
984106010901505Total68652321Firing into dwellings12.
68652321Firing into dwellings12.229280330606Attacking houses11.
229280330606Attacking houses11.49655369Administering unlawful oaths10.
49655369Administering unlawful oaths10.415746110Appearing armed9.
415746110Appearing armed9.177180179246Demand or robbery of arms8.
177180179246Demand or robbery of arms8.420413459453Incendiary fires.7.
420413459453Incendiary fires.7.773107711581296Total
773107711581296Total21271712Cutting or maiming6.
21271712Cutting or maiming6.196300154Assault endangering life5.
196300154Assault endangering life5.381501687958Aggravated assault4.
381501687958Aggravated assault4.7455Assault with intent to murder3.
7455Assault with intent to murder3.43564891Firing at the person2.
43564891Firing at the person2.125189247230Homicide1.
125189247230Homicide1.1840183918381837
1840183918381837"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years
"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years865864863862"His Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, &c."(Signed) "CHARLEVILLE."Your Excellency's humble Servant,"I have the honour to be, my Lord,"I promised the expression of my gratitude if your Excellency gave us every support in your power; under existing circumstances, I can only deplore the result of this trial, and express a hope that henceforward measures may be adopted to prevent the ends of justice being frustrated."I make no doubt your Excellency feels the same regret I do at the escape of these evidently guilty men."It is worse than useless to expose the lives of witnesses and magistrates in the attempt to collect evidence and prosecute crime, when the prisoner may choose and pack his jury."Possibly the very person who 'ordered' Mr. Biddulph's murder; for, doubtless, this crime is classed as an 'Agrarian outrage!'"On that jury is to be found a parish master of the Ribbon society, at least stated to be so in the evidence on the state of crime in Ireland before the Lords' committee.861"Even that has been denied us; and the necessary, the anticipated result is—the jury do not agree."We asked not for the next of kin to be allowed to join the Crown in prosecuting; all we asked for was a fair exercise of the prerogative of the Crown, to secure an impartial jury."I approach the subject, if you will pardon the expression, 'more in sorrow than in anger;' but, my Lord, I cannot but deeply lament the solemn mockery of justice exhibited at the criminal Court in Tullamore."I took the liberty to reply that, in my mind, it was premature to express an opinion until I had an opportunity to judge by the conduct of the trial of the value of any support afforded by your Excellency."MY LORD—Your excellency did me the honour to call on me for an opinion in commendation of the assistance afforded to us by the Government, in bringing to trial the parties charged with the attempt to murder Mr. Biddulph."London, March 23,1841.Charleville860859"That he was perfectly satisfied with the jury, and that it was composed of persons who would do their duty according to the evidence."ex parte858 observed, that there were usually two grounds on which the production of papers was resisted: the first, that of public inconvenience, was generally admitted, but it did not apply to this case. The other objection, that the production of papers would tend to prejudge a question yet undecided, did apply to the motion before the House. The noble Earl had stated that, in the exercise of his discretion, though with great regret and pain, he had after much consideration, been induced to bring the question forward; but it was rather to be lamented that the discretion of the noble Earl had not led him to make
8661757213722482801
1757213722482801984106010901505Total
984106010901505Total68652321Firing into dwellings12.
68652321Firing into dwellings12.229280330606Attacking houses11.
229280330606Attacking houses11.49655369Administering unlawful oaths10.
49655369Administering unlawful oaths10.415746110Appearing armed9.
415746110Appearing armed9.177180179246Demand or robbery of arms8.
177180179246Demand or robbery of arms8.420413459453Incendiary fires.7.
420413459453Incendiary fires.7.773107711581296Total
773107711581296Total21271712Cutting or maiming6.
21271712Cutting or maiming6.196300154Assault endangering life5.
196300154Assault endangering life5.381501687958Aggravated assault4.
381501687958Aggravated assault4.7455Assault with intent to murder3.
7455Assault with intent to murder3.43564891Firing at the person2.
43564891Firing at the person2.125189247230Homicide1.
125189247230Homicide1.1840183918381837
1840183918381837"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years
"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years
1757213722482801
1757213722482801984106010901505Total
984106010901505Total68652321Firing into dwellings12.
68652321Firing into dwellings12.229280330606Attacking houses11.
229280330606Attacking houses11.49655369Administering unlawful oaths10.
49655369Administering unlawful oaths10.415746110Appearing armed9.
415746110Appearing armed9.177180179246Demand or robbery of arms8.
177180179246Demand or robbery of arms8.420413459453Incendiary fires.7.
420413459453Incendiary fires.7.773107711581296Total
773107711581296Total21271712Cutting or maiming6.
21271712Cutting or maiming6.196300154Assault endangering life5.
196300154Assault endangering life5.381501687958Aggravated assault4.
381501687958Aggravated assault4.7455Assault with intent to murder3.
7455Assault with intent to murder3.43564891Firing at the person2.
43564891Firing at the person2.125189247230Homicide1.
125189247230Homicide1.1840183918381837
1840183918381837"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years
"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years"Return of the Number of Outrages of each of the Classes mentioned below, as reported by the Constabulary during each of the Years865864863862"His Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, &c."(Signed) "CHARLEVILLE."Your Excellency's humble Servant,"I have the honour to be, my Lord,"I promised the expression of my gratitude if your Excellency gave us every support in your power; under existing circumstances, I can only deplore the result of this trial, and express a hope that henceforward measures may be adopted to prevent the ends of justice being frustrated."I make no doubt your Excellency feels the same regret I do at the escape of these evidently guilty men."It is worse than useless to expose the lives of witnesses and magistrates in the attempt to collect evidence and prosecute crime, when the prisoner may choose and pack his jury."Possibly the very person who 'ordered' Mr. Biddulph's murder; for, doubtless, this crime is classed as an 'Agrarian outrage!'"On that jury is to be found a parish master of the Ribbon society, at least stated to be so in the evidence on the state of crime in Ireland before the Lords' committee.861"Even that has been denied us; and the necessary, the anticipated result is—the jury do not agree."We asked not for the next of kin to be allowed to join the Crown in prosecuting; all we asked for was a fair exercise of the prerogative of the Crown, to secure an impartial jury."I approach the subject, if you will pardon the expression, 'more in sorrow than in anger;' but, my Lord, I cannot but deeply lament the solemn mockery of justice exhibited at the criminal Court in Tullamore."I took the liberty to reply that, in my mind, it was premature to express an opinion until I had an opportunity to judge by the conduct of the trial of the value of any support afforded by your Excellency."MY LORD—Your excellency did me the honour to call on me for an opinion in commendation of the assistance afforded to us by the Government, in bringing to trial the parties charged with the attempt to murder Mr. Biddulph."London, March 23,1841.Charleville860859"That he was perfectly satisfied with the jury, and that it was composed of persons who would do their duty according to the evidence."ex parte858The Marquess of Normanby
867 was willing to admit that there certainly appeared to have been a diminution of crime in Ireland. The reduction, though rather immaterial, was still on the right side; and he was extremely happy to find it was so; but in the making up of these returns, he must remark, that it was within a very short period that the return of crimes committed in the city of Dublin had been omitted. On the subject of this very jury business, there was a circumstance connected with it which was of great importance. The question to be considered was, not so much whether crime had increased or decreased, as whether the crime that was actually committed was punished or not in the degree it ought to be. His experience in Ireland told him it was not. This was as serious a point as could possibly be discussed. His experience told him, that while in regard to minor offences, it was possible with a little trouble to get a jury to convict; yet when very heavy crimes were committed, crimes upon a conviction for which capital execution might follow, then very great difficulty indeed was found, not only to procure testimony, but to procure a verdict when that testimony was given. The number of rewards offered for the apprehension of offenders, and the number of rewards paid on their apprehension and conviction, would show the great disparity between the number of offences committed and the number of offenders tried. The number of rewards offered by the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, from the 1st of January, 1837, to the 1st of January, 1840, was 814. Of these there had only been twenty-five claimed and paid. During the same period the constabulary had offered 1,446 rewards, of these only forty-seven had been claimed and paid; thus leaving no less than 2,188 offences unaccounted for. He thought this was a subject worthy of the deepest consideration of the Government. He believed that one great reason why these rewards, which had been offered for the apprehension and conviction of murderers and other serious offenders, were not claimed, arose from
867The Earl of Glengall
"The Earl of Charleville.""(Signed) EBRINGTON.""I beg, in conclusion, to assure your Lordship, that so long as I retain my present situation in this country, no attempt shall ever be made, with my knowledge or consent, to tamper with the course prescribed by the constitution for the selection of juries, either wior the base view of giving impunity to crime, to even with the more just and desirable end of securing merited convictions, feeling as I do that it would be far better to set aside trial by jury altogether, than in continuing its form to deprive it of any of its essential attributes.—I have the honour, &c."Your Lordship cannot regret more than I do that the atrocious attack on Mr. Biddulph, by whomsoever perpetrated, should remain up to tin's time unpunished; but when I am told, as I have been, by the Solicitor-general, who conducted the prosecution in that case with an ability well worthy of his high professional character, that the jury, upon the evidence brought before them, might fairly entertain doubts of the guilt of the prisoners, I cannot admit that that jury is liable to the imputation which your Lordship has thought fit to cast upon their conduct; and I must utterly deny, upon the same authority, confirmed as I believe it would be by every counsel employed, as well as by Mr. Biddulph himself, that there was anything in the composition of that jury to bear out in the slightest degree your Lordship's assumption that it was not fairly chosen, or that there was upon it any individual against whose character the slightest allegation was brought, to the knowledge of the Crown counsel, either before or after he was empannelled."My Lord—I have had the honour of receiving your Lordship's letter of the 23d inst."Dublin Castle, March 24, 1841.868 observed, that the remarks of the noble Earl did not apply to the cases that had been adverted to in the present discussion, because, in all those cases the Crown-officers availed themselves of local information. At the same time he felt the force of the suggestion made by the noble Earl, and he could state to their Lordships that, when he was at the head of the Irish Government, he had several conversations with his lamented friend Mr. Drummond upon the subject, and they both turned it in their minds whether some arrangement might not be made so as to give to the Crown-officers more time for inquiry. When he formerly addressed their Lordships, he omitted to read the answer of the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland to the noble Earl opposite; and having stated that portion of the noble Earl's letter to which that answer referred, he felt that he was bound in justice to his noble Friend, Lord Ebrington, to read his letter to their Lordships:—
"The Earl of Charleville.""(Signed) EBRINGTON.""I beg, in conclusion, to assure your Lordship, that so long as I retain my present situation in this country, no attempt shall ever be made, with my knowledge or consent, to tamper with the course prescribed by the constitution for the selection of juries, either wior the base view of giving impunity to crime, to even with the more just and desirable end of securing merited convictions, feeling as I do that it would be far better to set aside trial by jury altogether, than in continuing its form to deprive it of any of its essential attributes.—I have the honour, &c."Your Lordship cannot regret more than I do that the atrocious attack on Mr. Biddulph, by whomsoever perpetrated, should remain up to tin's time unpunished; but when I am told, as I have been, by the Solicitor-general, who conducted the prosecution in that case with an ability well worthy of his high professional character, that the jury, upon the evidence brought before them, might fairly entertain doubts of the guilt of the prisoners, I cannot admit that that jury is liable to the imputation which your Lordship has thought fit to cast upon their conduct; and I must utterly deny, upon the same authority, confirmed as I believe it would be by every counsel employed, as well as by Mr. Biddulph himself, that there was anything in the composition of that jury to bear out in the slightest degree your Lordship's assumption that it was not fairly chosen, or that there was upon it any individual against whose character the slightest allegation was brought, to the knowledge of the Crown counsel, either before or after he was empannelled."My Lord—I have had the honour of receiving your Lordship's letter of the 23d inst."Dublin Castle, March 24, 1841.868The Marquess of Normanby
876, in explanation, said he thought the statement about the number of crimes alleged to have been committed on one day had been completely disposed of. It had been proved, that it was an extraordinary mistake which Mr. Blake had fallen into, and that it was contrary to the real fact. As to the 64th
876The Marquess of Normanby
850 said, that with respect to the question of Church patronage, although a very strong feeling prevailed in Scotland, still, he believed that the people of that country would be satisfied with a much less stringent measure than the total abolition of such patronage; they would probably be satisfied with a modified veto, or with such a measure as would sufficiently secure the principle of non-intrusion. With respect to the veto, he would not wish to trouble their Lordships with his own opinion on the subject, and therefore he had stated the opinion of a noble and learned Lord. He was not
850The Marquess of Breadalbane
849"It would be a great defect in the Constitution of a Government that Ecclesiastical Courts should have an arbitrary power in providing parishes with ministers. To prevent such arbitrary power, the check provided by law is, that a minister settled illegally shall not be entitled to the stipend. This happily reconciles two things commonly opposite. The check is extremely mild, and yet is fully efficient to prevent the abuse."de factoi. e."Ecclesiastical Courts have an important jurisdiction in providing parishes with proper ministers or pastors; and they exercise this jurisdiction by naming for the minister of the vacant church that person duly qualified who is presented by the patron. Their sentence is ultimate even where their proceedings are illegal (de factoi. e.848"Because," says his Lordship "that was interfering with the power of ordination, or
848ad hunc effectum"That the right to it is a civil right, and therefore, that they had power to cognosce and determine upon the legality of the admission of ministers, ad hunc effectum"The policy of the Kirk," it is said, "flowing from this power (the power of the Lord Jesus Christ), is an order or form of spiritual government, which is exercised by the members appointed thereto by the word of God, end therefore is given immediately to the office-bearers, by whom it is exercised to the weal of the whole body. This power and policy ecclesiastical is different and distinct in its own nature from that power and policy which is called the civil power, and pertains to the civil government of the Commonwealth. The power ecclesiastical flows immediately from God and the Mediator Jesus Christ, and is spiritual, not having a temporal head on earth, but only Christ, the only spiritual Governor and Head of his Kirk."847"He whose election," it is said "shall be declared unto the Church, shall preach publicly the Word of God on three several Sabbaths, he the audience of the whole congregation, that so they may know his manner of teaching; and the said audience shall be expressly charged, that, if any one of them do know any impediment, for which his ordination, who shall be then mentioned by name, may not be completed, or why he may not be accepted, that they do then come, and give notice of it unto the Consistory, which shall patiently hear the reasons of both parties, that so they may proceed to judgment. The people's silence shall be taken for a full consent. Bui in case contention would arise, and the above-named elect be pleasing to the Consistory (the Church Court), but not unto the people, or to the major part of them, his reception shall be deferred, and the whole shall be remitted unto the Colloquy, or Provincial Synod, who shall take cognizance both of the justification of the before-named elect minister, and of his reception. And though the said elect should be then and there justified, yet shall he not be given as pastor unto that people against their will, nor to the discontentment of the greatest part of them."846jus devolutum"This is to be avoided, that any man may be violently intruded or thrust in on any congregation."First Book of Discipline"Certainly, and that every one who knows any thing of the constitution of our Church must perceive at once; but, then, it is in the power of the Presbyteries, and it is the duty of the Presbyteries, to take trial, not only with regard to the general fitness of a candidate for the work of the ministry, but with regard to his peculiar aptitude for discharging the duties of the station to which he is appointed; and, there are acts of assembly, in the time of the Covenanters, about the year 1641 or 1642, as I well as some of an earlier date, which expressly state that ministers may be fit for some charges who are not fit for all alike."845"Sufficient reasons for not placing a particular presentee in a particular parish, though
845"Yes; for many years after I was a minister, and long before the power of the people to object was limited in this way, they were considered as entitled to object only to the doctrine and character of the presentee, any objection relating to fitness for ministerial duty was invariably disregarded. In the year 1816, in a speech that I made to the General Assembly, relating to residence of clergy, I had occasion to introduce that topic; and I laid down there as strongly as I could, and I thought established, what is now admitted to be the law of the Church; namely, the right of the people and the Presbytery to judge of the suitableness of the presentee to the particular parish,""Do the committee understand you to say, that certain rights have lately been restored to the people, and which at all times belonged to them, and that at one time their powers had been too limited?"844"Judging from the rapid improvement made, he had sanguine hopes, if the measure got fair play, it would prove a blessing to the people, and might be the means of doing much good to the country.""It had been less injurious, and more beneficial, than he and his friends had anticipated;""My Lords, I hold in my hands a great number of petitions from a most respectable portion of her Majesty's subjects in the northern part of this island, all referring to one subject—I mean Church patronage in Scotland, which has greatly and powerfully interested the people of Scotland for many months past—and respecting the expediency of some change in which there is hardly any difference of opinion among them. The late proceedings in the General Assembly (viz. in passing the veto law) have done more to facilitate the adoption of measures which shall set that important question at rest, upon a footing advantageous to the community, and that shall be safe and beneficial to the Establishment, and in every respect desirable, than any other course than could have been taken. I am glad that the wisdom of the General Assembly has been directed to this subject, and that the result of its deliberations has been those important resolutions (viz. the veto law) which were passed at the last meeting."843 said, he had a great many petitions to present to their Lordships, from different parts of Scotland, on the subject of the differences which at present unfortunately agitated the Church in that country. The petitions were 112 in number; many of them from the clergy; ten of them from synods and presbyteries; others from cities and large towns, as Edinburgh. Perth, Dumfermline, &c., and
849"It would be a great defect in the Constitution of a Government that Ecclesiastical Courts should have an arbitrary power in providing parishes with ministers. To prevent such arbitrary power, the check provided by law is, that a minister settled illegally shall not be entitled to the stipend. This happily reconciles two things commonly opposite. The check is extremely mild, and yet is fully efficient to prevent the abuse."de factoi. e."Ecclesiastical Courts have an important jurisdiction in providing parishes with proper ministers or pastors; and they exercise this jurisdiction by naming for the minister of the vacant church that person duly qualified who is presented by the patron. Their sentence is ultimate even where their proceedings are illegal (de factoi. e.848"Because," says his Lordship "that was interfering with the power of ordination, or
848ad hunc effectum"That the right to it is a civil right, and therefore, that they had power to cognosce and determine upon the legality of the admission of ministers, ad hunc effectum"The policy of the Kirk," it is said, "flowing from this power (the power of the Lord Jesus Christ), is an order or form of spiritual government, which is exercised by the members appointed thereto by the word of God, end therefore is given immediately to the office-bearers, by whom it is exercised to the weal of the whole body. This power and policy ecclesiastical is different and distinct in its own nature from that power and policy which is called the civil power, and pertains to the civil government of the Commonwealth. The power ecclesiastical flows immediately from God and the Mediator Jesus Christ, and is spiritual, not having a temporal head on earth, but only Christ, the only spiritual Governor and Head of his Kirk."847"He whose election," it is said "shall be declared unto the Church, shall preach publicly the Word of God on three several Sabbaths, he the audience of the whole congregation, that so they may know his manner of teaching; and the said audience shall be expressly charged, that, if any one of them do know any impediment, for which his ordination, who shall be then mentioned by name, may not be completed, or why he may not be accepted, that they do then come, and give notice of it unto the Consistory, which shall patiently hear the reasons of both parties, that so they may proceed to judgment. The people's silence shall be taken for a full consent. Bui in case contention would arise, and the above-named elect be pleasing to the Consistory (the Church Court), but not unto the people, or to the major part of them, his reception shall be deferred, and the whole shall be remitted unto the Colloquy, or Provincial Synod, who shall take cognizance both of the justification of the before-named elect minister, and of his reception. And though the said elect should be then and there justified, yet shall he not be given as pastor unto that people against their will, nor to the discontentment of the greatest part of them."846jus devolutum"This is to be avoided, that any man may be violently intruded or thrust in on any congregation."First Book of Discipline"Certainly, and that every one who knows any thing of the constitution of our Church must perceive at once; but, then, it is in the power of the Presbyteries, and it is the duty of the Presbyteries, to take trial, not only with regard to the general fitness of a candidate for the work of the ministry, but with regard to his peculiar aptitude for discharging the duties of the station to which he is appointed; and, there are acts of assembly, in the time of the Covenanters, about the year 1641 or 1642, as I well as some of an earlier date, which expressly state that ministers may be fit for some charges who are not fit for all alike."845"Sufficient reasons for not placing a particular presentee in a particular parish, though
845"Yes; for many years after I was a minister, and long before the power of the people to object was limited in this way, they were considered as entitled to object only to the doctrine and character of the presentee, any objection relating to fitness for ministerial duty was invariably disregarded. In the year 1816, in a speech that I made to the General Assembly, relating to residence of clergy, I had occasion to introduce that topic; and I laid down there as strongly as I could, and I thought established, what is now admitted to be the law of the Church; namely, the right of the people and the Presbytery to judge of the suitableness of the presentee to the particular parish,""Do the committee understand you to say, that certain rights have lately been restored to the people, and which at all times belonged to them, and that at one time their powers had been too limited?"844"Judging from the rapid improvement made, he had sanguine hopes, if the measure got fair play, it would prove a blessing to the people, and might be the means of doing much good to the country.""It had been less injurious, and more beneficial, than he and his friends had anticipated;""My Lords, I hold in my hands a great number of petitions from a most respectable portion of her Majesty's subjects in the northern part of this island, all referring to one subject—I mean Church patronage in Scotland, which has greatly and powerfully interested the people of Scotland for many months past—and respecting the expediency of some change in which there is hardly any difference of opinion among them. The late proceedings in the General Assembly (viz. in passing the veto law) have done more to facilitate the adoption of measures which shall set that important question at rest, upon a footing advantageous to the community, and that shall be safe and beneficial to the Establishment, and in every respect desirable, than any other course than could have been taken. I am glad that the wisdom of the General Assembly has been directed to this subject, and that the result of its deliberations has been those important resolutions (viz. the veto law) which were passed at the last meeting."843The Marquess of Breadalbane
"It is quite clear that in all these attacks upon Mr. Lynge the motive for assassination was the idea that the formation of such a community was prejudicial to the Catholic church, and that murder was not a crime under such circumstances, but a good work. Surely the facts of this case demonstrate that the Roman Catholic clergy do not sufficiently instruct their flocks as to the enormity of the crime of murder. The question however is, for this great evil can a remedy be found? Baron Richards alluded to it, but very generally; individuals had complained of it, but in vain. I think, however, that a notice of it by Government, grounded upon the well-known facts of the frequency of murder, the small number of convictions, and the efforts of the peasantry to screen the murderer, might stimulate the Roman Catholic clergy to do their duty; and that some means might be devised, without a departure from usage and precedent of conveying to the Roman Catholic clergy some strong expression of opinion on that subject."875aliases874Dublin Evening873872871870869 entreated the indulgence of their Lordships for a few moments, while he offered some remarks on the observations of the noble Marquess. As to his correspondence with the Lord-lieutenant, so far had he been from not alluding to it, that he had distinctly said in his opening speech that he did not consider himself at liberty to make use of it in this discussion, as it was of a private character. He had also said, that the opinions expressed in the letters of his
"It is quite clear that in all these attacks upon Mr. Lynge the motive for assassination was the idea that the formation of such a community was prejudicial to the Catholic church, and that murder was not a crime under such circumstances, but a good work. Surely the facts of this case demonstrate that the Roman Catholic clergy do not sufficiently instruct their flocks as to the enormity of the crime of murder. The question however is, for this great evil can a remedy be found? Baron Richards alluded to it, but very generally; individuals had complained of it, but in vain. I think, however, that a notice of it by Government, grounded upon the well-known facts of the frequency of murder, the small number of convictions, and the efforts of the peasantry to screen the murderer, might stimulate the Roman Catholic clergy to do their duty; and that some means might be devised, without a departure from usage and precedent of conveying to the Roman Catholic clergy some strong expression of opinion on that subject."875aliases874Dublin Evening873872871870869The Earl of Charleville
857856"We should easily forgive the calumnies of the habitual traducers of our creed, and of the Irish people, when we find two professional men of high standing and hitherto fair reputation, the Solicitor-general, at present the first law officer of Lord Ebrington, a Whig Viceroy, and Mr. Berwick, one of her Majesty's counsel, the former daring to insult the memory of the illustrious dead, to whom he owed so much by perverting his adamantine principle, that 'property had its duties as well at its rights,' and fulminating a charge whose atrocity is only to be equalled by its falsehood—'That there existed a wide-spread conspiracy in this country against life and property,' a charge not only unsupported, but directly contradicted by a most respectable Protestant witness; the latter a county judge of Whig creation, stigmatising the witnesses for the un-fortunate prisoner as 'perjurers,' and 'co-con-
856855854"Yes, the object is generally to strike off the respectable men, and to get at the bottom of the panel the publicans, or some of their own rank of life.""Do they generally try to strike off the persons in the better grade of life, and, there fore probably better informed?""Indeed, I think the prisoner knows very little about the challenge, it is generally the attorney, and he endeavours to get either timid or weak men on, and any strong-minded man he will put by if he can.""Do the prisoners to be tried generally challenge the most respectable persons on the jury, or are they challenged from some private reason?""I do not like to venture an opinion condemnatory of any verdict of a jury. I do not wish to do that; but I can state this, that. I here has been the occurrence of late years of a failure of justice much more frequently than formerly from, I mean, the jury, not agreeing and the judge being, therefore, obliged to discharge them."853852851 in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, for a copy of the criminal calendar at the Lent assizes, 1841, for the King's County; also, for a copy of the rule of court on the said calendar—said, that he could not call their Lordships' attention to the motion he was about to offer, and the questions involved in it, without expressing extreme regret at being obliged to do so; and it was only after the matter had received his most deep and anxious consideration that he determined to take this course. After communicating with many friends in various parts of Ireland, and with friends whom he had thought proper to consult in this country, he only felt more strongly that it was his duty to call the attention of their Lordships to that part of the administration of criminal justice in Ireland which was affected by the circumstance of the Crown having of late years given up the practice, which had always been observed for many years previously, of setting aside parties who were placed (c)n panels, and whom the Crown might think not to be the proper parties to be placed on a jury when the action was at the suit of the Crown. But however painful to his feelings it might be to have to address their Lordships on such a subject, when he found, that to bring the matter forward was a duty which he owed to the peaceable, the loyal, and the well-disposed in Ireland, and that he must lose no time in advancing to expose the system of which that part of the population so much complained, and, in his opinion, justly complained—he felt that he ought not to shrink from his duty, but forthwith to call the attention of the House and the attention of her Majesty's Ministers, to this momentous subject. The King's County, which for very many years formerly, had enjoyed peace and tranquillity, had of late become the scene of frequent outrage. How was this? He knew of no causes of a local nature to have brought about the change. He could not account, except by reference to the change of system on the part of the Crown of which he had spoken, why a district which had enjoyed nothing but peace and tranquillity should of late
857856"We should easily forgive the calumnies of the habitual traducers of our creed, and of the Irish people, when we find two professional men of high standing and hitherto fair reputation, the Solicitor-general, at present the first law officer of Lord Ebrington, a Whig Viceroy, and Mr. Berwick, one of her Majesty's counsel, the former daring to insult the memory of the illustrious dead, to whom he owed so much by perverting his adamantine principle, that 'property had its duties as well at its rights,' and fulminating a charge whose atrocity is only to be equalled by its falsehood—'That there existed a wide-spread conspiracy in this country against life and property,' a charge not only unsupported, but directly contradicted by a most respectable Protestant witness; the latter a county judge of Whig creation, stigmatising the witnesses for the un-fortunate prisoner as 'perjurers,' and 'co-con-
856855854"Yes, the object is generally to strike off the respectable men, and to get at the bottom of the panel the publicans, or some of their own rank of life.""Do they generally try to strike off the persons in the better grade of life, and, there fore probably better informed?""Indeed, I think the prisoner knows very little about the challenge, it is generally the attorney, and he endeavours to get either timid or weak men on, and any strong-minded man he will put by if he can.""Do the prisoners to be tried generally challenge the most respectable persons on the jury, or are they challenged from some private reason?""I do not like to venture an opinion condemnatory of any verdict of a jury. I do not wish to do that; but I can state this, that. I here has been the occurrence of late years of a failure of justice much more frequently than formerly from, I mean, the jury, not agreeing and the judge being, therefore, obliged to discharge them."853852851The Earl of Charleville
 would not press his motion.The Earl of Charleville
 said, the noble Marquess had, in presenting his view of this subject, been guilty of an omission, which, if the noble Marquess would forgive him, he would take leave to request the noble Marquess to supply. The noble Marquess had not stated whether, on laying those petitions on the Table, he supported their prayer or not. He had made a long speech on non-intrusion; and it would seem as if the petitioners prayed for that which the noble Marquess himself was willing to approve of. But did not the noble Marquess know, that it was not non-intrusion, but the abolition of patronage, that the petitioners called for? Now, he wished to know from the noble Marquess whether his support went so far as the abolition of patronage? The noble Marquess had mentioned with praise, the Veto Act. But, last year, the noble Marquess said, that he did not approve, of it. He had, on that point, quoted the opinion of a noble and learned Lord, given in 1834. But the conduct of that noble and learned Lord in that House with reference to the church question, at a more recent period, was well known to their Lordships, who could not be misled as to what the opinion of the noble and learned Lord really was.The Earl of Aberdeen
 assurred the House that he did not intend to convey any such charge. The man was found to be a perjurer, and otherwise a bad character, and he thought, when the noble Earl was acquainted with the fact, it ought to have made him a little distrustful of information coining from such a suspicious quarter.The Marquess of Normanby
968 said, that he was one of the few who had sat through the debate which took place before the holidays. He then thought that the statement of his noble Friend was a very able and a very dispassionate one, and also that the reply to it by the noble Marquess was very satisfactory. But that reply was entirely founded on the statements which it contained, and if those statements were shown to be inaccurate, the reply would of course lack all its value and its force. Now, these statements had been seriously impugned by persons whose knowledge on the subject could not be doubted—nay, had been plainly and directly contradicted, and it was the bounden duty of the noble Marquess to establish the accuracy of his own account and to overturn the facts as stated in the letter read to their Lordships that evening. This he had not yet done; and, in fact, the speech attempting to do so, which they had just heard, was, in his opinion, very unsatisfactory. The charge brought against the Government was a serious one—of having laid down a system with regard to the administration of justice, from which, under peculiar circumstances, and in a case where political prejudice was supposed to be the motive of thei conduct, they had entirely deviated. It was the duty of the noble Marquess to give every information in his power, and
968The Earl of Wicklow
 observed, that his noble Friend had only done his duty in bringing forward this statement, although the strongest imputation of motives had been indulged against him. It would be well worth the Prime Minister's while, if his subordinates were ignorant of the true state of Ireland, and the real danger incurred by the gentlemen who lived in that country, to reconsider those principles which the noble M'arquess had so triumphantly asserted ought to guide her Majesty's Government in Ireland. For what, he would ask, was the privilege of challenging jurors given to the Crown? Was it that, by suspending it on particular occasions, they might administer to the appetite for a low and vulgar popularity. The conduct of the officers of the Crown was calculated to sacrifice the lives of those gentlemen, who, with himself and his noble Friend, had the moral courage to uphold the institutions of the country. His noble Friend was not a pensioner upon the public, nor a political adventurer, but a gentleman of ample fortune who had a good house to receive his friends in, and had the good sense to live in it. Though his noble Friend had merely called their Lordships' attention to an extraordinary deviation from the ordinary course with regard to challenges, he had been most unjustly charged with interfering with the due administration of justice.The Marquess of Westmeath
967 had nothing to add to his former explanation on this subject He had not stated anything upon vague information, but had actually read the words of Mr. Moore, the Solictor-general, and of Mr. Dale, the Crown-Solicitor, with regard to the empannelling of the jury. In their statements there was not the slightest allusion to what was subsequently brought forward by the noble Earl. He would have brought down the letters of those gentlemen if the noble Earl had given him notice that he intended again to introduce the subject; but he could state, from his own recollection, that they were of opinion that the panel was perfectly correct in Mr. Biddulph's case. The letters contained no statement that the respectable part of the panel had been exhausted, and the law officers declared that at the time the parties, so far as they knew, gave to the jury their most unqualified approbation. One of them was challenged by Mr. Biddulph, merely because he did not like the individual; but he gave no reason for the challenge. With respect to what was said by Mr. Parker it should be observed that he did not state that the same number of challenges was made at Armagh and at Monaghan. It was not in his power to make such a statement. But Mr. Hamilton, the law officer of the Crown, stated that the same system was pursued in each instance. He had admitted distinctly, at the time, that there were more challenges at Monaghan
967The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that he should certainly make inquiries as to the correctness of the reports from which he had gained his information respecting the cases of Biddulph and Grey, and with regard to Goulding, he had called him a person of infamous character, not because he had been flogged in the army twenty-four years ago, but in consequence of conduct which he had pursued long subsequent to that period. In the absence of precise information he would not admit that there was any difference between the modes of challenging jurors in the King's county, in Armagh, and Monaghan. He knew that they were the same in the two latter, and he had every reason to believe that it was the same in all three.The Marquess of Normanby
 contended that the plan laid down for the guidance of the Crown solicitor's conduct was the same in all cases, and that he would have challenged the same persons in any other county, for the same cause, if it existed.The Marquess of Normanby
970 said, that he
970The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that he was at direct issue with the noble Marquess upon these two points. The noble Marquess admitted, that in Armagh none were set aside by the Crown except publicans, while in Monaghan there were others. Mr. O'Loghlen's instructions were, that without cause none but publicans should be set aside. His statement was, that it had been so in Armagh, but that in Monagban others besides publicans had been ordered to stand aside, and that the rule had also been violated in the King's county.The Earl of Charleville
.—The noble Marquess accused me of having knowingly employed a man of bad character.The Earl of Charleville
, in reply, stated that which he had before mentioned to their Lordships, that Goulding had never given him any information. With regard to his character, the only charge against him was, that he had been flogged in the army twenty-seven years ago, but since that time he had served for seven years in the constabulary, and had retired at his own request. The only way in which he had employed him was to gain information respecting the murder of Lord Norbury, and he had done so because he alone could efficiently perform that duty.The Earl of Charleville
" That, during his service of seventeen years Goulding had been promoted from one step to another, and this he could say, that while he was connected with the constabulary force in the King's County, he considered the conduct of Goulding to be good, and that he performed his functions satisfactorily."966" We are obliged to you, for exposing the manner in which juries are formed."" That the challenges made by the Crown on that occasion were far more extensive than those made by the Crown, on the trial of Hughes, at Armagh. In the former case, many persons, who were not publicans, were challenged."" That neither he, nor the next of kin of the deceased, had approved of the jury empanelled on that occasion."" That he had read with much attention the statement of the noble Earl, and the answer of the Marquess of Normanby, and the latter was by no means correct, let it emanate from what quarter it might. He had objected to a person on the jury; but he was told, that the ground of his objection was not substantial, because he only acted on rumour, and not on positive knowledge. He had never expressed an opinion, that the jury was a fair and impartial one; for he felt, that they would never agree; but he said, that a better jury could not be formed out of the persons who remained, those whom he considered fair and impartial being exhausted, thus leaving him without an alternative."965" The noble Earl had, in making his statements, left out of view the declaration of Mr. Biddulph himself, that the panel was a fair and impartial one, and that the Solicitor-general concurred in that opinion, observing, that a more impartial jury could not have been sworn. Mr. Biddulph (the noble Marquess continued) observed, that if fifty or sixty names had been struck off the panel, enough would have still remained to constitute a fair and impartial jury; and he was perfectly satisfied, that the jury would give a verdict according to the evidence."" That if he (the Earl of Charleville) had so inquired, he would have found, that Mr. Biddulph was perfectly satisfied with the jury which had been empannelled to try the persons charged with having attempted to murder him.""That he (the Earl of Charleville) had not taken those pains to inform himself on the subject which he had presumed to bring under their Lordships' consideration, which he ought to have done."964 said, that seeing the noble Marquess, the Secretary for the Home Department, in his place, he begged leave to trespass for a few moments on their Lordships' attention, with reference to a matter of a personal nature. It had always been the habit of their Lordships' House, when any Member of it was labouring under an unjust imputation, to allow the individual thus situated to take the earliest opportunity of clearing himself from the charge. Therefore it was, that he felt it necessary to come forward on this occasion. It would be in the recollection of their Lordships, that previous to the recess, he had made a motion in that House, relative to the criminal calendar at the last Lent assizes for the King's County. On that occasion, the noble Marquess thought proper, acting on
" That, during his service of seventeen years Goulding had been promoted from one step to another, and this he could say, that while he was connected with the constabulary force in the King's County, he considered the conduct of Goulding to be good, and that he performed his functions satisfactorily."966" We are obliged to you, for exposing the manner in which juries are formed."" That the challenges made by the Crown on that occasion were far more extensive than those made by the Crown, on the trial of Hughes, at Armagh. In the former case, many persons, who were not publicans, were challenged."" That neither he, nor the next of kin of the deceased, had approved of the jury empanelled on that occasion."" That he had read with much attention the statement of the noble Earl, and the answer of the Marquess of Normanby, and the latter was by no means correct, let it emanate from what quarter it might. He had objected to a person on the jury; but he was told, that the ground of his objection was not substantial, because he only acted on rumour, and not on positive knowledge. He had never expressed an opinion, that the jury was a fair and impartial one; for he felt, that they would never agree; but he said, that a better jury could not be formed out of the persons who remained, those whom he considered fair and impartial being exhausted, thus leaving him without an alternative."965" The noble Earl had, in making his statements, left out of view the declaration of Mr. Biddulph himself, that the panel was a fair and impartial one, and that the Solicitor-general concurred in that opinion, observing, that a more impartial jury could not have been sworn. Mr. Biddulph (the noble Marquess continued) observed, that if fifty or sixty names had been struck off the panel, enough would have still remained to constitute a fair and impartial jury; and he was perfectly satisfied, that the jury would give a verdict according to the evidence."" That if he (the Earl of Charleville) had so inquired, he would have found, that Mr. Biddulph was perfectly satisfied with the jury which had been empannelled to try the persons charged with having attempted to murder him.""That he (the Earl of Charleville) had not taken those pains to inform himself on the subject which he had presumed to bring under their Lordships' consideration, which he ought to have done."964The Earl of Charleville
 presented a petition from Atherstone, in the county of Warwick, praying that the hundred in which it was placed might not be assessed to make good the damages done at the riots at Birmingham in the year 1839. The noble Earl stated, that he had before presented a similar petition, and that he thought the case was one of peculiar hardship. Atherstone, which was thirty miles from Birmingham, received no advantage whatever from that town, and, therefore, he thought it was most unjust that it should be assessed in the way which was proposed. He trusted that the noble Marquess opposite would give the subject his best consideration.The Earl of Warwick
 was glad to answer the question of his noble and learned Friend. The gentleman alluded to, had been appointed to the situation of solicitor to the Home Office, with the distinct understanding that it was impossible that he should continue to hold the office of secretary to bankrupts. He had held both offices up to the present time for the convenience of his noble and learned Friend on the woolsack; but it was never intended that both offices should permanently be vested in one person.The Marquess of Normanby
 having understood that some clauses were to be introduced by the noble Marquess (Normanby) into the Drainage Bill, (the report of the committee on which was to be brought up that day) for the purpose of extending the operation of the measure to Scotland, was desirous of asking him whether he would have any objection to postpone its further consideration until these clauses had been printed.The Marquess of Salisbury
1019 said, that from one cause or another so much delay had already taken place in the progress of this bill, that he certainly was very unwilling to postpone its consideration still further. And he put it to the noble Marquess whether the reason he had assigned was a sufficient cause for so doing. There could be no doubt as to the necessity of some such measure in Scotland. In fact there was no part of the kingdom for which it would be so necessary; and the
1019The Marquess of Normanby
 did not wish to throw any impediment in the way of the measure's progress, but he was afraid that mixing up with it the question of Scotch drainage would most seriously impede, if not altogether throw it out. Some parties had felt the greatest alarm on the question, and had drawn up a petition praying to be heard against the supposed clauses by counsel at their Lordships' bar. He had advised them not to take this step; but he thought the alarm thus proved to exist was a sufficient reason for delaying the further consideration of the bill until the additional clauses had been printed.The Marquess of Salisbury
in terrorem1020 said, that the case to which his noble and learned Friend had alluded, was a mere matter of detail. It would be easy either to omit Birmingham from the operation of the bill, according to the prayer of the petitioners, or to abolish the local Act. As to the strong desire of the noble Marquess (Salisbury) for the postponement of the measure, he sincerely trusted that if they agreed to postpone the consideration of the report until the earliest day in next week that
in terrorem1020The Marquess of Normanby
: I only suggested that as a means of avoiding the anomaly which would arise from the joint operation of the general and local Acts.The Marquess of Normanby
"Nullum Tempus" begged to put a question to the noble Viscount opposite (Duncannon), on a subject which had excited great uneasiness in that part of the country with which he was connected. Their Lordships would know that an ant had been passed some years ago, called the "Nullum Tempus"The Earl of Falmouth
 presented a petition from Penn, Staffordshire, against the prevailing system of traffic on canals on Sundays. This was a subject to which the attention of their Lordships had been called during the last Session, and it was then universally admitted, that a great evil existed, and that a remedy should be applied. The present system was totally unnecessary, and unproductive of good to any class, either to the merchant, the labourer, or the public. With regard to one class, and one especially, deserving the kindest consideration of the House. He should, in a few days, present a petition universally signed by those boatmen who justly complained that they alone of all the labourers in her Majesty's kingdom, were restrained to work on a Sunday. They thought, and he agreed with them, that all considerations, moral, religious, and political—combined to render an abolition of this system in every way expedient. The petitioners, whose petitions he now presented, entertained the same views and made the same prayer, and with that prayer he begged to express his entire concurrence.Lord Hatherton
 had no doubt that the letter which had been sent was fully authorised by the commissioners, but he was not at the moment prepared to afford any general information on the question to which the noble Earl had referred. He would, however, make inquiries, and state the result of them to their Lordships.Viscount Duncannon
 said, that in Birmingham, and in those places which possessed local Acts, their abolition for the sake of introducing the bill of the noble Marquess would excite the strongest opposition and discontent.The Earl of Ripon
1021 presented a petition from a presbytery in Scotland, to which he would for a moment call the attention of their Lordships. Like most of the petitions presented from that country in relation to the affairs of her church, it was not for the abolition, but it was for the preservation and continuance of patronage in Scotland, as established by law and as at present existing. He presented this petition because it had been sent to him by a body of men whose opinions were entitled to every respect, but he at the same time lamented that these reverend gentlemen had thought it necessary to send any petition to their Lordships on the subject. On every occasion on which he had been consulted respecting the expediency of addressing petitions to Parliament as to the unfortunate position of the Scotch Church, and the applications to him had been numerous, he had always expressed his disapprobation of presenting any petition whatever. Considering the manner in which these "patronage" petitions were got up, and the grounds on which they were founded, no effect was produced by them—no great attention was paid to them, and he felt sure that no member of any party or of any description gave to their presentation the least countenance or support. This he had always declared,
1021The Earl of Aberdeen
1022 begged to ask the noble Marquess, whether the gentleman who had been recently appointed solicitor to the Home Office, was to be allowed to
1022Lord Lyndhurst
: I put the question because I have before me a paper of so late a dale as the 31st of March, signed by I hat gentleman as secretary of bankrupts.Lord Lyndhurst
: If the power of the commissioners under the local Act are proposed to be abolished, they would certainly then have a right to be heard by counsel at the bar, which the noble Marquess seems so desirous to avoid.Lord Lyndhurst
 said, that in connection with this subject, he had received a petition from Birmingham against the Borough Improvement Bill, originally a part of the Drainage Bill, stating that that borough had possessed for upwards of seventy years a local act very similar in its provisions to the bill of the noble Marquess, which the petitioners, on this account opposed. They prayed that Birmingham might be excluded from the operation of the measure, and as commissioners were appointed by the local Act, and there was no clause in the present bill to abolish them, if it were not excluded there would be two authorities appointed for the same purpose, and endowed with the same powers, operating against each other—the commissioners under the local Act, and the town council under the bill of the noble Marquess.Lord Lyndhurst
 said, he hoped the report was correct which he had heard, that it was the intention of the Government to throw open to the public the whole of the Regent's Park; and also that they intended to form a Park in the Eastern end of the Metropolis.The Earl of Wicklow
 said, that he had great pleasure in stating, that her Majesty's Government was prepared to open the whole of the grass part of Regent's Park, as far as it could be done with a due regard to the rights of those who had laid out large sums in the purchase of villas in the neighbourhood. The whole of the park would be thrown open to the public, except the private enclosures. Communications would be made to it from Hanover-terrace, from Macclesfield-bridge, and there would be two communications into the broad walk. With regard to the other question, the Government was most anxious to comply with the requests which had been made for a park in the eastern end of the Metropolis. Great difficulties stood in the way of accomplishing that object; such as the difficulty of obtaining in that locality a piece of ground of sufficient size; but he could assure his noble Friend, that every exertion would be made to effect the purpose desired with as little delay as possible.Viscount Duncannon
1067 said, he thought it was a great mistake to suppose, that throwing open every part of the parks was the best way to consult the pleasure of the public, for the preservation of the ornamental gardens was as necessary to their enjoyment as was the access to the open parts surrounding those necessarily enclosed spots. There was another point to which he wished to direct the attention of their Lordships. He alluded to the present state of the churchyards in the Metropolis, which was fatal to the health and comfort
1067Lord Ashburton,
1068lwas desirous of expressing his concurrence with the remarks just made by the noble Lord who had that moment resumed his seat. With regard to the evils arising from the present state of the churchyards in the Metropolis, he had frequent opportunities of witnessing their magnitude. In a small parish at which he had been called upon to officiate yesterday afternoon, he had been informed by the clergyman that, at a recent funeral, thirteen skulls had been turned up, and he could assure their Lordships that the evil would be much less than it at present was, if bones were alone turned up from late interments. Cemeteries had, within the last few years, been formed, which, to a certain extent, diminished this evil, but they brought with them another evil—though an evil, he confessed, of not equal magnitude. He was not one who would stand up for the secular advantages of the clergy, when opposed to the benefit of the community at large, but they were, at the same time, not to be overlooked or disregarded. Now, these cemeteries produced a serious effect on the incomes of many of the clergy, and he believed that one of them in the neighbourhood of the Metropolis—the Kensal-green cemetery—had caused in the income of the rector of a neighbouring parish a diminution of not less than 2001068lThe Bishop of London
was most anxious to do the utmost to improve the neglected and unhealthy localities in that part of the metropolis to which the rev. Prelate alluded; and, in fact, in the Metropolis Improvement Bill, and in the Drainage Bill, that object was to some extent provided for. But with respect to the proposed purchase and planting of the Royal Park, he thought it better not to state at present what his intentions were, lest by doing so he should render it impossible to carry them into effect. As to the new road from Pimlico, a question respecting which had been put to him by his noble Friend opposite (Lord Ashburton), he would only at present state that there was no part of the metropolis to which a great thoroughfare was more necessary.Viscount Duncannon
1069 said, that he was desirous of framing such a measure as that to which the right rev. Prelate had alluded for the improvement of interment in the metropolis, and for providing cemeteries. But he had found the subject so beset with difficulties that he had as yet made no progress with it. However, he did not despair, and he would be very happy to assist the right rev. Prelate if
1069The Marquess of Normanby
in transitu1070 rose to bring forward the motion, of which he had previously given notice, that a select committee should be appointed to consider the present system of trafficking on canals on Sundays. He need only trouble their Lordships with a few words in staling why, in his opinion, an inquiry should be instituted to decide whether the present state of things ought to be allowed to exist. It was the first duly of a moral and religious community—when, at any rate, it could be accomplished without injury to any class, and unless some strong reason were opposed to it—to keep the strict observance of the seventh day. Now, he believed that in the present system of Sunday trafficking on canals little benefit was derived by any one, and certainly that no opposing reason justified the deviation from the principle which he had had down, the soundness of which he felt sure would not be denied in their Lordships' House. Other considerations interfered with regard to personal travelling on Sundays, and though there were some people who conscientiously thought that the strong arm of the law might fairly be exercised to prevent, as they considered it, this breach of moral conduct, yet, for his own part, he thought that such an interference could not be justified. The attention of the committee which he now proposed would not be directed to this point. It would be merely confined to the compulsory labour of a particular class who were thus, contrary to their own wishes, compelled to work during seven instead of for six days. He had seen, since last Session, when this subject had been before their Lordships, several magistrates, chairmen of quarter sessions, and other gentlemen who were practically acquainted with the working of the Sunday trafficking on canals, and from their statements he had not the slightest doubt that the present state of the law subjected not only the boatmen themselves, but the whole population along the shores of the various canals through which they passed, to the greatest inconvenience. He had been informed also, and this information of what actually did take place exactly corresponded with his previous notion of what was
in transitu1070The Marquess of Normanby
1071 said, that this question had excited the greatest sensation in the diocese over which he presided, and the motion of the noble Marquess,
1071The Bishop of Lichfield
 said, he thought such a measure would be productive of great inconvenience, and he would remind the noble Lord, that they were not now legislating, but merely arranging as to the duties of a Committee of Inquiry.The Marquess of Normanby
usque ad cœlum, usque ad imum. said, that generally speaking, private individuals acquired a legal title to property by possession for twenty years. In some instances, that period was extended to thirty, and in others to fifty years. In the case of the Crown, the term was not so much narrowed. But even there, possession for sixty years was a sufficient bar to a claim on the part of the Crown. He held that the minerals in these submarine workings were indisputably his property, because he who possessed an estate, as Lord of the Manor, or otherwise, held it usque ad cœlum, usque ad imum.The Earl of Falmouth
1065 said, the correspondence which had taken place on this subject, though it did not embrace the whole matter at issue, certainly touched upon the question, whether the property in those mines was to be excluded from the operation of the Limitation Act, which applied in other cases. When he put the question to the noble Viscount, he thought it necessary to explain generally the circumstances that had taken place, in order that no misunderstanding might arise. The circumstances out of which the correspondence with the authorities connected with the duchy of Cornwall arose occurred some years ago. Objections were then advanced against the extravagant claims put forward on the part of the Crown, and the answer to those representations was, that a bill would be brought into Parliament to settle the claims of the parties in possession. No such bill was introduced; but the persons interested were informed by Sir G. Harrison, that he disapproved of the claims asserted by the Crown, and that he repudiated them on the part of the duchy; but, though he was never inclined to urge those claims, still he would do nothing that might be considered as compromising the rights of the Crown. How stood the fact now? Why, on the introduction of the new Lords of the duchy, they found, that certain leases had expired, and they proceeded to lay claim to the submarine workings, which had been recognised time out of mind as the property of the individuals in possession. The property now in question belonged to two ladies, and from it they drew the principal part, if not the whole, of their subsistence. This was the first proceeding that had been taken, after the promises were made which he had stated; this was the first proof given of the benefit to be derived from the boasted infusion of liberalism into the management of the affairs of the duchy. What was now in progress was materially connected with what took place on a former occasion. The question simply was, whether long possession was sufficient to confirm an individual in a right to retain property which he had held unmolested and undisturbed? By the Nullum Tempus Act, the Crown was barred from claiming after a possession of sixty years. If an individual could prove, that he had held the property claimed for more than that duration of
1065The Earl of Falmouth
 inquired whether it was intended to include navigable rivers, and to prevent vessels arriving from abroad from entering?Lord Colchester
1072 was glad that navigable canals had been included in the motion of the noble Marquess. All inquiry would be imperfect without it, and on this point the principal difficulty existed. He was sure, from conversation with practical men, that with regard to canals and railways the Sunday traffick could be abolished without injury to any class, and with great benefit to the boatmen, whose interests had been hitherto neglected. His property lay in a county much intersected with canals. Several, indeed, flowed through his own estates, and he had been in the habit of asking the boatmen whether they were desirous of working on a Sunday? From all he bad received the same answer.
1072Lord Hatherton
 answered, that the claim was made to the submarine workings below high-water mark on the part of die Duchy, as appertaining to the Crown.Viscount Duncannon
 said, that most of the mines in question had not been worked more than forty years. The noble Earl was not in possession of his mines for more than forty years. As the noble Earl had particularly alluded to the case of two ladies, he had no objection, if the noble Earl pleased, to try the right with him first.Viscount Duncannon
1064 said, that in consequence of the question put to him on Friday evening by the noble Earl opposite, relative to the leases of certain mines in Cornwall, he had made inquiries on the subject, and he found that notice had been given to the lessees of those mines to which submarine workings were attached, that on the expiration of their leases, they would not be renewed on the present terms. The question was, whether the minerals below high water mark were the property of the persons who held the upper soil, without paying any royalty? The opinion of the law officers of the Crown had been taken on the question, and they had decided that the property in the sub-workings was in the Crown, and not in the individuals holding the soil. The consequence was,
1064Viscount Duncannon
 inquired whether the claim to the submarine workings was made as a common law right, or as a right of the Crown?Lord Abinger
 wished to bring the House back to the sole question before it, which was the exculpation of the noble Marquess for the statements he had formerly made. Alter the letters which had been read, he felt bound to say, that the noble Marquess was fully justified in making those statements with respect to the case of Mr. Biddulph on the information he had received, and was now fully justified in entertaining the same opinion of them as that which he had formerly expressed.The Earl of Wicklow
 must beg to defend himself from the charge of a want of courtesy, for he had that morning written to the noble Earl giving him notice of his intention to make the statement. He would not follow the noble Earl through the various topics introduced by him in his speech, but he must say, that noble Earl appeared to be well prepared with every document necessary for a long address. He would only now remark that he could not acquiesce in the statement that there were three Ribbon-men on the jury in Mr. Biddulph's case. The noble Lord had complained of the publication of the letter to the Earl of Rosse, but it was moved for and ordered to be produced on a motion made at the request of the noble Earl himself. So he trusted, that the Earl of Rosse, would know on whose shoulders the blame, if any, ought properly to lie. He regretted that the noble Earl had adopted the very inconvenient course of raising exciting topics of discussion and debate on every opportunity which afforded itself, however unsuited or ill timed.The Marquess of Normanby
1138 said, that seeing the noble Marquess, the Secretary for the Home Department in his place, he wished to ask him a question. He had read in the usual channels of information a letter, purporting to be written by the noble Marquess to the noble Earl the Lord Lieutenant of the King's County in Ireland. Though that letter was not before their Lordships, it would really be affectation on his part to presume that it was not a genuine letter. But there were one or two expressions in it which he would not presume to be genuine until he beard them confirmed by the noble Mar-
1138The Marquess of Westmeath
 replied, that he had received a long letter from the Earl of Rosse, to which he had returned an answer. As for any expressions in them, as far as his own recollection served him, he thought he had used the term 'Catholic priest' when he referred to the gentleman in question; if, however, he had used the expression Catholic rector, it was an oversight of the moment, for if he had reflected, he should not have used it.The Marquess of Normanby
"The Solicitor-General, &c., &c., &c."(Signed) "PIERS GEALE."I am, &c."I will get him to write to you when he arrives in town."Dear Sir—I have already given you a statement of the circumstances under which the jury in Mr. Biddulph's case were selected, which I can only repeat, and in addition to that now given by Mr. Seed, have to state that my son Edward, who is at present at Athlone, is aware of the same facts, and will fully corroborate Mr. Seed's statement."April 25, 1841."The Solicitor-General, &c., &c., &c.""S. SEED."I have, &c.,1143"Dear Sir—With reference to Mr. Geale's letter to you of the 20th ult., relative to the circumstances under which the jury was selected to try the persons charged with shooting Mr. Biddulph, and to Lord Charleville's statement with respect to a letter which he had received from that gentleman, in -which he stated that he had not approved of the 'panel,'—I beg to state, in compliance with your desire, that I should communicate my
1143"April 25, 1841.(Signed) "W. D. CLAREE.""I am, &c.,"My dear Solicitor-general—Having a perfect recollection of what took place at tie time of the swearing of the jury in Mr. Biddulph's case (who sat next to me when the panel was calling over), I can safely say, that when it was ended he expressed his satisfaction not only with the number that attended, but the persons composing it, and in my presence and yours, declared that from sixty to eighty might be taken off it, and a good jury still remain to try the case; and this he said in reply to a question of yours, to ascertain whether you could with prudence put both the prisoners on their trial, so as to give them the privilege of forty challenges; he left where he was then sitting by me, to be near the Crown solicitor whilst the jury was swearing, and though the distance was but short, I did not hear him make any objection to any of them; after they were sworn he returned to his seat, when I asked him (as was natural), what he thought of the jury, when he assured me there could not be a better, and that he was convinced they would do their duty; in the course of the trial, which you know lasted such a length of time, I had frequent interviews with Mr. Biddulph, and he never expressed the slightest dissatisfaction with the jury; and from the very close intimacy and friendship which has always subsisted between him and me, I think had he entertained any doubt as to their propriety he would have mentioned it to me. I have only to add, that shortly after my return from circuit, I left town for a few days, and during my absence Mr. Biddulph came from the country, and dined with my family, and said he told me at Tullarmore he approved of the jury after they were sworn, and considered they would act honestly."April 25, 1841.(Signed) "J. R. CORBALLIS.""I remain,1142"My dear Solicitor-general—With the utmost surprise I observe by the report of the proceedings in the House of Lords, that Mr. Biddulph has written a letter to Lord Charleville denying that he ever approved of the jury sworn in his case. It has always been painful to me to differ in opinion with a gentleman on a matter of fact, but I owe it to what I believe to be the truth, to say, that my recollection is very different, Mr. Biddulph remained close to Mr. Clarke; while the panel was called over he was at some distance from me; when the jury was on the point of being sworn he was invited to come over to where the Crown solicitor Hood, in order to assist from his local knowledge in objecting to any improper person being put on the jury. After five or six jurors had been sworn, a juror whose name I do not know, being called to the book, Mr. Biddulph said to me I do not like that man. I replied that except he assigned a reason, his merely not liking him was not a sufficient objection, and he made no further objection to him. I communicated to you what Mr. Biddulph had
1142"The Solicitor-general.""WALTER BERWICK."I remain, &c.,1141"The following day, before the panel was called over, I requested of Mr. Biddulph to attend in court to assist with his local knowledge, to communicate his opinion as to the general attendance of jurors, and also any objection which might be fairly made to any individual juror. I also took care to see, that the gentlemen who belonged to the Crown-office were in attendance. Mr. Biddulph was, I think, beside me during the whole time the grand panel was calling over, and heard the names who answered. When the calling of the panel was completed, I begged of him to tell me what he thought of the attendance, informing him that the prisoners had a right to challenge forty peremptorily, and stating, that if from the attendance of jurors he apprehended, that objectionable jurors would be placed on the jury, the Crown had the power
1141"Having, as you may recollect, on the day preceding the trial, arranged to indict the prisoners on the capital charge, and being most anxious, in consequence of the right of challenge to which the prisoners were entitled, that there should be as full an attendance as possible of jurors, so that there should be no possible objection to the formation of the jury, and Mr. Biddulph having, in communication with him, stated, that if there were a good attendance of the jurors on the grand panel, there would be an abundant number of excellent jurors, we took the precaution on the day before the trial, by application to the Chief Justice in open court, to have public notice given to and through the sub-sheriff, that the grand panel would be called over on the next morning on heavy fines, and that no fine once imposed should be taken off without very sufficient excuse shown to the court. The sub-sheriff was also, at your request, in open court, directed to circulate as widely as he could within the course of that day such intimation of the judge to any of the jurors who did not then appear to be in attendance."Dear Solicitor-General,—In answer to your inquiry as to my recollection of the circumstances which occurred at Tullamore with relation to and at the time of striking the jury to try the prisoners in the case of Mr. Biddulph's prosecution, the following is as nearly as possible what my recollection serves me in stating to have taken place.24th April, 1841."The Marquess of Normanby.""RICHARD MOORE.""I have the honour to be &c."I have only to beg of your Lordship to do me the kindness of reading to the House of Lords my former letter, and those of the gentlemen herewith sent, and also to state, that I very respectfully court the fullest inquiry as to the conduct of the trial at Tullamore, and of my report of the facts that occurred there.1140"On referring to the letter, which I took the liberty of addressing to his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, and comparing the statements in it with those contained in the document I send, I trust your Lordship will be of opinion, that if I have misconceived the state-
1140"I take the liberty of enclosing letters from Mr. Geale, and Mr. Seed, his principal assistant, as to their recollection of what occurred."Mr. Berwick was the only Queen's counsel who was on the circuit at that time; he and Mr. Clarke are the personal friends of Mr. Biddulph, and what Mr. Berwick states did not occur in my hearing."Mr. Berwick the other counsel for the Crown, on the trial, was not in town when I last wrote, but I have this morning requested him to state to me his recollections on the subject, and I take the liberty of enclosing his letter also."On that occasion I stated, that Mr. Clarke and Mr. Corballis were the only counsel in town. I take the liberty of enclosing to your Lordship, letters from each of those gentlemen."I saw last night in the Report of the proceedings of the House of Lords, a statement, by the Earl of Charleville, of the contents of a letter, received by his Lordship from Mr. Biddulph. The precise language of that letter was not mentioned in the Report I saw, but it substantially was a denial of the correctness of my representations to your Lordship. If the matter rested between Mr. Biddulph and myself, I should, in consequence of that denial, feel bound to admit, that I had misunderstood what he had stated, though my own recollections on the subject are as positive as they could be. It is possible that one person may have fallen into a misconception, but it is not easy to suppose that many can have done so. When I had the honour of writing to your Lordship on a former occasion, I stated not only the result of my own recollection of what had occurred, but also the result of what the other counsel recollected on the subject."My Lord—I take the liberty of troubling your Lordship with a few lines on the subject of the late trial at Tullamore."25th April, 1841.1139 wished to avail himself of that opportunity to call the attention of the House to a statement made by a noble Earl a few nights ago, respecting the trial of certain persons for an attempt to assassinate Mr. Biddulph. There were one or two expressions referred to by the noble Earl, in reference to a letter which the noble Earl had read to the House from Mr. Biddulph, asserting, that Mr. Biddulph had not been consulted as to the panel of the jury, notwithstanding he had stated, on the authority of the Solicitor-general for Ireland, that Mr. Biddulph had approved of the jury list, and had not denied, that any persons should be challenged. The next day he had written to the Under-secretary for Ireland, to apply to the Solicitor-general, and the other counsel engaged in the prosecution, and to request them instantly to inform him as to the circumstances of the case, and more especially to call their attention to the letter of Mr. Biddulph. He had received answers to his letters from all the counsel, but one, engaged in this prosecution, and that one was absent from Dublin. He felt bound to read all these letters to their Lordships, in answer to the statement made in the letter of Mr. Bid-
"The Solicitor-General, &c., &c., &c."(Signed) "PIERS GEALE."I am, &c."I will get him to write to you when he arrives in town."Dear Sir—I have already given you a statement of the circumstances under which the jury in Mr. Biddulph's case were selected, which I can only repeat, and in addition to that now given by Mr. Seed, have to state that my son Edward, who is at present at Athlone, is aware of the same facts, and will fully corroborate Mr. Seed's statement."April 25, 1841."The Solicitor-General, &c., &c., &c.""S. SEED."I have, &c.,1143"Dear Sir—With reference to Mr. Geale's letter to you of the 20th ult., relative to the circumstances under which the jury was selected to try the persons charged with shooting Mr. Biddulph, and to Lord Charleville's statement with respect to a letter which he had received from that gentleman, in -which he stated that he had not approved of the 'panel,'—I beg to state, in compliance with your desire, that I should communicate my
1143"April 25, 1841.(Signed) "W. D. CLAREE.""I am, &c.,"My dear Solicitor-general—Having a perfect recollection of what took place at tie time of the swearing of the jury in Mr. Biddulph's case (who sat next to me when the panel was calling over), I can safely say, that when it was ended he expressed his satisfaction not only with the number that attended, but the persons composing it, and in my presence and yours, declared that from sixty to eighty might be taken off it, and a good jury still remain to try the case; and this he said in reply to a question of yours, to ascertain whether you could with prudence put both the prisoners on their trial, so as to give them the privilege of forty challenges; he left where he was then sitting by me, to be near the Crown solicitor whilst the jury was swearing, and though the distance was but short, I did not hear him make any objection to any of them; after they were sworn he returned to his seat, when I asked him (as was natural), what he thought of the jury, when he assured me there could not be a better, and that he was convinced they would do their duty; in the course of the trial, which you know lasted such a length of time, I had frequent interviews with Mr. Biddulph, and he never expressed the slightest dissatisfaction with the jury; and from the very close intimacy and friendship which has always subsisted between him and me, I think had he entertained any doubt as to their propriety he would have mentioned it to me. I have only to add, that shortly after my return from circuit, I left town for a few days, and during my absence Mr. Biddulph came from the country, and dined with my family, and said he told me at Tullarmore he approved of the jury after they were sworn, and considered they would act honestly."April 25, 1841.(Signed) "J. R. CORBALLIS.""I remain,1142"My dear Solicitor-general—With the utmost surprise I observe by the report of the proceedings in the House of Lords, that Mr. Biddulph has written a letter to Lord Charleville denying that he ever approved of the jury sworn in his case. It has always been painful to me to differ in opinion with a gentleman on a matter of fact, but I owe it to what I believe to be the truth, to say, that my recollection is very different, Mr. Biddulph remained close to Mr. Clarke; while the panel was called over he was at some distance from me; when the jury was on the point of being sworn he was invited to come over to where the Crown solicitor Hood, in order to assist from his local knowledge in objecting to any improper person being put on the jury. After five or six jurors had been sworn, a juror whose name I do not know, being called to the book, Mr. Biddulph said to me I do not like that man. I replied that except he assigned a reason, his merely not liking him was not a sufficient objection, and he made no further objection to him. I communicated to you what Mr. Biddulph had
1142"The Solicitor-general.""WALTER BERWICK."I remain, &c.,1141"The following day, before the panel was called over, I requested of Mr. Biddulph to attend in court to assist with his local knowledge, to communicate his opinion as to the general attendance of jurors, and also any objection which might be fairly made to any individual juror. I also took care to see, that the gentlemen who belonged to the Crown-office were in attendance. Mr. Biddulph was, I think, beside me during the whole time the grand panel was calling over, and heard the names who answered. When the calling of the panel was completed, I begged of him to tell me what he thought of the attendance, informing him that the prisoners had a right to challenge forty peremptorily, and stating, that if from the attendance of jurors he apprehended, that objectionable jurors would be placed on the jury, the Crown had the power
1141"Having, as you may recollect, on the day preceding the trial, arranged to indict the prisoners on the capital charge, and being most anxious, in consequence of the right of challenge to which the prisoners were entitled, that there should be as full an attendance as possible of jurors, so that there should be no possible objection to the formation of the jury, and Mr. Biddulph having, in communication with him, stated, that if there were a good attendance of the jurors on the grand panel, there would be an abundant number of excellent jurors, we took the precaution on the day before the trial, by application to the Chief Justice in open court, to have public notice given to and through the sub-sheriff, that the grand panel would be called over on the next morning on heavy fines, and that no fine once imposed should be taken off without very sufficient excuse shown to the court. The sub-sheriff was also, at your request, in open court, directed to circulate as widely as he could within the course of that day such intimation of the judge to any of the jurors who did not then appear to be in attendance."Dear Solicitor-General,—In answer to your inquiry as to my recollection of the circumstances which occurred at Tullamore with relation to and at the time of striking the jury to try the prisoners in the case of Mr. Biddulph's prosecution, the following is as nearly as possible what my recollection serves me in stating to have taken place.24th April, 1841."The Marquess of Normanby.""RICHARD MOORE.""I have the honour to be &c."I have only to beg of your Lordship to do me the kindness of reading to the House of Lords my former letter, and those of the gentlemen herewith sent, and also to state, that I very respectfully court the fullest inquiry as to the conduct of the trial at Tullamore, and of my report of the facts that occurred there.1140"On referring to the letter, which I took the liberty of addressing to his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, and comparing the statements in it with those contained in the document I send, I trust your Lordship will be of opinion, that if I have misconceived the state-
1140"I take the liberty of enclosing letters from Mr. Geale, and Mr. Seed, his principal assistant, as to their recollection of what occurred."Mr. Berwick was the only Queen's counsel who was on the circuit at that time; he and Mr. Clarke are the personal friends of Mr. Biddulph, and what Mr. Berwick states did not occur in my hearing."Mr. Berwick the other counsel for the Crown, on the trial, was not in town when I last wrote, but I have this morning requested him to state to me his recollections on the subject, and I take the liberty of enclosing his letter also."On that occasion I stated, that Mr. Clarke and Mr. Corballis were the only counsel in town. I take the liberty of enclosing to your Lordship, letters from each of those gentlemen."I saw last night in the Report of the proceedings of the House of Lords, a statement, by the Earl of Charleville, of the contents of a letter, received by his Lordship from Mr. Biddulph. The precise language of that letter was not mentioned in the Report I saw, but it substantially was a denial of the correctness of my representations to your Lordship. If the matter rested between Mr. Biddulph and myself, I should, in consequence of that denial, feel bound to admit, that I had misunderstood what he had stated, though my own recollections on the subject are as positive as they could be. It is possible that one person may have fallen into a misconception, but it is not easy to suppose that many can have done so. When I had the honour of writing to your Lordship on a former occasion, I stated not only the result of my own recollection of what had occurred, but also the result of what the other counsel recollected on the subject."My Lord—I take the liberty of troubling your Lordship with a few lines on the subject of the late trial at Tullamore."25th April, 1841.1139The Marquess of Normanby
 said, he was as much surprised as his noble Friend to hear that Dartmouth had been selected, though the Government were perfectly right in following the decision of the gentlemen who had been referred to.Viscount Melville
 would not allow the present opportunity to pass by without expressing his entire approbation of the course pursued by his noble Friend, with respect to the matter which he had originally brought before their notice, and his strong condemnation of the inconsistent erroneous, and uncertain conduct of the noble Marquess, who on every occasion concealed his ignorance and want of information by an affected air of conscious rectitude and triumph.The Marquess of Westmeath
, not having a local knowledge of the various ports, and consequently not being fully acquainted with the comparative advantages and disadvantages of each of them, could not express any direct opinion on the subject under debate, but he was at the same time desirous that the question should be rightly understood, and should stand on its fair footing. The question, then, was, not as to the port from which the packets should depart, but at which the mails should be put on board of such packets. This had nothing to do with the question of retaining Falmouth as a Government packet station. No matter where the company might fix their place of departure, the Government packets would continue to sail from Falmouth, or whatever other port the Admiralty might think best suited for that purpose.The Earl of Minto
 stated, that he had been requested by several noble Lords to put off to a future evening the Borough Improvements and Drainage of Towns Bills, which stood fixed for that evening, in order that some further time might be given for the consideration of the clauses which had reference to Scotland. He should therefore move that the further consideration of these bills be postponed till Friday.The Marquess of Normanby
1152 said, that the course of the Government in having, after submitting this question to gentlemen competent to decide it, determined to adhere to their decision, was perfectly fair. Still he would venture to say, that there was not a person connected with that line of communication who was not surprised at the decision which had been pronounced, although by competent persons doubtless. However, he could not concur with his noble Friend in thinking that Falmouth was a very desirable port, or that it was very accessible for communication; nor did he think Dartmouth was more desirable. It was to be observed, that the company still persisted in taking Southampton as the port of departure; and certainly there were
1152Lord Ashburton
comparative11491148 rose, according to notice, to present petitions from the boroughs and populous places of Cornwall, on the subject of the removal of the West-India packet stations from Falmouth to Dartmouth. In so doings their Lordships would forgive him if he briefly referred to the history of this business. The importance of having the best station for the delivery and reception of the West-India mails, had attracted the attention of the Lords of the Admiralty to the subject, and they had appointed a Committee to consider the comparative advantages of the different ports for the objects which they had in view. This committee made a report, in which it was recommended to the Lords of the Admiralty that Fal-
comparative11491148The Earl of Falmouth
 said, in reply, that if Dartmouth was merely to be a place of call, Falmouth would answer much better even for that purpose; and he had reason to believe, that it would be preferred by the contractors. He believed that in fact the company had objected to allow these vessels to call at Dartmouth. The noble Earl concluded by moving for a copy of the report of the commission appointed to inquire as to the port best fitted to be a port of departure for the West-India mail-packets; and also for copies of the correspondence which had taken place on the subject between the said commission and the parties interested.The Earl of Falmouth
1146"My Lord,—In your Lordship's speech on your motion just before the recess respecting crime in Ireland, you were represented to have said that you considered the correspondence between yourself and me to be of a private nature, and that some of the letters were marked as such. I felt, at the time, that this statement was quite at variance with my own impression of the fact, but not having the letters by me in England, where I then was, I did not feel warranted in opposing my recollection to the more accurate sources of information which I believed were in your Lordship's reach. Having, immediately on my return here, referred to your Lordship's original letters to me, as well as to the copies of my answers, I do not find any of them marked 'private,' and in the absence of any such mark I do not consider that there was anything in the general nature of the correspondence to debar your Lordship or myself from treating the letters as documents of an official character. Had I thought otherwise, no advantage which I could have gained to the Government or to myself would have tempted me to sanction a public reference to them without a previous application to your Lordship for your Lordship's leave to do so; and I trust your Lordship will do me the justice to read this letter to the House of Lords, in order to correct the erroneous impression which the expression attributed to you has been calculated to produce respecting my conduct in this case."1145"That he had read with much attention the statement of the noble Earl, and the answer of the Marquis of Normanby, and the latter was by no means correct, let it emanate from what quarter it might. He had objected to a person on the jury, but he was told that the ground of his objection was not substantial, because he only acted on rumour. He had never expressed any opinion that the jury was a fair and impartial one, for he felt that they would never agree; but he said, that a better jury could not be formed out of the persons who remained, those whom he considered fair and impartial being exhausted—thus leaving him without an alternative,"1144 said, that if the noble Marquess had thought it consistent with his duty to have given him information of his intention to bring the subject forward to-night, he should have been better prepared than he was at that moment to address their Lordships. But the noble Marquess had thought proper to impugn his motives, and therefore he trusted
1146"My Lord,—In your Lordship's speech on your motion just before the recess respecting crime in Ireland, you were represented to have said that you considered the correspondence between yourself and me to be of a private nature, and that some of the letters were marked as such. I felt, at the time, that this statement was quite at variance with my own impression of the fact, but not having the letters by me in England, where I then was, I did not feel warranted in opposing my recollection to the more accurate sources of information which I believed were in your Lordship's reach. Having, immediately on my return here, referred to your Lordship's original letters to me, as well as to the copies of my answers, I do not find any of them marked 'private,' and in the absence of any such mark I do not consider that there was anything in the general nature of the correspondence to debar your Lordship or myself from treating the letters as documents of an official character. Had I thought otherwise, no advantage which I could have gained to the Government or to myself would have tempted me to sanction a public reference to them without a previous application to your Lordship for your Lordship's leave to do so; and I trust your Lordship will do me the justice to read this letter to the House of Lords, in order to correct the erroneous impression which the expression attributed to you has been calculated to produce respecting my conduct in this case."1145"That he had read with much attention the statement of the noble Earl, and the answer of the Marquis of Normanby, and the latter was by no means correct, let it emanate from what quarter it might. He had objected to a person on the jury, but he was told that the ground of his objection was not substantial, because he only acted on rumour. He had never expressed any opinion that the jury was a fair and impartial one, for he felt that they would never agree; but he said, that a better jury could not be formed out of the persons who remained, those whom he considered fair and impartial being exhausted—thus leaving him without an alternative,"1144The Earl of Charleville
"Lord Normanby presents his compliments to Lord Charleville, and begs to inform him that it is his intention, at the sitting of the House this evening, to make a communication, at which Lord Charleville may like to be present."Normanby would only say one word in answer to the remarks of the noble Marquess. He had stated, that he had given him notice of his intention to bring forward this subject, but, in reality, the note which the noble Marquess had sent to his house that morning contained no such information. It merely stated, that he intended to communicate something to the House, and gave him no idea of the subject respecting which the statement was to be made. [The Marquess of "Lord Normanby presents his compliments to Lord Charleville, and begs to inform him that it is his intention, at the sitting of the House this evening, to make a communication, at which Lord Charleville may like to be present."NormanbyThe Earl of Charleville
11511150: Though this sub-
11511150Viscount Melbourne
 had a petition to present on a subject, to which he begged to call the attention of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. The petition, which he held in his hand, came from Bombay, and was signed by nearly all the merchants belonging to that city. The petitioners stated the very great injury which their trade had received from the interruption of our intercourse with China, and they appealed to their Lordships to take what measures they thought most expedient to establish our trade in that quarter of the world on a stable and permanent footing. The petition contained a narrative of the affairs which had taken place in China, commencing with the expulsion of the British from Canton in the month of May, 1840.Lord Ellenborough
 gave notice, that on Monday next, he should move a resolution respecting the falsification in the returns laid before the House from the Poor-law Commissioners in Ireland. He would lay his resolution on the Table of the House. It went to the extent of saying, that a contempt of this House had been committed.The Earl of Glengall
1245 said, that, as the resolution of the noble Earl mentioned the name of one Gentleman connected with the Poor-law office in Ireland,
1245The Marquis of Normanby
12471246 rose to put a question to the noble Marquess, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, relative to the appointment to the Chair of Biblical Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. It would
12471246The Earl of Haddington
 said, that he must give the same answer he had on a former occasion, that it was not his intention to persevere in the appointment of Mr. Candlish. He thought the noble Earl had misunderstood what had been said in another place relative to the event of ulterior proceedings. Suppose the Court of Session should determine, that the interdict was not a legal one, surely that would put Mr. Candlish in a different position from the one he now occupied, but he could not be called on to state how he would act, in the event of such a decision being come to.The Marquess of Normanby
1248 said, that if Mr. Candlish thought, that he had committed no offence, the mercy shown him by his opponents was anything but kind.
1248The Marquess of Normanby
 was certainly much dissatisfied with the statement of the noble Marquess. In fact, he even now scarcely knew whether the intention to appoint Mr. Candlish was entirely abandoned or only suspended. For his own part, he suspected the latter.The Earl of Haddington
 agreed with the noble Marquess on one point, and that point was the extreme importance of the question he had introduced. There had been, he admitted, a continued reduction of taxation, still further reduced as it had been by that memorable expedient which had been made for the convenience of all classes generally—the penny postage; but it did not necessarily follow from this simple fact that the revenue of the country had permanently decreased, or that a change in our financial system was necessary.The Earl of Stanhope
12521251, agreeing also with the noble Earl in the extreme importance of this subject, could not but express his opinion of the great inconvenience, in any legislative body, of bringing forward such subjects without notice being given, and in the presentation of petitions; but as the subject had been introduced, he felt bound to prevent the remarks of the noble Earl going abroad without any opposition or contradiction. He believed that the noble Earl was mistaken in his facts. The first position he had laid down, as far as his memory could serve him, was certainly unfounded—that the revenue of the country was a declining revenue. No notice having been given by the noble Earl, he was not prepared with those figures which would establish the point; but it certainly was his impression that the revenue had not undergone, nor was it undergoing, any permanent reduction. Of course, if taxation were diminished, and the people had been to a considerable extent relieved from those burdens which bore heavily upon them, the effect would be felt; but what he meant to say was that there was no diminution of the sources of revenue. So on this point he firmly believed that the noble Earl was mistaken. Then as to another position which he had asssumed, he much doubted its accuracy and correctness. The noble Earl had stated, that the commerce and manufactures of the country were in a state of continued and permanent decline. But from all the sources of information which were open to him, not having any local connection with the large manufacturing towns in the neighbourhood of the noble Earl's property, he believed
12521251Lord Ashburton
 wished to ask the noble Vicount, at the head of the Government, whether he had received any further information from China, and whether the Government had come to any decision on the preliminary articles which had been agreed to by Captain Elliot?Lord Ashburton
 said, that he had advised those who had suffered from the persecution of this gentleman's party, not to bring the matter before the court in such a way as would place him or them in such a position as to attract sympathy; and, therefore, he thought, that any idea of bringing him before the court for punishment would be abandoned. There were various modes by which Mr. Candlish might move for the repeal of the interdict, and his not doing so, was a proof he was afraid of encountering the consequences. If the institution of the professorship were of such importance, it ought to be filled up immediately, and there were many persons in Scotland quite as well, if not better, qualified for it as Mr. Candlish. The course adopted by the Government on this question was not a fair one; it was a shirking course; and he called upon them to carry out their own decision—a decision which he thought was most proper, and which nothing on earth ought to cause an alteration of.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that he must still entertain the opinion that the legality of the interdict did not in any degree alter the offence of Mr. Candlish. He was not entitled to decide for himself that a process of the Court of Session was contrary to the law of the land.The Earl of Aberdeen
POOR-LAW.] presented a great number of petitions against the New Poor-law, from places in the West Riding of Yorkshire, from Lancashire, and Cheshire, from Macclesfield, from places in Durham, and from Butterworth in Lancashire, praying for "the total repeal of the odious enactment," He would take the opportunity of handing in this great body of petitions to state, that if a bill should be sent to their Lordship's House, which he saw from the votes of the House of Commons on their Lordship's Table was now before that House, and which was called a bill for the Amendment of the Poor-law, but was in reality a bill for continuing the exorbitant and unconstitutional powers of the three Commissioners, he should certainly move, "That the bill be read a first time that day six months."Earl Stanhope
 said, the noble Duke was entirely wrong in his chronology when he asserted that we were driven from Canton in March and not in May. Captain Elliot arrived in the last week of March; but he did not advise the British to quit that place till May; and, but for that advice, there was no necessity for them to have left at all.Earl Stanhope
: My Lords, her Majesty's Government are not in possession of any more decided or conclusive information on the subject than the public in general. We are in possession of the preliminary articles to which the noble, Lord had adverted, but I apprehend that it would be premature for her Majesty's Government to form any conclusion on those preliminary articles until they are in possession of the treaty founded on them, and until they know whether the matter has been brought to a conclusion. Unquestionably her Majesty's Government had not come to any conclusion on these preliminary articles.Viscount Melbourne
1244 wished to correct a mistake that appeared in the petition. It was there stated, that the British
1244The Duke of Wellington
12501249 said, that in rising to present some petitions against the present system of Corn-laws he was desirous of assuring his noble Friend opposite (the Lord-lieutenant of Warwick) that he did not intend to give notice of any motion on that subject. For the present he felt that such a motion would be attended with little benefit, but he would take that opportunity of stating his opinion on a matter immediately connected with that subject—the present state of the nation in a commercial and financial point of view; and he did so then because it would be his last opportunity previously to the official statement in another place of the revenue of the country, of the liabilities to which it was exposed, and of its means to meet them. It was acknowledged, he believed, on all hands that the revenue of the country was at present in a deficient and
12501249Earl Fitzwilliam
ex post facto, in reply, said, that if he had adopted an inconvenient course by introducing such a subject without notice, the noble Lord had given by his own remarks an ex post factoEarl Fitzwilliam
 rose to move the farther consideration of the report of the committee on the Drainage of Towns Bill. He had postponed, he said, this stage until this evening to allow of some farther consideration of the clauses which had reference to Scotland. That delay had been productive of some good, as it had given rise to an amendment which had reconciled noble Lords connected with that country to the bill. The alteration would have, the effect of giving to the sheriffs of counties powers to carry out the provisions of the bill.The Marquess of Normanby
 objected to the clause as restricting the commissioners in the supply of water absolutely necessary for the cleansing of the towns. The noble Marquess, in moving the clause, had in view the interests of the city of Edinburgh. He objected to the introduction of a general clause to effect a particular purpose.Lord Ellenborough
 begged to correct his noble Friend. There were many towns, besides Edinburgh, which would be affected by the bill.The Marquess of Salisbury
 said, that the want of a proper system of drainage had been proved in evidence to exist to an extent very annoying to the immediate neighbourhood of Edinburgh. Indeed it had gone to such an extent as to be assigned as a reason why the Queen could not inhabit her palace of Holyrood. Under such circumstances he could not see why the noble Marquess should, at the present stage of the bill, propose to exclude Edinburgh from its operation, which would have the effect of continuing the nuisance so much complained of.The Earl of Wicklow
l. said, that the effect of the bill, as the particular clause was now formed, would be to injure the property of individuals to a great extent. In one case, property of not less than 3,000l.Viscount Melville
 protested against being charged with a wish to perpetuate a public nuisance. When the subject was first introduced there was no intention of including Scotland in its provisions, and the parties interested had therefore no opportunity of proving their case.The Marquess of Salisbury
1292 observed, that when the bill was read a second time he had called their Lordships' attention to a part of the report on which the noble Marquess had founded his bill, and requested that they would take full time to consider it. It was entirely upon the evidence in that report that he had founded his observations, and he had had no desire to interfere with the property of individuals. He did not hesitate to say, that the noble Marquess was in error, when he said, that the extension of the bill to Scotland was not contemplated till the bill went into committee. But it was found, that the working provisions necessary to apply it to Scotland, were different from those required for England, and
1292The Earl of Wicklow
 said, it had been found absolutely necessary to indict certain persons in the neighbourhood of Holyrood House, so great was the nuisance.Viscount Duncannon
 said, it had been decided to be necessary that the bill should be extended to Scotland, and as there was a difference of opinion in committee as to what should be the nature of the clauses, they were left to the House to decide upon. With regard to the amendment of the noble Marquess, he would say that, as, on investigation, it had been found, that there was some necessity for it as regarded the meadows in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, he would not object to it, if he would confine it to that city, and not extend it to the other towns.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, he was himself owner of a meadow in the neighbourhood of Holyrood-house; and when George 4th was there, no complaint whatever was made. He thought that the clause of the noble Marquess was absolutely necessary, as an act of justice to the proprietors of property that would be affected by the bill.The Earl of Haddington
 then proposed to modify his amendment, so as to confine its operation to within ten miles of Edinburgh.The Marquess of Salisbury
 hoped that the injustice would not be committed of confining the amendment to the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, but that it would be extended to other towns.The Earl of Mountcashel
1293 remarked, that the last observation of the noble Earl was itself a proof of the great inconvenience of adopting exclusive legislation, except under very peculiar circumstances. Would not the proviso to the ninth clause answer every object which the noble Marquess had in view? This bill was not intended to injure the property of any persons without giving them due compensation, but as the case of Edinburgh was the
1293The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that he felt bound to take the sense of the House on his proposition. He had originally wished that it should be general in its operation, but he had no objection to confine it to Edinburgh.The Marquess of Salisbury
 remarked, that there were places in Ireland with as strong claims.Lord Lyndhurst
 said, that the case of Edinburgh had been twice mooted before the committee, and he was bound to conclude that the committee had come to a just conclusion. By the noble Marquess's present proposition Edinburgh alone would be protected, and the effect of his more general proposition would be, to say that only rain water should be used in drainage throughout the country.Lord Ellenborough
 gave notice, that on the thud reading he should move an amendment, the effect of which would be to devolve on the commissioners all the duty which, under the bill would devolve on the Sheriff.The Earl of Haddington
 on presenting a petition from Birmingham, praying that that borough should be excluded from the bill, staled that the power given to the Commissioners was excessive.Lord Calthorpe,
 gave notice, that on the third reading he should propose, that in accordance with the prayer of the petition just presented, Birmingham should be ex-eluded from the operation of the bill; and another, that as the Charter of Bolton was now the subject of litigation, nothing in the present bill should affect the question at issue.Lord Lyndhurst
1294 said, I will take this opportunity of throwing out a uggestion, that it would be much the
1294The Duke of Wellington
*1374"His noble Friend had carefully abstained from stating what it was that he meant to do; whether his object was to have a fixed duty, or a diminution of the present ascending and descending scale; but whichever of these alternatives was his noble Friend's plan, as he saw clearly and distinctly, that that object would not be carried without a most violent struggle; without causing touch ill-blood, and a deep sense of grievance; without stirring society to its foundations; and leaving behind every sort of bitterness and animosity; he did net think that the advantages to be gained by the change were worth the evils of the struggle, by which their Lordships might depend on it the change could alone be effected. They had seen great changes at no distant period—changes which had stirred society from the bottom, which had excited man against man—divided the whole country into parties and left behind the deepest feelings of discord and enmity. He, for one, was not for adding to those feelings, by rashly adventuring to stir and agitate them; and upon those general grounds he felt himself justified
*13741373 presented petitions, in all 120, from Newport Pagnell, Ditchley, Great Marlow, Great and Little Hillingdon, and a large number of other places in the counties of Buckingham, Oxford, Suffolk, Northampton, Derby, Southampton, and Sussex, against any alteration of the Corn-laws. He thought it right to state, that those petitions were signed by farmers, tradesmen, clergymen, and labourers. They were sighed previously to the announcement relative to the Cornlaws that had been recently made in another place; but that announcement had induced the petitioners immediately to communicate with him, and request him to call their Lordships' attention to their feelings on this subject. They expressed their astonishment at the announcement to which he had alluded; and the deep regret which they experienced in finding that the noble Viscount opposite had united with his colleagues in taking a course, by attempting to alter the Corn-laws, that would hazard and endanger everything that was dear and valuable to this country. The petitioners expressed their anxious desire to come before their Lordships, not asking for a monopoly under any circumstances, but simply praying that they might not be deprived of that protection which all classes of her Majesty's subjects had a right to enjoy; and they declared their determination to resist, by every means in their power, the withdrawal of that protection, which they now possessed in common with other classes of the community. So far as he was concerned, he had heard with regret and astonishment what had occurred in another place; but he hoped, that that declaration would be met by the
*1374"His noble Friend had carefully abstained from stating what it was that he meant to do; whether his object was to have a fixed duty, or a diminution of the present ascending and descending scale; but whichever of these alternatives was his noble Friend's plan, as he saw clearly and distinctly, that that object would not be carried without a most violent struggle; without causing touch ill-blood, and a deep sense of grievance; without stirring society to its foundations; and leaving behind every sort of bitterness and animosity; he did net think that the advantages to be gained by the change were worth the evils of the struggle, by which their Lordships might depend on it the change could alone be effected. They had seen great changes at no distant period—changes which had stirred society from the bottom, which had excited man against man—divided the whole country into parties and left behind the deepest feelings of discord and enmity. He, for one, was not for adding to those feelings, by rashly adventuring to stir and agitate them; and upon those general grounds he felt himself justified
*13741373The Duke of Buckingham
1391 said, he thought his noble Friend near him had given the only answer that could be expected, or that any one hail a right to expect. His noble Friend had stated his determination to uphold the law. The noble Earl wanted to know what he meant. Its meaning he thought was simple enough. The noble Earl carefully avoided stating what was specifically to be done, and he could not expect his noble Friend to pledge himself specifically as to what he would do in the event of the General Assembly taking any particular course. The General Assembly would either keep within their powers or exceed them. In the former case they could only be checked by legislation—in the latter there were civil courts to appeal to. The noble Earl had said, that the stream of Government patronage in Scotland had flowed towards those who had thus violated the law. Now with respect to church patronage in Scotland, it had been the habit of the Crown before he took the seals of his present office, to issue a leet to select a candidate, and with respect to the persons put on the leet no one was put on because he was of non-intrusion principles. His noble Friend near him might, perhaps, say he had been misinformed or deceived, but he had reason to believe from those on whom he relied that, this was not the case, and that whilst perhaps no person had been excluded from the leet on account of his principles, still that the patronage should not be bestowed in favour of those who violated the law. The noble Earl had alluded to Mr. Candlish's case. After all that had been said before, he was somewhat surprised that his case was now revived. He had never said, that it was "necessary" to establish the professorship, but when a vacancy arose he thought it a good opportunity of carrying out the recommendation of a commission that had sat seven years back, but on consideration he did not think, looking at the state the Scotch Church was now in, that it was a favour-
1391The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that it was in the power of the Government to direct the Lord-Advocate to take steps to protect those seven ministers in their benefices. The General Assembly had no power or process by which to carry out their decrees. If the seven ministers refused to quit their glebes, all that the church authorities could do would be to go to the sheriff—not authoritatively, not calling upon him as a ministerial officer to assist them with the civil process—but by humble petition, craving his aid in his judicial capacity. This, however, it would be rather dangerous for the sheriff to exert, and he would probably hesitate to stir in the matter. He hoped that Government would reconsider their course. At any rate, if the General Assembly proceeded to deposition, it would be the duty of the Government to interfere forthwith, and not to allow these seven ministers to incur the ruinous expense of defending their causes in the courts, but direct the Lord Advocate to interfere to protect them.Viscount Melville
 said, that when the noble and learned Lord described the whole stream of Government patronage as having flowed to those persons to whom he referred, he (the Earl of Roden) thought he pronounced the highest compliment to the Ministry that they had ever received. The observations of the noble and learned Lord on the eminent persons whom he had attacked were in his (the Earl of Roden's) opinion far too strong. He was convinced the General Assembly were only doing what they conceived to be their duty.The Earl of Roden
1392 knowing the influence which the noble Earl bad in Ireland, hoped he would suspend his opinion till he had made himself fully acquainted with the history of what had taken place in Scotland. He knew the high respectability of the Ulster Presbyterians, but there was a great difference between their case and that of the Scotch Presbyterians. In Ireland they were Dissenters, and might feel they had some right to expect that no one should nominate their ministers; but in Scotland they were part of the Established Church. He wished now to make an observation on the subject of leets. He thought there never was a device more calculated to sow dissention in the country and in the Church than the practice
1392The Earl of Haddington
1396"That it appears to this House, that Mr. William Stanley, secretary to the Poor-law Commissioners, did, in contempt of the au-
13961395nil13941393 rose to bring before their Lordships the subject of the falsification of certain returns which were moved for in that House. It was not necessary for him to enter into any long statement on the subject of the extraordinary and improper conduct which had been pursued, nor on the unconstitutional nature of this conduct. Nothing could be conceived more unconstitutional, nothing more detrimental to the public service, than the falsification of returns ordered by Parliament. There was no knowing where the mischief might end, if these returns were permitted with impunity to be falsified. Documents ordered by that House should at all times be correct, yet there could be no doubt, for it had been clearly proved, that the returns from the Poor-law commissioners' office in Ireland were incorrect. There could be no doubt that such falsification was a breach of privilege of their Lordships' House. But he was not inclined to consider it in that light. It was more, much more, than a mere breach of privilege, it was a contempt of the authority of their Lordships' House, and it was with a view to affirm that fact he framed his resolution. There was one point which was clearly ascertained by a reference to the journals of the House, that this was the first occasion when such a contempt had been committed. In all the records of their Lordships' House there was no precedent for such
1396"That it appears to this House, that Mr. William Stanley, secretary to the Poor-law Commissioners, did, in contempt of the au-
13961395nil13941393The Earl of Glengall
 stated, that it was not his intention to take the discussion on this Resolution, but would reserve it for the next.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, the resolution was stronger than the case would justify, as their Lordships ought not only to take into consideration the act, but also the motive. His noble Friend (the Earl of Glengal) seemed to rest his case more on his knowledge of Clonmel than upon the evidence taken at the bar, upon which alone their Lordships would be justified in coming to a conclusion. Now, in that evidence he could not trace any corrupt or improper motive to Mr. Stanley. In his own opinion, Mr. Stanley was the least culpable of all the parties implicated in this transaction. At the proper time he would undertake to prove, that much greater culpability rested upon others than upon Mr. Stanley. He must also observe, that the proceedings of his noble Friend opposite (the Marquess of Normanby) against Mr. Stanley, were not founded in justice either. His noble Friend ought to have considered the evidence before he took any steps on it; and yet in the recess he had dismissed Mr. Stanley from his office. True it was, that Mr. Stanley had offered to resign it; but, under all the circumstances of the case, he thought that the noble Marquess ought not to have accepted that resignation.The Earl of Wicklow
 observed, that Mr. Stanley had been selected for punishment because he was the only person against whom the House could at present proceed. The only question before the House was a question of privilege, and the only person with whom it could deal was Mr. Stanley. Other persons might be more culpable, and his noble Friend near him, on another occasion, might be able to prove that such was the case, but at present Mr. Stanley was the only person the House could touch. He did not wish to press hard upon Mr. Stanley, but a great contempt of the authority of their Lordships' House had been committed by that individual; and if their Lordships did not mark that offence with their displeasure, there would be no security for the fidelity of any return which might hereafter be made to Parliament.Lord Ellenborough
1398corpus delicti denied, that he had acted with injustice to Mr. Stanley. He wished to call to the recollection of his noble Friend the situation in which the Government would be placed if it connived at all at such conduct as this. However unimportant this matter might be in itself, there was, nevertheless, a great question involved in it, and that was the securing the unimpeached fidelity of every return made to their Lordships. No man who had read the evidence could deny that a contempt of the authority of that House had been committed. He was glad to hear his noble Friend contend that Mr. Stanley had not been influenced by any corrupt motive. That was undoubtedly the case; his motive was to conceal a deficiency in the performance of his duty. He ought to have notified at the bottom of the page that he ought to have taken such and such a course, and that from the accumulation of business he had not. He thought that the offence had arisen from having wished to conceal a discrepancy which existed in his documents. If he had had the moral courage to have made the returns as they stood, and accounted for the discrepancy at the bottom of the page, he would not have been visited with their Lordships' censure. His own impression was, that it was the intention of the Poor-law commissioners to act fairly and impartially. Certainly it was the intention of the Government that the act should be fairly and impartially carried out. In proof of this they had selected as the principal person to carry the Poor-law act in Ireland into execution, one who had been engaged in superintending the operation of the Poor-law in England, and whose political opinions, so far as they were known, rather tended towards those entertained by the party opposite. Moreover, the evidence of Mr. Stanley went to show that the Irish government entertained the same desire that was entertained by the Government here, that this act should be impartially carried into effect. His noble Friend opposite had stated that his knowledge of Clonmel and its neighbourhood enabled him to penetrate the mystery that involved those. Now he could not conceive any thing more trifling than the 1398corpus delictiThe Marquess of Normanby
1401mal said, that in the last Session of Parliament he had brought the subject of the 1401malThe Marquess of Westmeath
 had not defended Mr. Stanley's conduct, but merely stated that he had been singled out for punishment, though he seemed the person least concerned in these transactions.The Earl of Wicklow
 said, as was his custom, he had placed on the Table the documents on which he founded his statement. When the Clonmel case should have been thoroughly sifted it would be found that he had been more than justified in the course he had taken. It should be recollected that in a Parliamentary borough like Clonmel an office of this kind was of great importance. Now in Clogheen and other unions they had appointed the high constable returning officer, but this rule, which the commissioners acted on elsewhere, had been particularly departed from in the parliamentary boroughs of Clonmel and Cash el. The returning officer was an important officer in a borough town. He was able to return a partisan board of guardians. Now, in this case what was to be done? The board of guardians appointed the brother-in-law of the returning-officer to be valuator, and when his appointment was not allowed, they then appointed his nephew. Besides this, relatives of his were appointed master and mistress of the poor-house. He moved the resolution.The Earl of Glengall
 then moved, that Mr. Stanley be ordered to appear at the bar of their Lordships' House on Friday, the 14th of May inst.The Earl of Glengall
1402 trusted that
1402The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that the motion of his noble Friend was the most lenient he could have made. However, as it had been stated that Mr. Stanley's state of health was such that his appearance at the bar might have a most injurious effect upon him, he considered that the object might be answered by embodying that fact in a resolution, and having it entered on the journals.Lord Ellenborough
 concurred in that view.The Earl of Wicklow
, drew up a resolution seLord Ellenborough
 withdrew his resolution, and moved it in the amended form in which it had been read by Lord Ellenborough.The Earl of Glengall
 also moved, that there be laid before their Lordships a copy of the resignation of Mr..Stanley of the office of Assistant-secretary to the Poor-law commissioners, and the minutes of the board accepting such resignation.—Agreed to.—Adjourned.The Earl of Glengall
ddd1377 said, that from what he had heard, he was convinced that the measure contemplated would not be one of protection, but would be framed to increase the revenues of the country. He considered it to be a measure of taxation, and he for one, as belonging to the landed interest, would give it every opposition in his power. For his own part, he would agree to any tax rather than to a tax on the most essential article for food of the working classes. He would lose no opportunity of stating his opinion on the subject, and he hoped that the whole country would rise as one man against such a tax, against a tax on bread. Why should he attempt to do away with a system which was intended as far as possible
ddd1377The Earl of Winchilsea
 was glad that this discussion had taken place, because it would probably lead to a settlement of the question; and, when it was settled, he was sure that it could only be settled in conformity with the rights and privileges of the Church of Scotland.The Duke of Argyle
 said, that not having expected that the Naas case would be brought before the House, he had not brought papers with him. He did not mean to deny that the appointment was an improper one. This person was employed to write for a soldier's pension, the soldier being dead. The case was of such a nature that no imputation rested upon his moral character, and to such an extent was this impression entertained that after his release from prison the clerk of the peace continued him in his employment.The Marquess of Normanby
1376 said, he had heard, with very great surprise, and with very deep regret, the speech of his noble Friend, not only on account of the great interests concerned, but on account of the character of his noble Friend himself; because if he could not produce, when their Lordships came to discuss this ques-
1376The Earl of Ripon
13901389" But he (the civil magistrate) hath authority, and it is his duty, to take order that unity and peace prevail in the Church, that the worship of God be kept pure and entire, that all blasphemy and heresy be suppressed, that abuses of worship and discipline be prevented, and all the ordinances of God duly administered and maintained; and for the better effecting thereof that a certain number of singers be present thereat, and see that all things are done according to the word of God."13881387 said, that having last year presented some petitions, and having also sought to legislate upon this subject, he felt it necessary to make a few observations. The noble Lord who had presented a petition that evening had stated the case so clearly, and pressed it
13901389" But he (the civil magistrate) hath authority, and it is his duty, to take order that unity and peace prevail in the Church, that the worship of God be kept pure and entire, that all blasphemy and heresy be suppressed, that abuses of worship and discipline be prevented, and all the ordinances of God duly administered and maintained; and for the better effecting thereof that a certain number of singers be present thereat, and see that all things are done according to the word of God."13881387The Earl of Aberdeen
13841383"The Assembly will meet under trying circumstances. One of two things must happen—the ministers who have been suspended must be deposed, or the Church of Scotland must be deposed."13821381"The Assembly while acknowledging the exclusive jurisdiction of the civil courts in all that related to the civil rights of the Church, yet asserted that the Lord Jesus Christ was the only spiritual head of the Church; that the General Assembly derived no authority from the civil magistrate; that their jurisdiction was founded upon the word of God, who was their only spiritual King and Governor, Their spiritual jurisdiction and authority so received they were prepared to defend, and assert, by the blessing of God, at all hazards; that they had determined finally to enforce the submission of the office-bearers and members of the Church of Scotland, over whom they would exercise the ecclesiastical authority with which they were invested."1380"To take the premises into consideration, to apply such legislative remedy as the nature of the case requires, and to pass some statute by which the petitioners, who are acting in obedience to a decree of the Supreme Court, may be protected in the discharge of their statutory duty, and the church courts be restrained from punishing or depriving parties of offices held under the laws of the country for obeying the decree of the supreme courts which gives effect to the statutes of the realm."13791378 had been requested to present a petition from the seven suspended Ministers of the Presbytery of Strathbogie, praying their Lordships "to apply such a remedy as in their wisdom the present emergency seemed to require;" and in rising pursuant to notice to do so he felt
13841383"The Assembly will meet under trying circumstances. One of two things must happen—the ministers who have been suspended must be deposed, or the Church of Scotland must be deposed."13821381"The Assembly while acknowledging the exclusive jurisdiction of the civil courts in all that related to the civil rights of the Church, yet asserted that the Lord Jesus Christ was the only spiritual head of the Church; that the General Assembly derived no authority from the civil magistrate; that their jurisdiction was founded upon the word of God, who was their only spiritual King and Governor, Their spiritual jurisdiction and authority so received they were prepared to defend, and assert, by the blessing of God, at all hazards; that they had determined finally to enforce the submission of the office-bearers and members of the Church of Scotland, over whom they would exercise the ecclesiastical authority with which they were invested."1380"To take the premises into consideration, to apply such legislative remedy as the nature of the case requires, and to pass some statute by which the petitioners, who are acting in obedience to a decree of the Supreme Court, may be protected in the discharge of their statutory duty, and the church courts be restrained from punishing or depriving parties of offices held under the laws of the country for obeying the decree of the supreme courts which gives effect to the statutes of the realm."13791378Lord Dunfermline
13861385:—My Lords, my noble Friend in presenting this petition has entered into a most able and elaborate history of the differences between the General Assembly and the Courts of Law in Scotland. He has expressed a very strong opinion on the subject—an opinion upon which I do not mean to say whether I agree to it or not. Certainly upon that part of his statement it is not necessary for me to make any observations. My noble Friend has well stated, that it is not a question of a private nature—that it is not a question between patron and presentee—between those gentlemen and the rights which they claim; but it is unquestionably a great collision between two bodies in the State—a great collision between the ecclesiastical and high legal authorities in Scotland. In contests of this nature the part which I should always take is perfectly clear; but, at the same time, it is unnecessary for me to declare it on the present occasion. But when my noble Friend requires me to state distinctly that it is the full and entire intention of the Government to maintain and support the law—to maintain civil rights—I cannot have any hesitation whatever—I cannot have any doubt in giving him that assurance and making that declaration in as decided terms and in as firm a manner as it can possibly be made; but when my noble Friend goes further and asks me, provided the General Assembly takes those measures against these gentlemen which are apprehended in the petition, whether I would then introduce a legislative measure to settle the question, upon that point I must be understood to give no answer. In a constitution such as ours—a constitution composed of many bodies
13861385Viscount Melbourne
: Most unquestionably the measure will proceed on the principle of protection.Viscount Melbourne
"My noble Friend has put his motion in such a way, as to present very little difficulty to me—namely, that it is expedient to reconsider the laws relating to the importation of foreign corn.' Now, I am distinctly of opinion that it is inexpedient. At the same time I do not mean to pledge myself to the continuance of the existing laws, or in any respect bind myself to the maintenance of the present amount of duties. This is a question of circumstance; because circumstances connected with the state of the country, considerations of various kinds, of economy or of policy, may arise, which would not only justify, but would render it necessary to pursue, a different course. But, under the present circumstances I do not think that it would be wise or prudent for Parliament to enter upon the reconsideration of these laws."1375** said, as the noble Duke, in presenting petitions relative to the Corn-laws, had so pointedly alluded to the part which he had taken when that subject was discussed on a former occasion, he thought that it was necessary for him to say a few words in reply. Unquestionably, he had expressed strong opinions and sentiments on this subject at different times, because he felt and knew that there were many reasons and grounds which rendered any agitation of the question of the Corn-laws liable to very great objection. But, at the same time, it must be recollected by the House, that upon every occasion on which he had addressed their Lordships on this subject, he had always said, that his opposition to the re. consideration of the Corn-laws, with a view to their alteration, wag based upon particular and temporary grounds; and, with repeat to the measure itself, he had carefully reserved his opinion. Upon no occasion had he ever pledged himself to support the law as it at present stood, because he saw that the time must come, when it would be necessary for their Lordships to take this question into their serious consideration, for the purpose of placing the law on another basis. The noble Duke had quoted some expressions used by him, with reference to this subject, on a former occasion. No doubt many similar expressions might be found in addresses which it had been his duty to make to their Lordships; and to the arguments which he had on those occasions introduced, he did not, at the present moment, deny a great portion of force and strength. But, when he delivered his sentiments to that House, on the question
"My noble Friend has put his motion in such a way, as to present very little difficulty to me—namely, that it is expedient to reconsider the laws relating to the importation of foreign corn.' Now, I am distinctly of opinion that it is inexpedient. At the same time I do not mean to pledge myself to the continuance of the existing laws, or in any respect bind myself to the maintenance of the present amount of duties. This is a question of circumstance; because circumstances connected with the state of the country, considerations of various kinds, of economy or of policy, may arise, which would not only justify, but would render it necessary to pursue, a different course. But, under the present circumstances I do not think that it would be wise or prudent for Parliament to enter upon the reconsideration of these laws."1375**Viscount Melbourne
1400ll1399: My Lords, allusion has been made by my noble Friend to the conduct, of Mr. Stanley. He has proposed a resolution on that subject, which I conceive to be very properly worded, and there is no doubt that this House must pass that resolution. There is another consideration involved in this question, arising not only out of the evidence before your Lordships, but also out of what we know from papers not yet printed, and also arising out of this discussion. My Lords, I have contended all along, that it is not the conduct of Mr. Stanley, or of any inferior and subordinate person that ought alone to come under your Lordships' consideration, but the conduct of the Poor-law commissioners themselves. I say that they should have prevented these things. I voted for the Irish Poor-law bill, and proposed amendments, which I believe induced your Lordships to pass this bill. I am sure that those amendments had the effect of inducing others to approve of that bill who would not have done so if those amendments had not been introduced. I did all this on the faith and assurance not only of the House and the Government, but of those Gentlemen themselves, that it would be carried into execution on the principle stated when it was carried through the House, namely, that the measure would be carried into execution in Ireland with the same strictness and fairness as it was in this country. In this expectation I have been altogether disappointed, and for this reason I am determined, when I get the other papers, to read every line of them, and probe the matter to the bottom, in order to see where the mischief lies. But recollect there is not only this case,
1400ll1399The Duke of Wellington
 said, that they should have before the House an exact history of that man's proceedings. He had been greatly disappointed at the manner in which that act had been carried out, and he hoped that the House would not lose sight of the subject.The Duke of Wellington
 was desirous that the city of Oxford, should be exempted from the operation of the bill. The provisions of the bill could be carried into effect by the civic authorities of Oxford, under certain local acts, instead of its object being carried out by commissioners appointed under this measure.The Duke of Wellington
 said, he would rather come to some understanding with the noble Duke as to the single case of Oxford, than postpone the bill which had been so repeatedly delayed for the purposes of making further alterations.The Marquess of Normanby
 inquired whether the noble Marquess would allow a separate bill to be introduced with reference to Cambridge.Lord Lyndhurst
 answered in the negative. The noble and learned Lord ought to have made this proposition earlier.The Marquess of Normanby
 was of opinion, that the bill should be postponed. He knew very little about the measure. It was originally introduced, he believed, without any discussion at all, and read a second time without observation. It was then referred to a Select Committee, of which he was not a Member.Lord Lyndhurst
 said, the measure had been discussed; and if the noble and learned Lord was not present at the discussion it was his own fault. He (the Marquess of Normanby), at the opening of the Session, gave a full and ample explanation of his intentions; and on the second reading of the bill a discussion of considerable length occurred. If, therefore, the noble and learned Lord was not in his place on those occasions, he had no right to complain. As to Cambridge, he understood that there were no such local acts there as those which applied to Oxford.The Marquess of Normanby
 expressed a wish that Birmingham should be exempted from the operation of the bill, as he understood Oxford would be.The Earl of Ripon
 said, the noble Duke had stated that Oxford ought to be exempted, in consequence of the existence of certain local acts; but such a proposition did not at all apply to the town of Birmingham.The Marquess of Normanby
 was of opinion that the measure should be postponed. There was no necessity for proceeding in such a hurry. The present Session was not about to close immediately—at least, so far as he knew.The Earl of Haddington
 said, it certainly was right to consider whether local acts, passed for the Government of certain towns, were sufficient for carrying the objects of this bill into effect. The Select Committee had not overlooked that point. The committee had inquired, and they found generally, that those acts were not applicable to the purposes of the bill.The Earl of Wicklow
 asked whether, with reference to those places where local acts gave certain powers to the civic authorities, it would not be convenient that those bodies, armed with further powers, should be employed to carry the provisions of the measure into effect, instead of the whole business being conducted by commissioners appointed under the bill? He did not want a general clause, but he wished the town of Birmingham to be placed in the schedule as one of the exempted places.The Earl of Ripon
1449 could not agree to the proposition, that in every case where local acts existed all the powers contemplated by this measure should be given to the body appointed under such acts. This measure had already been much considered. The noble Marquess had made a speech stating his intentions in the first instance; lie had shortly after introduced this bill, which was discussed on the second reading, and then referred to a Select Committee. He never recollected more attention to have been paid to any measure than was paid by the committee to this bill. Every clause to which they agreed, or which they rejected, was fully considered. He did not know of any measure for many years brought under the consideration of Parliament that, in his opinion, was of greater importance than this bill, because it respected the comforts of the people, the wants of the people, the health of the people; because it was a pledge to the whole of the labour-
1449Lord Ellenborough
 objected to the powers which, under this act, would be given to the sheriff or sheriff-depute in Scotland, instead of to the commissioners of supply. Commissioners of supply were spread all over the country, and to them ought to be intrusted the power necessary for carrying the bill into effect. He should propose, that in a limited time after the passing of the act, the commissioners of supply should hold a special meeting; that they should divide each county into districts; that they should appoint committees for each, and that those committees should have the necessary powers for carrying the bill into effect. With that view, he should move that the words "sheriff or sheriff-depute" in the 42nd clause be struck out; and "committees of commissioners of supply" be inserted in lieu thereof. He should then move a clause enacting "that within three months after the passing of this act the commissioners of supply shall specially meet, and divide the counties into districts, and that they shall proceed to appoint committees for carrying the bill into effect."The Earl of Haddington
 opposed the amendment.Viscount Melville
1450 said, he had
1450The Marquess of Normunby
 said, that his noble Friend had omitted to mention an important distinction between the commissioners of the town of Birmingham and the commissioners of other towns inserted in the schedule; and also the distinction between them and the commissioners of the town of Oxford. All these commissioners were elected in the same manner by the rate-payers, but the commissioners of Birmingham were self-elected. He thought if this power were not given to those who were subject to popular control, it should be given to those for whom the Executive was responsible. For this reason, amongst others, he should oppose the amendment.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that these commissioners were universally looked up to and respected at Birmingham, and, despite all the political excitement that had taken place in that town, had done their duty.The Earl of Warwick
 said, that this bill would not transfer the power from the commissioners; it would merely give the Crown a power of selection.The Marquess of Normanby
1451 said, that his object was to prevent confusion in the town of Birmingham, since all who read the Act
1451The Earl of Ripon
 said, that he apprehended the amendment would not preclude any other persons from sitting as commissioners, but, if it did, it would not make any difference.The Earl of Ripon
1452 said, that he had, on a former day, presented several petitions from the rated inhabitants of the town of Birmingham, praying that the town of Birmingham might be excluded from the operation of the bill, and he now, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, rose to move a proviso to that effect. He would state in a few words the grounds on which he made that proposal. They bore some resemblance to the grounds stated by his noble Friend in the former amendment. There had been for thirty years a local Act applicable to the town of Birmingham, and the commissioners under that local Act had powers similar to and corresponding nearly to, the powers proposed to be given to the town council by this bill. They had exercised those powers entirely to the satisfaction of the people of Birmingham, and he might appeal to gentlemen resident in that town or in its neighbourhood, to state whether a greater portion of improvement had not taken place in it within those thirty years, under the jurisdiction of the commissioners, than in any other town in this kingdom. The commissioners, who were men of all parties and sects, had acted with the greatest cordiality and harmony; but this bill proposed to substitute for them the town council, which was notoriously the most party body in the empire—the
1452Lord Lyndhurst
1453 said, he thought that there was no danger that the powers proposed to be given to the town council would be abused. He admitted with the noble and learned Lord that nothing could be more undesirable than that there should be conflicting jurisdiction in the same town: but the Act under which these commissioners were appointed was only for five years, and that time had almost expired. The Act was intended for a temporary purpose—that purpose had been answered, and as the object of the bill now before the House was intended to introduce one general system of improve-
1453The Marquess of Normanby
 was anxious that the House should act on a uniform principle. His noble Friend near him had recently carried an amendment to this effect—that the commissioners under the local act at Birmingham had discharged their functions so satisfactorily, that it was quite safe to delegate to them the additional powers under this act. Did he understand his noble Friend to exclude Birmingham by his present amendment?Lord Ellenborough
 observed, that the form of his motion would exclude Birmingham. But be had no objection so to frame the provision as to vest the existing commissioners with all the powers given to the town councils by the act.Lord Lyndhurst
: That obviates all my objection.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that after the decision which had been come to on the former amendment, it was not his intention to press the House to a division against the motion of the noble and learned Lord. He must, however, protest against Birmingham being made an exemption from the system of popular control.The Marquess of Normanby
 opposed the motion. The reason for this motion was not the same as the last. The commissioners in Derby amounted to about 400,The Marquess of Normanby
1478 wished to put a question to the noble and learned Lord upon the woolsack. It would be in the recollection of the House that a measure had been some time since under their consideration, the object of which was to facilitate the administration of justice in the Court of Chancery, for which purpose it empowered the Lord Chancellor to form new rules for regulating the proceedings of that court. Now, he wished to know from the noble and learned Lord, whether any such rules had yet been prepared? It was the more necessary that attention should be called to the subject, as the law provided, that all such rules should remain on the Table of the House for at least thirty-six days of actual sitting. Sup-
1478Lord Ellenborough
"Edinburgh, March 5, 1841."(Signed) "ROBERT GORDON."I have to request your grace's indulgence for this lenghtened letter, and I have the honour to be &c.,the only waypress it"In reference to the subject of conversation at the interview with which your Grace so kindly honoured my friend and myself in Edinburgh, I beg to say that we had no instructions from our constituents, the General Assembly's non-intrusion committee, even lo propose the abolition of patronage as one way of settling the present question regarding the appointment of ministers to the Church of Scotland, far less to the only waypress it1481"My Lord Duke,—I beg to acknowledge the letter which your Grace did me the honour to address to me on the 3rd.THE REV. DR. GORDON TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF ARGYLL."London, March 3."(Signed) "ARGYLL."I have not yet seen any of the members of the deputation here, nor do I know their address, but shall endeavour to find them out to-morrow.—I remain, &c."I think myself perfectly correct in my recollection of what passed at the time of our meeting; but it would be very desirable if you would favour me with your instructions in writing upon the subject, that no mistake may be made in any assertion I may think it necessary to make in the House of Peers."Now, Sir, I think myself authorised, from what fell from yourself and Mr. Candlish at the meeting which I had the pleasure of having with you a few days since in Edinburgh, to contradict upon your part and that of those who appointed you their committee, any wish of the kind; and I presume that I may also state that you are of opinion a measure founded upon the principles which we discussed at that time would be perfectly satisfactory to the Church."Dear Sir,—I am very sorry that, owing to the illness of ray son, I was not in my place in the House of Lords last night, when some statements were made by two noble Lords which appear to me to be likely to make an erroneous impression upon the House, so far as relates to a supposed wish upon the part of all non-intrusionists for the total abolition of patronage in the Church of Scotland."HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF ARCYLL. TO THE REV. DR. GORDON, EDINBURGH."Dr. Gordon laid before the meeting a letter which he had received from the Duke of Argyll, dated the 3rd instant, together with a copy of the answer which he had returned to his Grace, dated the 5th instant. These letters were in the following terms, viz.:—"Edinburgh, March 5, 1841."MINUTE OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY NON-INTRUSION COMMITTEE.14801479 said, that in pursuance of a notice which he gave on Friday last, he now rose to present a bill for the better regulation of Church patronage in Scotland. Their Lordships were perfectly aware, that in the early part of the history of the Church of Scotland, as soon indeed as it became a regularly organised body, it was one of the fundamental laws of that Church, that no Minister should be forced upon any parish or body of the people, for the purpose of taking spiritual charge of them, or of discharging among them the sacred functions of the ministry, who was in any manner objectionable to them, either on account of grave and serious faults, or upon the less easily defined ground of want of congeniality with them in religious feeling; and no attempt was ever made in any of those Acts of Parliament, which adopted the Church of Scotland as the national church, and conferred endowments on her to fetter the exercise of this principle. It was repeatedly confirmed by different Acts of Assembly, and enforced whenever the Church, being at any time free from persecution, had it in her power to act without restraint in ecclesiastical affairs. This was the state of the Church government for twenty years previous to the Act of Parliament of the 11th of Queen Anne, which restored to patrons their former powers, of which they had been deprived
"Edinburgh, March 5, 1841."(Signed) "ROBERT GORDON."I have to request your grace's indulgence for this lenghtened letter, and I have the honour to be &c.,the only waypress it"In reference to the subject of conversation at the interview with which your Grace so kindly honoured my friend and myself in Edinburgh, I beg to say that we had no instructions from our constituents, the General Assembly's non-intrusion committee, even lo propose the abolition of patronage as one way of settling the present question regarding the appointment of ministers to the Church of Scotland, far less to the only waypress it1481"My Lord Duke,—I beg to acknowledge the letter which your Grace did me the honour to address to me on the 3rd.THE REV. DR. GORDON TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF ARGYLL."London, March 3."(Signed) "ARGYLL."I have not yet seen any of the members of the deputation here, nor do I know their address, but shall endeavour to find them out to-morrow.—I remain, &c."I think myself perfectly correct in my recollection of what passed at the time of our meeting; but it would be very desirable if you would favour me with your instructions in writing upon the subject, that no mistake may be made in any assertion I may think it necessary to make in the House of Peers."Now, Sir, I think myself authorised, from what fell from yourself and Mr. Candlish at the meeting which I had the pleasure of having with you a few days since in Edinburgh, to contradict upon your part and that of those who appointed you their committee, any wish of the kind; and I presume that I may also state that you are of opinion a measure founded upon the principles which we discussed at that time would be perfectly satisfactory to the Church."Dear Sir,—I am very sorry that, owing to the illness of ray son, I was not in my place in the House of Lords last night, when some statements were made by two noble Lords which appear to me to be likely to make an erroneous impression upon the House, so far as relates to a supposed wish upon the part of all non-intrusionists for the total abolition of patronage in the Church of Scotland."HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF ARCYLL. TO THE REV. DR. GORDON, EDINBURGH."Dr. Gordon laid before the meeting a letter which he had received from the Duke of Argyll, dated the 3rd instant, together with a copy of the answer which he had returned to his Grace, dated the 5th instant. These letters were in the following terms, viz.:—"Edinburgh, March 5, 1841."MINUTE OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY NON-INTRUSION COMMITTEE.14801479The Duke of Argyll
1488 admitted the agitation which existed on this subject in Scotland, but contended that it was more of a clerical character than otherwise. It was an agitation not springing from the people, but from a party. It was natural enough that if the people were told no man ought to be intruded on them against their will, they should agree in the sentiment; but the agitation which had been thus excited had not, he contended, been either general or spontaneous, and instead
1488The Earl of Haddington
 observed, that though this was, as the noble Marquess called it, an exclusively Scotch question, he could not refrain from taking a deep interest in it, owing to the grateful recollection which he had of the service which the clergy and people of Scotland had rendered to him on a question which he had deeply at heart—he meant the question of national education. He would not express any opinion on this bill that night; but would reserve himself for a future occasion, when it should be again under discussion. That some measure was necessary on this subject was now admitted on all hands. He trusted that, whatever measure their Lordships might ultimately pass, it would be one calculated to tranquillize the people of Scotland, and to enable the clergy of the Church of that country to carry on the administration of its affairs in that manner which had hitherto proved so eminently useful.The Earl of Roden
 observed, that it was contrary to the usages of their Lordships' House, and was likely to prove practically inconvenient, to bring on a discussion without notice on the first reading of a bill. He merely rose to say, that neither he nor any other noble Lord must be considered as pledged either to the principles or to the details of this bill, because they did not upon this occasion offer any objection to them.The Marquess of Normanby
 suggested that there was great inconvenience in attempting to discuss a measure before it was printed, and it was scarcely a fair mode of treating a bill of that importance. There existed the most urgent necessity, in his opinion, of adopting some wise and comprehensive measure, since, if they did not, the difficulty of avoiding the abolition of patronage would increase and grow upon them year after year.The Earl of Rosebery
 thought that if their Lordships did not pass some measure similar to that which had been laid on the Table, the destruction of lay patronage would be the inevitable consequence. He would remind their Lordships that the Church of Scotland was not merely an ecclesiastical corporation, as the laity had a full and fair portion of its authority. It had been asserted that the agitation in Scotland was merely a clerical agitation, but he was quite convinced that the people generally fully participated in the dislike to the present system. Neither was it of late date, for he could assure their Lordships that he had been a candidate for a seat in Parliament immediately after the Reform Bill, and that he was on that occasion pressed on all hands on the subject of Church patronage. He would entreat their Lordships to approach the question in a spirit of Christian benevolence, and to act up to the advice given by the Duke of Wellington in a letter to his noble Friend the noble Duke who had introduced the bill. It enlarged on the advantage of a State connexion, preserving the spiritual powers of the Church intact, and expressed a hope that such a settlement would be arrived at as would at once preserve existing rights and satisfy the reasonable wishes of the people. If they wish to come to a fair decision on the question they should consider it on Presbyterian grounds, and with a careful recollection of the feelings of the people. The Scottish people were strongly attached to their religion; they had made great sacrifices for it, and they would look with great suspicion on any attempt at tampering with its rules. The noble Marquess concluded by expressing his intention to express himself more fully on the merits of the bill when it should come on for a second reading.The Marquess of Breadalbane
sss1477 would say a few words in reply to the remarks which had been made relating personally to himself. It had been said, that his opinions were different now from what they had been twenty five years ago. Now, to a certain extent, he admitted this; but if it were entirely so, he thought that it was not a charge of a very serious nature. But the question on which his opinion had been formerly expressed was a very different one from that which at
sss1477Lord Ashburton
hocus pocus thought, that if they were to wait until the bill founded upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer's new project for obtaining money without taxes came before their Lordships, they would never be called upon to discuss this question at all. He did not here allude to the Corn Laws alone. He referred to the whole scheme for new modelling, as it was called, our financial system, to the grand project by which they were to raise revenue without taxation. He did not understand the hocus pocusLord Ashburton
 was desirous of knowing whether the noble Earl intended to go into the question generally on the presentation of the petition of which he had given notice. If he did so intend he ought to state the circumstance to their Lordships. Nothing was more inconvenient than that a question of such deep importance, and in which such vital interests were concerned, should he brought forward on the occasional presentation of petitions. But if the noble Earl was desirous of having the question fully and fairly entered into—let notice be given of it, and they would discuss the question on its general principles. If it were the intention of the noble Earl to do so to-morrow he should be most happy to take that opportunity of explaining what were his views on the subject.Lord Ashburton
1486 said, that the bill of the noble Duke was nothing more nor less than un attempt to legalise what was called the veto, and to legalise it under circumstances more objectionable and more odious than its original language. He objected to the recognition of the principle of "the call" by the Legislature. The noble Duke's bill provided that if a majority of the male heads of families in a parish, communicants of the Church, should go before the Presbytery and state its dissent from the call, and after the Presbytery had failed to reduce the number to less than a majority, the Presbytery should be compelled to reject the presentee, though no reason should be assigned by the parties. He (the Earl of Aberdeen) had no objection to give full weight to the feelings and wishes of the people in these transactions; and in any mode by which that could be done so as to secure the real, genuine, and honest feelings of the people of Scotland he was at once disposed to concur. He thought that he had sufficiently provided for that in the bill which he introduced last year. He could mention one or two instances to show the ill effects and inconveniences which would result from the noble Duke's measure. A presentee was appointed to a parish, and the heads of fami-
1486The Earl of Aberdeen
 observed, that it was doubtless contrary to the usages of the House to raise a discussion on the first reading of a bill. The usual, indeed he might say the invariable, practice was to lay a bill on the Table, and have it read a first time without remark. The explanation of, and the discussion on, the bill took place on the second reading. But, as the noble Duke had made a speech on the first reading of this bill, and had then deferred the second reading of it till after the meeting of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, he had thought it necessary to offer a few observations to their Lordships in behalf of the view which he had formerly taken on this subject.The Earl of Aberdeen
1487 said, that there was an urgent necessity to put an end to the agitation on this subject which prevailed throughout Scotland; but the question was, would this measure have that effect? In his opinion, it would not; on the contrary, it contained within it, he thought, the seeds of future agitation. It was impossible that any State Church could co-exist with an entire abolition of patronage. If they were to give the patronage to the mule heads of families in communion with the Established Church, it would lead to contests and animosities throughout the country, which would not always be tempered with a regard for sacred things, or for the real interest of the Church. He was aware that an opinion prevailed to the effect that those who were opposed to the principle of the measure under discussion were by that means opposing popular right. He had all his life been the advocate of liberal measures based on constitutional principles, and in resisting this bill he
1487Lord Dunfermline
 said, that their Lordships were aware that in former times there existed a custom called benefit of clergy, by which persons who could claim benefit of clergy were exempted from the operation of the law. In the time of Edward 6th an act was passed giving to Members of that House the same benefit. An act was passed in 1828, by which benefit of clergy was abolished, but no provision was made with regard to benefit of peerage, and doubts were entertained, he did not say that he entertained doubts, as to whether, notwithstanding the act of 1828, the benefit of the act of Edward 6th remained in force with regard to the Members of that House. He had no hesitation in saying that there was not a Member of that House who would wish any doubt to remain on this subject, and it was to put an end to any doubt that might exist that he introduced the present measure, for the purpose of distinctly and explicitly declaring that benefit of peerage should be abolished. The noble and learned Lord moved the first reading of the bill.The Lord Chancellor
 said, the House was of course aware that there must be no ordinary difficulty in making new arrangements of the nature to which the noble Baron's question referred. He assured their Lordships that his attention had been earnestly and seriously directed to the subject; he had called in the assistance of the other judges of the Court, and the preparation of the rules had been to a great extent already matured, but yet not sufficiently so to admit of their being laid before Parliament. He admitted, that it was of great importance to complete the preparation of these rules as speedily as possible, but he was sure that the House would agree with him that to render them useful and efficient was a matter of still greater importance.The Lord Chancellor
1476: The noble Lord had said, that this was an attempt to remodel the entire condition of the law. But, let it never be forgotten that these were new laws, which he (Earl Fitzwilliam) was ashamed to say, he, as a very young man, had supported. He could not, like the noble Lord, look back with the glorious satisfaction of thinking on the firm, wise, and powerful opposition which he gave to those laws, night after night, when the noble Lord stood alone against 500 united Members of the House of Commons. The noble Lord at that time declared those laws to be inconsistent with true commercial wisdom. He well recollected the noble Lord, in a very small minority, coming down to the House of Commons and de-
1476Earl Fitzwilliam
1475 said, that according to the state in which the matter at present stood, the proper course would be, to wait till the proceedings relating to this subject in the other House of Parliament (which was the proper quarter whence any proposition with reference to it should emanate) were regularly brought under their Lordships' view. When the question was thus introduced, he should be prepared to discuss it fully. If he should present the petition from Leeds to-morrow, he certainly should do so without any intention of entering into a long discussion on the corn-laws; but when the proper time arrived he should state what his intentions were, in order to
1475Earl Fitzwilliam
 gave notice that he would, to-morrow, present a petition from Leeds, in favour of the repeal of the Corn Laws.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, the petion just presented from the Colonial Society had been agreed to at a meeting where he presided, and as he now rose for the purpose of presenting another petition, he should take the opportunity of saying a few words upon the subject of the petition just presented by the noble Earl near him. The Colonial Society was composed of more than 1,000 members— men of all shades of political opinions and principles, Whig, Tory, and Radical—but when they met to discuss the grievance of which the petition complained, they forgot all political distinctions, and united as one man in their resistance lo changes in the existing law.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, that he had presented a petition the other evening from the merchants of Bombay, on the subject of our relations with China. He understood that it had been intimated in another place that her Majesty's Ministers had come to the determination not to ratify any treaty with the Emperor of China based on the preliminary articles agreed to by Captain Elliot. He wished to know of her Majesty's Government, whether that were the decision of the Governor-general of India, or the Government at home? He wished to know, whether it was the noble Viscount's intention to recommend her Majesty not to ratify that treaty?Lord Ellenborough
5 contended, that the course he had pursued was in perfect accordance with the practice of their Lordships' House. The noble Earl
5The Earl of Mountcashel
Gurney's Tour through the West Indies,dd said, there was no reason why the people of this country should not enjoy refined sugar at 3½Gurney's Tour through the West Indies,ddThe Earl of Radnor
 said, that Brazilian sugar, after having been sent to England and refined, and then sent out to the West Indies, could be sold at a lower rate than that which was produced I in our own colonies. He thought that fact proved that free could not compete with slave-made sugar.The Earl of Mountcashel
 wished to know, whether the island of Chusan had been evacuated?Lord Ellenborough
ss9s was surprised at the tone assumed by the noble Earl (Fitzwilliam) on presenting this petition, inasmuch as last night the noble Earl said his opinion corresponded with those of her Majesty's Ministers. Now, her Majesty's Ministers were opposed to that which these petitioners prayed for, viz., a total abolition of protection, for they said a protecting duty of 8ss9sThe Earl of Wicklow
12 said, his noble Friend had not provoked the discussion to-night. The existing Corn-laws had not achieved their professed object, steadiness of prices. Agreeing as he did with the views of the petitioners, he should still prefer a fixed duty to a sliding scale; and
12The Earl of Radnor
 begged to remind the House of the deep interest Ireland had in the maintenance of the Corn-laws. Ireland was peculiarly an agricultural country, and quite capable of becoming a vast granary to this country; but if the present protection was removed, a complete check would be given to all her present cultivation.The Earl of Haddington
15 said, that the noble Marquess had been anxious to exculpate the Government from the accusation that they had brought this subject forward from improper motives, by stating the consideration and the deliberation which her Majesty's Government had given to it. There could be no doubt upon that point after the statement of the noble Marquess, but it was a matter of more than mere curiosity to know
15Lord Ellenborough
 asked at what period of the present Session any notice was given in either House of Parliament that could have led to the belief that it was intended to bring this matter forward?A Noble Lord
 was understood to say, that from this vague notice, no Member dreamt that the Corn-laws were to be altered.The Noble Lord
 declared, that he had no intention of imputing motives to her Majesty's Government. And as for any future discussion, there was no chance of the matter coming before their Lordships, for there was no property in commerce or in agriculture that would not be put in jeopardy by this sudden change, and it would never be adopted elsewhere.Lord Ashburton
dsd.s8 expressed his regret that the Ministry had, by the announce-
dsd.s8Lord Ashburton
6 was desirous of explaining the fact as to the consumption of slave-grown sugar in the West Indies. The sugar which was refined in bond was sent there, and no duty was paid upon it, and so the population of the West Indies consumed the sugar without duty, instead of the people of this country consuming with the duty. If its amount were considerable, perhaps it might be made a fair subject of revenue; but this was not the case. As to the statement that sugar from our colonies was no dearer than slave-grown sugar, he must state his belief that the Gentleman who had expressed that opinion, influenced, as no doubt he was, by the best feelings of humanity, had been led away by such feelings, and his judg-
6Lord Ashburton
 did not think these petitions from Leeds would oppose the Ministerial scheme, as they would look upon it only as a step towards total abolition.The Earl of Falmouth
 replied, that notice was given before the Easter holidays, not specially referring to the Corn-laws, but generally that the whole subject of the trade of this country would be brought under consideration.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 replied, that it was not necessary to communicate the particular time of the adoption of this proposal by her Majesty's Ministers; but the subject had been repeatedly under their consideration, and that it was not adopted till recently after careful investigation.The Marquess of Lansdowne
1413 did not rise to enter into the discussion that had been partially commenced that evening, because he was perfectly aware that, although such discussions would take place, they were generally attended by the effect of causing assumptions to be made by noble Lords of some points without any opportunity being afforded to prove or disprove those assumptions; but he could not allow this conversation to conclude without stating that, whether his noble Friend opposite (Lord Ashburton) did or did not come down prepared with certain statements and his documents, there was one statement made by him, which, whether he came down prepared to make or not, and which whether he thought it consistent or not with that calmness that he had declared the other night ought to govern those discussions, ought to be noticed—he meant the statement which the noble Lord had made, whether advisedly and considerately or not he would not determine—that the proposal of her Majesty's Government had been brought forward for the purpose of agitating the country; he could not allow the discussion to close without saying, that there never was an affirmation more unfounded in fact. The Government might be correct or not in their view of this question, they might or might not be wrong in
1413The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that in his opinion, the Corn-law agitation was only a prelude to an attack on the currency. He believed, that to be the object of the petitioners of Leeds, and also of the manufacturers of Birmingham.The Earl of Warwick
 thought, that if the statement of Mr. Gurney were a true one, that the improved method of production rendered the price of West-India sugar much cheaper than it had formerly been, surely there was less necessity for the introduction of foreign sugar from countries where slavery was practised.The Earl of Harewood
432 presented several petitions from the parishes of Port Royal, St. Mary, St. George, St. James, and St. Thomas, in Jamaica, against any alteration of the sugar duties. He also begged to present a petition from a large body of West-India proprietors, and others, connected with that colony, agreed to at a public meeting, held in the metropolis, making a similar prayer. The petitioners stated, that if slave-grown sugar were admitted into England, the proprietors of the island of Jamaica would be unable to carry on those measures of
432The Earl of Harewood
 wished to ask, if the present Corn-law had not led to an adequate supply, how it was that the noble Earl opposite, could prove that the improved cultivation had effected such results that no reduction of rent would be apprehended for at least fifteen years.The Earl of Galloway
 believed it had.Viscount Melbourne
: He did not know.Viscount Melbourne
 said, that it was certainly true, that it was impossible for the Government to know what might have been the ultimate and definitive treaty based on the preliminary articles to which the noble Earl had alluded; but unquestionably there had been sent out instructions to the effect, that if a definitive treaty had been concluded, grounded on these preliminary articles, it would not be satisfactory to the Government, and that it was not his intention to advise her Majesty to ratify it. The decision was come to by the Government at home, and not by the Governor-general of India.Viscount Melbourne
 wished to know, whether the island of Hong Kong had been taken possession of under the treaty?The Duke of Wellington
1110 said, that notwithstanding the observation of the noble Earl, that it was too bad to defend these laws, he (the Duke of Wellington) should persist in defending them as long as he should have an opportunity of addressing their Lordships on the subject. He thought it was too bad that this species of vituperation which had been pronounced that evening should be indulged in against the landed interest, night after night, whenever the noble Lord presented a petition. If the noble Lord thought that there was no apprehension of failing rents, the noble Lord might at least suppose that the minds
1110The Duke of Wellington
 presented petitions from Kendal and Halifax, praying for a repeal of the Corn-laws. The noble Earl also presented a petition on the same subject, of which he had given notice yesterday, from the town of Leeds; and considering the great importance, and the station of that town, he hoped their Lordships would allow him to read the petition. The noble Earl read the petition, the substance of which was, that the present Corn-laws were based in the opinion of the petitioners on the baneful principle of benefitting a particular class at the expense of the community—that the most severe and extensive distress had resulted from those laws during the last three years—that they had led to an immense destruction of manufacturing capital—to severe privations on the part of the labouring classes, and to a derangement of the currency, which had injuriously effected both public and private credit. The petitioners also stated, that the laws tended to encourage rival manufacturers in other countries; and they concluded by praying for a repeal of so injurious a system of monopoly. The petition was signed by 25,000 persons, which was, in fact, the entire adult male population of Leeds.Earl Fitzwilliam
sequal deprecated such a discussion on the presentation of a petition. Agreeably to the rule of the House he had avoided entering at any length into the question, but had merely read the petition. Though he thought that the landed interest were large debtors to the community, yet he doubted very much whether they would suffer any thing from the repeal of the corn-laws. He did not believe that moderate rents would be much affected by the proposal of Ministers. It was his belief that if any rent now existing was lair and moderate, in comparison with the averages which have prevailed for any long period of years (ten, fifteen, or twenty years)— that, looking forward to any sequalEarl Fitzwilliam
 thought it was not usual for a noble Lord to rise to address the House on one petition, and then to present another. The noble Earl had said, that the Colonial Society was composed of men of all political principles. Now, he understood the profession of political principles to be equivalent to the expression of a determination to pursue and promote the public interest according to certain specified modes of action. Here then, was a set of men professing to be Whigs, Tories, and Radicals, who forgot heir public principles the moment their own private interests were in any danger.Earl Fitzwilliam
 concurred in what had fallen from his noble Friend below him (Earl Fitzwilliam). The Corn-laws had produced fluctuation in the price of corn, which was the article of all others the least liable to fluctuation of price in the natural order of things.The Earl of Radnor
 rose for the purpose of moving for certain returns with a view of showing the operation of the existing Corn-laws. It had been stated by certain noble Lords that the present duty was merely for the purpose of regulation, and its operation had been contrasted, he thought, somewhat invidiously with the operation of a fixed duty. Great misapprehension appeared to exist on the subject of the operation of the present Corn-laws. It had been stated that they imposed no tax on food, while the fixed duty on corn, which had been proposed in another House, had been stigmatised as imposing a tax on the food of the people. For the purpose, therefore, of affording information on this important subject, he moved that there be laid before the House an account of the quantity of wheat and other grain entered for home consumption, from foreign countries, during the years 1838, 1839, and 1840, with the amount of duty paid thereon each year respectively.The Earl of Rosebery
 wished to throw out a suggestion to the noble Lord (Lord Portman) as to the calculation which he had made respecting the means of supply. He had entirely excluded Scotland and Ireland—both of which countries produced more corn than they consumed, and the surplus came to this country.The Earl of Haddington
 could assure their Lordships, that Ireland was gradually decreasing in her supply of corn; and as for Scotland, she had ceased for some time to be an exporting, and had become an importing, country.The Earl of Radnor
96 said, that though there had been a decrease in the export of corn from Ireland, still the export was of
96The Earl of Wicklow
94ssds said, the noble Earl had stated that for a period of eighteen years, the average price of corn was 5694ssdsLord Ashburton
 begged entirely to disagree with the noble Lord as to the means of production in this country. From the improvements daily made in agriculture— the supply would continue to increase, and would be sufficient to meet the demands of a growing population.Lord Ashburton
 explained. That in the course of the twenty-five years which had passed since those laws were enacted, the price had been remarkably steady, except in the two years to which he had referred.Lord Ashburton
95ss said, that when the noble Lord (Ashburton) spoke of the steadiness of price he seemed not to have looked into the returns, in which, it would be found that there had been first seven years of an ascending scale, then seven years of a descending scale. We were in the commencement of the descending scale. In the course of that period wheat had risen to 9095ssLord Portman
93 hoped their Lordships would allow him to claim their attention for a few moments. He would not have ventured to address them, had he not feared that his silence might be interpreted as an acquiescence in the sentiments of the noble Earl. He was aware of the great disadvantage of discussing a question of such importance in this incidental manner, and, therefore, he would not enter into the subject at large. The noble Earl seemed to conclude, that this was a question between the great landed proprietors and the community at large; but it also affected, in a very serious manner, individuals who cultivated their own land, who lived on their own land, and who subsisted by the profits which they derived from their labour and outlay. If the present price were lowered beneath the average which the noble Earl had mentioned —nay, if it were not considerably above it, this class of persons would not be able to cultivate their land. This was especially the case with reference to poor land. Those who had brought such land into cultivation calculated on the present protection being continued to them, in order that they might receive some remuneration for their outlay. Fully relying on the good faith of the Legislature to give
93Lord Beaumont
" I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's letter, communicating to me the resolution of thanks agreed to by the House of Lords on the 4th of February last, and intimating also their Lordship's desire that I should make known the same to the several officers under my command, and to those acting in co-operation with her Majesty's navy in the service on the coast of Syria. This I have accordingly done, and those to whom I communicated their Lordship's resolution feel equally with myself the highest gratification at the distinguished honour which has been conferred on them." stated to their Lordships, that he had received a letter from Admiral Sir Robert Stopford, returning his thanks for the resolution approving of his conduct, and that of the officers and men under his command, with reference to the recent proceedings on the coast of Syria, to which their Lordships had agreed in February last. The noble and learned Lord read the letter, in which the gallant admiral said—
" I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's letter, communicating to me the resolution of thanks agreed to by the House of Lords on the 4th of February last, and intimating also their Lordship's desire that I should make known the same to the several officers under my command, and to those acting in co-operation with her Majesty's navy in the service on the coast of Syria. This I have accordingly done, and those to whom I communicated their Lordship's resolution feel equally with myself the highest gratification at the distinguished honour which has been conferred on them."The Lord Chancellor
92sds said that he considered the returns moved for by his noble Friend were of great importance, and that they were calculated to do away with great misapprehension. Great delusions existed on the subject among both parties, but more particularly, he would say, among that which, for want of a better name, had been designated the agricultural party. If any noble Lord were then present who had been present on Friday last, he would recollect that he (Earl Fitzwilliam) had expressed his opinion that the tenants who were now paying a fair rent, as deduced from the averages of the last ten, fifteen, or twenty years, would be able fairly to pay an equal rent during the same term now commencing, under the operation of a fixed duty, as proposed in the other House of Parliament. Since that period he had endeavoured to procure facts in support of his opinion from a consideration of the averages during the period he had mentioned. He had been unable to procure the averages for the last two years; but from the year 1820 to the year 1838 the average of the averages had amounted to 5692sdsEarl Fitzwilliam
sdsdss said, it appeared to him from the returns that had been laid on the Table, that in order to meet the demand for this country recourse must be had to foreign supplies. It would, of course, be in the recollection of such noble Lords as looked at the evidence given before committees on the subject of the Corn-laws, that amongst them there was an extraordinary degree of unanimity as to the price which the grower expected, and had a right to expect, under the law of 1828. They agreed that that price was 64sdsdssEarl Fitzwilliam
: he had no objection to the extension proposed by his noble Friend; he would, therefore, amend his motion so as to include the Usury Laws.The Marquess of Lansdawne
 said, that on the previous night he had stated to their Lordships that Scotland had ceased to be an exporting, and was now an importing, country of corn. Since then he had looked at some returns on the subject, and he found his statement was correct, and that from the year 1829 up to 1839 Scotland had been an importing country at an annual average of 121,436 quarters. He had also stated, that the exportations from Ireland had been gradually decreasing; and he found, on reference to some returns on that subject, that since 1832 the quantity of wheat, wheat-meal, and flour exported had decreased every year.The Earl of Radnor
 had not denied that grain was imported into Scotland. What he said was, that corn was imported into this country from Scotland, the corn received by the latter country from this being chiefly for the purpose of seed. There was also a large quantity of the finest flour for confectionery and the like exported (especially from Hertfordshire) to Scotland. But this bore no proportion to the whole consumption.The Earl of Haddington
 begged to ask if the noble Earl (Radnor) meant to say, that Scotland imported 121,000 quarters more than she exported?The Earl of Haddington
 said, that was precisely what he meant. He believed the returns were correct in showing the excess of imported corn above the exported to be of that large amount, but he was not prepared to take his oath of it.The Earl of Radnor
 said, that in examining the returns which had been laid on the Table, he found, that from the year 1820 up to 1838, or from the year 1828 up to 1838, there had been an immense progressive increase in the quantity of wheat exported from Ireland. Recent returns had shown, that the annual consumption of spirits in Ireland had decreased to the extent of 2,800,000 gallons. This might naturally lead noble Lords to suppose, that there must therefore be a diminished consumption of grain; but the effect of the change was to augment the consumption of coffee, and therefore of wheaten bread. Large baking establishments had been opened in various parts of Ireland, and thence the inference was obvious, that a greater quantity of Irish corn was now consumed at home than formerly was the case.The Earl of Glengall
 was delighted to hear such a statement, but it certainly corroborated his conclusion that the exports of Ireland had decreased. Indeed it admitted the fact, and assigned a reason for it.The Earl of Radnor
 observed, that the noble Earl opposite the (Earl of Radnor), had produced his own calculation in support of the views which he entertained, while his noble Friend (the Earl of Glengall) had supported his opinions by references to printed documents accessible to every noble Lord. He must say, that he thought it rather unfair thus to come down unexpectedly with statements and calculations which were difficult to be met, merely because they were unexpected. As he had risen to address their Lordships, he thought it only right to say, that in Ireland great improvements in agriculture had recently been effected, and therefore a great increase in the cultivation of wheat.The Earl of Wicklow
 defended himself from the charge of reading any returns which might not be exactly accurate. If they were not so, he could assure their Lordships it was unintentional on his part. He was surprised to have heard the opinions just expressed by the noble Lord opposite, when, in 1815, he had expressed sentiments exactly opposed to them. [The noble Lord read an extract from a speech of Mr. Baring, on the presentation of a petition from the merchants of London to the House of Commons, in which he expressed his strong approbation of the principles of free trade.]The Earl of Radnor
 said, that the opinions contained in the speech which the noble Lord had now read for about the hundredth time—were those of a young man who had been captivated by the delusive doctrines of free trade—particularly attractive to young minds. Those opinions the experience of twenty-five years had altered to a considerable extent, though he would still say, had not altogether removed.Lord Ashburton
ss.s.183 observed, that the returns made on the subject of corn, clearly showed that from 1820 to 1828, the quantity of corn produced in this country afforded a sufficient supply for the use of all its inhabitants, and as regarded the future, he did not hesitate to say, that the vast improvement which had of late years been effected in agriculture afforded the best grounds for believing that we should at all times be able to command that supply. On a former evening it had been stated, that the prices of corn at
ss.s.183Lord Ashburton
181 said, that he had at present anything but a fixed opinion upon
181Lord Ashburton
 begged leave, pursuant to the notice which he had given, to move for the appointment of a committee to consider the amount of interest now payable by law on promissory notes. In making this motion he did not think it was necessary for him to offer any arguments in relation to any opinion which he might have formed on the Usury Laws as they hitherto existed, or as they might be amended. All that he should do at present, was to call the attention of the House to the law as it existed at present. By the 4th of William 4th, upon certain representations from the Bank of England, promissory notes under six months' date were taken out of the Usury Laws, and by the 1st of Victoria that exemption was extended to all bills under twelve months' date. That Act would expire towards the end of 1840, but in that year an Act was passed to continue the experiment until the year 1843. It was expedient, therefore, to come to some decision before the commencement of the next year. The object of the inquiry which he proposed, was confined to the expediency of giving a certain latitude to the money market, by permitting certain bills to be charged with more than the old legal rate of interest. The noble Marquess concluded by moving for "a Select Committee on the subject of the interest payable on promissory notes and bills of exchange."The Marquess of Lansdowne
182 said, that the argu
182Lord Monteagle
184: it would be
184The Duke of Wellington
 said, it would, perhaps, be necessary for both his noble Friend and himself to read Adam Smith again, in order to be sufficiently familiar with him— but his own impression was, that Adam Smith's doctrine was, that the laws relating to the protection of corn were great favourites with corn dealers—not that they were really advantageous either to the agriculturists or the public. He did not himself remember that Adam Smith had made any very pointed exception with respect to corn, from the opinions which he advocated with respect to free trade in general.Earl Fitzwilliam
Fitzwilliam.336 congratulated the noble Earl opposite on the opportunity which he had taken to make what he would call a clap-trap speech, a flourish, a sort of pompous declamation, that would go abroad and extend the notion that the noble Earl was a very great advocate for the poorer classes. He believed, however, that there were many noble Lords who,
Fitzwilliam.336The Earl of Hardwicke
 denied that he had alleged anything against the petitioners. What he meant to say was this, that, with the exception of five names, all the rest were crosses, which he considered an unprecedented thing. He did not say, nor insinuate, that the poor ought not to be heard, or that their Lordships Were not bound to hear their complaints, and, if possible, to redress them. When he spoke of the petition, it was with reference to the manner in which it was got up. With the exception of five, there were no names to it, and how could they tell in what manner, or by whom, the crosses were affixed?The Earl of Warwick
 reminded the House, that he had presented a petition lately which had been rather closely scrutinised. He had just taken up one of the petitions presented by the noble Earl opposite—that which purported to be from certain female inhabitants of— and found that all the signatures except five had crosses attached to them. Such was the way in which these petitions were got up. Of the five signatures which were without crosses, three were of persons named Wood, in the same handwriting: and two, Mary Stockton and Elizabeth Stockton, in the same handwriting; with these exceptions, all the signatures had crosses.The Earl of Warwick
"No, no," from the Opposition Benches.335 thought, that this petition ought not to be treated so lightly as the noble Earl had treated it. The noble Earl had had all the inestimable advantages of education, and so had the whole of their Lordships, but would it be contended, because persons in the humble station of life of the petitioners had not all these advantages, that they were therefore to be deprived of the right of expressing their opinions, and of giving vent to their feelings? Whatever the noble Earl
"No, no," from the Opposition Benches.335Earl Fitzwilliam
 presented a large number of petitions praying for a repeal or alteration of the Corn-laws; from the weavers of Cupar, for immediate repeal; from the woollen cloth-workers of a place in Yorkshire, complaining that their goods had been driven out of many foreign markets, and were losing others, through the operation of the Corn-laws; from Halifax; from female inhabitants of the West-Riding of Yorkshire; from another place in Yorkshire, representing that it was unjust to pass a law to keep up the price of food, when it was not possible to pass a law to keep up wages; from Yeddon, and several other places.Earl Fitzwilliam
: My Lords, it is not my intention to oppose the petitions being laid on the Table, nor have I any reason to complain of the manner in which the noble Lord has pleaded the cause of those who have entrusted him with these petitions. On the contrary, the temper and good feeling with which the noble Lord has discussed the subject, deserves my sincere acknowledgements; but, as a minister of that Church, whose laws are now impeached, and which I believe in my conscience, if they arc overturned, will suffer materially, I feel myself bound to offer a few remarks on this occasion.The Bishop of London
409408407406405ab initio"This act restored the old canon law by which these marriages were treated as absolutely void. It was the interference of the common law courts which, in such cases, prohibited the spiritual courts from bastardizing the issue, that created the unnatural distinction of voidable and void."404"Although the statute has prohibited the Ecclesiastical Courts from annulling marriages for affinity contracted before the 31st of August, 1835, yet I am by no means prepared to say that the parties may not be punished by the ecclesiastical law for the incest though the validity of the marriage cannot be called in question, for the enacting part of the act does not make these marriages good and valid to all intents and purposes."403"The profane law-givers of Rome were never tempted by interest or superstition to multiply the forbidden degrees, but inflexibly condemned the marriage of sisters and brothers, hesitated whether first cousins should be touched by the same interdict, revered the parental character of aunts and uncles, and treated affinity as a just imitation of the ties of blood."402"Albeit, I am not forbidden by plain words, to marry my wife's sister, yet I am forbidden to do so by other words, which, by exposition, are plain enough. For, when God commands me, I shall not marry my brother's wife, it follows directly by the same, that he forbids me to marry my wife's sister. For, between one man and two sisters, and one woman and two brothers, is like analogy or proportion."res Integra401illegalimproper400that399 one word before I enter on the subject matter of the petitions, as to the manner in which the petitions themselves have been obtained. It appears that a very large number of signatures, attached to these petitions, are the signatures of solicitors, a circumstance to which the noble Lord seemed to attach considerable weight, because they were described by him, to be the signatures of persons who were likely to be conversant with the evils which flowed from the present state of the law. My Lords, the fact is, that I believe there are persons who have contracted illegal marriages of the description to which the petitions refer, or who are placed in circumstances which make them desirous of contracting them, and they have determined to make a united effort to procure a repeal of the law to which these petitions advert. They have employed highly respectable solicitors to collect evidence, to procure petitions on their behalf, and they have also signed them; and the result is the roll of petitions which the noble Lord has this day laid before the
409408407406405ab initio"This act restored the old canon law by which these marriages were treated as absolutely void. It was the interference of the common law courts which, in such cases, prohibited the spiritual courts from bastardizing the issue, that created the unnatural distinction of voidable and void."404"Although the statute has prohibited the Ecclesiastical Courts from annulling marriages for affinity contracted before the 31st of August, 1835, yet I am by no means prepared to say that the parties may not be punished by the ecclesiastical law for the incest though the validity of the marriage cannot be called in question, for the enacting part of the act does not make these marriages good and valid to all intents and purposes."403"The profane law-givers of Rome were never tempted by interest or superstition to multiply the forbidden degrees, but inflexibly condemned the marriage of sisters and brothers, hesitated whether first cousins should be touched by the same interdict, revered the parental character of aunts and uncles, and treated affinity as a just imitation of the ties of blood."402"Albeit, I am not forbidden by plain words, to marry my wife's sister, yet I am forbidden to do so by other words, which, by exposition, are plain enough. For, when God commands me, I shall not marry my brother's wife, it follows directly by the same, that he forbids me to marry my wife's sister. For, between one man and two sisters, and one woman and two brothers, is like analogy or proportion."res Integra401illegalimproper400that399My Lords,
398397396395 had several petitions to present on the subject of which he had given notice a few nights ago, namely, the law relating to marriages within the prohibited degree. The first was from Leeds, and
398397396395Lord Wharncliffe
 presented three petitions from Leicester, against any alteration in the Corn-laws.The Duke of Rutland
: Does the noble Lord mean to apply his argument to the state of wages in the agricultural districts?Lord Kenyon
: I did not intend to interrupt the noble Earl, but I wished to have the remark distinctly understood. I must say that it is quite contrary to all my experience.Lord Kenyon
sds494 said, he should always attribute the political conduct of the noble Earl opposite, who had introduced this discussion, to pure patriotism, and the desire of public benefit; but before he could change the opinions he had invariably held on this subject, the noble Earl must adduce very different arguments from those he had ever heard him bring forward in that House, for he did not think they could enact any better system, as regarded
sds494The Duke of Rutland
s.s.s. said, he could state most positively, that in the eastern parts of England, wages had risen with the price of corn, In the years 1834 and 1835, when the price was low, wages were only 8s.s.s.The Earl of Stradbroke
496l.l.l.l. said, that if the object of these laws was, as stated by the noble Duke, to make this country independent of others for the supply of food, they had not answered the purpose for which they were intended. During the eleven years previous to 1839, we had imported more corn than in any eleven years before; it had, therefore, not rendered us independent of foreign countries for our supply of food. In fact, we had, during those eleven years, imported on an average 900 quarters of wheat per year, exclusive of the importation of flour and other species of grain. The noble Duke (Rutland) had said, that the price of wages had risen with the price of corn, but that had not been the case in the South. He knew, that in the southern and western parts of England, wages were on the same footing now as when the price of corn was much lower; and very naturally so, for wages did not depend on the price of corn, but, like other articles, on the supply in the market. With respect to the exports, the fact was, as had been stated by his noble Friend, that the export of finished goods had diminished in proportion to the unfinished. In 1829, the proportion was 61,000496l.l.l.l.The Earl of Radnor
 strongly denied that any such sentiment had been expressed at his side of the House as the noble Earl, who spoke last, appeared to suppose: on the contrary, he heartily rejoiced, that Scotland and Ireland were able to retain such increased quantities of wheat for their own consumption.The Earl of Haddington
 said, that the noble Earl might rely upon it that much weight would not be attached to his contradiction as to the conduct of the Government, when it was recollected what had taken place. It was well known to the country; it was well known to every man that bad paid any attention to the proceedings of Parliament, that the noble Viscount at the head of the Government, made a speech last year, in which he condemned, in much stronger terms than had been used by any one else, the agitation of the subject, or the proposition for such changes as her Majesty's Ministers now proposed. After this it was impossible for any man not to believe, that her Majesty's Government had taken up the subject as a party question, and as that alone. He, however, would tell the Government, that they would totally fail in their object, for conduct so unworthy of the character of Ministers of the Crown must ruin the character of the Government in the estimation of the people. He should not have troubled the House, but he felt bound to say this much, after the observations of the noble Earl.The Earl of Wicklow
502 observed, that the noble Earl had stated, that the report of the import duties committee had been extensively circulated, as well on the continent as in this country. If this was the case, it was very unfortunate that the ex-
502Lord Ellenborough
 contended, that the committee was fairly appointed. If the noble Lord thought, that the report was so extravagant and absurd, why did he not move for the appointment of a committee, when he could rebut the erroneous opinions, and counteract the effect of the poison which he alleged was to be met with in the import duties report. If the noble Lord did this, he might not only call fresh witnesses, but the public would have the advantage of his cross-examination of Messrs. Macgregor, Hume, and Porter.The Earl of Radnor
 was desirous that the House should not be unaware of the mode in which the noble Earl opposite (Wicklow) had risen to make what he considered a most unfair and uncandid attack upon his noble Friend at the head of the Administration, who happened then, for the first time during the evening, to be absent from his place. The discussion which had arisen upon the presentation of a petition had been protracted for two hours, and the noble Viscount retired in the conviction that the discussion had terminated. The noble Duke opposite, who was also a most regular attendant at their debates, had likewise left the House in the same conviction. He begged to remark, that no recent change whatever had been made in the intentions of the Government. Every item in their plan had been determined upon by them long before the Easter recess, and in no single respect had the slightest change arisen from any of the events which had since taken place. Why choose the period when his noble Friend happened to be absent to bring forward a charge which he must characterize as neither very fair nor very candid?The Marquess of Normanby
504 said, that he had not taken any part in the present discussion until the noble Earl opposite had spoken and had attempted to justify the Government, of which he was a Member, for their conduct with respect to the present measure. It had been in answer to that defence that he had made the observations against the noble Viscount, who was, though in his opinion he ought not to have been, absent; and these observations, he must say, were directed against the Government generally, and not par-
504The Earl of Wicklow
 did not complain of the noble Earl's motives, but his acts. He must repeat, that the noble Earl had seized a most unfortunate opportunity, and had made what he considered an uncandid attack.The Marquess of Normanby
505 said, that having heard both the original remarks of his noble Friend behind him (the Earl of Wicklow) and the reply of the noble Marquess, he could not think that the language used by the noble Marquess was at all suited to the circumstances of the case. It could not be fairly said, that his noble Friend "had taken an opportunity" at all. His noble Friend had expressed his opinion on the question before the House, and upon the conduct of the Government connected with it; and surely the accidental circumstance of the noble Viscount's absence ought not to have prevented him from so doing. The general conduct of his noble Friend on all occasions proved that he would express his opinions at all times, and to all men; and the just censure which he had passed upon the Government could not for a moment be supposed to have been in the
505Lord Ellenborough
 defended the gentlemen alluded to by the noble Lord, and contended, that more efficient and able public servants were not to be met with, than Mr. M'Gregor, Mr. Hume, and Mr. Porter. The evidence given by these gentlemen before the committee which the noble Lord had referred to, was of the most valuable nature, and he was satisfied, would produce the strongest effects throughout the country. He did not find any opinions of these gentlemen in favour of free-trade at all stronger than those given on the same subject a few years ago, by the noble Lord himself.The Earl of Radnor
l.. stated, that this was the first time, that a Government came down to Parliament and proposed to; impose a direct tax on bread. He contended, that this was the case, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated, that he expected to raise 700,000l..The Earl of Hardwicke
 said, that on a former occasion he had mentioned the very extravagant and absurd opinions which were to be found in the report of the committee on export duties. He had before complained of the manner in which the inquiry had been conducted. None but free-trade philosophers were on the committee, and they only examined persons whose opinions were in accordance with their own. He might mention Mr. Hume, Mr. M'Gregor, and Mr. Porter, of the Board of Trade. It was the bounden duty of the Government, in a matter of such importance to have, at least, one of its Members on the committee to watch the proceedings, and it was most unfair that this report should be circulated throughout the country in the way it was, evidently to answer a party purpose, that of exciting agitation on the subject of the Corn-laws.Lord Ashburton
503s.s.s. said, that the committee had been agreed to upon the usual parliamentary understanding that it should be fairly composed. There were put upon the committee two or three gentlemen opposed to the repeal of the Corn-laws. But no notion was entertained that any design of taking evidence against those laws existed. It was the duty of the Government, in a case of so much importance, to take care that the committee was attended by some one or two persons at least connected with the Administration. The noble Earl must know that it was never the habit of any committee to sit upon a subject, of this magnitude without the Government proposing to bring forward some measure. The noble Earl had taunted him with the desertion of opinions which he had entertained when a very young man, twenty-five years since. The course which he took upon that occasion had been misrepresented. The real circumstances of the case were these:—Sir H. Parnell proposed 86503s.s.s.Lord Ashburton
500 denied, that he had made any attack on the three gentlemen alluded to; on the contrary, he believed, that they were most efficient public ser-
500Lord Ashburton
499l.l.498 wished to refer to one or two points which had arisen out of the present discussion. The official returns, in the first place, he would state clearly proved, that there was no progressive or habitual distress or decay in our commerce, and knowing, that great misery existed in the manufacturing districts, he was certainly surprised at this fact, and could not account for it. But admitting, that this distress existed, he believed, that they would enormously add to it by the adoption of the measures which the noble Earl opposite (Earl Fitzwilliam) recommended. Distresses at Manchester and Birmingham, especially at the latter place, had been more justly attributed to the disturbed state of the currency. The report of the Liverpool Chamber of Commerce established this point. The prosperity of the manufacturing interest had grown up under and was cotemporaneous with the present Corn-laws. It had risen from and (with occasional fluctuations) had gained its strength under the very laws, which, it was alleged, caused its ruin. All the large speculations were entered into by the manufacturers—the principal wealth of the country flowed from the manufacturing towns. The great part of the capital, both of the railways in his own county,
499l.l.498Lord Ashburton
493l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.492 assured their Lordships, that he did not intend to enter upon the discussion of the Corn-laws, which he thought too large a question to be debated incidentally; but he wished to refer to the state and condition of our export trade, which had been represented as progressively declining. The noble Earl was too philosophical to ascribe all the evils of the country to the Corn-laws, but he (Lord Ripon) thought he had both seen and heard them attributed to that source. But were the allegations about the progressive diminution of our trade consistent with the fact? He took the fact to be exactly the reverse, not only in reference to the general export trade of the country, but also in reference to those very countries which were most especially concerned in this question of the Corn-laws, He would point out one or two matters, which he trusted the noble Earl would take into consideration before this subject was again discussed. An account had been moved for by him in 1839, "of the official and declared value of all British and Irish produce and manufactures exported from the united kingdom in each of the last ten years, distinguishing the
493l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.492The Earl of Ripon
501 felt bound to rise and give the most unqualified contradiction to the unwarrantable statement of the noble Lord, that the Government had sent persons about the country for the purpose of getting up agitation on this subject. The noble Lord might assume, that the committee of the other Mouse, to which he had alluded, had put forth the most absurd and ridiculous opinions, but he would tell the noble Lord, that the country took a very different view of the report, and of the evidence taken before that committee, and which lie was satisfied would not only be found to be one of the most important documents ever submitted to Parliament, but one which would produce the most important results. It had not only been extensively circulated throughout this country, but had also been circulated in great numbers on the confluent, and had been reprinted in several different languages. Upwards of forty-six thousand copies of it had been circulated at home, and these had not been distributed by means of either public or private subscription, but had been regularly sold to persons who bought them for the purpose of reading them. The noble Lord might designate the opinions expressed in that report as absurd, empirical, and ridiculous; but he contended, that the report was nothing more than a fair embodiment of the opinions of the chief witnesses examined before the committee. Nothing in that evidence went so far in favour of free-trade as were the opinions formerly expressed by the noble Lord himself, in his speeches in another place on the subject of the Corn-laws. Those speeches were a most valuable repository of evidence in favour of free-trade, although they were diametrically opposed to every opinion on the subject now professed by the noble Lord. The noble Lord in 1815, and subsequently,
501The Earl of Clarendon
495l.l. said, that from the year 1829 to the present year, the exports from this country had increased in official value from 56,217,000495l.l.The Duke of Wellington
: You are quite mistaken.The Duke of Wellington
 proceeded. If our colonies increased in population, and we had a monopoly of the colonial markets, it was obvious, that the markets for our manufactures must increase, and, therefore, he said, that the markets where we had not a monopoly of articles into which the greatest quantity of labour entered; had diminished.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, the case as quoted by the noble Earl opposite, very much con. finned what he had himself stated—whick was this, that the exports from this country of half-manufactured goods had increased, but the exports of complete manufactured goods to those countries of Europe in which we had not a monopoly were diminished.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, it was quite true, when we had more than an ordinary supply of corn, that we did not want a foreign supply. When he had spoken of these Corn-laws as being new, he had been found: fault with as misstating the case. But the noble Lord (Lord Ashburton) said, that they must look back to the year 1815, when the new law was introduced.Earl Fitzwilliam
491Oh, oh. was glad to hear it; but he was afraid that his remark applied as well to the agricultural, as to the manufacturing classes. When the price of corn had risen two or three years ago, there had been no rise in wages. [491Oh, oh.Earl Fitzwilliam
 undoubtedly intended to apply it generally.Earl Fitzwilliam
l.490l.,489ss. was desirous of speaking, and particularly of speaking on those petitions, because, in the first place, no person had a greater right to be heard on this subject than the noble Duke, from his knowledge of it; and the noble Duke had a still further title to their Lordships' consideration in consequence of the unvarying, sedulous, and watchful attention which he had ever paid to the interests of those with whom the noble Duke was immediately connected. That was one reason why he wished to address their Lordships at that moment. But a second reason was to be found in the expression quoted by the noble Duke as contained in one of those petitions. The expression was to this effect—that the petitioners prayed their Lordships to make no alteration in the laws which now regulate the importation of foreign corn. It was to this point that he was particularly desirous of drawing their Lordships' attention as extensive landowners, and also, of course, as legislators. He confessed, that he had heard with great astonishment the paragraph which he had just quoted. It surprised him very much, that persons, not perhaps identically the same, but standing in the same situation as the petitioners, should have, within a very few years, come before their Lordships with petitions of a completely contrary nature and description. On the occasion to which he referred, he found the owners and occupiers of land earnestly praying, that an alteration might be made in the Corn-laws. They spoke of the great distress to which they were subjected, and they besought their Lordships to take their case into immediate consideration. It was most remarkable, that the same persons who, five years ago, called on their Lordships to take their case into consideration, with a view to an alteration of the Corn-laws, should now come forward praying their Lordships to make no alteration in those laws. In 1835, it was remarkable that they required alteration, while in 1841 they loudly expressed their opposition to any alteration. The reason was, not that they disliked the law (in 1835), or that they particularly liked the law now. No, it was because they disliked the low price in 1835, and they liked the present high price. They were greatly alarmed at an average of 39l.490l.,489ss.Earl Fitzwilliam
688 thought that the noble Earl might have spared his remarks until the presentation of the petition agreed to at the meeting to which he had so pointedly alluded. It was not his intention at that moment, to enter into the question of the Corn-laws. He might, however, state, as wages had been alluded
688Lord Willoughby D'Eresby
 presented many petitions from places in Lincolnshire against any alteration of the Corn-laws. The noble Lord made a few observations the purport of which was understood to be to deprecate discussions on presenting petitions, and to express a hope that his noble Friend (Earl Fitzwilliam) would keep his word, and not detain their Lordships by remarks on the present occasion.Lord Willoughby D'Eresby
 said, that the rate of wages which he gave was the rate of wages of the whole county of Lincoln, and not merely of his neighbourhood.Lord Willoughby D'Eresby
s.691s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.690s.d.s.s.s.,s.Fitzwilliam.689 said, that though he agreed in the opinion which he believed was entertained by a majority of their Lordships, that it was exceedingly inconvenient to bring under discussion this most important question—not only as affecting the agricultural interests of this country, but every other interest—on a mere petition, yet he could not on the present occasion, refrain from offering a few observations to the attention of their Lordships, though he had not hitherto done so on presenting the numerous petitions which he had had the honour of laying on their Lordships' Table. In the first place, he did think that the noble Earl, acquainted, as he must have been, with the character of the respected country gentleman to whom he had alluded, and who once had the honour of representing the county of Lincoln, might have treated him with more courtesy. He had stood by his side at a meeting on Friday last, in another part of the country, and he must say, that of all the public meetings he (the Earl of Winchilsea) had ever attended, he had never seen such a devoted feeling of attachment towards any
s.691s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.690s.d.s.s.s.,s.Fitzwilliam.689The Earl of Winchilsea
697**s.s.*s.s.s.s.s.s.696695l.l.Laughter.694 denied, that he and his Friends had caused any excitement on the subject. The noble Lords opposite complained of introducing the question of the Corn-laws this year in incidental discussions; but last year, when it came on in a regular debate, they grew tired, and began to cry out, "question." He, however, thought, that the discussion of this question, even incidentally, would be of great service, for it must repeatedly attract the attention of persons in, and of the people out of the House to the subject. When the noble Earl opposite, spoke of this as not being exclusively regarded by them as a question of rent, he (the Earl of Radnor) asked, were not all the arguments they had heard, brought forward in support of rent, and nothing else? Why that very evening, the noble Earl who spoke last, interrupted his (Earl Radnor's) noble Friend, and said, that the object of the landed proprietors in supporting the Corn-laws, was to prevent lands from being thrown out of cultivation—that meant, poor lands being thrown
697**s.s.*s.s.s.s.s.s.696695l.l.Laughter.694The Earl of Radnor
693 did not concur in what had been said about the manufacturer. But from what did such an observation arise? From the noble Earl's persevering in arraying the manufacturer against the agriculturist. He raised men's feelings and passions on a subject of vital interest, and then he was astonished that they could in any degree seem to be violent in expression. Nobody could deplore it more than he did. Did the noble Lord do nothing of the sort? Did he not come into that House and tell them that rents were too high 1 Did he forget, that that House was the smallest portion of the agricultural interest, and that, although in ancient times the land had generally been held by Peers, the Commons of England, the poor and small freeholder now held the greatest portion of it? And him they were called on now to protect. But the noble Lord talked of their rents, as if they were the only persons that held lands. They did not think more of their rents, than they thought of the rents of other smaller landholders. The noble Lord talked to them as if they wished to pander to the appetites and pleasures of the landowners. But was not the agricultural interest the staple of the nation? If they were in distress, whom were they to tax? If they were invaded, whom were they to look to, to fight the battle of the country, but to the landed interest? It had always borne the brunt, and it was ready to do it again. Let them tax them, but not destroy them, They were ready to be taxed, if necessary, and to bear large burdens for the support of the country at large; but let them not destroy that interest which was to bear them. The noble Lord was always talking to the people outside. Why did he not give them notice of a day for a general debate? He had given them a notice the other day, but he had flinched from it; he had been choked off; he had been slopped. Now, he came forward with incidental statements, on which he was prepared before he came to that House, and which statements were made merely for the reporters of the newspapers, and did not tend in any manner to illustrate
693The Earl of Hardwicke
 strongly condemned the time that had been chosen by the Government, supported by the noble Lords opposite, for stirring up the different classes of society in this country to regard each other as enemies, in consequence of the existence of the present corn and other protective laws. Whatever noble Lords opposite might think of such a state of things, he could assure them that it was a most dangerous one for the welfare of this country, considering what feelings had been excited in the West-India interests, the East-India interests, the shipping interests, and every other class of the community, by the measures her Majesty's Ministers had of late propounded. Nothing but the most urgent necessity could justify any Government for exciting the masses in such a perilous degree. The axiom of a great Whig Minister of the old time— probably the firstLord Ashburton
" First principles bad been alluded to, but first principles, as well as other principles, must depend on positive circumstances and relative situations for the mode in which they were to be applied. If this were an untaxed country, if we had no poor-rates, if a perfect freedom of trade existed in every branch of commerce, the arguments of hon. Gentlemen would be irresistible."705s.,s., continued.—But it was quite clear they must give up the present high state of cultivation, and that portions of land not fit for cultivation must be thrown out of cultivation. And when they talked of that, their Lordships should be aware, that when they went into any measure of that description they must begin with a change in other matters, as, for instance, the Tithe Commutation Act. He ventured to say, that land about him would not be cultivated to-morrow if such a measure were brought in, and, that when tithes remained in perpetuity they would have to avoid leases and be obliged to come at last to what used to be called an equitable adjustment (as we understood). Of that he was quite sure; but he objected to any measure that materially reduced the value of the produce of land. And the objection he had to that which was at present propounded, namely, a duty of 8" First principles bad been alluded to, but first principles, as well as other principles, must depend on positive circumstances and relative situations for the mode in which they were to be applied. If this were an untaxed country, if we had no poor-rates, if a perfect freedom of trade existed in every branch of commerce, the arguments of hon. Gentlemen would be irresistible."705s.,s.,Lord Ashburton
l.l. said, what the noble Earl had said was—he quoted his words —" This is the manner in which Gentlemen in high station seek to practise delusions on the people on this subject." This he (Lord Redesdale) did consider to be a charge against Mr. Chaplin, and, like much of the rest of the noble Earl's speech, he could not admire either the argument or the taste of it. The noble Earl did not treat this subject as affecting a great interest, and the agricultural interest was the greatest in England. He did not conceive that the proposed measure would do much hurt, because a farmer might stock his farm for one-third less money than he now could in consequence. The noble Earl did not think there would be such a reduction, but he saw no great harm if there was. According to the same mode of argument the noble Earl did not see any great harm if any great manufacturer could come into the market and buy for 100,000l.l.Lord Redesdale
692 understood the noble Baron to say that "the object of the wealthy manufacturers in calling for the repeal of the Corn-laws was, that they might obtain landed estates on which they
692Earl Fitzwilliam
 said the noble Earl had said, that he had made a false charge, which was rather a serious statement to make. He had not made a false charge. He had as great a respect for Mr. Chaplin as the noble Earl himself: but he believed Mr. Chaplin misunderstood this subject. He had never used any other term, and the noble Earl opposite was under as great a misapprehension.Earl Fitzwilliam
l.,l.: I did not say that exactly; what I said was this —that if any person could stock for 1,000l.,l.Earl Fitzwilliam
s.s.s.,d.s.d.s.s.s.s." What could the farmer hope to do against foreign competition, when he learned that foreign corn was now arriving here at 26s.s.s.s.s.687d.s.s.d.s.s.686Winchilsea:Winchilsea:s.685 said, he had undoubtedly told his noble Friend, that he should not raise any discussion on this subject on the presentation of petitions; but as his noble Friend had presented a great number of petitions, from parts of the country with which both the noble Lord and himself were much connected, he knew not of any more favourable or convenient opportunity for directing attention to one or two points of recent occurrence, touching upon this important question. Fie knew how very offensive he made himself to their Lordships by such discourses, but he felt obliged to trespass upon their attention at the present moment, in consequence of a letter which had appeared in a newspaper published in the county with which he was connected. He alluded to the letter addressed to the chairman of a meeting recently held in that county by a noble Lord who now sat on the cross-benches (Lord Willoughby D'Eresby). With respect to this letter he must say, that if the apprehensions expressed by the noble Lord in his letter be true, undoubtedly the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government on the subject of the Corn-laws would inflict great evils upon the country. But he would beg of their Lordships to consider whether there were any the slightest grounds for such apprehensions. So far from believing that there were, he (Earl Fitzwilliam) thought that to entertain
s.s.s.,d.s.d.s.s.s.s." What could the farmer hope to do against foreign competition, when he learned that foreign corn was now arriving here at 26s.s.s.s.s.687d.s.s.d.s.s.686Winchilsea:Winchilsea:s.685Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, that what he had always said was that he believed the consideration of the farmers and the good nature of individuals had met the necessities of the case; but the fact was, that the good nature of individuals was not the rule which governed the rate of wages.Earl Fitzwilliam
exceptio probat regulam,729728727 said, that, seeing the noble Earl (the Earl of Ripon) opposite in his place, he wished to draw the attention of their Lordships to the paper respecting the official and declared value of the exports from which the noble Lord had last week quoted, for the purpose of showing that from 1830 to the present time, both the official and the declared value of the exports had gradually risen, and he had, indeed, slated, that during one year there had been a falling off, but that he had said was a matter that frequently occurred, but the noble Earl had omitted to draw their Lordships' attention to the last sum in the paper, and the impression left upon the House was, that the exports had been gradually increasing. Indeed, upon that impression the noble Earl had founded his argument, when he asked how could the manufacturers be in so distressed a state as they were represented to be. If the noble Earl had quoted the last sum, it would have appeared, that there was last year a considerable defalcation in the value of the exports. The noble Earl had quoted the official value of the last year, which showed an increase, but he had omitted to quote the declared value, which showed a considerable defalcation. The noble Lord had referred to the great falling off in the declared value, and had said, that in former years it amounted to
exceptio probat regulam,729728727The Earl of Radnor
 begged the noble Lord's pardon.The Earl of Radnor
730Wellington: would not press the matter. He must say he had heard from the other side of the House rules laid down for the conduct of that (the Ministerial) side of the House which rules had not been followed by the other side. A few nights ago, he was told, that it was against the rules to allude to papers without giving notice. [The Duke of 730Wellington:The Earl of Radnor
 said, the passage he had quoted, was from a pamphlet written by Lord J. Russell.Lord Ashburton
733 did not rise to go through his political life during the last twenty-six years, but he was taunted with having varied in his sentiments upon this question. He begged to say. that he recollected when the noble Earl opposite (Earl Fitzwilliam) was a most strenuous advocate for protection, and when he (Lord Ashburton) was in a minority of thirty-seven, in a very full House, in resisting an inordinate protection, and in opposition to the noble Earl. The opinions of the noble Viscount at the head of her Majesty's Government seemed also in the course of a very few weeks to have undergone a very great change. There was nothing in the statements of the noble Lord opposite to show that the existing law had operated disadvantageously. On the contrary, the distress in the manufacturing districts had been clearly shown to have arisen from other causes distinct from the corn-laws. With respect to the difference in the prices obtained for manufacturing produce at different times, he might refer, not to a speech delivered elsewhere, but to what would have been a speech, but which the House of Commons refused to hear—he meant a publication of Mr. Fielden's which was worthy of their Lordships' attention, as containing some very striking statements by a practical man. Mr. Fielden said, that the consumption, of cotton in 1815, was 80,000,000lbs., and in 1820 it had risen to 120,000,000lbs., showing a great advance and increase in manufactures, but at the latter period the labourer was receiving from 25 to 51 per cent, more for the manufactured article than in 1815. In 1830 he was receiving 65 per cent, less. The consumption of cotton, however, had increased to 247,000,000lbs. In 1835 it was 318,000,000lbs., but the manufacturing operator was receiving 70 per cent less in proportion to the article than in 1815. In 1840, the quantity of cotton worked up was 451,000,000lbs., but the labourer's remuneration was 75 per cent, proportionably less than in 1815. He spoke of the operatives. And if arguments drawn from statements like this proved anything, they proved that manufacturing prosperity led to the impoverishment of the operatives. The mere increase of manufactures did not tend to the well-
733Lord Ashburton
737736l.l.l.l.735l.734 said, that the amount of manufactures exported was
737736l.l.l.l.735l.734The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that as a general rule, it was not usual to allude to speeches made on a former night, but that rule was systematically violated every day, and the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down, in alluding to speeches made last night, was in itself a violation of the rule.The Marquess of Lansdowne
s.732d.s.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.731primâ facie said, that the noble Earl had forgotten or had misunderstood the whole purport of his argument. The noble Earl must have forgotten it, because the noble Earl supposed, that he had denied the existence of distress in the manufacturing districts, and because the noble Earl assumed, that he had omitted all reference to the declared value of our manufacturing exports of last year. He had never denied the existence of distress. He had understood it to have been stated, that there existed very great distress, and that that was attributed by those who complained of it, to the operation of the Corn-laws. It had been stated with great fairness and candour by a noble Earl opposite (Earl Fitzwilliam), that it would be most unreasonable and unphilosophical to ascribe any general state of distress to any one single cause, and that in considering that state of distress, it would be necessary to consider all the facts belonging to it. Now, the only inference he drew when he showed that there had been no such diminution of the export trade as was alleged, was not to prove, that no distress existed, but that there was a s.732d.s.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.731primâ facieThe Earl of Ripon
 said, that he had never seen the violation of the rule carried to such excess as it had been lately.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, it was quite irregular to refer to speeches of a former night. The noble Earl had gone beyond all reason. He had gone last night through every speech made by his noble Friend during the last twenty years, and now he was going through those of the last four nights.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, it was irregular to refer to debates of a former evening.Lord Lyndhurst
739s.s.ss.s.738 agreed with the noble Marquess that it would be most desirable to confine the discussion of this subject to the effect it would be likely to produce on the general prosperity of the country, and to avoid those irritating and exciting topics which were brought forward every night on the presentation of petitions, apparently merely for the purpose of still further exciting that state of hostility which it appeared to be the intention to excite on that subject throughout the country, and he hoped the noble Marquess would recollect the sentiments he had uttered that night, and discuss the subject not as it related to one class only, but to the whole country. With regard to the frauds in the averages, he hoped the noble Marquess would take care to provide some legislative remedy for those evils; whether the law remained as it was, or whether a fixed duty was to be substituted for it; for he understood that the fixed duty was to depend in some degree on the averages—that there was to be a sort of a sliding scale; and he hoped the noble Lord would take care not to leave a door open to the same frauds in his system as he had complained of in the present one. He had been in office under the former system, and he could assure the noble Lord, that there had been no want of frauds under that. Enormous fortunes had been made under
739s.s.ss.s.738The Duke of Wellington
740 considered that the most valuable part of the very valuable speech of the noble Duke was that in which he recommended that the House should seriously consider the subject of the Corn-laws, either in Committee or otherwise. Now he (Earl Fitzwilliam) had three times endeavoured to induce their Lordships to adopt such a course, but without effect. With respect to the lean oxen in France, it should be recollected that not only did the protection of the lean ox prevent the introduction of the fat ox into France, but it also prevented the introduction of French manufactures into Germany; and that was his great objection to the Corn-laws, and to all prohibitory laws, that they interrupted the commerce between different countries. With regard to the table quoted by the noble Duke it was a table of medium prices, not of averages, for it was made out by the Consuls without any regard whatever to quantity. He thought the fixed duty proposed by the Government would give to the English agriculturist that to which he was fairly entitled, a preference over the foreigner in the English market, and would more than compensate him for all those burdens in the shape of local taxation, which were represented as pressing so heavily on the land, although he for one did not think the landowner was more burdened than any of the other classes. He believed that the sliding scale, as at present constituted, offered a very great temptation to fraud. The noble Earl concluded by presenting upwards of one hundred
740Earl Fitzwilliam
, in moving the second reading of this bill, said that its object was to enable persons belonging to the Jewish persuasion to hold those municipal offices to which they might be elected by their fellow-citizens. Before the Municipal Corporations Bill, Jews were not excluded from the office of commissioner of lighting, paving, &c, in the different boroughs, but by a clause in that bill they were excluded from all the town council. Now, the duties which a commissioner had to perform were the same as those of a town councillor, and therefore he was quite at a loss to understand why any distinction was made; but he thought he could put the case of the Jews on a higher ground. They were all aware that many of the Dissenters in this country not only refused to pay church rates but also to pay tithes. But the Jews had always behaved in a very different manner towards the Established Church; and, if the question were between the Jews and the Dissenters, he should say that the Jews had on that ground a prior claim to the indulgence of Parliament. The present state of the law was such that it could be evaded by any of these parties at any time, and on those grounds, therefore, he moved that the bill be read a second time.The Marquess of Bute
1049 said that it was always with pain he opposed any measure the object of which was to relieve any portion of her Majesty's subjects from disabilities under which they laboured. The noble Marquess had made use of one argument to which he (the Archbishop of Canterbury) must say he attached no weight. The noble Marquess said that, whilst many Dissenters were violent in their attacks on the Established Church, no such violence bad been exhibited by the Jews. He fully admitted that. Some Dissenters might have used strong, he might say offensive, expressions towards the Establishment, but they were Christians, and it was not the feelings or character of individuals on a question of this sort to which he would refer, but the opinions which they professedly held. He
1049The Archbishop of Canterbury
 said that his motive in supporting this measure was certainly not to gratify the ambitious views of any individuals, but from a sincere conviction that the Jewish people ought to be relieved from the stigma now attached to them.The Marquess of Bute
1048 said that although he believed, from information he had received, that the precaution proposed by the amendments was a very necessary
1048The Earl of Charleville
 having moved the Order of the Day for considering the objections of the Commons to the amendments made by their Lordships in this bill, briefly stated the import of those amendments to be this—that by the insertion of the word "and" for" or," it rendered it necessary to apply for a license to keep arms, both to the clerk of petty sessions, and to the quarter sessions also. This it was considered would lead to great inconvenience and unnecessary annoyance, and the House of Commons had, consequently, refused to concur in these amendments. What he had now to do was to move that their Lordships should not insist upon their amendments.Viscount Duncannon
Stanhope: said, he also liked discussion, and he hoped that the noble Earl would bring this question forward. He differed from the noble Earl as to his statement of the prosperity of 1825, when corn was dear, and the distress of 1835–36, when corn was cheap. Whether there was such prosperity or not in 1825 he could not say, and he wished to learn from the noble Earl where he arrived at the knowledge of its existence? [Earl Stanhope:The Earl of Radnor
 wished to know from his noble Friend what amount of wages the labourers who expressed this opinion were now receiving.The Earl of Radnor
 said, as his noble Friend had stated, that in one of the petitions a certain opinion was set forth, he ought to have possessed himself of information as to the situation of those who had signed it. When such statements were made, he always wished the chapter and verse to be pointed out, whereby they could be verified. Those parties, it appeared, expressed an opinion that high wages always accompanied dear bread, and that low wages, on the contrary, were always the result of cheap bread. Now, he should like to know when that state of things had occurred?The Earl of Radnor
 said, he did now see what reason the noble Lords opposite had to quarrel with the petitions presented by the noble Earl (the Earl of Hardwicke). It must be in the recollection of the House, that a few nights ago, the noble Earl (Earl Fitzwilliam) presented a petition from a parcel of women, all of whom, with the exception of five, put marks in the place of signatures.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, that he stood corrected, but if the two noble Earls opposite (the Earls of Radnor and Fitzwilliam) persisted in discussing the question every night, he thought he had a right to make some few observations in reply to them.The Earl of Mountcashel
 presented upwards of eighty petitions from places in Cambridgeshire against any alteration in the Corn-laws, one, he was instructed to state, was signed by labourers.The Earl of Hardwicke
 said, he was astonished to hear a noble Lord rise up in this House, and declare of any men, his Lordship's immediate neighbours, that they were men of such a character, that they would declare black to be white, whenever it might suit the occasion.The Earl of Hardwicke
 said, that it was all matter of assumption for the noble Lord to say, that he believed these persons would vote any way, upon any given subject, to which they were invited even by the noble Lord himself, for it came to that also. But, he believed, the noble Lord had underrated the intellectual qualifications of these persons. He believed, that the people of the county of Cambridge were keenly alive to all that concerned their interests. Certainly no county in England was more distinguished for its skill and improvements in agriculture. They had laid out all their capital, and bestowed all their labour in this laudable enterprise; and he would challenge the noble Lord to point out any agricultural county in England, where more intelligence, industry, and zeal, had been displayed.The Earl of Hardwicke
 said, he did not know, but he knew, that the opinion of the labourers was this, that they suffered during low prices, and that they stated, they were now very comfortable. That was about as much as they could be expected to know on this important question. These petitions were handed to him, as being worthy of the attention of the House, and with that knowledge he presented them. With respect to the suggestion of the noble Earl relative to calling a county meeting, he should imagine, that the great meeting last year sufficiently indicated the feeling of the country on the subject.The Earl of Hardwicke
 did not agree with the noble Earl in the opinion, that a low price of corn necessarily produced a fell in Wages. He maintained, that in the year 1835, when corn was low, the farmers had made more than in the three subsequent years high pricesEarl Ducie
, having looked at the signatures of one of these petitions, said, that it appeared to be signed by persons belonging to his immediate neighbourhood, and of whom he could say, that they were generally so ill-informed, and so ignorant of the subject, that they would say black was white, if called upon to do so.Lord Godolphin
 said, that before his noble Friend answered the noble Earl's question, he must beg to state, that he never meddled with the political views of the labourers; but if he had taken the trouble which had been taken by other parties, he had no doubt he could have got as many petitions the other way as those which the noble Earl had presented.Lord Godolphin
 said, he certainly did not think the parties who had signed this petition, were capable of understanding anything about the subject.Lord Godolphin
1118s.s.s.s.1117 said, that as a very recent Member of their Lordships' House, he felt, that it savoured somewhat of presumption in him to offer any observations to their Lordships on this important subject but he felt, that he should not be doing justice to himself or the public if he abstained from expressing his sentiments in regard to it. It appeared to him, that this must be admitted to be a fact, that for every quarter of corn imported from Dantzic or any other foreign port, a quarter of homegrown corn must be displaced from the market; and when it came to a question of preferring One market to another, he would ask would it not be more advantageous to the country to pay for that quantity of corn in any of the corn-mar-
1118s.s.s.s.1117Lord Beaumont
s.1119clarum et venerabile nomen said, that he was grieved to hear the statement of the noble Lord opposite, and he believed it to be an unfounded calumny against the labouring population. He wished to ask the noble Earl (Earl Fitzwilliam) a question. He saw, that an itinerant Corn-law agitator, who bore what was once the s.1119clarum et venerabile nomenEarl Stanhope
 said, he believed the result would be to prevent any rent being paid, except in kind.Earl Stanhope
 said, that he had said that land would not be cultivated for rent.Earl Stanhope
1113s.s. said, he could inform the noble Earl. If the noble Earl would turn to the King's Speech in 1825, he would find it there stated, that the country was in a situation of ample prosperity. Wheat was then 751113s.s.Earl Stanhope
s.s.1115 said, the observation which he had made was put forward by those who were most clamorous for the repeal of the Corn-laws. The doctrine was avowed by one of them at a public meeting. That individual openly said, "Without a repeal of the Corn-laws we shall never be able to beat down the wages of the workman." With respect to what the noble Earl had said, relative to the Committee of 1826, he was aware that the fact was as the noble Earl had stated. But that did not affect his argument; because he was convinced that no instance could be pointed out in which, while the landlord suffered, the labourer did not suffer in the same degree; and he maintained that a low price of corn was always accompanied by a low rate of wages. With respect to this question, the present Government evinced the greatest vacillation and inconsistency. Though not a Chartist, he would rather be ruled by the Chartists than by such a Government; for the Chartists were, at all events, consistent. Were Ministers prepared to state, as they ought to be, the price at which foreign corn could be imported into this country? Could they answer too—not from the representations of idle theorists, or vain speculators, or persons calling themselves political economists—but from information afforded by men conversant with business, trade and manufactures— what would be the effect of a considerable reduction in the price of corn? He could inform the Government, that in the year
s.s.1115Earl Stanhope
 said, he was not prepared to answer the question at that moment; but if his noble Friend wished for statistical information, he would be most happy to furnish it on a future occasion.Lord Braybrooke
 presented thirty-seven petitions from places in Essex and Berkshire, against any alteration in the Corn-laws. The noble Lord observed, that in some of the petitions it was stated, and he believed the statement to be correct, that the agricultural labourers would rather have dear bread, and fair wages to pay for it, than cheap bread, with deteriorated and inferior wages.Lord Braybrooke
1120 said, that he rose to order. It was contrary to the Standing Orders of the House, that a noble Lord should refer to what had taken place in a former debate on the subject.
1120The Duke of Wellington
1114: The noble Lord opposite had said, that the only way in which an alteration of the Corn-laws would benefit
1114Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, still this gratifying fact was admitted, that land would continue to be cultivated; and the produce would, in all probability, be as abundant as ever, notwithstanding the proposed alteration, the only difference being that it would not be cultivated for rent. But he thought, that the noble Earl was mistaken even upon this point, and that land would be cultivated for rent, though perhaps in some cases rents would have to suffer a reduction.Earl Fitzwilliam
1116s.s. said, he thought the noble Earl Opposite was very much mistaken when he stated the cost at which corn might be imported into this country. From the best information, he had been able to obtain on the subject, he believed, that, generally speaking, the cost of freight and charges of corn from the ports of the north of Europe, could not be estimated at less than 91116s.s.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, the noble Earl had made a most extraordinary discovery, but not a more extraordinary one than this, which had been so often announced, that if we got corn from foreign countries, we must pay for it in gold. He would allow, that when we were not in the habit of obtaining corn from foreign countries and had only recourse to them for an occasional supply, we might have to pay in gold for it; but the-case would be very different when we were in the habit of taking a supply Of corn from foreign states. This regular importation of foreign corn would lead to an habitual commercial intercourse, which must result in our sending out manufactures, or bills, in exchange for the corn so imported.Earl Fitzwilliam
s. said, that he had nothing to do with Corn-law lecturers. It was enough for him to be responsible for his own opinions. The gentleman to whom the noble Lord referred, must be entirely mistaken, when he said, that corn could be introduced at 20s.Earl Fitzwilliam
12491248 said, he would take that opportunity to advert to an extraordinary doctrine contained in a petition presented on Friday evening last by a noble Lord opposite (Lord Braybrooke). It was there set forth, that the agricultural labourers would rather have dear bread, and fair wages to pay for it, than cheap bread with inferior wages; and the
12491248The Earl of Radnor
 also felt convinced, that a very low price of corn did not operate beneficially for the agricultural labourer.The Earl of Stradbroke
dddd would ask, how were they to compete with the low wages in Ireland? The noble Lord (Ashburton) had said, that in parts of Germany, the aveage amount of labourers' wages was 4ddddThe Earl of Radnor
 felt the inconvenience of these occasional debates, and thought that the noble Earl who introduced them, ought to bring forwar a separate motion on the subject. The object of the noble Earl was, to reduce the wages of the labourer to the lowest possible extent. If this were not his object, he could have none, for it was utterly impossible that the English grower could compete with the foreigner, except by such reduction. He was in the habit of mixing a good deal with agricultural labourers, and there was not one who had not expressed to him his desire for dear bread, and comparatively high wages.The Marquess of Salisbury
 suggested, that there should also be appended a statement of the residence and professions of those who had affixed them to their signatures.The Marquess of Salisbury
1254 said, that after hearing the notice given by his noble Friend, he could not help calling their Lordships' attention to the fact, that he had two years ago brought forward a motion, which, if carried, would really have been the means of throwing some light upon this subject; but which their Lordships had rejected. Amongst other fallacies which the inquiry which he then proposed would have removed was, that cheap bread would lead to low wages. This was an assertion which he had never believed; on the contrary, he stated at the time he referred to, that he was prepared to prove upon oath at their Lordships' bar, that the very contrary would be the case. Their Lordships, however, rejected his motion, and also a motion which he afterwards made for appointing a committee on the subject. In reference to those motions, he must observe, further, that at the time he brought them forward, there was no temporary excitement existing in the country, caused by peculiar distress, or high price and scarcity of food; neither was there any other cause of political excitement existing in the country, to mar the salutary effect which he sought in the inquiry he proposed. He thought it peculiarly unfortunate, therefore, that her Majesty's Government, and their Lordships had not consented, at that time, to take up the subject; because he felt certain that if they had done so, both the minds of their Lordships, and of the country, would have been convinced by the facts which would have been adduced, of the propriety of making some alteration in these laws. With respect to the agitation now set on foot on the subject, though he was glad her Majesty's Government had been induced to change their views on the subject,
1254Lord Brougham
1251 was understood to justify the publication of that document, in consequence of the statement which had
1251Lord Ashburton
ddss1250 did not understand how bread could be brought down to a lower price without a diminution of wages. He knew not how it was possible that any poor man, or any rich man, could be so exceedingly credulous as to suppose that the price of bread could be reduced one half in this country, and that the rate of wages should remain the same. If this could be so, what became of the argument on the part of the manufacturers, that they could not compete with other countries on account of the high rate of wages which they were obliged to pay? If wages did not fall when the price of bread was reduced, then the expectations of the manufacturers would prove to be an entire fallacy. If the argument of the noble Earl opposite was correct, then must the great mill-owners learn from him that their calculation, as to a reduction of wages, was wholly fallacious. With re-
ddss1250Lord Ashburton
 only rose to refer to the conduct of a society which had been mentioned by the noble Earl—the Anti-Corn Law League. They had been sending emissaries through the country, and writing letters to every Dissenting minister whose chapel was his own, requesting him to expose to his flock the "anti-Christian" operation of the Corn-law. He would read an extract of a letter sent by the council of the association to a Roman Catholic clergyman, in which he was invited to preach a sermon to his congregation, snowing the unjust, immoral, and anti-scriptural character of these laws. As such agitation was carried on by the association against the present laws, surely the Society for the Protection of Agriculture might be allowed by fair and legitimate means, and they used no other, to meet their attacks, and resist their opposition.The Earl of Warwick
1252 admitted that the state of the manufacturing classes in this, country was never worse than it was at present. He admitted the great distress which at present existed, and which, he was greatly afraid, would continue; but be denied that that distress was to be attributed to the existing price of corn, or had anything to do with the corn laws. He attributed that distress to a very different cause. In that part of the country
1252The Earl of Harewood,
 was not so much enamoured of these incidental discussions as his noble Friend, and, therefore, he would not go at length into the subject. It was unquestionably stated in the petitions which he had presented from Essex, that the labourers were better off when corn fetched a high price than when it was sold at a low one; and in that opinion he concurred. He had for three years been chairman to a board of guardians, and he had made it his hobby to inquire into the situation and to ameliorate the condition of the agricultural labourers; and he could state from experience, that, in 1834, 1835, and 1836, when corn was cheap, a great deal of agricultural distress prevailed.Lord Braybrooke
 admitted, that the English labourers were better fed, and better clothed than foreign labourers, but the superiority of their condition, in his opinion, was to be attributed, not to the monopoly of the corn trade, but to the more advanced civilization of this country.Earl Fitzwilliam
1253 gave notice, that tomorrow se'nnight he should move a re-
1253Earl Fitzwilliam
 wished to know whether the noble Viscount opposite had any objection to the production of certain documents connected with a recent appointment of a very extraordinary nature in Ireland. He alluded to the appointment of a person named Robert O'Connor as returning officer of the Athlone Union, that individual having been heretofore tried for a capital offence, convicted, sentenced to death, and a day fixed for his execution. As he understood that the Poor Law Commissioners were acquainted with the fact of this man's conviction when they made the appointment, he was anxious to see the correspondence that had taken place on the subject. The noble Marquess moved for "a copy of the record of the conviction of Robert O'Connor, late Serjeant in the 73d regiment, who was tried at the Roscommon July Assizes, 1836, for the abduction of Jane Matthews; a copy of his appointment to the situation of returning officer of the Athlone Union; and the correspondence with the Poor Law Commissioners on the subject of that appointment."The Marquess of Westmeath
 said, that on referring to documents, he found that the statements which he made last night on this subject, and which had been contradicted, were perfectly correct.Earl Radnor
 begged leave to say that one of the noble Earl's statements was incorrect. The noble Earl said that labourers in Ireland obtained only fourpence a day for wages. Now, he (the Marquess of Westmeath) ventured to assert that the average wages of labourers was tenpence per day, besides which they enjoyed advantages as occupiers of land.The Marquess of Westmeath
 was not prepared to contend that the system was beneficial to the country. On the contrary, he desired to see a class of pure labourers and a class of pure occupiers, as in England; but no one could deny, that, under the existing state of things, the labourer derived advantages from his occupancy of land, which ought to be taken into account when considering the question of wages.The Marquess of Westmeath
1307 was glad that the noble Earl who had just sat down attached so much importance to his evidence. He did not deny, that, with respect to the condition of the labourer, much improvement
1307The Earl of Radnor
1308 presented a petition, which was respectably and numerously signed, and was agreed to at a meeting which had been held at Guildhall. This meeting had been called by public advertisement, and was held under the presiding care of the chief magistrate of this City. It was attended not only by persons of wealth and respectability in the commercial worldߞby those who held the highest rank in the estimation of their fellow citizens, but also by a most numerous body of the citizens of London generally. This petition was signed by upwards of 21,000 individuals in the course of four days only after the meeting had taken place, and he was informed that there would have been at least double that number if a longer time were allowed. The petitioners prayed for an alteration in the Corn-laws. The petition being a short one, he trusted he would be entitled to read it to the House. The noble Lord then read the petition, which prayed for the adoption of the propositions of her Majesty's Government with reference to a fixed duty upon corn. The noble Lord then said the petitioners only sought for the adoption of the fixed duty on the ground that it would be a stepping-stone to the repeal of all laws affecting the prices of the necessaries of life, which, they considered, were not proper objects for taxation, nor such as ought to suffer any duty for the sake of the revenue, and that a repeal of all those
1308Lord Brougham
1309 said, there was not the slightest possibility of his falling into a misstatement upon the subject, for he begged leave to remind the noble Lord, that he had read the petition at lengthߞ that he had read the whole of that petition, and then the prayer of it. The noble Lord had, it appeared, thought proper to read the petition a second time, but he did not object to his Lordship reading the petition a third time if he pleased. The petitioners had certainly stated what they prayed for, but he begged leave to inform their Lordships, that they expected a great deal more. With respect to the question itself, and in deference to the petitioners, he thought it his duty, after stating what they had simply asked in their petition, to add this, that they only asked for the adoption of that measure, but that it would prove a step, and an important step, to the further measure of total repeal. The gentlemen who had the management of this petition, had waited upon him, and in a conversation with them they unanimously concurred with him, that they would never be satisfied with a fixed duty, and that they only took this course with a view of laying the foundation for the total repeal of the Corn-laws. The petitioners, he was assured, looked for total repeal, but they wished to obtain what they considered would be more practicable. He
1309Lord Brougham
 said, that the noble Lord must be confounding him with some other individual, for he begged to inform the noble Lord, that he was not at that period he mentioned, a Member of the House of Commons. He was out of Parliament in the years 1813, 1814, and 1815; indeed, from the year 1812 to 1816, he had never taken a part in any one of these debates which then took place in Parliament, for this simple reason, because he could not, not being a member of the legislative body. There could not be the slightest doubt of this fact. And he would further inform the noble Lord, that he never was in Parliament when any bill was passed or any proposition made with reference to this subject, wherein he had expressed himself differently to what he had that night said.Lord Brougham
 said, it was obvious his noble Friend was under some mistake. The question to which his noble Friend, doubtless, intended to refer, was one which had no direct connection with the subject of the Corn-laws, namely, the bill introduced by the late Lord Stanhope, respecting the currency, in the year 1811. On that occasion, he certainly had to differ with his noble Friend on many matters of commercial import, but not directly bearing, as he recollected, on the Corn-laws.Lord Brougham
 said, that the noble and learned Lord opposite having stated, on the authority of six gentlemen, that the parties who signed the petition were desirous of a total repeal of the Corn-laws, he (the Earl of Winchilsea) should like to know whether those gentlemen, being doubtless engaged in various commercial pursuits, would be satisfied at the same time to relinquish all the protective duties which related to their several branches of manufacture? He thought, that this would be but justice, as between the agricultural and the manufacturing interests. And yet, if this principle were to be adopted, and all the protective duties abolished, how, he asked, would the public creditor be paid, or the various necessary establishments of the country kept up? He really could not see how this great change could be effected without leading to the total annihilation of our national debt, and the destruction of every institution in the country.The Earl of Winchilsea
1311 begged to call the attention of the noble Lord who had just spoken, to a petition which he had presented to the House about two years ago, and to what had passed upon that occasion. He did this for the purpose of showing the noble Lord how entirely the petitioners as well as he (Lord Brougham) were with him upon the subject of a total repeal of all duties affecting every necessary of life. That petition which he had alluded to, stated, that if the manufacturers of the country required the protection of agriculture to be repealed, the agriculturists, on the other hand, required the protection upon manufactures to be repealed also. He had the honour of presenting that petition, which was signed by a large number of individuals who represented the manufacturing and commercial interests of the country. This was, he thought, in the month of February, 1839. The peti-
1311Lord Brougham
 complained that his noble Friend was too hard. He (Lord Brougham) had merely stated the facts connected with the petition, and with petitions generally on this subject, abstaining carefully from going into the merits of the question, except in so far as that a fixed duty succeeding a sliding scale might be regarded as a stepping-stone to a complete abolition. Nor had he spoken, as authorised to say, that the silk traders would give up their protection if the agriculturists would yield theirs; what he did say was, that if the agriculturists were deprived of their protective duties, the people in the silk trade must lay it to their account to be deprived of their protection also upon the same principle. Nor did he think that he was altogether wrong in attaching much importance to a multitude of signatures to a petition, for even that petition, presented in the other House the other night, to which his noble Friend alluded, had had such respect paid to it that the prayer of the petitioners was as nearly as possible obtained.Lord Brougham
 thought that the noble and learned Lord opposite, had treated the Government rather unfairly on the present occasion. The petition which the noble and learned Lord this evening presented, was, he believed, the first which had been presented in their Lordships' House in favour of the Government views on the subject of the Corn-laws; and yet the noble and learned Lord made a statement which deprived the Government of the advantage of that petition.The Earl of Wicklow
 moved, that there be added the number of signatures to which the residences of the subscribers were attached, and of the number of signatures written by the same persons.The Marquess of Salisbury
And of the number of marks.The Earl of Mountcashell.ߞ
 thought, that without giving the number of signatures there might be a classification of the petitions. For his own part he should be glad to see that classification, and the country should know what was the proportion of petitions in favour of the Government proposition. The Government were about to go to the country on this particular point of the Corn-laws, and attempts would be made to show that these petitions were in favour of the Government measure. It was highly desirable that the country should be undeceived when a dissolution of Parliament was about to take place. If this were done a great benefit would be conferred on the country; and he, therefore, hoped that the noble Earl would persevere in his motion to that extent.The Earl of Wicklow
 called the attention of their Lordships to the unfairness of merely enumerating the petitions. They all knew that masses of petitions were presented in favour of the existing Corn-law, containing only four, or five, or six signatures; yet these numbers of petitions would tell against the fewer number of petitions with a contrary prayer, which, nevertheless, might contain several hundreds or several thousands of signatures.The Earl of Radnor
What were the numbers?The Earl of Radnorߞ
I do not exactly know, but that was the result. The difference was enormous.Earl Stanhopeߞ
1306 deprecated these incidental discussions on so great a question. They were extremely inconvenient, and their result generally appeared to be advantageous to the noble Lords who commenced them, because they came down to the House ready primed and loaded with figures and quotations, which it was quite impossible to refer to without referring to documents which were not at hand. That was the course pur-
1306The Earl of Hardwicke
 said, if he had understood the noble Lord right, he had stated, that the persons who had signed the first petition signified their disapproval of the measures of Government. Now, he had just read that petition, and he begged to say, that no such statement as that was contained therein. So far from this being the case, the petitioners distinctly state, that they highly approved of the measures of her Majesty's Government, and they prayed, that such measures might be, as rapidly as possible, carried into effect.Lord Ashburton
1305 presented sixty petitions from places in Somerset, Essex, Suffolk,
1305Lord Ashburton
1312 thought the noble and learned Lord was not justified in saying that those engaged in the silk-trade would agree to have the protective duties in their favour abolished, if those in corn were also removed. He (Lord Ashburton) would remind his noble and learned Friend of a meeting for the repeal of the Corn-laws which took place a short time ago at Manchester, and at which Mr. Proctor, an extensive silk merchant, said, that he would forego his protective duty if the agriculturists would give up theirs; but upon being asked afterwards in the course of the same meeting whether he would adhere to that declaration, Mr. Proctor saidߞ" Oh, I beg leave to withdraw that." The abolition of the protective duties was all well until it came to Mr. Proctor himself, and then he would beg leave to be excused. And so, no doubt, it would be with many others engaged in the silk trade. The noble and learned Lord seemed
1312Lord Ashburton
 said, he could not be certain as to the particular year in which it took place; but he well recollected that upon some occasion, about the period he had mentioned, he (Lord Ashburton) had in debate taken the side of the question for the relaxation of the protective system, when his noble and learned Friend took the opposite side of the question, and made some severe remarks upon himself (Lord Ashburton) which, perhaps, was the reason of his so vividly recollecting the circumstance.Lord Ashburton
 remarked, that his noble Friend had been pleased to allude to his (Lord Ashburton's) supposed change of opinion on the subject of the Corn-laws. He did not think, that charges of this nature were very fair at any time, and he was certainly astonished at their being made by his noble and learned Friend, as he recollected, that some years ago, when he strongly objected to further protection being extended to the agricultural interest, his noble and learned Friend was one of the most staunch and strenuous supporters in the House of Commons of protection, and he once advocated the further extension of it. He found his noble and learned Friend constantly opposed to him in his endeavours to prevent the further extension of protection.Lord Ashburton
 said, that the noble Earl opposite, in his anxiety to do justice to her Majesty's Government, had done them rather an injustice, in stating that only one petition had been presented in support of their views on the subject of the Corn-laws. Several such petitions had been presented to their Lordships, of which he had presented one this evening.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that there would be no use in giving directions for a return which it was impossible to make.Viscount Duncannon
 had no objection to the production of the papers.Viscount Duncannon
 adverted to cases of petitions against the Corn-laws, in which boy's names, written all in one hand, were appended to them. If they proceeded on the give and take principle their Lordships would find it impossible to distinguish the bond fide from worthless signatures; and, therefore, great deductions must be made from the number of signatures.The Earl of Warwick
 had no objection to the return called for; but there would not be time enough to go into that minute analysis which the noble Lords desired.Lord Duncannon
 believed, that the enumeration of signatures would be quite impracticable to be made by Monday or Tuesday next, or before the dissolution of Parliament. He thought the noble Earl was altogether premature, because the current of opinion still continued to run on both sides the question, and it would be better to postpone this motion until the commencement of the next Session. True it was, that on the subject of the Poor-law Amendment Act there had been made, in the other House of Parliament, an enumeration of the petitions for and against that measure, and that the numbers praying for the repeal of that odious law were a thousand-fold greater than those in favour of it.Earl Stanhope
 would take that opportunity to state, in allusion to what had passed on the preceding evening relative to the wages of labourers in Ireland, that, from his own experience, he always found that when corn was high, wages fell, and that labourers were most happy and comfortable when corn was cheap.Lord Cloncurry
 said that the wages he paid his labourers in Ireland never exceeded tenpence per day. As to the occupation of land by labourers, he did not think that was a good system. The labourers, generally, had a running account with their landlords, who were, in most instances, their employers also.Earl Fitzwilliam
 moved for a return of the number of petitions for and against the existing system of Corn-laws, and of those for and against the measures proposed by her Majesty's Government, classifying the petitioners, with an enumeration, as nearly as possible, of the number of petitioners of each class.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, that proceeding was as likely to take place on one side as the other.Earl Fitzwilliam
 contended it would not be fair to give merely the enumeration of the petitions, for there could be no doubt that those were more numerous which were in favour of the present Corn-laws.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, that if it was impossible to comply with his motion, he would withdraw it.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, that their Lordships were aware of the interest which prevailed in the public mind on the subject of the President steam-ship, and he wished to know, whether the Government had sent out any vessel in quest of her, for the purpose of ascertaining her fate, and, if possible, of affording her succour. He understood the Portuguese government had been humane enough to do something of the kind.1401Vis-
1401
 said, that the Admiralty had watched the reports concerning the President with the greatest interest, and endeavoured to obtain all the information in their power, and had collected the best evidence from all descriptions of persons as to any means by which we could discover the fate of the vessel, or afford her succour. The Admiralty, however, had been compelled to come to the conclusion, that there were no means of search having the slightest probability of obtaining information or affording relief. A fresh report has been circulated to-day through the newspapers, which was calculated, he feared, to excite false hopes. The report states, that a large steamer in distress had been seen in St. George's Channel. There was no doubt, information to that effect had reached town, and he had, in consequence, sent instructions to the admiral at Plymouth to despatch a steamer, in order to ascertain whether there was any foundation for the report. He, however, had no reason to believe, that the report would prove well-founded, and he feared it was only one of those most odious and incomprehensible attempts to take advantage in the money market of the temporary hopes excited by favourable rumours.The Earl of Minto
14081407Noble Lord140614051404 begged to assure the noble Lord that he took his observations in very good part, but he must say, that he felt rather disappointed at finding that the noble Lord had made out so inconsiderable a discrepancy between the opinions which he had expressed twenty-six years ago, and those which he held at the present period upon the subject of the Corn-laws. First, the misrepresentation on the former evening, of what he had said upon this subject, led him to expect something of a more important and serious nature than what the
14081407Noble Lord140614051404Lord Brougham
1409 begged to correct some mistakes into which the noble and learned Lord had fallen respecting the New Poor-law. The fact was, the measure had raised the rates in many parts of England; or if there had been a reduction in the poor rates it was thrown on the highway rates, which now bore the support of many men that would, under the old system, be supported by the Poor-law. Now, had the bill succeeded in raising the moral character of the labourers as the noble and learned Lord had predicted? The assistant Poor-law commissioners did not trouble themselves about this; their only-care seemed to be to reduce the rates, and not to promote the improvement of the poor. That, at least, was his decided opinion, though he had supported the bill, and though he still believed it would be of great benefit, yet he should rejoice when the day came, on which the Poor-law commissioners would be removed from their authority, and when the bill would be carried out by those whom local and personal knowledge of the condition of the poor must have better qualified for that duty than persons who had no such experience. He, therefore, should certainly support any amendment that might come from the other House, to the effect that when two-thirds of a board of Guardians should agree upon the propriety of giving out-door relief, then that out-door relief might be given by the board; and he had no apprehension that in doing so they would be too lavish of the public money; but, on the contrary, he thought the boards would act with discretion and frugality. This he could say, from having attended meetings of boards where he had never seen a disposition lo be lavish.
1409The Earl of Winchilsea
1410 referred to the cases of several worthy people who had never required a farthing from their parishes until after the passing of the New Poor-law, when, being overtaken by old age, they were compelled to solicit out-door relief, instead of getting which they were offered the workhouse. There were also a number of men in the district with which he was connected, who, when prevented from working by the winter, were, on asking for relief, also told, that they must come into the workhouse. Now he must think that the rigour of the new Poor-law could never have been intended to act upon such people as these. He thought the reason why greater numbers had not been compelled to solicit admission into workhouses,
1410The Earl of Winchilsea
1413 begged to explain. He had stated that one of the main objects of the Poor-law Bill was to provide for the comforts and to raise the condition of the labouring classes; but he also stated that it would confer great benefit on the owners and cultivators of land, and prevent the ruin to the agricultural interest that was approaching. He might be permitted to add, that he had always deemed, and had always stated, and he believed that on one occasion he had read a quotation from Sir
1413Lord Brougham
 said, that the whole of this irregular debate had arisen out of explanations entered into by the noble and learned Lord in reference to quotations made from his speeches by his noble Friend (Lord Ashburton); and the noble Lord had not attempted to refute this part of the subject, but the noble and learned Lord gave reasons for having changed his opinions.The Earl of Wicklow
 bore testimony to the beneficial operation of the Poor-law, and he gave his best thanks to those who sat in both Houses of Parliament who had been instrumental in carrying it out. He thought that the noble Earl (Stanhope) had adopted an unfair line of argument in referring to the case of the great town of Bradford, because that was purely and essentially a manufacturing town, where masses of the labouring classes were subject to the fluctuations which attended manufacturing populations, caused amongst many other things by improvements in machinery. In the year 1817 the poor-rates were more moderate, but from that period up to the year 1834, they increased to an enormous extent; and had the old law continued in force, the landed interest of this country must have passed away, by the operation of the Poor-rates.The Earl of Stradbroke
1411 said, let them not, for God's sake, send away the sinews of the English peasantry and banish them. There were abundant sources of labour in this country, without sending our population to cultivate the wilds of America, or to follow the mad project of robbing the natives of New Zealand of their lands. He had always looked on the New Poor-law as solely intended to raise the moral character of the poor. He thought it had fulfilled that intention; for the best manner of raising the moral condition of the poor, was to enable them to earn large and sufficient wages; and he was confident that no scheme could have been better devised for such an object than to say, that in no case should an able-bodied man receive any assistance to his wages. He protested against an able-bodied labourer in any case receiving assistance to his wages. The moment that system was brought into operation, from that moment the poor would again be ground down, and their subsistence calculated on any scale but that of comfort, which before the establishment of the New Poor-law Bill was the case in many agricultural districts. He was anxious to see the assistant-commissioners abolished. Whenever hardship took place, he was sure it was not owing to the authorities at Somerset-house; but to the assistant-commissioners, who each held their different theories, and became in some degree partisans in the districts where they were placed. If the assistant-commissioners were done away with, they would be less frequently misled by misrepresentation, and
1411The Marquess of Salisbury
" I must say," said the noble Lord, "a single word on the Corn Bill, which, strictly apeaking, comes within the class of measures I am alluding to. To the opinion which I originally entertained upon that law, I still adhere. I feel now as I did then, that its first effects are injurious by cutting off a great article of foreign trade; but I look for an ample compensation for that injury in advantages of a higher nature—the insuring a regular, safe, and ultimately cheap, supply of the great necessary of life, which no change of foreign policy, no caprice of hostile Governments can impede or disturb."1403sds1402l having presented a petition from shipowners and others of South Shields, against the alteration of the timber duties, observed, that the financial plan of the Government was a gross delusion to say that the deficiency in the Budget could be made up by relieving the country of a large portion of the taxation upon timber, sugar, and corn. The proposition, as regarded timber, was not one for reducing the taxation upon that article, but by additional taxation to raise the sum of 700,000" I must say," said the noble Lord, "a single word on the Corn Bill, which, strictly apeaking, comes within the class of measures I am alluding to. To the opinion which I originally entertained upon that law, I still adhere. I feel now as I did then, that its first effects are injurious by cutting off a great article of foreign trade; but I look for an ample compensation for that injury in advantages of a higher nature—the insuring a regular, safe, and ultimately cheap, supply of the great necessary of life, which no change of foreign policy, no caprice of hostile Governments can impede or disturb."1403sds1402lLord Ashburton
 assured the noble Earl that in the district already alluded to they did that which the noble Earl desired— namely, they extended out-door relief to labourers who could not get employment. They sent up the cases of those whom they thought deserving out-door relief to the Poor-law commissioners, who then authorised the giving of it.Lord Portman
l. said, that the price of corn must be taken into consideration in discussing the operation of the New Poor-law. In 1837 one more pauper had received out-of-door relief than had been relieved in 1840, and in the year 1840 the relief of these paupers cost 560l.Lord Portman
s1412 said, in the elaborate speech made by the noble and learned Lord (Lord Brougham) in support of the New Poor-law, some years since, the noble Lord said, if the bill were not passed, the rental of the whole of the estates, of the country would be swallowed up in the rates. Indeed the noble and learned Lord said, if the measure were not passed, it was not improbable that he might become a Westmoreland pauper. But what had been the result of the measure? He contended, that instead of a reduction there had been an enormous increase in the amount of poor's rate. He had received information from the great town of Bradford. He could not go through a long calculation upon the amount of poor-rates levied in the town of Bradford, but they had increased full fifty per cent, upon what they had been under the former system; and in other places they had increased to a still greater amount. The noble Earl (Earl Fitzwilliam) seemed to deny this fact. This, however, was admitted by the noble and learned Lord, (Lord Brougham), that whilst there had been in some places a decrease, there had been in others an increase, and that there was a considerable increase in the year 1840 above that of 1839. He rejoiced that this had been the result; for the sordid and selfish feeling which prevailed in this country, where the only deity that was worshipped was mammon, and where so little regard was entertained for the wants of the labouring classes — he rejoiced that this impression had been made at last upon the pockets of the middling classes, who had been so base as to carry out this most execrable law. If any real reduction had taken place in the amount of poor-rates, in the aggregate, let not his noble and learned Friend flatter himself with the belief that it had been effected by measuring and weighing out the scanty allowances of the poor-house, but let him reflect that it had been done by abridging the comforts of the poor. He rejoiced to know that in a short time an appeal must be made to the country, which appeal he was convinced would be responded to, and would express the sentiments of the people in a manner not to be misunderstood—in which there could be (according to a memorable expression) no mistake — in a manner, sooner or later, and at no distant period, which would compel Parliament to do justice to the people, and thus prevent
s1412Earl Stanhope
 had quoted Bradford, but that was not a solitary case of the increase of the poor-rates. The same had been the case in other places wholly unconnected with manufactures. He rejoiced at the circumstance that the middling classes, who had been the agents and instruments in executing this most execrable law, would at last be induced, if not by considerations of justice and humanity, at least from regard to selfish interests, to yield to the overwhelming opposition which was now raised to this law.Earl Stanhope
1414Stanhope said, that, in reference to the increase of the Poor-rates at Bradford, the noble Earl opposite (Earl Stanhope) seemed to think that the evil had been occasioned by the New Poor-law, whereas it had arisen from the great and growing distress to which he had so often, but in vain, endeavoured to draw the attention of their Lordships. Extreme distress prevailed in that part of the country, a fact which the noble Earl said he rejoiced in, as affording evidence against the Poor-law, [Earl 1414StanhopeEarl Fitzwilliam
 begged to call the attention of the noble Secretary for the Home Department, to a transaction of a very disgraceful character, which had recently occurred in St. Stephen's-square, Manchester. He was informed that the mayor of the town having refused—and in so doing exercised, as he thought, a wise discretion— to call an open-air meeting to take into consideration the repeal of the Corn-laws, the repeal of the Union, and various other matters. Three county magistrates headed a tumultuous assemblage of persons who paraded the streets, carrying flags bearing most inflammatory inscriptions. They then formed themselves into a meeting in St. Stephen's-square, and the three county magistrates stood upon the hustings, and witnessed the whole proceedings. A riot of a serious nature occurred, during which eleven individuals were wounded and carried to the infirmary. It appeared also, that although this took place in the presence of a large body of police, they did not interfere in any way to prevent the riot, and not a single individual was taken into custody. At the close of the proceedings, the three magistrates again headed the assemblage, and returned home parading the streets as before, to the great terror of the peaceable inhabitants of Manchester.The Earl of Wilton
1449 said, from what he already knew of the case, he was satisfied that the noble Earl was misinformed upon almost all points. He supposed the noble Earl alluded to a transaction which occurred on Wednesday week. He had received a report upon the subject from Sir C. Shaw, who was in command of the constabulary force at Manchester, and he had reason to think that that officer exercised a sound discretion in not interfering on the occasion until the proper time arrived. The disturbance at one time was likely to have been of a serious character, and it was owing to the prudence and vigilance of Sir C. Shaw, and the admirable conduct of the men under his command that serious damage was not committed The riot, he believed, occurred between two parties who were violently excited against each other, but the result had been
1449The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that the circumstance of eleven persons having been sent to the infirmary was a sufficient proof that the riot was of a serious character; but what he particularly wished to direct the noble Marquess's attention to was, the conduct of the three county magistrates.The Earl of Wilton
 said, that he had no information upon that point—it might naturally be supposed that it was not likely to form the subject of any part of Sir C. Shaw's report. He would inquire into the matter. The persons taken to the infirmary were not much hurt; they left it very soon.The Marquess of Normanby
 moved, that the Jews' Declaration Bill be read a third time.The Marquess of Bute
1450 said, that as he had a very strong opinion on this subject, he could not let this opportunity pass without troubling their Lordships with a few observations. In the first place, he trusted, that the House would not in a covert and insidious way pass a measure of this kind, the object of which was, under the pretext of extending an indulgence to a particular class of religionists, to abandon the principle of regarding religion as a matter of importance in the persons who were to exercise civil authority amongst us. He knew that there were many wise, even religious men, who thought that religion was no concern of the State; but then he said, let a measure be brought fairly forward on that principle. The indulgence given by the repeal of the Test Act was to Christians, but this bill proposed to extend the indulgence which was subsequently granted by another act to Quakers, Moravians, and Separatists, to the Jewish community, provided they made a certain declaration. The repeal of the Test Act, to which he was himself a party, expressly declared, that no other test should be required except a single declaration of belief in Christianity—"in the presence of God, on the true faith of a Christian." The Quakers, Moravians, and Separatists, conscientiously objected to take that declaration; and by an act of her present Majesty a declaration was substituted, by which they declared, that they would not exercise any authority or power in virtue of any office
1450The Bishop of Llandaff
 said, that if he did not view this measure as a stepping-stone to the admission of Jews to Parliament he should not oppose it. It was said, that the law as it at present stood was easily evaded; but he imagined, that it could not be said, that the law could not be made so as to prevent its being evaded. He should imagine, that the persons who would be desirous of obtaining municipal offices would be in a station of life to have the common honesty not to evade the law.Lord Lyttleton
 viewed this measure as one deeply fraught with danger to the religion of this country. If they granted this measure, in consistency they must subsequently grant any ulterior measure which might be brought forward to admit Jews into Parliament. Some people thought, that religion was merely a matter between a man and his God; but the Bible and New Testament both, showed that that was an untenable position. A Jew, at any rate a religious Jew, would not admit Christians to legislate for him, and why should the Christian admit the Jew? He respected that body, and recollected the position which they had held under the Mosaic dispensation, and if the film were taken from their eyes he would consent to the motion; but on religious grounds he felt himself compelled to support the right rev. Prelate.The Earl of Winchilsea
1452 did not consider, that in supporting the bill he was in the slightest degree pledged, or liable to be called upon hereafter, to open the walls of Parliament to persons of the Jewish persuasion. He had always opposed bills for that purpose, and should continue to do so, considering it improper that persons not being Christians should be legislators in a Christian country. But the bill then before their Lordships was a measure of a very different character. It was a measure which he was almost disposed to think did not confer upon the Jews by law, any privilege which they did not already possess. That Jews were eligible to offices in corporations was evident from the fact, that Jews were to be found in three of the corporations of this kingdom. Those municipal bodies possessed the discretionary power of admitting Jews or not, and the object of the present measure was to remove that anomaly. If Jews ought not to be admitted, the law should be altered so as to exclude them; and if they ought to be admitted, that admission should take place under the sanction of a general legislative measure. He contended, that the Legislature should decide whether or not Jews should be admissible to the corporate bodies of this country, without reference to any other question; because there was not the slightest shadow of reason for supposing that a measure for their admission into corporations would be followed up by a measure for admitting them into Parliament. No less than thirty-eight of the largest towns of the country had petitioned Parliament to pass the present bill, while no petitions had been presented against it. He at least had heard of none. The principle contained in the bill had been already established by the removal of those disabilities which prevented Jews from being elected sheriffs. And it was certainly throwing the law into ridicule to argue that Jews might be elected sheriffs, but must not be allowed to exercise the functions which belonged to the other members of a corporation. Jews had been elected sheriffs in London, in a county in which his noble Friend possessed property, and in Sussex; and he was therefore somewhat surprised to hear his noble Friend oppose this measure upon religious grounds. The grounds upon which he supported the bill were—first, because it would remove an absurdity in the law which he had already pointed out; secondly, because if Jews were to be admitted to civil offices, those
1452The Earl of Wicklow
145514541453: My Lords, in rising to offer myself for a few minutes to your Lordships' attention, I feel how much I shall stand in need of your indulgence, not only because it is the first time I have had the honour of addressing you, but because I find myself placed in a delicate and truly painful situation. I have the misfortune to differ from the most rev. Prelate who last week opposed the second reading of this bill, and, of course, from the right rev. Prelate who opened the debate upon it to-night, and probably from the majority of my right rev. brethren, I had not the advantage of hearing the arguments adduced by the most rev. Prelate on the former occasion, and know nothing of them but what I could collect from what was probably a very imperfect and incorrect report. Those which I saw certainly did not convince me. One of the observations attributed to the most rev. Prelate was, I think, that the Jewish community, as a body, was not at all interested in the measure now before your Lordships, and that it could only serve to gratify the pride and ambition of a few eminent individuals of that persuasion. Now, this is an opinion from which I must entirely dissent. My own view of the subject is grounded not on any personal experience—for which of course I have had no opportunities—but on the general principles of human nature. And, judging from these, I conceive, that it is highly probable, or rather I might say, absolutely certain, that every member of the Jewish community would feel gratified and raised in self-esteem by the honours and privileges which may be thrown open to it, though in the nature of things they are such as can only be enjoyed by a few of its most distinguished members. And this leads me to observe, that the advantage which may be expected to result from this measure is one of great importance. Its object is to conciliate the affections of a very large and powerful body of men to the land of their birth, to which they are attached by many ties, though to a certain extent, they must always remain foreigners and aliens. It appears to me, that this is a consideration which ought to operate as an inducement to the passing of this measure, unless there be some very strong objection
145514541453The Bishop of St. David's
14571456 said, that as their Lordships evinced considerable impatience to divide upon this Bill, he would make only a few observations. He had heard with great mortification the speech of the right rev. Prelate. He intended nothing unkind in the expression, but it could not but be mortifying to him, knowing the weight necessarily attached to the great learning and powerful eloquence of the right rev. Prelate, when he exerted those talents and employed that eloquence in the cause of error. The right rev. Prelate had used in his speech not a little of that sophistry of which he had himself spoken—of unintentional sophistry. He had omitted the real point at issue. The right rev. Prelate had taken up certain detached points of the arguments of his adversaries, and those he had
14571456The Bishop of London
1447 would take the liberty of asking the noble Viscount at the head of the Government, whether he was prepared to give any reply to the question which he put to him the other night, respecting the failure of the payment of the
1447The Marquess of Londonderry
1458 would trouble their Lordships with but few observations. It was utterly impossible that anything could be covert or concealed in this measure. Its object was simply to admit Jews into municipal corporations, and the ar-
1458The Marquess of Bute
 in moving the second reading of the Punishment of Death Bill, said, that its object was to abolish the capital punishment for certain offences which had been left, punishable with death by a recent act of Parliament, which mitigated the severity of the law in many other cases. Amongst the offences which that act left capital, but which it was now proposed to subject to a milder punishment, were those of embezzling by clerks of the Bank, and other companies, by fabrication of stamps, rape, and one or two other offences. He would not enter into any general arguments on the subject on the present occasion, but would simply mention a fact, which he was sure would be heard with very great satisfaction by their Lordships —namely, that the mitigation of punishments which their Lordships had some years ago sanctioned, had not been attended with any increase to the offences they referred to, but, on the contrary, rather to their diminution. In burglary, robbery, and horse-stealing, the committals within a certain period before the. mitigation of the law, either in its letter or practical application, had been 8,774; whilst in the same period, since the application of more lenient punishments, they had been 7,820, being a decrease of 954, or about one ninth of the whole. He believed, moreover, that when it was considered, that there was not now the same repugnance to prosecute as under the more severe law, it would appear, that the amount of actual offences had decreased even in a greater proportion than shown by the number of committals. In the crime of forgery, also, there had been a diminution of offences though not so considerable, perhaps, as in the other offences he had before mentioned. With these few remarks, he begged to move, that this bill be now read a second time.1459Lord
1459
 would not oppose the second reading of the bill; but if he stood alone, he would in committee oppose the clause which took away the punishment of death for rape with violence. Parliament had no right to pass such a measure, without consulting, if it were possible, the feelings of the female portion of the community.The Marquess of Westmeath
l"That, as an additional guarantee, the Spanish Government, also deposits in the National Bank of St. Fernando, the sum of 30,000,000 of reals vellon, in 5 per cent, stock, bonds for 300,000l wished to know what instructions had been sent out to the British Ambassador at Madrid. He was surprised that Sir De Lacy Evans, placed in the situation in which he was, had not insisted before this on knowing what those instructions were. It must be particularly remarked that Sir De Lacy Evans, in his letter to George Service, Esq., the chairman of the committee of officers, stated,
l"That, as an additional guarantee, the Spanish Government, also deposits in the National Bank of St. Fernando, the sum of 30,000,000 of reals vellon, in 5 per cent, stock, bonds for 300,000lThe Marquess of Londonderry
 said, that he partook warmly of the mortification which the right rev. Prelate, the Bishop of London, had expressed at the speech made that night by the right rev. Prelate above him, the Bishop of St. David's.The Earl of Galloway
1448 said, that the in-
1448Viscount Melbourne
 was understood to say, that instructions had been sent out to the English Ambassador at the Court of Madrid, to press these claims, and that he anticipated a favourable result from his interference. It was true that the instalment had not been paid.Viscount Melbourne
1487 expressed his objection to that part which removed the crime of rape from the list of capital offences. If their Lordships should agree to that proposition, as respected England, which it appeared to him would be an act
1487The Marquess of Westmeath
 protested against such a clause as the present, as it went to break down all those barriers which had hitherto remained sacred as a protection to defenceless woman.The Earl of Mountcashell
 observed, that if it had before been necessary that his noble Friend and he should have assured their Lordships, that they had not given their support to the alteration of the criminal law in this respect from their want of abhorrence of the crime it attempted to repress, it became now even more necessary to give them that assurance. Indeed, he would add, that it was the abhorrence with which his noble Friend and he regarded this atrocious crime which had induced them to support this clause, as the way to render the punishment both certain, and likely to prove effective in the repression of the crime. He hoped that the alteration would have the effect of inducing jurors not to seek hereafter for ingenious reasons to disbelieve the evidence of unhappy females who had been thus abused, as had too frequently been the case of late years upon trials of this nature. It would also prevent, by inducing convictions in cases clearly made out by the evidence of the female injured, that which had been but too frequent, the infliction of a stain upon the character and veracity of the poor sufferer — a stain which was almost inseparable from the rejection of her evidence by the jury, and the acquittal of the party arraigned. For these reasons he trusted their Lordships would reject the amendment.The Marquess of Normanby
1489 said, he could not support the clause. He believed, that the punishment of death for cases of violent assault and forcible rape was indispensable for the protection of virtuous females, for he was fully convinced, that nothing short of the positive dread of an ignominious death could restrain those fierce passions which the most charitable in society admitted sunk the offender lower than the brute. Entertaining the
1489The Earl of Winchilsea
1490 admitted the subject under consideration was one of the utmost importance to the morals of society. Within the last four or five years there were about a hundred prosecutions for this offence, but only twelve convictions. The jurors could not be prevailed upon for any consideration to be made parties to what must turn out to be the destruction of human life, where there was the possibility or a doubt in their minds that guilt did not really exist. He must remind their Lordships of the great peculiarity of this offence. A very learned judge had said, with reference to this offence, that the accusation was very easily made, but most difficult to refute. It was not simply a question whether the prisoner should be convicted or not, but it was a question as to whether the prisoner should be convicted or the witness discredited. The consequence of this consideration was, that the juror always felt more or less a doubt hanging over the testimony given, and hence the difficulty under the existing law of procuring convictions where guilt did really exist. The juror would say, he would not send the prisoner to be executed upon evidence which he was not willing to believe. He recollected an extraordinary case which had occurred not very long ago, of apparently the most aggravated nature. The prosecutrix was called and examined at great length, the case appeared to be perfectly plain, and the feeling with which the judge and the jury were influenced was, that it was a case of extra-personal violence, and one of the most aggravated nature. The evidence that was adduced on the occasion went to show, that the prosecutrix had been knocked down upon the ground with the most brutal violence. The prisoner denied the charge altogether, but the charge against him appeared to be so clearly proved, that the jurors overcame their usual scruples and brought in a verdict of guilty. Notwithstanding this result, it soon afterwards appeared there was every reason to believe, that this verdict was an erroneous one. Notwithstanding all appearances were against the unfortunate prisoner, it speedily turned out that the prosecutrix should not have been believed. His noble Friend at the head of the Home Department immediately or-
1490Lord Brougham
 bore testimony to the unanimity of opinion which prevailed on this subject in the committee, and expressed a hope, that next Session their views might be carried into effect.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, he had come down to the House with an inclination to vote for the omission of the words objected to by the noble Marquess; but after hearing the reasons urged for their retention, founded on the state of public opinion, and the experience of the last ten years, as well as the arguments of the four learned Lords who had spoken in the course of the debate, he confessed he could not vote for their omission. But he was most desirous to frame a proviso, if possible, to retain the punishment of death for aggravated cases of rape effected by a combination of persons.The Earl of Haddington
 remarked that the law would adopt the principle of the New Poor-law, which threw the whole hardship on the mother in the case of a putative child, by throwing all the hardship on the woman in cases of violation. In order, therefore, to make room for the amendment which would have been proposed by his noble Friend, he would withdraw his amendment.The Marquess of Westmeath
 asked whether the noble Marquess opposite would on the third reading propose any proposition to meet aggravated cases of rape?The Marquess of Westmeath
 said, he thought the difficulties in framing such a provision would be insuperable; he should therefore neither propose a clause himself, nor agree to one proposed by any other noble Lord.The Marquess of Normanby
lll1485 doubted not, that severe distress prevailed in the iron trade at the present time. He took it for granted
lll1485Lord Ashburton
 presented a petition from West Bromwich, signed by 5,017 persons, for the repeal of the Corn-laws. He did not mean to enter into a discussion of those laws, but would read the concluding paragraphs of the petition. The petitioners deplored the frightful depreciation in the value of manufactures, without any corresponding reduction in the price of provisions. They complained, that though employment was scarce, the provision market was as high as when labour was abundant; and further, that while food was rendered excessively high in price, the existing system, by closing foreign markets against our manufactures, made labour extremely cheap.Lord Hatherton
 said, that he was desired by the committee appointed by their Lordships to inquire into the subject of trafficking on railways and canals on Sundays, to present to the House the report which they had caused to be drawn up. The committee had received a great deal of evidence on the subject. They had examined parties connected with all the different lines of communication between the Thames and the Mersey. They had examined the owners, servants, and many of the carriers on those lines, and they had only abstained from entering into an examination of the boatmen as a class, because their numerous petitions to that and the other House of Parliament sufficiently indicated their opinions on the subject. The committee were unanimously of opinion, that the evidence taken presented the strongest possible case for legislative interference. The social and moral interests of the country required either, that some prohibitory law should be enacted, or that power should be given to companies to exercise a discretion as to certain hours during which Sunday travelling on those lines of communication should be stopped. If the Government did not take up the subject he would himself early next Session present a bill to their Lordships for the purpose of investing companies with permissive powers.Lord Hatherton
 said, that leaving the law capital in respect to certain aggravated cases would defeat the object of the legislature, for the counsel for the prisoners would, in pleading for them, work on the feelings of the jury by impressing on them that by bringing in a verdict of guilty they would, perhaps, hang an innocent man; and thus the doubt and the contemplation of the awful contingency would induce juries to acquit the criminals of whose guilt they might not have the slightest moral doubt. Such a clause would therefore be of no real protection to women. His experience as a chairman of quarter sessions had impressed upon him the opinion he now gave.The Earl of Chichester
 wished to know whether the noble Earl opposite intended to bring forward his motion on the subject of the Corn-laws to-morrow?Lord Wharncliffe
 inquired whether the Liverpool petitioners attributed the distressed state of trade to the operation of the Corn-laws, or to the alteration of the currency?Earl Stanhope
 moved, that the offence of destroying or attempting to destroy sacred edifices, should be excepted from the operation of the bill.Lord Wynford
1491 said, that he considered capital punishment should be retained in cases of an aggravated nature, and where the prosecutrix was corroborated in her evidence. He thought the sympathy of the public would always go with the punishment, particularly when the offence had been committed by two or more persons, and where the prose-
1491Lord Wynford
1492 said, that their Lordships should recollect that the question was not altogether as to whether the individual deserved the punishment which the law awarded for this offence, but whether that punishment was calculated to prevent the commission of the crime. Now, if they found that the severity of the punishment attending the commission of this offence, and the probability of the prisoner's innocence, notwithstanding the evidence of the prosecutrix, if they found that these ideas were operating upon the jurors' minds, to deter them from finding the prisoner guilty, and thereby perhaps, in many cases enabling the really guilty to escape, surely they must see that the law required some alteration. The law was formed not so much for punishment as prevention. With this view of the question, he thought they would have no difficulty in coming to the conclusion, that by retaining this clause as it stood, they were adopting that course which was better calculated to prevent the commission of this offence than when the law was more severe. It was the certainty of punishment and not the severity of the punishment that prevented crime. It was because there was such a great probability of escape, that the offence had been so often committed. The noble Marquess who moved this question before the House had referred to certain returns in 1840, but he had included in the one number the charges of rape, and the charges of assaulting with the intent to commit rape. If the noble Marquess had pursued his inquiry, and kept those returns separate,
1492The Lord Chancellor
favorem vitœ1488 admitted, that our criminal code had with great justice been stig-
favorem vitœ1488Lord Abinger
 said, if his noble Friend would read the petition he would see, that the petitioners approved of the proposition of Ministers to remove the sliding scale, and to have recourse to a fixed duty, because the existing system, by restricting our commerce with foreign countries, tended, together with other restrictive measures, to produce the evils of which they complained. Three-fourths of the persons engaged in the iron trade had signed the petition. The iron trade was unquestionably in a state of great depression. A remarkable circumstance had lately occurred (of which such of their Lordships as were interested in the subject must be aware), which proved this to be the fact. So much was the iron trade depressed, that in the counties of Stafford and Salop not less than fifty furnaces had been put out of blast. If some steps were not taken to remedy this state of things, a permanent injury to the amount of several millions annually would be inflicted on the manufactures of this country.Earl Fitzwilliam
 had never stated, that the iron trade was particularly affected by the Corn-laws, nor had the petitioners themselves asserted any such thing. What they said was, that the distressed state of general trade (of which the iron trade formed a part) might be traced in a considerable degree to the operation of the Corn-laws. They, as a part and portion of the great commercial interests of the country, complained that those interests at large were injured by our restrictive commercial policy, and they referred to their own case as a proof that their proposition was well founded.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, that he would not bring on the motion to-morrow. The only other day on which he could introduce it was Friday, but as he understood, that the noble Duke who usually sat at the head of the benches opposite would not be in the House on that day, he was afraid, that he would not be able to bring the question forward in a substantive form during the present Session. The noble Earl presented a petition from Liverpool, complaining of the general depression of trade, and approving of the financial measures, with reference to corn, sugar, and timber, proposed by her Majesty's Ministers. The noble Earl also presented several petitions from places in Yorkshire, for a repeal of the Corn-laws.Earl Fitzwilliam
1509animus1508 said, the noble Viscount, although he agreed with his noble Friend as to the unfortunate situation in which the petitioners were placed by the conduct of the General Assembly, had not given any opinion on the subject. Through his whole speech he studiously avoided giving any opinion. He had said nothing—he had done nothing. The noble Viscount observed, that the Lord-advocate would certainly do his duty. Perhaps, the Lord-advocate was acting under his orders, and if so he should be glad to learn what those orders were. His noble Friend, in the course of his observations, had alluded to the Auchterarder case. In that instance, the proceedings of the General Assembly were directed not alone against the decision of the Court of Ses
1509animus1508The Earl of Haddington
 assured the noble Earl that references had been made to the Lord-Advocate, and communications held with him in every stage of the proceedings. The Lord-Advocate was perfectly aware of the desire of the Government, whenever in his discretion he thought the exercise of his official duties would tend to settle the question, that he should interfere, and if that officer had not taken any step, it was because, upon a full consideration of the case, the time had not arrived when he beneficially could interfere. There were, he knew, some questions still under the consideration of the Lord-Advocate; but he was anxious that the impression should not go abroad that the Lord-Advocate had not been consulted, or that he had any doubt as to the line of conduct he should pursue.The Marquess of Normanby
 concluded, from the statement of the noble Marquess, that Government had given no orders to the Lord-Advocate, and that it was left entirely to his own discretion when and how he should proceed, it being perfectly notorious that the Lord-Advocate was himself friendly rather than otherwise to the course pursued by the majority of the General Assembly.The Earl of Haddington
1512 was quite sure, it never could have been the intention of his noble Friend to give the slightest encouragement to the violators of the law; but intention was one thing and tendency another; and this he would say, that the
1512Lord Brougham
 said, he deeply regretted the state to which Scotland had been brought in consequence of this question. He must confess, that he did not very well see what her Majesty's Ministers could do to put an end to this dispute by ordering the Lord-Advocate to do anything, for he did not know what he was to do in the present circumstances of the case; but he thought some means would and could be found if there were not so much difference and warmth of opinion here as well as in Scotland. The only way in which it was possible that this question could be settled was by trying the question on a new presentation, in consequence of the deposition of these Ministers.Lord Belhaven
 deprecated the discussion of this important question on the mere presentation of a petition.The Duke of Argyll
1511 was not surprised that his two noble Friends who spoke last, with the peculiar views they entertained upon this matter, should deprecate any continuance of the debate, and be very well pleased to rest their case, as it were, on the statement of his noble Friend at the head of the Government, and the noble Secretary of State within whose department the question more immediately and properly came; but, whatever they might have meant—he did not ascribe any such intention, but anything having a more fatal tendency on the parties engaged in these manifestly and notoriously illegal proceedings—anything having a more direct, inevitable, and powerful tendency to encourage the breakers of the law in Scotland he could not imagine. His noble Friend the Secretary of State had merely said, that the Lord-Advocate had frequently considered the subject, that if he thought anything was necessary he would act; that from his not acting as yet, he concluded he had not felt any such necessity; but when the necessity arose, his noble Friend took for granted the act would be done. Anything less satisfactory to those who wished the law to be maintained, and peace restored by proper firmness in its execution, he could hardly conceive. His noble Friend, at the head of the Government, had made a statement which he could not help thinking would be taken by the wrongdoers in Scotland as in their favour, instead of being against them. His noble Friend said, this was a grave question: no doubt, when the peace of the country was disturbed, and the violators of the law constituted the highest judicatory in the church of Scotland. There was a division of opinion, said his noble Friend, in the Court of Session, when one of the cases was first decided; there were learned and great authorities in the minority upon that occasion. [Viscount Melbourne: I said
1511Lord Brougham
 said, his noble Friend might have added that that was the judgment which the General Assembly had disobeyed. That was the judgment which the court of session had endeavoured to enforce—that was the judgment the enforcing of which had occasioned the deprivation, or at least the suspension of the seven Ministers. Until he saw the law as it stood fully obeyed, he would never give his sanction to the enactment of a new law. His noble Friend denied this to be a conflict between co-ordinate jurisdictions; but he (Lord Brougham) could not understand how it could be called a conflict at all, unless the jurisdictions were co-ordinate. A Master in Chancery might disobey the Lord Chancellor; in that case he would be guilty of disobedience if you will; of a violation of duty; of a breach of law; but there could be no conflict between the two, because there was no coordinate authority.Lord Brougham
 expressed his surprise at the opposition of the noble and learned Lord. An omission had been made in the Municipal Bill, which gave rise to a most pernicious state of things as regarded the administration of charitable property; and if their Lordships did not pass the present Bill, not only would Dissenters not have the patronage of this church preferment, but nobody else would. He could not see what danger could arise to the establishment, if in some corporations Dissenters should have the appointment to livings. There was nothing in the law of the country to prevent Dissenters presenting; and even Jews might do so in some parishes where they were rate-payers. All that was required was, that the party presented should be qualified under the Uniformity Act.Lord Brougham
1510 begged their Lordships not to be guided upon this important question by the very strong expressions which had been used by those on the other side of the House. The majority of the General Assembly had an ex-
1510The Marquess of Breadalbane
1513 thought this a most preposterous suggestion. The question had been tried already without bringing the matter anything nearer a settlement. The House had decided that it was the duty of the Presbytery to take a particular person on his trials. They refused to take him on his trials; not only that, but they ordered another man to be presented to the living. It was a mistake to suppose this a conflict between two authorities with co-ordinate jurisdiction. [Viscount Melbourne.—The authorities may be conflicting without being co-ordinate.] But the noble Marquess, the Secretary of State, for the Home Department said, co-ordinate. The noble Viscount stated, the question as between constituted authorities differing in opinion. That was not the state of the case; there was no collision; the Church of Scotland was established by special Acts of Parliament. Those acts imposed conditions. Who was to interpret those acts?
1513The Earl of Aberdeen
1506jure devoluto,15051504 on presenting a petition from the seven suspended ministers of Strathbogie, said, that he should feel it necessary, for a few moments, to claim the attention of their Lordships, as well as of the noble Viscount opposite, while he offered to the House some observations on this, painful subject. The case had been brought before their Lordships about a month ago, by a noble Lord (Dunfermline) with so much force and ability that it was not necessary for him to go over the circumstances again. The petitioners complained that they were suspended from their sacred office by a sentence of the General Assembly, and they called on the House to interfere for the purpose of preventing that sentence of deposition from being carried into effect. The noble Viscount, on the occasion to which he had alluded, had declined to interfere for the purpose of rendering justice to those individuals. He said that the majority of
1506jure devoluto,15051504The Earl of Aberdeen
 had a petition to present against this Bill from the corporation of Warwick. That corporation possessed property of much value, which they stated was not charitable, but bequeathed for the purposes of the church and the corporation; and the petitioners contended that this property ought not to be taken away from them. He should certainly vote against the Bill.The Earl of Warwick
 said, that with respect to what had fallen from his noble and learned Friend as to there being no proof of the facts on which he had objected to this Bill, all he (Lord Lyndhurst) wanted was a committee to inquire into the facts of the case.Lord Lyndhurst
1517 having presented a petition from 2,000 bankers, merchants, and others, inhabitants of Bristol, praying against the Bill, would state very shortly his ground of objection to it. It was a Bill which embraced very important considerations, and questions of very great difficulty; and he conceived that a Bill of this description ought not to have come up to that House at such a period of the session, and particularly in the state in which the two Houses of Parliament were placed at the present moment. The object of this Bill was to confirm and complete the title of those trustees who had been appointed under the Municipal Reform Act. He had no inclination or disposition whatever to do anything to assist the title of those persons. A great number of these trustees consisted of Dissenters from the church of England, and a great part of the property to which the trusts referred consisted of estates, originally granted for purposes connected with the church of England, and of advowsons. The trustees therefore became entitled to present to livings. This was a reason why he thought their Lordships ought to confirm the title of the trustees. With reference to the corporation of Bristol, he learned from the petition which had been intrusted to him, that the number of trustees appointed for the management of the estates of the city amounted to twenty-one; ten of them were Dissenters, and of the eleven who professed to belong to the church of England, some were tolerably lukewarm in their professions. A great number of the estates had obviously been granted for the benefit of members of the church of England, and there were three advowsons among the property. When the Municipal Corporations Reform Bill was under their Lordships' consideration, what course had they pursued? It was urged that many corporations possessed advowsons, and their Lordships deemed that those advowsons should be sold, and until that was done the presentment should vest in the Bishops of the respective dioceses. A remedy was therefore pro
1517Lord Lyndhurst
: It is a conflict, though an unequal one.Viscount Melbourne
 begged to say, that nothing was farther from his mind than to give anything like encouragement to those parties who had disobeyed the law. He had said, that the Government had executed the law, and that it was their intention to execute the law, but he had also said, that the General Assembly having done that which it was contended they had no right to do, the General Assembly having, as was contended, by the deprivation of these seven Ministers, exceeded their power and authority, he did say, that means existed at present to enforce the execution of the law, and that it was for Government to consider whether they would not trust to the law itself for its own vindication, and he must add that no noble Lord had pointed out a course, within the power of Government, by which the existing law could be more speedily and effectually enforced, than by those means which the existing law possessed.Viscount Melbourne
jure devoluto,1507 agreed with the noble Earl, that the circumstances of this case could not be viewed but with feelings of the deepest regret, involving, as they did, not only the state of the Church of Scotland, but the position and interests of the parties whose petition the noble Earl had presented. He was not, however, prepared to admit that there had been any remissness on the part of Ministers, or that they ought to have taken a course different from that which they had adopted. He considered that Government could not have taken any effectual step for the purpose of terminating those differences that would not be liable to very grave objections. It was true that Government and Parliament might have put an end to the dispute by deciding in favour of one or other of the contending parties. They might have decided in favour of the General Assembly, and declared the measures pursued by that body to have been just and proper, or they might have declared that the General Assembly were acting illegally. They might have done this; but either of these measures would have been an intermeddling with the internal affairs of the Church of Scotland, and might be attended with the most serious and injurious effects. He, therefore, conceived that to have recourse to an Act of Parliament, for the purpose of settling the question would have been dangerous and unwise. The noble Earl said, that the petitioners were suffering in consequence of their obedience to the law of the land. That certainly was true, and he was sorry that it was so. But in viewing this subject, it was necessary for their Lordships to consider the nature of the question in dispute. The General Assembly had exercised powers, their right to exercise which was denied by the court of session. The question was brought under the consideration of the court in Scotland, and he found that a minority of the judges, considerable, both in point of number and talent, were with the General Assembly, and supported their claim. It appeared that a wide difference of opinion existed between the great ecclesiastical authority and the great civil authority in Scotland. The General Assembly declared that the civil court had no jurisdiction in this case, and six of the civil judges, amongst whom was Mr. Jeffrey, were of that opinion. The noble Earl said,
jure devoluto,1507Viscount Melbourne
15161515" That all the estate, right, interest, and tide which at the time existed in the corporation, or in any individual holding it for the corporation, shall continue till the 1st day of
1515ipso facto1514 rose to move the second reading of the Charitable Trusts' Bill. He said, the objects of this bill were very simple and most important. It had been
15161515" That all the estate, right, interest, and tide which at the time existed in the corporation, or in any individual holding it for the corporation, shall continue till the 1st day of
1515ipso facto1514The Lord Chancellor
 was understood to observe, that the Auchterarder case came before their Lordships in consequence of the operation of the Veto Act. The party presented had been refused by the Presbytery, in consequence of not having the majority required by the Veto. The subject of the appeal was, that the Presbytery might be ordered to put the party on his trials. Whatever took place in the Auchterarder case, that was the extent of the decision of that House.The Lord Chancellor
1518, in reply, observed, that under existing circumstances the property to which the Bill referred was in
1518The Lord Chancellor
 opposed the amendment, on the ground that there were grades of criminality in the offence; that in some forms it was aggravated, and in others of less importance. If they drew a distinction at all, they must draw it in such a number of cases, that it would be an absurdity to abolish this punishment at all.The Earl of Wicklow
: The question was not, what crimes were worthy of death, but what were the punishments which would be effectual in repressing crime. When jurors forswore themselves rather than bring in a verdict of guilty, from the apprehension that loss of life would follow their decision, they must alter the punishment, for it was no longer effectual for its purpose.The Earl of Radnor
 thought it was only common sense to be desirous of obtaining the opinions of the learned judges, who were the most competent persons in the land to give an opinion on such a subject. He hoped, that the debate would be adjourned.The Earl of Haddington
 said, that there was no question of law to be submitted to the judges. The question simply was, whether such and such crimes were to remain capital felonies punishable with death. He could not, therefore, consent to the postponement of the bill.The Earl of Winchilsea
 thought the best course would be to postpone the bill until to-morrow.The Earl of Haddington
1557 said, that
1557The Marquess of Normanby
 knew not what the noble and learned Lord opposite meant by the sanction of public opinion. He had seen some clever publications, urging the abolition of the punishment of death, but who would say, that these conveyed correctly the public opinion?The Earl of Westmeath
 said, it was true, this bill had been carried this Session by the House of Commons; but it had been rejected Session after Session in former years. And how was it now carried? In the very last days of the Session, when the House was hurrying to terminate its business, and when it could not give due consideration to any subject of importance, much less to one of such vast magnitude as this. If they passed this law, they would lower themselves in public opinion; for as the organ of the public voice, they would sanction what the people of this country would never confirm —that sodomy and rape were not crimes of so heinous a character as to deserve death.The Earl of Wicklow
1558 said, that among the reasons given for postponing the measure was the great difficulty in framing a provision of this description. He had on a former occasion, when the subject was before the House, stated those difficulties. He thought, that the subject, from the difficulties which surrounded it, required further consideration, and that their Lordships should pause before they proceeded to introduce a change in the present law. He was not aware, that it would be impossible to revert to the capital punishment in aggravated cases, if it should be found free from the objections to which he had alluded, and if the difficulties could be overcome. He could not agree with
1558Lord Brougham
 had no objection to adjourn the debate until tomorrow. It would be extremely inconvenient to postpone it beyond to-morrow, because, if there were any amendments made, the bill must be returned to the Commons.The Marquess of Normanby
 could see no reason for postponing the whole subject. They could divide upon the clause at once, and if it should not be rejected, then the consideration of the proposition before their Lordships could be postponed until to-morrow. He hoped his noble Friend would persevere in his motion for expunging the clause.The Earl of Wicklow
 moved the second reading of the Punishment of Death Bill.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, he should move as an amendment to the clause relating to rape, that after the word "death," near the end of the clause, should be inserted "excepting in cases of rape, where more than one person is concerned."The Earl of Haddington
[Signed by the mayor (Shute) of Gloucester and four county and city magistrates.]""In the hope that this private communication of the facts above stated may tend to determine your Lordship in carrying the proposed ameliorations of the criminal law sufficiently far to meet the decidedly altered views of society, and to secure the community against the improper acquittal of guilty and dangerous men, we beg to subscribe ourselves, your Lordship's most obedient humble servants,"We may throw the blame upon the jury, it is true, but that will not correct the evil of which we complain, since, from what we have seen of the difficulty of obtaining convictions in capital cases, and from what we know of the growing repugnance in the public mind to the sacrifice of life, we consider it quite certain that juries will be found more and more unwilling to become accessory to a punishment at which their feelings will increasingly revolt as it becomes more rare, and the uselessness of which, for the protection of society, is daily becoming more apparent.1554"It is this circumstance that has excited and alarmed the public mind in this neighbourhood with regard to this case, and has induced us to bring it especially under the notice of your Lordship at this important juncture, as a clear and practical illustration of the evils arising out of our present system of criminal jurisprudence—evils which, we believe, can only be remedied by such an alteration in the law as
1554"The jury, after a long deliberation, inquired of the judge whether they could bring in any mitigating form of verdict which would save the lives of the prisoners, of whose guilt such an inquiry proves they were convinced. On finding, however, there was no alternative between acquittal and death, their fears of being accessory to the infliction of this dreadful punishment appears to have overcome every other consideration, as they soon returned a verdict of ' not guilty,' to the astonishment of all who had heard the evidence given in the court. The case has produced an unusual sensation in this city and neighbourhood, and every one feels that there must be something decidedly wrong for men so clearly guilty of so black a crime to be thrown back upon society altogether unpunished, by the verdict of twelve disinterested men. And if the evil, wherever it may be, is not speedily corrected, society will be left in a fearfully unprotected condition, and a great encouragement will be given to the commission of the deepest crimes."It appears that three men. named Parry, Wright and Rea, were indicted for a violent assault and rape, committed on the person of Mary Lee. The evidence not only proved most clearly the guilt of the prisoners, but also that the crime had been committed under the most revolting circumstances of violence and cruelty."We the undersigned, being resident in and near Gloucester, feel deeply interested in a trial that has just taken place at the assizes in this city, and considering its result has a most important bearing on the proposed alterations in the criminal laws, now under the care of Government, feel it our duty to lay before your Lordship some important particulars of the trial, for the veracity of which we beg to refer to the judge, Mr. Baron Bolland; to Sergeant Ludlow, or to any other official person connected with the court.Copy of Memorial from several Magistrates, addressed to the Right Hon. Lord John Russell, as Secretary of State for the Home Department, in"Copy of Memorial from several Magistrates, addressed to the Right Hon. Lord John Russell, as Secretary of State for the Home Department, in1553 felt it his duty to resist the amendment; her Majesty's Government thought the proposition of an hon. and learned Gentleman in the other House was well worthy of their attention, and one it would be consistent with their duty to support. He (the Marquess of Normanby) thought, that as far as number was concerned, the offence was he same. He would call the attention of their Lordships to a circumstance which
[Signed by the mayor (Shute) of Gloucester and four county and city magistrates.]""In the hope that this private communication of the facts above stated may tend to determine your Lordship in carrying the proposed ameliorations of the criminal law sufficiently far to meet the decidedly altered views of society, and to secure the community against the improper acquittal of guilty and dangerous men, we beg to subscribe ourselves, your Lordship's most obedient humble servants,"We may throw the blame upon the jury, it is true, but that will not correct the evil of which we complain, since, from what we have seen of the difficulty of obtaining convictions in capital cases, and from what we know of the growing repugnance in the public mind to the sacrifice of life, we consider it quite certain that juries will be found more and more unwilling to become accessory to a punishment at which their feelings will increasingly revolt as it becomes more rare, and the uselessness of which, for the protection of society, is daily becoming more apparent.1554"It is this circumstance that has excited and alarmed the public mind in this neighbourhood with regard to this case, and has induced us to bring it especially under the notice of your Lordship at this important juncture, as a clear and practical illustration of the evils arising out of our present system of criminal jurisprudence—evils which, we believe, can only be remedied by such an alteration in the law as
1554"The jury, after a long deliberation, inquired of the judge whether they could bring in any mitigating form of verdict which would save the lives of the prisoners, of whose guilt such an inquiry proves they were convinced. On finding, however, there was no alternative between acquittal and death, their fears of being accessory to the infliction of this dreadful punishment appears to have overcome every other consideration, as they soon returned a verdict of ' not guilty,' to the astonishment of all who had heard the evidence given in the court. The case has produced an unusual sensation in this city and neighbourhood, and every one feels that there must be something decidedly wrong for men so clearly guilty of so black a crime to be thrown back upon society altogether unpunished, by the verdict of twelve disinterested men. And if the evil, wherever it may be, is not speedily corrected, society will be left in a fearfully unprotected condition, and a great encouragement will be given to the commission of the deepest crimes."It appears that three men. named Parry, Wright and Rea, were indicted for a violent assault and rape, committed on the person of Mary Lee. The evidence not only proved most clearly the guilt of the prisoners, but also that the crime had been committed under the most revolting circumstances of violence and cruelty."We the undersigned, being resident in and near Gloucester, feel deeply interested in a trial that has just taken place at the assizes in this city, and considering its result has a most important bearing on the proposed alterations in the criminal laws, now under the care of Government, feel it our duty to lay before your Lordship some important particulars of the trial, for the veracity of which we beg to refer to the judge, Mr. Baron Bolland; to Sergeant Ludlow, or to any other official person connected with the court.Copy of Memorial from several Magistrates, addressed to the Right Hon. Lord John Russell, as Secretary of State for the Home Department, in"Copy of Memorial from several Magistrates, addressed to the Right Hon. Lord John Russell, as Secretary of State for the Home Department, in1553The Marquess of Normanby
1555 intimated, that it was his intention to propose an amendment, by striking out the two last lines of
1555The Earl of Winchilsea
 said, that the rational and regular course to pursue would be to consider the proposed amendments before they proceeded to expunge the clause altogether.Lord Brougham
 said, he saw most willing to give way to the opinions which had been expressed by the noble Duke as well as other noble Lords, and he would have no objection to have this debate adjourned until to-morrow. At the same time, he begged to give notice, that he would move to strike out the first part of the clause altogether, or however amended it should be by their Lordships, he was determined to move that it be entirely expunged.The Earl of Winchilsea
 hoped the noble and learned Lord would withdraw the insinuation he had thrown out to the effect that the author of the bill did not intend that it should pass. The bill might be objectionable in many respects; but, for all that, he could assure the noble and learned Lord, the framers of it had been actuated by none but sincere intentions for its enactment.The Marquess of Normanby
 moved, that their Lordships should resolve themselves into a Committee on the Bribery at Elections Bill.The Marquess of Normanby
15621561 fully agreed in the strong desire which had been generally expressed, that some measure should be immediately passed through the Houses of Parliament which would have the effect of putting an end to
15621561Lord Brougham
 said, that he was quite aware of the great hardship that those parties would be subject to, who were interested in the progress of private bills through Parliament this Session, by having their bills set aside by the dissolution of Parliament, and the heavy expense they had been already put to, thrown away. He had made inquiries into the subject, with a view of, if possible, providing some remedy for these grievances, and he had found, that on former occasions, of a similar description to the present, the Government had introduced a resolution into the new Parliament to place those parties in the same situation as that in which they would have stood had there been no dissolution. He begged to assure the noble Lord, that the same course would be pursued by her Majesty's Government, in the ensuing Parliament which had been adopted by other Governments to which he had alluded.Viscount Duncannon
1559 did not think it was becoming in their Lordships to require the opinion of the judges to authorise them to legislate on this subject. He could not at all subscribe to the opinion, that the House ought to legislate on the opinion of the judges. He objected to the manner in which it was proposed to obtain that opinion. The noble and learned Lord was to collect it in his conversation with those learned persons, and
1559The Earl of Harewood
 begged to ask the noble Viscount whether he had considered the hardship to which individuals who had private bills before the House would be exposed by the dissolution, and what the noble Viscount proposed to do?Lord Wharncliffe
 suggested, that the word "concerned" in the amendment of his noble Friend, might have a larger legal sense than he intended, as one who was privy to the commission of the offence, though absent, was said to be concerned in it.Lord Lyndhurst
, in explanation, said, he did not wish that the opinion of the judges should be obtained as a basis for legislation. He only desired to obtain their general impression on the subject.Lord Denman
1556 said, he was extremely unwilling to take any part on a question relating to the amendment of the criminal law, unless he distinctly saw that the House of Lords was determined to pass the amendments suggested, because he felt the utmost inconvenience if, as a legislator, he should oppose a law which, afterwards, as a judge, he might be bound to carry into effect. He had therefore abstained from taking part in the discussion which took place on the measure the other night, and had also abstained from coming down to the House, because he found the House of Commons had sent up a bill to abolish the punishment of death in cases of that sort, and he waited for the decision of their Lordships, and to bow to the law as it should be pronounced by the Legislature. But he must say he thought, when the House of Commons had sanctioned a principle as to the offence in general, and when their Lordships also had sanctioned a principle as to the offence in general, it was a monstrous anomaly that capital punishments should be kept alive with regard to the particular mode of the offence. It was clear, that the offence as committed by many persons might partake of a character of cruelty and profligacy which might not be the case with regard to offences committed by individuals. But rapes committed by individuals might be of a far worse character than those committed by several persons. He (Lord Denman) had had experience on this subject, and he knew by experience these rapes were seldom deliberately committed. They were usually the result of some accidental communication at a fair or junketing, where persons of different sexes came together, and when at a late hour of the night some unfortunate female, whose imprudence had led her into the company, became the victim of brutal and disgusting outrage. But he was sure, that there were cases of this sort where their Lordships' feelings, and the feelings of the public would revolt at the infliction of the punishment of death. Then why should one class of cases be selected in order to raise inquiries respecting it, and to raise the most painful duties that could possibly be cast upon a jury? Was it fit still to ask juries as an alternative, whether they would commit perjury or that
1556Lord Denman
 said, the question was, whether public opinion had decided the principle of this measure, not whether one day or ten days were allowed for the discussion of it.Lord Denman
 differed from the noble and learned Lord. It would be a waste of time to discuss amendments, if the House should be of opinion that the whole clause ought to be expunged.The Earl of Devon
 had ever been favourable to the system which had prevailed of late years, and supported proposition after proposition for the mitigation of the penal law. The object they had to determine was not in his opinion, whether they should refer for information to the judges for their opinion, as a basis whereupon to legislate. He was convinced already, that the alteration in the law proposed in the third clause of this bill would not effect the object sought—namely, the certainty of conviction by the juries impannelled. He should, therefore, support the proposition, that the clause be altogether omitted.The Earl of Devon
1560 said, that the question before the House was a question which would be likely to be brought to a more satisfactory decision by an adjournment. It appeared, that all the other questions remained, with ample time and opportunity for their Lordships to decide upon them. He was, therefore, afraid, that if they did not adjourn this debate, they would not have time or opportunity to arrive at any satisfactory result upon it. He hoped they would adjourn this ques-
1560The Duke of Wellington
 meant nothing personally offensive to the framers of the bill, he only spoke of the impression which its contents would make on the mind of any man.Lord Abinger
1563 concurred in all the animadversions of his noble and learned
1563Lord Abinger
 observed, the question which had been started, showed with what a serious question they were dealing. It would really appear, from the way in which it was forced on them, that they were a cipher in legislation.Lord Abinger
 said, he was certain that the noble Lord opposite could not be aware of the great inconvenience which would be produced in Manchester and elsewhere if the amendment were to be carried. It would, in fact, be impossible for him to overstate the serious consequences which would then arise, and the great confusion which it would cause in those places. He begged to inform the noble Lord that it was to the clerk of the peace, and the clerk of the peace only, that compensation was to be granted. He would hope, that under all these circumstances, the noble Lord would not endanger the bill itself, by pressing his amendment to a division.The Marquess of Normanby
 reminded noble Lords that this had not been treated as any party question by the other House of Parliament, as it appeared that Sir Robert Peel as well as Lord John Russell had voted against any compensation. In mentioning this fact, he only spoke in vindication of the course which the other House had thought proper to pursue upon this subject.Lord Brougham
 having pressed his motion, the House divided on the question that the bill be committed—Contents 32: Not Contents 32.The Earl of Wilton
 then moved a proviso to the effect, "that nothing in the act should be construed as affecting the borough of Manchester."The Earl of Wilton
 observed, that the effect of the proviso, if carried, would be to defeat the bill.The Marquess of Normanby
 was favourable to the amendment. He admitted, that the reasonings of the law lords the other evening in favour of the clause would have been extremely cogent if they had been founded on fact, but he denied that such was the case. He could not agree that the paucity of convictions arose from an impression in the public mind, that the punishment was at all disproportioned to the offence. It arose entirely from the peculiarity of the proof in each case.The Earl of Wicklow
 hoped, that the noble Marquess would extend the operation of this bill to Ireland.The Earl of Wicklow
1570 replied, that it was his intention to extend it, at
1570The Marquess of Normanby
 objected to the bill proceeding in its present state, his object being to exempt Manchester from its operation. He therefore objected to the motion that the bill go into committee. The reason why he proposed this was, that the clerk of the peace of Manchester had had no compensation given to him, and this bill would therefore inflict great injustice on him.The Earl of Wilton
 said, that if the noble Lord pressed his amendment, he would decidedly endanger the passing of the bill. He thought if they exempted Manchester from the operation of the bill, a heavier rate must fall on other places. It would in fact, transfer the payment of the rates from one party to another.The Marquess of Normanby
 must object to the manner in which the noble Marquess was pressing on this bill.The Marquess of Salisbury
 denied, that he was pressing this bill at all improperly upon the House. It had been for a considerable time under discussion in the other House, as well as in that of their Lordships, and came up now in its due course from the House of Commons.The Marquess of Normanby
1567 presented a petition from Newtownards, in the county Down, against any alteration of the Corn-laws. In presenting this petition, the noble Marquess begged to call the attention of their Lordships to the facts connected with it, and to the circumstances under which it had been signed. In order that the House might fully understand those circumstances, and might rightly appreciate the value which ought to be attached to this petition, he must inform them that a universal movement had been made in Ulster by the Radicals and Repealers of that district in favour of an alteration of the existing Corn-laws. This movement took place
1567The Marquess of Londonderry
 bore testimony to the almost universal feeling which prevailed through the north of Ireland in favour of the present Corn-laws. From his own personal knowledge he could testify to the respectability, and wealth, and station, of the petitioners whose petition the noble Marquess had presented.The Marquess of Downshire
 wished to ask a question of the noble Marquess opposite, relative to two bills, which, after having been duly considered in their Lordships' House, had been passed, and sent to the other House of Parliament. One of these bills was for the better drainage of towns, the other for the improvement of buildings. He wished to know what had been done with those measures?The Earl of Wicklow
 regretted to state, that the bills had been abandoned, in consequence of the termination of the Session at an earlier period than had been expected. He had, however, one consolation, that it was not his fault, nor did it arise from any want of zeal on the part of the Government, that the bills had not been passed.The Marquess of Normanby
 moved the resumption of the adjourned debate on the amendments proposed to the abolition of the Punishment of Death Bill, after the third reading.The Marquess of Normanby
 would not, after the discussion which had taken place, persist in pressing his amendment (for the continuance of capital punishment in cases of rape in which more persons than one were engaged). He, therefore begged leave to withdraw it.The Earl of Haddington
 was of opinion, that the third clause exempted from the punishment of death the perpetrators of certain crimes that ought to be visited with the heaviest punishment. The crime to which the first part of the clause related, was one which he thought ought especially to remain a subject for capital punishment. He implored their Lordships not to withdraw the punishment of death from a crime so utterly abhorrent to the feelings of human nature. It was to be observed, that a conviction for that crime could not be obtained unless on the clearest and most undoubted evidence. Their Lordships, he was convinced, would do great violence to the moral feelings of a very large class of the community, if they exempted this crime from the punishment of death. He, therefore, moved, that all the words of the 3rd clause from the word "that" in the fifth line to the word "felon" in the seventh line be omitted.The Earl of Winchilsea
1569 was glad that the noble Earl had proposed his
1569The Marquess of Normanby
 again rose to move the other amendment of which he had given notice. His object was, to keep the law in its present state. If the capital punishment in cases of rape were remitted, he very much feared the offence would alarmingly increase. He therefore begged leave to move, that the clause be omitted.The Earl of Winchilsea
 defended the clause. If capital punishment were retained, the convictions would be greatly diminished. He hoped their Lordships would not be induced to depart from the principle of this clause, which they had already affirmed in a very full House.The Marquess of Normanby
 observed that in the former stage there was not a single dissentient, for humanity strongly demanded that dogs should be rescued from the brutal treatment we had long seen inflicted upon them by their inhuman masters. He therefore hoped his noble Friend would not persevere in his opposition.The Earl of Wicklow
 said, it would be most cruel to fine a baker, as this bill proposed, who should leave a dog to take care of his cart while he went to' serve a customer. He thought this was going too far. However, he would support the general principle of protecting dogs from the cruelty of their masters.The Marquess of Salisbury
 suggested to his noble Friend the propriety of postponing the further progress of this measure until next Session.The Marquess of Normanby
 thought the commutation of the capital punishment would secure conviction where the offence had been committed, whereas the retention of the extreme penalty would in many cases not only prevent prosecution, but interfere with conviction.Lord Ashburton
1573 opposed the bill, as he did not see the necessity of extending the operations of such a measure into the rural districts; and in the large towns it would not be necessary, as the Municipal Corporations Act would enable the authorities of those places to forbid dogcarts by by-laws if they thought proper. Yet, of all those towns, the only one that had made a by-law against dog-carts was Oxford, probably in order that the riding of the students should not be impeded. But he objected to the bill on principle, as it was excessively severe, for it would be a great hardship to fine a baker, for in-
1573Lord Portman
 said, he did not know how they could leave out Manchester from the operation, so as to render the measure efficient or satisfactory.Viscount Duncannon
 would consent to this exemption, as it would not endanger the bill, as it was a good bill as far as it concerned Warwickshire.The Earl of Warwick
 moved the committal of the Dog Carts Bill.The Earl of Chichester
 said, when this bill had been brought forward on a former occasion a complaint,had been made, that certain officers whose offices were to be put an end to by the bill had not had compensation, and it was agreed that the bill should stand over in order that compensation might be given and a bill brought into the House of Commons for that purpose. The House of Commons had given compensation in two instances, but had refused it in the case of Manchester. Their Lordships having previously allowed the bill to stand over till compensation was granted, and that having been refused as to Manchester, it appeared to him that this bill ought not to pass as regarded Manchester. The bill applied to various boroughs, and if they left out the borough of Manchester there would be no hardship as to rates on the other boroughs, as the charges relating to Manchester would be left out.Lord Lyndhurst
1572 said, their Lordships were perhaps not aware of the extensive objects of this bill to facilitate the administration of the criminal law in all the new boroughs. They could not proceed to the administration of justice without the assistance of this bill. The bill had come before the House, and objections had been made that certain persons supposed to be entitled to compensation were not provided for; and to a certain extent the clerk of the peace of the Duchy of Lancaster appeared to be entitled to compensation. There were other claims also, and it was clear that their Lordships would not support the measure without such provision. But their Lordships could not introduce this provision, and they had suspended the proceedings on the bill, in order to see what the House of Commons would do as to compensation. The case of the individual that the noble Earl advocated was subjected to discussion in the House of Commons, and that House decided against the claim. Their Lordships had been in the habit of considering that compensation was not a subject for the jurisdiction of that (the Lords) House, and the question now, therefore, was whether the House of Commons were competent to decide that ques-
1572The Lord Chancellor
 admitted, that it would not only be great injustice, but the worst policy in the world, when they were making practical reforms, if they did not, when injury was likely to ensue, award a fair and just measure of compensation. But he did not think, that that principle applied to the present case. The Bill did not, it should be observed, abolish the office. It lessened the profits, but it also reduced the labours connected with it. In all other cases where compensation was granted the situation held by the individual to be compensated was permanent. Such was not the case here. This was an office held during pleasure—the pleasure of the justices. The clerk might be removed by them from the situation any day.Lord Brougham
 presented a petition from Footscray for the total repeal of the Corn-laws. He said, that he felt it his duty to the important question of the Corn-laws and free trade generally, to state, regarding what was called the appeal to the country about to be made, that he did not consider it as a fair appeal upon that question, and when he recollected the circumstances in which the appeal was made, and the points upon which it really turned, he should by no means look upon the result of the general election as a decision of the country upon the Corn-laws and free trade.Lord Brougham
 moved the third reading of the Criminal Justice in Boroughs Bill,The Marquess of Normanby
 said, it was his intention to move, that the borough of Manchester should be exempted from the operation of the bill. He did so because the measure did not provide compensation for the clerk to the magistrates of Manchester, whose interests would be injuriously affected by it. That individual had for many years, performed the onerousThe Earl of Wilton
1580 complained of the course that had been taken on this occasion. Their Lordships having affirmed the intention of the framers of this Bill in the other House by the second division on Friday last, he believed there was not one of their Lordships who did not understand that nothing further was to be done, with reference to the measure, beyond correcting an inaccuracy which had crept into the Bill, in consequence of the result of the first division on the same evening. Not the least notice had been given of any intention to introduce a contest on a point that had reference to what the noble and learned Lord was pleased to call the ideal privileges of the other House of Parliament. He denied that this gentleman had any just claim to com-
1580The Marquess of Normanby
 said, it was understood, he thought, that this subject would not again be renewed and discussed, and he believed the noble Earl (Wilton) said so while on his legs. It was said, that justice should be done to the individual in question. But would it be doing justice to Birmingham and Manchester to throw out this bill? He could not see much justice in the amendment of the noble Earl.The Earl of Radnor
 denied, that there was any understanding to the effect stated by the noble Earl (Earl Radnor) opposite. The Government endeavoured to press the bill forward, on Friday, and forced a second division upon the same amendment.The Marquess of Salisbury
 repeated, that it was his impression, that the subject would not be renewed to-night, and asserted that the second division was not upon the same amendment.The Marquess of Normanby
 had voted against the amendment of his noble Friend (the Earl of Wilton) on the occasion alluded to, but he must say, that he fully expected and believed, that his noble Friend would take the course that he had taken this evening. He should again vote against his noble Friend, though not without great pain; but he did not think sufficient reasons had been shown for the rejection of the measure.The Earl of Wicklow
 rose to apprise their Lordships, that the effect of agreeing to the amendment would be to alter a money clause; and without wishing to insist upon any fancied privileges of the House of Commons, he thought their Lordships would admit, that they had no power to do any such thing.The Marquess of Normanby
 wished to ask the noble Marquess, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it was the intention of the Government to retain Mr. Nicholls, Mr. Hawley, Mr. Hancock, and Mr. Phelan, in their offices after the evidence which had been produced before their Lordships respecting them.The Marquess of Westmeath
 said, that Mr. Stanley, as he had already informed their Lordships, had resigned, and with regard to the other Gentlemen mentioned by the noble Marquess, he begged to inform him that there existed no intention on the part of the Government to remove them from their offices.The Marquess of Normanby
employés. wished the Government much joy of their employés.The Marquess of Westmeath
 stated, that when the bill was in the other House, the chairman of the Warwick quarter sessions, who was a Member of that House, proposed a clause to give compensation to the persons claiming it, in the same manner as under the Municipal Corporation Act, but to that fair and reasonable proposition the Government objected. He thought their Lordships would establish a very bad precedent by passing the bill in its present shape.The Earl of Warwick
 said, the only object of the amendment was to-exclude Manchester from the operation of the bill, It was not a substantive or positive proposition to insert or strike out a money clause. Surely their Lordships' privileges were not to be so much restricted as to prevent them giving their decision upon such an amendment as that proposed by the noble Earl.Lord Lyndhurst
 supported the amendment. He wished their Lordships would do on this as they had done on former occasions—namely, insert what they conceived to be a proper compensation; and if the other House thought that their ideal privileges were invaded, let them reject the measure, and introduce a new one that would meet the justice of the case. Compensation had been granted to the clerk of the justices of the county of Warwick, who stood in the same situation that this gentleman did; and he did not see any reason why the latter, who was undoubtedly a meritorious officer, should not also be compensated.Lord Lyndhurst
1579 was of opinion, that compensation should be granted to this gentleman. Care had always been taken by their Lordships that individuals should not be injured by any measure that came before them, and he hoped that they would not, on the present occasion, depart from so wise and just a principle. There never was a better case made out for compensation than this. The gentleman alluded to had served the office for twenty-five years, and had given complete satisfaction to all those with whom he had been in communication during that long period. This measure would deprive him of a great part of the emoluments of the office which he held without providing any compensation for him, and the amendment of his noble Friend was intended to prevent the perpetration of such a wrong. The amendment would not put an end to the Bill, which would still be applicable to Birmingham, Bolton, Warwick, and other places, though Manchester was excluded from its operation. Compensation was, it appeared, refused by the other House; but that was no reason why their Lordships should not express the feeling
1579The Duke of Wellington
 opposed the amendment. The claims of the individual alluded to had been rejected by the House of Commons. It would be a great hardship if other places should be deprived of the benefits to be derived under this Bill because the claims of this individual to compensation were not recognized.The Lord Chancellor
 conceived that this was a case in which compensation ought to be granted. It was allowed with reference to the clerk of the magistrates of the county of Warwick, and could not justly be withheld in this.Lord Abinger
 addressed her Majesty as follows:—Most Gracious Sovereign, we your Majesty's faithful Commons, approach your Majesty with sentiments of unfeigned devotion and loyalty. In granting the supplies for the service of the present year, it has been our anxious desire to place at the disposal of your Majesty the means whereby your Majesty's naval and military establishment may be upheld in complete efficiency both at home and abroad; and we feel a strong conviction, that in thus enabling your Majesty to maintain the honour of your Majesty's Crown, and to protect the just interests of your Majesty's subjects, we have adopted a course which, under the favour of Divine Providence, is best calculated to secure for this country and the world the continued blessings of peace. We now tender to your Majesty an act to apply certain sums of money for the service of the year 1841, and to appropriate the supplies granted in this Session of Parliament, to which in all humility, we pray your Majesty's gracious assent.The Speaker
 said, it is her Majesty's royal will and pleasure that this Parliament be prorogued to Tuesday, the 29th of June instant, to be then here holden, and this Parliament is accordingly prorogued till Tuesday, the 29th of June.The Lord Chancellor
 addressed their Lordships:—My Lords,—Her Majesty not thinking fit to be present here this day in her Royal person, has been pleased to cause a commission to be issued under the great seal for the opening and holding this Parliament.The Lord Chancellor
2 said,—My Lords and Gentlemen,—We have it in command from Her Majesty to let you know that you shall hereafter be informed of the cause of calling this Parliament together; but it being necessary that a Speaker for
2The Lord Chancellor
 singly first took the oaths at the Table.The Lord Chancellor
 accompanied by a numerous body of Commoners, having come to the Bar, the right hon. Gentleman said: My Lords, I am to acquaint your Lordships that, in obedience to her Majesty's commands, her Majesty's faithful Commons have proceeded to exercise their undoubted right and privilege in the election of a Speaker. I have now to acquaint your Lordships, that their choice, however unworthy, has fallen upon me, and I now humbly submit myself to her Majesty's royal will and pleasure.Mr. Shaw Lefevre,
: My Lords, with most profound gratitude and humility I bow to her Majesty's will and pleasure, expressed by her royal confirmation of the choice of her faithful Commons; and it now becomes my duty, in the name and on behalf of the Commons of the United Kingdom, to lay claim, by humble petition, to the free exercise of all their ancient and undoubted rights and privileges, and more especially to those of freedom of speech in debate, freedom from arrest or molestation for their persons and their servants, free access to her Majesty at all convenient times, whenever occasion may require it, and that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to put the most favourable construction on all their proceedings: and for myself I am anxious and most earnestly entreat that whatever error may be committed the blame may be imputed to meThe Speaker
: Mr. Speaker; we have it further in command to inform you, that her Majesty doth most readily confirm all the rights and privileges which have ever been granted to or confirmed on the Commons by herself or any of her royal predecessors. With respect to yourself, Sir, though her Majesty is sensible that you stand in no need of such assurance, her Majesty will ever put the most favourable construction upon your words and actions.The Lord Chancellor
: Mr. Shaw Lefevre, we have in command from her Majesty to assure you that her Majesty is fully satisfied of your zeal for the public service, and that it is amply sufficient for the discharge of the arduous duty imposed on you; and her Majesty, therefore, does most readily and fully approve of the choice of her faithful Commons, and confirms you as their Speaker.The Lord Chancellor
3534333231s30ssssss2928 could assure the House that he felt very sensibly the difficult and disadvantageous position in which he was placed in rising to support this Address, and how much he stood in need of all their Lordships' indulgence; because in following his noble Friend who had moved the Address, which he wished their Lordships to adopt, his noble Friend had adduced sufficient reason on the only part of that Address in which any difference of opinion could be apprehended—sufficient, at least, in his mind, to induce any calm, dispassionate assembly to adopt the Address, and bad, therefore, rendered it difficult for him to adduce any new argument; and also because anything which came from his noble Friend came with so much weight, not only on account of his eloquence and great ability, but also on account of the high position which he held as a great landed proprietor and a great constitutional statesman. He felt, that in touching upon any of the topics referred to by his noble Friend he must appear tedious to the House. He would however endeavour to state some of the principal grounds on which he hoped and trusted their Lordships would adopt the Address which his noble Friend had just read. Upon a great portion of the Address he apprehended that there would be no difference of opinion. He thought it must be a subject of satisfaction to the House to hear that her Majesty received from foreign powers assurances of their desire to maintain with her Majesty the most friendly relations; and it must also be gratifying to them to learn that the treaty which was signed last year had been now fairly brought to an end. The policy of that treaty was discussed last year pretty fully in the House, and as it might be said to have been pretty generally approved and to have received the sanction of Parliament, it would not be necessary for him to trouble the House longer on this point, except to add, that it must be very satisfactory for them to see, that notwithstanding the difficulties which occurred in carrying that treaty into execution, the judicious employment of her Majesty's forces, and the skill and valour of those forces, com-
3534333231s30ssssss2928The Marquess of Clanricarde
 explained, that he did not say he was for a total abolition of the Corn-laws immediately: he thought he had said he was for a moderate or low duty on corn at first. But he was free to say, he hoped that in a very short time those laws might be repealed. He had not said that he did not think any foreign powers would not impose laws preventing the importation of their corn into this country; on the contrary, hereferred to a time when such laws were imposed; but his opinion was, that no such laws could prevail against the reciprocal wants of nations.The Marquess of Clanricarde
65646362 said, I cannot vote for the Address proposed by my noble and most respected relative, without troubling your Lordships with a few remarks. My Lords, I vote for that Address, in order to signify assent, as far as imperfect knowledge will justify me in forming an opinion, to those measures of commercial policy which are most pointedly alluded to in that Address; with the exception of that on the sugar duties, and that not on commercial grounds; and also to that general system of policy concerning trade, which would seem to be indicated by those
65646362Lord Lyttleton
 explained. What he said was, not that the conduct of Government on the appropriation clause was anti-Whig, but that it was a violation of constitutional principles.Lord Lyttleton
92 said that, as he intended to vote for the Address, he thought it necessary to state to their Lordships the reasons which influenced him in so doing. When either House of Parliament passed a vote of want of confidence, they did something more than the thing itself. They passed not only a vote of want of confidence against the existing Government, but they passed a vote of confidence in favour of those who were supposed to succeed them. Their Lordships were called upon to pass that vote completely in the dark. He would never consent to any vote expressing approbation of any Government unless he knew what were the measures which that Government intended to bring forward. The finances of the country now required that something should be done. What could they do? They must adopt the plane recommended by her Majesty's present Ministers—or borrow a loan—or further increase the taxes. Which of these three plans were they prepared to adopt? There was another reason which induced him to support the original Address. In his opinion it was a very inconvenient course for the House to go out of the subjects contained in the Address to vote something on some other subject. He certainly did not quite agree with his noble Friends as to the sort of speech which they had placed in the mouth of her Majesty. It went too much into details. He was bound to confess that whilst he voted against the Address he did so with reluctance—for he disagreed with his
92The Marquess of Northampton
106105104litera, scripta manct.103102ssssss101sssss100ssssSpencers99Some Lords laughed98979695sssssssssssss9493 said, that, with the opinions which he entertained as to the important subjects contained in the Speech then under discussion, and as to the conduct of the Government in bringing forward the great question of the Corn-laws, the timber duties, and the sugar duties—with these opinions, and having so often maintained the side which he supported with regard to these important subjects by argument, their Lordships would be aware that he would give his vote in favour of the Address in that form which had been recommended to them by his noble Friend behind him; but, in so doing, it would not be necessary for him to trespass upon their time by any argument at all. Yet he could not give his vote in favour of that Address without guarding on some important particulars against the inference that might be drawn from his vote that he wholly approved of the conduct of the Government even in respect to those questions to which he had alluded. Those questions had been that night fully and fairly considered in the most able, eloquent, and impressive address by his noble Friend opposite (Lord Ripon). His noble Friend, at the head of the Government, and in whose department this subject more especially lay, had certainly given no manner of answer to that speech. He seemed to think, continued the noble and learned Lord, that it was no duty of his to answer that speech, and yet he ventured to call upon your Lordships' House to disregard it. I differ entirely from my noble Friend, and when we are found sitting together, on the opposite side of the House, if a speech should be made on this side of the House, to recommend a measure which we together oppose—to propound a
106105104litera, scripta manct.103102ssssss101sssss100ssssSpencers99Some Lords laughed98979695sssssssssssss9493Lord Brougham
919089desideratum8887 was glad to infer that the noble Duke did not consider it perfect lunacy for a man to recommend some change in the Corn-laws. Before he proceeded farther, he most willingly complied with the request of the noble Duke, that he would make some distinct declaration respecting the security of the money borrowed from those most valuable institutions with which this country was ever blessed—the savings' banks. He regarded them with the deeper interest from having been himself instrumental in their first establishment in England. Depositors might rest satisfied that their money was perfectly safe, and that the Government and the Parliament, in the face of the country, pledged the revenues of the State for the security of the most sacred of the public funds. All that had been done was to convert one species of security into another, and whatever suspicion might be indulged in by noble Lords for the purposes of debate, he (the Marquess of Lansdowne) did not believe that such a suspicion had ever entered the minds of that most suspicious class of persons, the saving portion of the community. He had risen before the noble Duke (the Duke of Richmond) in order to offer a few remarks upon what had fallen from another noble Duke (the Duke of Wellington), who had delivered a speech which did him the highest honour, and to which he had listened with the greatest pleasure, although he felt it his duty to comment on some parts of it. No part did the noble Duke higher honour than what he had said respecting services of a peculiar nature rendered by the present head of the Government to the young Sovereign of this country—connected as he was, by office and personal intimacy, with his noble Friend, it was little for him to bear testimony, on his own knowledge, to the accuracy of the statement of the noble Duke; but what ever might be the issue Of this night's discussion, he was rejoiced, that the recognition of those services went forth to the world stamped with the high authority of the noble Duke. The noble Duke, how-
919089desideratum8887The Marquess of Lansdowne
in toto rejoiced that he had given way to the noble Duke who had uttered his strong opinions in terms which had not caused him at least much surprise. He did not feel so competent, as his noble Friend (Earl Spencer) to discuss with the noble Duke, points peculiarly agricultural; but with reference to a general view of the subject, he could not but. complain, after the explanation afforded by his noble Colleague (Viscount Melbourne) that the noble Duke had persevered in the taunt that his noble Colleague, according to his own confession, must be mad, because he had once stated that any man who proposed a repeal of the Corn-laws in totoThe Marquess of Lansdowne
 denied that he had ever said that his noble Fried (Viscount Melbourne) had proposed a total repeal of the Corn-laws. He was very sorry, by interposing, to spoil the joke of the noble Marquess; but it was necessary to set him right as to what he did say.The Duke of Richmond
85s84 said, that he should follow his usual course of not addressing their Lordships at any length, but having been in the Cabinet with some of the Members of the present Government, and having since his retirement supported them when in his power to do so, he could not come to a deliberate vote of want of confidence in it, without stating his reasons for doing so. He hoped, that his noble Friends would give him credit for acting on this, as on other occasions, in an open and manly way. The question of the Corn-laws was, in his opinion, of paramount importance to the best interests of the country, and he was astonished to hear his noble Friend (Earl Spencer) so distinguished as a grazier, contend, that it was not the poor but the rich land that would be thrown out of cultivation, or converted to grazing land, if the Corn-laws were repealed. But even if his noble Friend was correct in his view of it, which he was satisfied he was not, by his own showing the farmer would be the loser, for if the change would not be attended with loss, he would make it at this moment. What, however, was the fact?—that the poor land, that which it cost the most to till, and which produced the least return, would be thrown out of cultivation, and become a barren waste, and not the fertile soil of Lincolnshire, where his noble Friend grazed such beautiful short horns. A great quantity of land in the county in which he resided would be thrown entirely out of cultivation. When his noble Friend asserted, that the English farmer could compete with the foreign grower, he forgot the heavy weight of taxation which the English farmer was compelled to bear. He had great respect for his noble Friend's opinion upon any other subject, but regarding corn, he was sadly mistaken, he was sorry to hear him declare himself favourable to the total repeal of the Corn-laws, for unless the malt duty, and the various other taxes pressing peculiarly on land were repealed, the English farmer could not exist without protection. To adopt the recommendation of Ministers, would, in fact, be to adopt a scheme which one of themselves had not long since pronounced the project of a madman. That
85s84The Duke of Richmond
535251l50sllll49ss48ssss47sbonâ fide4645sssss44sssssl4342lll4140l39383736 fully concurred in the observation made by his noble Friends who moved and seconded the Address, that there were some topics referred to in the Address to which their Lordships would probably offer no objection; and for his own part he would most willingly have followed the example that had been generally set by their Lordships in the last eight years, and not offer any opposition to the Address,
535251l50sllll49ss48ssss47sbonâ fide4645sssss44sssssl4342lll4140l39383736The Earl of Ripon
 rose amidst loud cries of "Question, question." After silence had been obtained the noble Earl exclaimed — "I am Lord Coventry; a few words from me." "I think the country is in a safe state, and I hope to find it placed in the hands of the Duke of Wellington. My Lords, I hope I have not detained you."The Earl of Coventry
82Wellington: In consequence of the new matter which the noble Duke has introduced in the course of his speech, I feel obliged to trouble your Lordships with a very few words in addition to what I have already said. The noble Duke has referred to the Speech which her Majesty was advised to make at the close of the last Parliament, and says, that it is very much calculated to point public indignation against particular persons, and that I said, that those who opposed the measure proposed on the subject of the Corn-laws were opposed to her Majesty. Now, my Lords, I am totally unaware of having ever made such a statement. [The Duke of 82WellingtonViscount Melbourne
: I referred to the words of George the 3rd at the opening of Parliament in 1784.Viscount Melbourne
727170696867omnium gatherum66: The nature
727170696867omnium gatherum66Viscount Melbourne said
8180ex-parte"I imagine the point is (observe, my Lords, it is not to inquire into the Corn-laws) to classify all the information that can be procured, relative to the duties on the importation of commodities, and state that information to the House. And, (continued the President of the Board of Trade) I think that the labours of the Committee will be found exceedingly useful."" The committee appears to be very comprehensive in its constitution. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman (alluding to the President of the Board of Trade) will state whether its inquiry is to extend to the subject of the Corn-laws?"797877" On a full consideration of the present situation of affairs, and of the extraordinary circumstances which have produced it, I am induced to put an end to this Session of Parliament; I feel it a duty which I owe to the Constitution and to the country, in such a situation, to recur as speedily as possible to the sense of my people by a new Parliament. I trust that this measure will tend to obviate the mischiefs arising from the unhappy divisions and distractions which have lately subsisted; and that the various important objects which will require consideration may be afterwards proceeded upon with less interruption and with happier effect. I can have no other object but to preserve the true principles of our free and happy Constitution, and to employ the powers entrusted to me by the law for the only end for which they were given, the good of my people.": I have the words here, and I beg your Lordships to observe the difference between the Speech of George the 3rd, and that framed by the noble Viscount for her Majesty. The language is very different:—
8180ex-parte"I imagine the point is (observe, my Lords, it is not to inquire into the Corn-laws) to classify all the information that can be procured, relative to the duties on the importation of commodities, and state that information to the House. And, (continued the President of the Board of Trade) I think that the labours of the Committee will be found exceedingly useful."" The committee appears to be very comprehensive in its constitution. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman (alluding to the President of the Board of Trade) will state whether its inquiry is to extend to the subject of the Corn-laws?"797877" On a full consideration of the present situation of affairs, and of the extraordinary circumstances which have produced it, I am induced to put an end to this Session of Parliament; I feel it a duty which I owe to the Constitution and to the country, in such a situation, to recur as speedily as possible to the sense of my people by a new Parliament. I trust that this measure will tend to obviate the mischiefs arising from the unhappy divisions and distractions which have lately subsisted; and that the various important objects which will require consideration may be afterwards proceeded upon with less interruption and with happier effect. I can have no other object but to preserve the true principles of our free and happy Constitution, and to employ the powers entrusted to me by the law for the only end for which they were given, the good of my people."The Duke of Wellington
76757473 spoke to the following effect: I am happy, My Lords, to find that the noble Viscount repudiates these charges altogether which have been made by his supporters against your Lordships, and those parts of the noble Viscount's speech must, my Lords, be therefore, most satisfactory to your Lordships. But, my Lords, it appears to me, that the noble Viscount has treated the speech of my noble Friend (the Earl of Ripon) in a manner not deserved by him. My noble Friend in that speech said nothing that was not perfectly within the rules of Parliament—did nothing which was not perfectly correct. My noble Friend stated that he should make no objection to some portions of the address; on the contrary, my Lords, he expressed his concurrence in them; and in commenting on parts of the speech of the noble Lords who preceded him, and on some of the paragraphs of the address, he pursued a course which is by no means an uncommon one in this House. He observed, that no information whatever had been afforded the House by her Majesty's Ministers upon several topics; and he commented on the state of
76757473The Duke of Wellington
83 observed, that up to the moment when the noble Viscount declared, that any man must be mad who would propose a repeal of the Corn-laws, he had given no hint, that he thought any part of them might be touched. With regard to the contents of
83The Duke of Wellington
24sss23222120191817 rose to move the Address, and spoke as follows:—On ordinary occasions it has been considered the best course for persons in my situation to avoid as much as possible topics that might give rise to the expression of a difference of opinion, but the present is not an ordinary occasion. Some of the questions which her Majesty has directed the Lords Commissioners to submit to the consideration of Parliament involve the highest interests of the country; they affect the future prosperity and stability of the empire, and it will be necessary for me to enter somewhat more in detail into the arguments on these questions than I should otherwise have done. In the performance of this duty, I hope, however, not to detain your Lordships for any great length of time. There are many topics in the speech of the Lords Commissioners which will meet with your Lordships' concurrence. I am sure that your Lordships will join with me in an expression of satisfaction that this country is in friendly communication with the other powers of Europe. We must all, too, feel rejoiced at the renewal of our amicable relations with Persia. On the subject of China, also, but one opinion is likely to prevail: I admit that it is a point of great difficulty; but I apprehend that a great majority of your Lordships will think that
24sss23222120191817 Earl Spencer
61Ripon60ssssssssssss59ssss585756Nil horum!55 said, that curiosity had been excited on his part at the beginning of the speech of the noble Earl opposite, which had not been entirely gratified. He had undoubtedly thought, that the noble Earl in the task he had undertaken would have endeavoured to state to their Lordships what measures he would be disposed to pursue under the present circumstances of the country. Instead of that, however, the noble Earl had concluded with an amendment, in which he did not point out any one measure which it would be desirable to pass, but merely stated, that her Majesty's Ministers did not possess what was in Parliamentary language called the confidence of that House. That was neither more nor less than saying—and that was the important proposition involved in that statement— "we are the many, and you are the few." That was all that was meant by that statement, and it would appear from the
61Ripon60ssssssssssss59ssss585756Nil horum!55Earl Fitzwilliam
 admitted the value of the measures generally, and would not say more in the present stage than that he had brought himself, with difficulty, to consent to the appointment of one Vice-chancellor, but he could never consent to two Vice-chancellors.Lord Brougham
 presented a petition from the county of Galway, signed by about 3,000 persons, in favour of the present Corn-laws, excepting as far as related to the taking of the averages. The noble Earl observed, that the petition had not been agreed to at a county meeting—one had been called, but it was so packed by the populace, that it was found impossible for the parties interested to give effect to their sentiments.The Earl of Clancarty
" Being always anxious of attending to the advice of Parliament, I will take into immediate consideration the other important matters contained in your Address.""It gives me satisfaction to find, that the House of Lords are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations to which I directed their attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and especially to the laws which regulate the trade in corn; and that, in deciding on the course which it may be advisable to pursue, it will be my earnest desire to consult the interests and promote the welfare of all classes of my subjects. read at the Table an answer to the Address of their Lordships, voted on Tuesday last, as follows:—
" Being always anxious of attending to the advice of Parliament, I will take into immediate consideration the other important matters contained in your Address.""It gives me satisfaction to find, that the House of Lords are deeply sensible of the importance of those considerations to which I directed their attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and especially to the laws which regulate the trade in corn; and that, in deciding on the course which it may be advisable to pursue, it will be my earnest desire to consult the interests and promote the welfare of all classes of my subjects.The Earl of Errol
339 moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the three Bills —the Buildings Regulation Bill, the Boroughs Improvement Bill, and the Drainage of Towns Bill, he said, that in the present state of public affairs, he should, of course, not take upon himself to propose any measure on which there was likely to be a difference of opinion, but the bills he had mentioned had gone through their several stages last Session with general concurrence, although their progress was stopped by the dissolution. The principles had met with universal assent, and the details had been patiently examined by Committees up stairs. He was very desirous, therefore, that the bills should now be placed in the situation they had formerly attained, and that without needless delay. He would move, at once, the second reading of them.
339The Marquess of Normanby
 asked, whether it had been ascertained, that the bills, or any of them, would not be resisted in another place?The Earl of Wicklow
 added, that objection had been taken there to only one of the three bills, and that objection, he thought might be obviated.The Marquess of Normanby
: Because the noble Marquess said he had made inquiries.The Earl of Wicklow
 repeated, that he had not the slightest objection to the production of the correspondence, and the magistrates would thus be enabled to speak for themselves.The Marquess of Normanby
 asked if there were any objection to produce copies of correspondence respecting the emigration of labourers from Ireland to the West Indies, and elsewhere? He had been informed, by persons of respectability, lately returned from the West Indies, that considerable abuse prevailed as to the carriage of free labourers from the coast of Africa to the West Indies, as well as other abuses respecting the emigration from Ireland to the same part of the world. How the fact might be, he did not pretend to state, but the correspondence, if produced, would show it. Of one thing he was quite sure—that the House ought to keep a jealous watch over this species of emigration, because it was so liable to abuse.Lord Brougham
 wished the noble and learned Lord to give notice of his motion, and in the mean time inquiries should be made.The Marquess of Normanby
341 was anxious to have an
341The Earl of Winchilsea
bonâ fideex officio had not only no objection to the production of the correspondence, but was most desirous that it should be laid upon the Table. The noble Earl would find from it, that he was labouring under considerable misinformation. Mr. Lacon imagined that constables were disqualified as voters bonâ fideex officioThe Marquess of Normanby
 observed, that the constables thought themselves disqualified, and if the magistrates were of the same opinion, and had discharged them merely for the purpose of the election, the culpability on their part was as great, although they had acted under misapprehension of the law. If so, they were unworthy of their situations, and he wished to know what was the belief of the magistrates on the point?The Earl of Wicklow
 observed, that the voice of the great majority of persons interested in the Corn-laws had been stifled at the meeting by means of packing. An oligarchy was the government of a few, but it was not the few in Ireland who were interested in the maintenance of the Corn-laws, but the many—the great body of the landlords and farmers of Ireland. It had been said, that great exaggerations had prevailed upon this question, but there was no exaggeration greater than to assert that the mass of landlords and tenants in Ireland formed an oligarchy.Lord Fitzgerald
 wished to re-introduce a measure which had received the sanction of the House during the last Session, and which had for its object to facilitate the administration of justice, by improving the Court of Exchequer, and establishing new Judges of Equity. Another bill, of considerable importance, which had been slopped in its progress, was for the establishment of County Courts; and a third, which had been prepared, though not brought in, was to assign to those local jurisdictions all matters in Bankruptcy and Insolvency. A fourth bill was for the amendment of the laws relating to Bankrupts.The Lord Chancellor
340 remarked upon the statement of the noble Earl, that the
340Earl Fitzwilliam
: How can the noble Marquess tell us what was the belief of the magistrates?Earl Fitzwilliam
 saw no objection to the proposition of his noble and learned Friend, inasmuch as his objections to the bill would be more properly considered in committee. He had no objection to the principle of the bill, therefore he should not oppose the second reading.Lord Brougham
 in moving the third reading of the Buildings Regulations Bill, and the Borough Improvements Bill, said, he had no objection to accede to the amendments proposed by the hon. and learned Lord (Lyndhurst) in those measures. With regard to the third bill (the Drainage of Towns' Bill) which he had presented to their Lordships, subsequent inquiries had induced him to consider that it would be more desirable that the Bill should originate in another place. He would therefore withdraw it.The Marquess of Normanby,
474: My Lords, I consider it my duty to acquaint your Lordships, that in consequence of the vote which was come to by the other House of Parliament on Saturday morning last, which was precisely similar in terms to a vote come to by your Lordships at an earlier period of the week, I have, on the part of ray colleagues and myself, tended to her Majesty the resigna-
474Viscount Melbourne
 said, that as the hill which he had presented to the House the other evening for the better Administration of Justice in England had already passed their Lordships' House, and was precisely in the same state in which it had been left by the House of Commons at the close of the last Session, he trusted their Lordships would see no objection to its being then read a second time, in order that it might be considered in committee on Monday next.The Lord Chancellor
475 considered it his duty to inform the House that a certain noble Lord (understood to be the Earl of Scarborough) after he had taken the oaths, had been guilty of a most curious omission. He had omitted to subscribe the roll of Parliament, and by so doing, having subsequently sat and voted, he had subjected himself to certain penalties. He proposed, therefore, to introduce a bill to indemnify the noble Lord from the consequences of the omission, and on Monday next he should move that the
475The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the present would be the most convenient time to state his objections to parts of this bill. He objected to the appointment of-two permanent judges. The Bill contemplated two judges, one permanent and the other for the life of the individual appointed. Now, it appeared to him that neither ought to be permanent, and that one appointment for life would afford abundant means of removing the evil complained of. It was now fourteen months since a bill, having an object similar to the present, was sent down by their Lordships to the other House, where it was allowed to fall through, and did not pass. He would not then enter into any of the reasons why it did not; but if the occasion for its being sent down were so pressing—if the relief which it was intended to give were so necessary as was said, he should have thought that so long an interval would not have been suffered to intervene as between that and the present time. So impressed was he with that opinion that he brought in a bill of his own on the subject, in which a remedy for the evil of arrears in some of the equity courts was provided for. That bill, however, was not allowed to pass. Parts of the present Bill he fully approved of—but he repeated that he strongly objected to the appointment of two new equity judges. He should, therefore propose, that in the 19th clause, instead of the word "two" there should be inserted the words "an additional judge," and such other changes in the phraseology as this first would render necessary, and in the end of the clause, the words "such additional judge."Lord Brougham
 wished to propose an amendment, for the purpose of removing all doubts as to the power of the Crown to appoint Irish barristers of 15 years' standing to any of the judgeships created by this bill. According to the way in which the part of the bill to which he referred was worded, there were doubts whether the Crown had such power, and it would be better at once to remove them by such an amendment as he proposed.Lord Campbell
491 wished, on the subject of compensation, to read a note which he had received from his noble and learned Friend, the Lord Chief Justice (Denman). The noble and learned Lord read the note, which referred to the noble Lord's (Brougham's) doubt of the propriety of any increase of the judges in any of the courts; and said, that the writer concurred with him (Lord Brougham) in dissenting from the principle of compensation in all cases I where the parties appointed to the of-
491Lord Brougham
492 wished, before the rising of the House, to call the attention of their Lordships, particularly of his noble Friends, her Majesty's Ministers, to a subject which he considered of much importance. It would be in the recollection of their Lordships that, some time last Session a bill had been passed for abolishing the Punishment of Death in certain cases, but the bill applied to Great Britain and did not extend to Ireland. Now, he considered it a very singular anomaly that there should be one law for the punishment of the same class of crimes in one part of the United Kingdom and another in another, and that what was punished with a milder sentence in one place should be visited with the penalty of death in another. He had felt it his duty to call the attention of the noble Marquess lately at the head of the Home Department to the circumstance, and pointed out to him that as a considerable period must elapse before the act came into operation, there would be time to remove the anomaly before them. The noble Marquess at the time gave him what he considered as a pledge that the Government would take up the matter, but as the noble Marquess having retired from office was not in a condition to fulfil that pledge, he begged to call the attention of his noble Friends the Members
492The Earl of Wicklow
490 doubted much whether the matter was so clear as his noble and
490Lord Brougham
 said, there could be no doubt whatever that it was not the intention of the framers of the bill to exclude Irish barristers from eligibility to those appointments; but as there were some doubts whether (as the clause was now worded) the Crown had the power of the appointment, he thought it the safest way to put an end to them.Lord Campbell
 would suggest to his noble and learned Friend whether, if it were found necessary to name the two new vice-chancellorships as appointments which the Crown had the power under this bill to grant to Irish barristers of fifteen years' standing, it might not cast a doubt on the power of the Crown to appoint Irish barristers to the vice-chancellorship created by the act the 53d George III.Lord Brougham
 thought the suggestion of the noble and learned Lord very important, and he trusted their Lordships would not pass the bill without due consideration; for certainly if amended as now proposed, it might have the effect of excluding barristers of the Irish bar from eligibility to the judgeship under the 53d George III., which he was sure never was the intention of the Legislature.The Earl of Wicklow
 admitted the importance of the question, and would undertake to have a clause prepared on the third reading which would remove all doubts on the subject.Lord Campbell
 suggested, that the consideration of this part of the bill and the amendment might be deferred to the third reading. The amendment in its present state might be productive of great inconvenience, as there were many other acts similarly worded, on which similar doubts might be raised.The Lord Chancellor
 did not object to the proposed amendment, though he thought the bill did not require it, for to him it appeared that the words of the bill were quite clear, and that there could be no doubt of the power of the Crown to appoint Irish barristers of fifteen years standing to the judgeships named in it.The Lord Chancellor (Lord Lyndhurst)
 said, that he would lose no time in calling the attention of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department to the matter.The Duke of Wellington
 then moved the omission of the compensation clauses, which would he restored in another place.Lord Cottenham
489 hoped their Lordships would not limit the relief proposed to be
489Lord Cottenham
 had prepared a clause, in pursuance of the intention he had given on a previous evening, in order to remove doubts as to the eligibility of Irish barristers for the situation of Vice-Chancellor under the Bill then before their Lordships. It appeared to him that as the Bill at present stood such a clause was necessary. The Bill referred to the English Court of Chancery and the English Court of Exchequer, and when it stated barrister-at-law, it might very naturally be inferred that it merely applied to English barristers. With every deference to the opinion of his noble and learned Friend on the woolsack, he continued to think that such an amendment as this was necessary. To obviate the objection of his noble and learned Friend, that the insertion of the declaration might render other acts doubtful, he had worded the clause so as to apply to the present and to all acts which had passed in which the word "barrister" might occur. The noble Lord moved his amendment, to the effect, "And be it further enacted and declared, that in the construction of this Act, and of every other Act relating to offices and appointments, the expression barrister, or barrister-at-law be taken to mean barristers practising in England or Ireland, unless where it may be otherwise expressly provided."Lord Campbell
 thought it a very useful addition to be made to the bill, and if it satisfied a respectable, a learned, and able body of men, it ought to be introduced. He would remind his noble and learned Friend, however, that when the bill was sent down to the other House last year, when his noble and learned Friend was a Member of that House, he had not then thought of introducing such a clause. It appeared to him, that the bill would merely make them eligible, and it was very proper that they should be so; but let it not go for more than it was worth— let it be understood, that there was no intention of appointing an Irish barrister to such a situation.Lord Brougham
498—There the proviso
498Lord Brougham.
 said, he had to present a petition from Isaac Winter, a poor man of Wilton, in the county of somerset. This unfortunate man stated, that he was suitor in a case pending before their Lordships as an appeal, and his complaint was of the delay which had arisen in its consideration. In the course of the discussion on the appeal, some questions of law had arisen, on which it became necessary to have the opinions of the judges, and the questions had been referred to those learned persons some time in 1839, but they had not agreed upon the answers that should be given. The fact was, the questions involved points of law of great difficulty, and he believed that of the judges to whom the questions were referred, half were of one opinion, and half of another. However, it was of great consequence to this poor man, who was now seventy years old, that a decision should be given as early as possible, for the case was one of great hardship. He had mentioned the case, knowling that the mere mention of it would be enough to direct the attention of his noble and learned Friend on the woolsack to it.Lord Brougham
sssls.495lll wished to call the attention of their Lordships, and more particularly that of his noble and learned Friend on the woolsack, to another, and in his opinion, very important subject—he meant the state of our penal statutes. It was a fact well known to very many of their Lordships, that there existed on cur statute-book many penal statutes, which contained very high and severe penalties attaching to the commission of certain acts, or the omission of certain forms, and instead of these being allowed to remain a dead letter, or erased, they were sometimes made a handle for the infliction of great oppression. The case of the bill which their Lordships had passed yesterday, was an illustration of the kind of penal statute to which he had referred. There were on our statute-book certain high penalties to be inflicted on Members of either House of Parliament, for taking their seats and voting, without taking the oaths, and subscribing the Parliamentary roll, but those were so extremely severe—so far out of all proportion to the acts or omissions to which they were attached, that no one ever dreamed that they ought to be inflicted. If the penalty were a fine of 40sssls.495lll494Lord Broug-
494
 moved the third reading of the Foreigners Consecration of Bishop's Bill.The Archbishop of Canterbury
496 did not exactly understand the grounds upon which this
496The Earl of Radnor
 said that the bill had been introduced with a view to the better regulation of the congregations of English persons, who may be settled in foreign countries, and more particularly on the shores of the Mediterranean and in the Turkish empire. The bill, it was to be observed, could be put into operation only upon the concurrence of her Majesty being expressed—and it had been introduced with the perfect support of her Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 said that his objection was that the bill was not called for by necessity. It was an enlargement of the act of George 3d, and it assumed that it was unlawful for any Archbishop to consecrate a Bishop without the license of the Crown. It did not appear to him, however, that this was the case. With respect to the consecration of Bishops in England, no doubt the license of the Crown was requisite, but that was required in reference, net to the spiritual affairs of the Bishops, but to their temporalities. This bill, however, related solely to the spiritual matters of the new Bishops proposed to be appointed, and he conceived that it was quite unnecessary.The Earl of Radnor
 said, that several eminent learned persons had been consulted on the subject, and they were all of opinion that such an act as the present was necessary. The law was liable to great doubts and exposed him and others to a charge of acting illegally. To remove these doubts was the object of the Bill. It was brought forward by the advice and recommendation of the law officers of the Crown.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 thought it was somewhat of an anomaly that Archbishops and Bishops, who claimed the right of ordination by virtue of their spiritual succession from the apostles, and down from our Saviour himself, should still consider themselves not entitled to exercise that power without license from the Crown. He would not oppose the passing of the Bill, but he considered it wholly unnecessary.—Bill read a third time and passed.The Earl of Radnor
 said, that his attention had been called to the clause by some eminent Irish barristers, and by some of the Irish judges.Lord Campbell
500ldsllll499 had to present to their Lordships a petition on a subject of considerable importance, to which he was anxious to call the attention of her Majesty's Government. It was from Dublin, and signed by about 1,000 inhabitants, merchants, bankers, and others, being householders and ratepayers in that city. The petitioners complained of several gross practices with respect to the burgess-roll, on the insertion of the names on which, roll was founded the right to vote for members and officers of the corporation. The subject was one which very naturally excited very strong feelings. The petition detailed such scenes of fraud and corruption as never before, he believed, had come before their Lordships, even from Ireland itself. The object of those fraudulent practices was to influence votes in the election of municipal officers. The
500ldsllll499The Earl of Glengall
 expressed his full concurrence in what had fallen from the noble Duke, that the House of Lords could not interfere in this matter. At the same time there could be no objection to the presentation of the petition, which properly enough prayed for inquiry.Lord Brougham
 brought up a report from a committee of their Lordships, naming the four Irish Bishops whose turn it was to sit in the House for the present Session, which was ordered to be printed. He then moved, that the Lord Bishop of Derry having taken the oaths and his seat by mistake, thinking that it was his turn to sit as one of the four Irish Bishops for the present Session, his name be struck off the roll.Lord Wharncliffe
 was obliged to the noble Earl for having called his attention to these matters, but the noble Earl must see, that the question was one in which the House of Lords had no power to interfere. If it was a question on which the activity of the Poor-law Commissioners of Ireland, or of the guardians of the poor, could be of use in putting an end to the grievances, then they ought to be required to lend their aid in any way they could. Or, if his noble Friend, the noble Earl, had said the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland in council had power to interfere, then that was the quarter to which application should be made. If, however, the noble Earl would give him a copy of the petition, he would direct that inquiry should be made into its allegations, and the practices to which they referred.The Duke of Wellington
 did not in any degree blame his noble Friend for presenting the petition, or for calling the attention of Government to it—quite the contrary. The petition was no doubt a very proper one. All that he said was, that it was a matter in which he did not think that their Lordships had any power to interfere.The Duke of Wellington
 said, the amendment was most comprehensive, for it went to include all acts in which the word "barrister" occurred; but there were some appointments which were only by Irish, and some only by English barristers, such for instance as the barristers revising the registration.The Duke of Wellington
 had no objection to the amendment, but he had always understood, that "barrister" meant a member of either bar. There were, he was aware, instances of exceptions—for instance, the revising barristers in Ireland must be altogether Irish, to the exclusion of the English bar; and there were some other instances where the members of the Irish bar were named, to the exclusion of English; but when this was done, and when the particular bar was named, the fair inference was, that when not so named the word "barrister" should be taken to mean a member of either.The Lord Chancellor
 moved the third reading of the Administration of Justice Bill.Lord Cottenham
610609 said, he held in his hand a petition to which he would beg to call the earnest attention of the House, as it related to a subject of the deepest importance. It was from the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, by whose chairman it was signed; but though, according to the forms of their Lordships' House, it must be taken only as the petition of the individual who signed it, there could be no doubt that it spoke the sentiments of the very respectable body from whom it came. After all the laws which had been passed in this and in many foreign countries for putting down the Slave-trade, it was greatly to be regretted that British capital and British skill were still found engaged in that infernal traffic. The petitioners stated, that several British mining companies were established in the Brazils and Cuba, that these mines were worked chiefly by slaves, and that British capital was employed by British subjects in the purchase of newly imported slaves from Africa, to supply the waste and mortality and other exigencies connected with those mines. Now, though it might be lawful for the subjects of some foreign countries to embark in the Slave-trade in those countries, it was not so with British subjects; for, no matter whether the trading in slaves in some foreign countries was illegal or not, if a British subject was proved to have been engaged in carrying on the Slave-trade in such countries he would be liable to be tried and convicted as a felon and a pirate, and to sentence of transportation for life, as the law now stood; but as it stood a few sessions
610609Lord Brougham
 said, that the document to which he alluded had been addressed to Lord John Russell. As to the remark of his noble Friend about the proof of the statements of the petition, he begged to be understood as not at all pledging himself for the proof of any one of them. He spoke on the assumption that the petitioners could prove their own statements.Lord Brougham
 said, that the report referred to by his noble and learned Friend was not addressed to the department over which he had the honour to preside. It was addressed to one of the Secretaries of State, and as it was not in. his office he was not prepared to say whether it was a document which he could lay before the House. He would, however, make inquiry on the subject. As to the other part of the prayer of the petition for inquiry, he thought if it could be shown that any British subjects were engaged in that degrading traffic it would be a ground for the interference of Parliament. If his noble and learned Friend was prepared to show that, in a moral point of view, British subjects were implicated in that odious traffic, it would form a ground for inquiry.The Earl of Ripon
 laid (by command) on the Table copies of the correspondence between the late Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, on a report of the architect of the new Houses of Parliament relating to their warming and ventilation, and also to rendering them fireproof. The noble Duke observed, that it was desirable that this report should be taken into consideration without delay, by committees of both Houses. He would propose a similar course to that adopted last year, when the subject was considered by the joint committees. He would therefore move, "That the Report be referred to a select committee."—Committee appointed.The Duke of Wellington
613612 observed, that it might be convenient to the House if he at once stated the course which he intended to pursue with regard to these bills, relating to the administration of justice, which he had laid on the Table at the commencement of the Session. He did not suppose that it would be possible before the close of the Session to obtain sufficient time to give them that ample consideration which their importance required; he should therefore withdraw them for the present Session. He was anxious, however, to ensure the attention of the House to the subject matter of these bills, and more especially that of his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack, so that these measures might—if the principle was adopted by the House—be carried out as completely as possible. The chief object of these bills was the establishment of courts with local jurisdiction throughout the country, not only for the recovery of small debts, but also for the trial of questions connected with properly to a certain amount. He conceived that the greatest possible public benefit would be derived from the establishment of these courts, which also might be constituted in such a way as to be most useful for several legal purposes. For instance, in proceedings in the Court of Chancery it was necessary very often to institute inquiries in the country which at present were conducted in a way not the most satisfactory, and which at the same time were attended with very great expense. Now, these courts might be rendered most useful in investigations of this nature. Again, the greatest advantages had resulted from the
613612Lord Cottenham
722721 presented a petition from the rev. Sir Harcourt Lees, Bart., of Blackrock, near Dublin, complaining of the conduct of the Jesuit priests in Ireland, and charg-
722721Lord Brougham
723 entirely concurred in the observations of the noble Earl, and he thought the statement he had made would be worthy of consideration in the event of any contemplated alteration in the law. For himself, personally, he had nothing to do with the appointment of the official assignees under the bill which he had introduced. The selection was made, in the first instance, by a board composed of the governor and deputy governor of the Bank of England, the governor and deputy governor of the East India Company, some of the principal merchants of the city, and two or three judges of the Bankruptcy Court. When the appointments were making, there were not less than 1,500 candidates for the different situations, and, therefore, so far as the field of choice was concerned, it was ample enough. This board, after carefully
723Lord Brougham
soumis aux tourments730729lite728727Copies of any official communications made in the year 1835 to the British Government at home by the Governor-General of Hindostan, relative to a correspondence between the Governor-General and the governor of Goa, upon a claim advanced by that governor, on the part of the crown of Portugal, to the right of authorising the residence for the exercise of spiritual functions of any Roman Catholic missionary in Hindostan; also copies of any official communiations made in 1839 by the Governor of Madras to the British Government at home, relative to two decrees, dated the first, December the 18th, 1838, and the j second decree very soon afterwards of the collector and magistrate of the Madura district, which gave rise to an order in council of the Madras Presidency, dated June 7th, 1839,
727 (of Chudleigh), moved for—
soumis aux tourments730729lite728727Copies of any official communications made in the year 1835 to the British Government at home by the Governor-General of Hindostan, relative to a correspondence between the Governor-General and the governor of Goa, upon a claim advanced by that governor, on the part of the crown of Portugal, to the right of authorising the residence for the exercise of spiritual functions of any Roman Catholic missionary in Hindostan; also copies of any official communiations made in 1839 by the Governor of Madras to the British Government at home, relative to two decrees, dated the first, December the 18th, 1838, and the j second decree very soon afterwards of the collector and magistrate of the Madura district, which gave rise to an order in council of the Madras Presidency, dated June 7th, 1839,
727Lord Clifford,
 wished the noble Lord to state any authority on which he accused a servant of the Government in India of administering torture.Lord Ellenborough
 had stated it as a report which had gone abroad, and had done much mischief, that such an act had been perpetrated, and he said that he would not believe any such acts. When the Irish Catholics, who were in possession of the churches, refused to give them up, a party of soldiers turned them out by force, and then reported that they had only kept in possession those who already had it.Lord Clifford
 had never heard a noble Lord express himself so ambiguously when he thus accused a servant of the Government of England acting in India. As the noble Lord had not answered the first question, would the noble Lord say whether any Englishman whatever had used the word torture?Lord Ellenborough
: No Englishman had used the word torture.Lord Clifford
: Would the noble Lord state what foreign word he so translated?Lord Ellenborough
 said, as the report went, these parties were put into prison and were there tortured, whether by order of the magistrate or not did not appear.Lord Clifford
: Will the noble Lord read the words?Lord Ellenborough
Ils ont eté saumis aux tourments; The words were "Ils ont eté saumis aux tourmentsLord Clifford
734733732 had but a very few words to say in reply to the statement of the noble Lord. He should not follow the noble Lord into his defence of the Jesuits, for whatever might be his (Lord Ellen-borough's) opinion with regard to that able and learned body, it could not be denied that Parliament had at various times entertained very great jealousy of them. Neither should he follow the noble Lord in his attack on the Portuguese priests, of whom he knew nothing except that they had conducted themselves in India very peaceably, and had discharged their religious duties in that country with zeal and assiduity. It might, however, be convenient to their Lordships that he should state, as the noble Lord had not done so, what was the origin of the transactions out of which the difference to which the noble Lord had alluded had arisen. For more than 200 years the Portuguese priests, acting under the Bishop of St. Toma, and under the sanction of a bull issued by the Pope, and been in the habit of administering religious rites to the whole of the Roman Catholic population in that part of the world, amount-
734733732Lord Ellenborough
 in presenting a petition from protestant dissenters of Hackney, praying the House, without additional delay to relieve the distress of the manufacturing districts and stop what the petitioners believed to be impending national misery and irretrievable ruin, observed that he had seen with great concern that her Majesty's Ministers had not requested the attention of the House to that important inquiry which the people of this country had a right to expect, and for which the address lately agreed to by their Lordships had prepared them; because he believed that it was the duty of Parliament to go into the inquiry, if it had been proposed. As it had not been proposed, however, by her Majesty's Ministers, it was not his intention or the intention of any other noble Lord near him, to press the subject upon Parliament, but they would wait earnestly and anxiously for that declaration of opinion which must, sooner or later, proceed from her Majesty's Government.The Marquess of Lansdowne,
726" Your petitioners, therefore, convinced of the sinfulness of these laws, which violate the paramount law of God, and restrict the bounty of his providence; of their injurious operation on the domestic comforts, and the social, moral, and religious condition of the people of these realms; of the vast amount of evil they have already produced; and of the fearful rapidity with which they are driving on their injured and suffering victims to despondency or desperation, and threatening the peace and safety of the empire—implore your honourable House, as you fear that God who is the friend and avenger of the poor,—as you love that country whose interests are committed into your hands—to take into your early and most serious consideration the provision laws, and especially the Corn-laws, which have wrought this enormous amount of evil and misery, for the purpose of devising such means as to your honourable House may seem meet for their abolition."725" That your petitioners are only acting in the spirit of their office, when they remind your honourable House that laws of human legislatures should be framed in strict accordance with the declared will of God, and the beneficent designs of his providence; and that all laws which contradict his will, and counteract his bounty, must of necessity be wrong in principle and injurious in their tendency; and that it is the deliberate and solemn conviction of this assembly, that this is the unrighteous character of the operation of the provision laws of this kingdom, under
725" That to your petitioners it is manifest that any law tending to produce a scarcity of the food necessary to sustain the life of man, or to increase its price, and so to throw difficulties in the way of procuring it, is a wrong done to society at large, and a direct and glaring violation of the will and law of the universal parent of mankind." That to your petitioners it appears obvious, beyond all doubt, that whatever other causes may have contributed to the frightful amount of misery which they deplore, the principal has been the provision laws, which make the very necessaries of life scarce and dear, and by their mischievous operation have at the same time enhanced the price of food and diminished the ability to purchase it; and that as obviously the remedy for this evil is the abrogation of the laws which produced it." That your petitioners would feel themselves most unworthy of the office they sustain, and the master they serve, were they to view such a state of things with indifference, or to allow it to become daily more and more aggravated, without directing their attention to its cause, and seeking the means of alleviation." That your petitioners, dwelling in the midst of their respective charges, and by habits of frequent and pastoral intercourse, familiar with their actual condition, and still further informed by the evidence submitted to this conference by unimpeachable witnesses; it is most unquestionable that evils the most serious are preying on the very vitals of the country, and that the labouring classes throughout the kingdom are sinking into the lowest condition of physical suffering, and pining away under a wasting destitution of the necessaries of life." That your petitioners are ministers of the God of love and mercy, who have assembled to consider the laws which restrict the food of the people.724 presented petitions from the Dissenters of Ebenezer Chapel, London, Wootton-under-Edge, and other places, praying a repeal of the Corn-laws. The noble Earl also presented a petition from the ministers meeting at the Conference of Ministers held at Manchester, on the subject of the Corn-laws. He begged to call the attention of their Lordships to the petition, as he looked upon it as well worthy of their consideration, not only on account of the number of signatures attached to it, upwards of 650, but that it also represented the feelings of upwards of 700 more ministers of religion who were unable to attend this conference. This large number of ministers of all religious denominations, after the most ample deliberation, had come to the conclusion that the Corn-laws were religiously wrong, because they were opposed to the letter and spirit of the Bible. The present petition was the first of a series of movements on the part
726" Your petitioners, therefore, convinced of the sinfulness of these laws, which violate the paramount law of God, and restrict the bounty of his providence; of their injurious operation on the domestic comforts, and the social, moral, and religious condition of the people of these realms; of the vast amount of evil they have already produced; and of the fearful rapidity with which they are driving on their injured and suffering victims to despondency or desperation, and threatening the peace and safety of the empire—implore your honourable House, as you fear that God who is the friend and avenger of the poor,—as you love that country whose interests are committed into your hands—to take into your early and most serious consideration the provision laws, and especially the Corn-laws, which have wrought this enormous amount of evil and misery, for the purpose of devising such means as to your honourable House may seem meet for their abolition."725" That your petitioners are only acting in the spirit of their office, when they remind your honourable House that laws of human legislatures should be framed in strict accordance with the declared will of God, and the beneficent designs of his providence; and that all laws which contradict his will, and counteract his bounty, must of necessity be wrong in principle and injurious in their tendency; and that it is the deliberate and solemn conviction of this assembly, that this is the unrighteous character of the operation of the provision laws of this kingdom, under
725" That to your petitioners it is manifest that any law tending to produce a scarcity of the food necessary to sustain the life of man, or to increase its price, and so to throw difficulties in the way of procuring it, is a wrong done to society at large, and a direct and glaring violation of the will and law of the universal parent of mankind." That to your petitioners it appears obvious, beyond all doubt, that whatever other causes may have contributed to the frightful amount of misery which they deplore, the principal has been the provision laws, which make the very necessaries of life scarce and dear, and by their mischievous operation have at the same time enhanced the price of food and diminished the ability to purchase it; and that as obviously the remedy for this evil is the abrogation of the laws which produced it." That your petitioners would feel themselves most unworthy of the office they sustain, and the master they serve, were they to view such a state of things with indifference, or to allow it to become daily more and more aggravated, without directing their attention to its cause, and seeking the means of alleviation." That your petitioners, dwelling in the midst of their respective charges, and by habits of frequent and pastoral intercourse, familiar with their actual condition, and still further informed by the evidence submitted to this conference by unimpeachable witnesses; it is most unquestionable that evils the most serious are preying on the very vitals of the country, and that the labouring classes throughout the kingdom are sinking into the lowest condition of physical suffering, and pining away under a wasting destitution of the necessaries of life." That your petitioners are ministers of the God of love and mercy, who have assembled to consider the laws which restrict the food of the people.724The Earl of Ducie
 presented a petition from Mr. Adam Murray, the land-agent, of Parliament-street, complaining of the loss he had incurred by the failure of Mr. Abbott, the official assignee to Messrs. Remington, Stephenson, and Co. He believed, if the creditors and assignees had exercised a due degree of vigilance, so large an amount would not have been suffered to remain in the hands of the official assignee. The subject, however, was worthy the immediate and earnest consideration of their Lordships. It might be a matter for consideration whether a larger amount of security might not be required from the official assignees, and also, whether the balances in their hands should not be paid up at fixed periods.The Earl of Devon
 thought that if the noble Lord had reflected he would have been of opinion that it was impossible to enter upon any inquiry that could have been brought to a close between this and the probable termination of the Session.The Duke of Wellington
 observed that previously to resigning the seals he had directed an inquiry to be instituted with the view of learning how it happened that such large balances were allowed to accumulate in the hands of the official assignees, and to prevent the recurrence of such a circumstance. The report, however, had not yet been received.Lord Cottenham
 said, it was merely a direction. The motion was in the ordinary shape.Lord Brougham
 agreed in the remark of the noble Duke opposite, that the motion for prospective information would be irregular. While he was on his legs he begged to call the attention of their Lordships to the want of law assistance at the Home Office. No man was more sensible of the great zeal and ability of Mr. Vizard, and he thought the public service was likely to suffer if legal assistance was withheld in that department. He had had nearly nine years' experience connected with the Home Department, and he had no hesitation in saying that a more valuable public servant could not be found than Mr. Vizard.Lord Campbell
 said, his noble and learned Friend was quite mistaken. The motion, as made by him, was strictly regular.Lord Brougham
"A humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty would be graciously pleased to give directions, that a the commencement of next Session of Parliament, there should be laid on the Table o both Houses a report of the proceedings that had taken place, founded on the Report of the Inspectors of Prisons for the previous year."821820819818sds817816ss815814 rose to call the attention of their Lordships, to a subject in which the House had at different periods manifested considerable and a very natural interest, considering their high judicial as well as legislative capacity, that of the manner in which the prisons of the realm were managed. Their Lordships were aware that in 1825 a bill was brought into Parliament by Sir Robert Peel, at that time at the head of the Home Department, which bill was subsequently passed into a law, called the Gaol Act, the purpose of which was to make the discipline of prisons as nearly as possible uniform throughout the country. Very great improvements, no doubt, resulted from that act, but some ten years after, in 1835, their Lordships were of opinion, that still further improvements might be made, and on the motion of a noble Friend of his (the Duke of Richmond), a committee was appointed which sat for some weeks, examined a great number of witnesses, inspected many prisons, and made a most valuable report; and out of that report proceeded the act of the same year, the Duke of Richmond's Act, the 5th and 6th Will. 4th, for the further improvement of prison discipline. The principal alterations effected by this act were the giving the Secretary of State, instead of the Judges, the power of approving, or rejecting, or altering the rules of prisons from time to time promulgated by magistrates: the giving the Secretary of State the power of making such rules himself, and also the power of inspecting prisons by himself or by deputy, and above all, the important power of appointing inspectors who should, from time to time, examine the state of prisons and report thereupon to the Home Department In pursuance of this act, six most valuable reports had been made by the inspectors, containing a vast body of useful information—useful not only to the Home Department in carrying the measure into execution, but useful also to the Legislature in considering the whole question. These reports had pointed out
"A humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty would be graciously pleased to give directions, that a the commencement of next Session of Parliament, there should be laid on the Table o both Houses a report of the proceedings that had taken place, founded on the Report of the Inspectors of Prisons for the previous year."821820819818sds817816ss815814Lord Brougham
822 observed, that as it was necessary that the reports of the inspectors of prisons should be laid before Parliament, it was probably right that both Houses should have full knowledge of what had been done in consequence of these reports. He confessed that he did not exactly know the points his noble and learned Friend intended to allude to, as he was not acquainted with the details respecting the question of prison discipline With respect to the details of each case which had been alluded to by his noble
822The Duke of Wellington
 suggested that the words "next Session of Parliament" might be omitted.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that this bill hadLord Brougham
 said, that his noble Friend, the noble Duke seemed to think, that if the estimate should fall short of the expenditure, the expense would not come out of the pockets of the public. No doubt it would come from the land revenue; but that had been made over to the public by the Crown some forty or fifty years ago.Lord Brougham
915 would say one word as to the concluding remark of his noble and learned Friend, in alluding to the erection of stables at Windsor. From what he (Lord Melbourne) had seen in the papers and in accounts of speeches delivered at the hustings during the late elections, he found, that there existed a very great and he believed very general prejudice against that measure. He was very sorry to find it so, for he believed, that a more unfounded prejudice never existed—a more unjust censure never was
915Viscount Melbourne
 said, he concurred in the eulogium on the zeal, activity, and ability of the noble Viscount lately Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests. With reference to what had fallen from the noble and learned Lord, he had to state, that all the money would be expended on the responsibility of the commissioners, and if there should be a deficit instead of a surplus in the estimates it would not come out of the pockets of the public.The Duke of Wellington
, in moving the second reading of the Frogmore Lodge Bill, stated, that its object, which he considered very desirable, was, to unite the Frogmore estate to Windsor Park, and to convert the grounds into a kitchen garden for the palace.The Duke of Wellington
, in moving the second reading of this bill, said, that its object was to empower the Commissioners of Woods and Forests to dispose of part of Kensington-gardens for the purpose of building, and with the estimated proceeds of those grounds, to improve and ornament other parts of the gardens, and if there should be any surplus, it was to be applied to the improvement of other of the royal gardens.The Duke of Wellington
 fully concurred with what had been said by the noble Viscount as to the necessity for the erection of the new stables. They were much wanted.The Duke of Wellington
ss presented a petition from Protestant Dissenters of Middlewich against the Corn-laws. The noble Lord in presenting a similar petition from the congregation of the Tabernacle chapel, in Troubridge, complaining (as we understood) of the sliding scale, said, that by the operation of that scale there had been suddenly thrown into the market a quantity of foreign corn, to the amount of from 1,500,000 to 2,000,000 of quarters of corn, at 1ssLord Brougham
, on presenting a petition from Abernyte, for the repeal of the Corn-laws, stated his fears that the country would be disturbed in the winter months,Lord Kinnaird
" Hear" and a laugh from Lord Melbourne.1009 would take that opportunity of stating the course which he intended to pursue on a subject of great importance, to which he had called the attention of their Lordships on the first day of the Session. He had then stated, that bribery and corruption had prevailed to a frightful extent at the late general election, and he added that the House could not do a greater service, or more fairly discharge its duty to the country, than by taking the whole subject into its early and serious consideration, with the view of providing some remedy. Since that time he had maturely considered several cases of this bribery and corruption which had been brought under his notice; but, not to detain the house, he had selected, from a vast number of instances, three which were marked by the most odious of those features which, in some degree, were common to them all, and he would say, and would be able to show, from the information which had come before him, that those practices were not confined to one, but were common to each of the three great political parties which now divided the country. The first charge was brought against men who supported the views of the present Government, at that time in opposition, and over against whom he had then the honor to stand. The second case was brought as a charge
" Hear" and a laugh from Lord Melbourne.1009Lord Brougham
1010: Well, this doctrine is new to me. The noble and learned Lord then went on to say, that the third charge of this bribery and corruption was made against a party which did not belong to either of those whom he had named, but acted independently of both. Now, if he were to make known the evidence which had come before him, he would say, that this third party was more lavish of its means of bribery and corruption than either of the others. It might, and perhaps would be said, that this general corruption had arisen from the Reform Bill of 1832. He would not say that it had, though perhaps his noble and learned Friend on the woolsack might claim some credit to himself for the prediction which he had made at that time, that if the Reform Bill passed, it would have the effect of producing greater corruption amongst the constituent body than had ever existed in the worst times of the old system of Parliamentary representation. That was the opinion of nis noble and learned Friend at that time, and no doubt at the present. But let him say, that the tendency of the Reform Bill was just the reverse; and if Parliament had done its duty, the public would not have heard of such bribery and corruption as he had referred to. What was his ground for saying this? It was well known that candidates at the late general election had expended many thousand pounds, which, of course, the candidates considered to be required only for the "legal" expenses of
1010Lord Brougham
 begged to say a word in explanation of what had fallen from his noble and learned Friend. He certainly had marked the term "opposition," used by his noble and learned Friend, because he remembered when he was a Member of the other House, that the alluding to a Member as one of the Opposition was held to be irregular, as it was declared by the Speaker to be unparliamentary to state of any Member that he had come into the House pledged to oppose the Government.Viscount Melbourne
s. said, that he had not seen the pamphlet alluded to, but he would say, that if the noble Lord who presented this petition had been in his place earlier, he would have heard, on the presentation of another petition, that there had been recently imported into this country nearly 2,000,000 of quarters of corn, at 1s.The Duke of Wellington
1048s.ss.ss.ds.ds.s.s.s.s.1047s. on presenting some petitions which had been sent to him from New Sarum and other places, praying for the total repeal of the Corn-laws, said, he would take that opportunity of expressing his deep regret at finding that Parliament was about to be prorogued without entering into the consideration of that most important subject—the state of the Corn-law1048s.ss.ss.ds.ds.s.s.s.s.1047s.The Earl of Radnor,
 felt sure, that if important measures were brought under the consideration of the Houses of Parliament, there would be found no deficiency of attendance.The Earl of Radnor
" That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be pleased to take into her Majesty's gracious consideration the case of the late Edward Unwin, Esq., of Sutton, in Ashfield, in the county of Nottingham, late a magistrate of the said county, and the defendant in an action for trespass, brought against him by one Joseph Broyan, of Sutton, in Ashfield aforesaid, for acts done in the discharge of his public duty, as a magistrate, in obedience to the instructions contained in a circular letter of the 7th May, 1839, from the right hon. Lord John Russell, then one of her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, and in furtherance of the purposes of her Majesty's Government."1050 rose to submit a motion founded on the papers which recently had been laid before the House, containing the correspondence between the magistrates of Mansfield and Lord John Russell, the Marquess of Normanby, the Duke of Portland, and others, on the subject of an action brought against one of their body, who was defendant in an action brought against him for trespass in the discharge of his duty. The noble Duke was understood to say, that the magistrates of Mansfield had received information, that on August 12th, 1839, it was probable there would be an eruption of Chartists into the town. The magistrates had met, and a Mr. Unwin, one of the body, had told them that he had certain information, that in many houses there were arms concealed for treasonable purposes; and that if those houses were searched, they would find them. Now, the magistrates had great doubts as to whether they possessed any authority to search for arms, and the clerk to the magistrates gave it as his opinion that they had no such authority. The apprehended meeting of Chartists took place. They were dispersed without difficulty, and some of them were taken up; but in the evening, constables, under the super-intendance of Mr. Unwin, a magistrate, went to the house of Joseph Broyan, in order to search for arms. No arms were found; but many letters signed Pitkeithley, which Mr. Unwin considered to be of a treasonable nature, were seized, copies of which he forwarded to Lord John Russell; and Mr. Phillips, by the desire of Lord John Russell, acknowledged the receipt, thanked the magistrates for their zeal, but stated that the noble Lord had no directions to give them. Not one word was then said against the perfect legality and order of the proceedings taken by them. Two months after that, Broyan
" That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be pleased to take into her Majesty's gracious consideration the case of the late Edward Unwin, Esq., of Sutton, in Ashfield, in the county of Nottingham, late a magistrate of the said county, and the defendant in an action for trespass, brought against him by one Joseph Broyan, of Sutton, in Ashfield aforesaid, for acts done in the discharge of his public duty, as a magistrate, in obedience to the instructions contained in a circular letter of the 7th May, 1839, from the right hon. Lord John Russell, then one of her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, and in furtherance of the purposes of her Majesty's Government."1050The Duke of Portland
" Ephraim Sills, hath good cause to suspect, and doth suspect, that certain fire-arms and other offensive weapons had been collected for treasonable purposes by John Tomlinson, Thomas Hunt, Benjamin Brandreth, Joseph Broyan, and others."Portland" He regretted very much that before Mr. Unwin issued his warrant for entering the house of Broyan, and for the seizure of arms, information was not given to the Secretary of State, in which case Mr. Unwin would have been informed that such a course was not to be justified in point of law, and dangerous."" For having on the 12th of August last, illegally and with force of arms broken and entered the dwelling-house of Broyan, and illegally searched the rooms, drawers, and presses, and seized and detained certain papers."1052" Although it may appear," they said, "under the peculiarly difficult situation in which the magistrates have been placed, they may have exerted a rigour beyond the law,
1052Portland1051ex parte said, he could not help regarding the motion of the noble Duke as an unprecedented one —that, upon an " Ephraim Sills, hath good cause to suspect, and doth suspect, that certain fire-arms and other offensive weapons had been collected for treasonable purposes by John Tomlinson, Thomas Hunt, Benjamin Brandreth, Joseph Broyan, and others."Portland" He regretted very much that before Mr. Unwin issued his warrant for entering the house of Broyan, and for the seizure of arms, information was not given to the Secretary of State, in which case Mr. Unwin would have been informed that such a course was not to be justified in point of law, and dangerous."" For having on the 12th of August last, illegally and with force of arms broken and entered the dwelling-house of Broyan, and illegally searched the rooms, drawers, and presses, and seized and detained certain papers."1052" Although it may appear," they said, "under the peculiarly difficult situation in which the magistrates have been placed, they may have exerted a rigour beyond the law,
1052Portland1051ex parteThe Marquess of Normanby
That was sufficient to justify the search of the house. The warrant set forth the information.Lord Wharncliffe.—
10571056" The defence set up is, that the country was in an excited state. It appears that warrants were granted for searching other houses, but that no warrant was granted for searching Broyan's, and that Mr. Unwin reserved that for his own personal search; for what object does not appear."" This is what I all along wanted."1055" It excites surprise in my mind, that the man who gave this information is not here today. This appears to me to be the result of management,' and that the object was not to search for arms, but for papers."" It has been stated that Lord John Russell's letter had been acted upon; but Lord John Russell's letter was not the law, and if it had been, it did not go to the defence of Mr. Unwin. The information did not state that the arms had been seen. It was a mere suspicion on which the magistrates acted, and this fell far short of what was required by Lord John Russell."" Sir—Lord Normanby directs me to inform you, with reference to a statement made by you as to the fact of a large number of arms being kept in the house of a person, who has been in the habit of attending Chartists meetings, (to which statement the Duke of Portland has called his Lordship's attention), Lord Normanby advises, in case you can obtain information upon oath that a large number of arms are kept in the house of such a person for an illegal use and purpose, as the informant believes, that a warrant should be issued for searching for the arms; and that the arms, if found, should be taken possession of, and kept safely by the magistrates."" Whitehall, Jan. 25, 1840.1054" Under these circumstances Lord Normanby cannot take part in this business, nor offer any advice with reference to the action of which Mr. Unwin has had notice; but in case an action should be brought, and the party should proceed to trial, Lord Normanby will be ready, after the conclusion of the proceedings, to take the matter again into consideration, upon a review of the whole of the evidence which shall have been laid before the court."" Gentlemen—I am directed by the Marquess of Normanby to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 15th instant, with its enclosures, and to inform you that Lord Normanby regrets very much that before Mr. Unwin issued his warrant for entering the house of Joseph Broyan and for the seizure of arms, information was not given to the Secretary of State, in which case Mr. Unwin would have been informed that such a course was not to be justified in point of law, and dangerous, and that it would be contrary to the course which the Secretary of State has recommended, and at variance with the opinion which he had generally made known among the magistrates.The warrant says, "concealed in the dwelling-house;" but the information stated no such words, and it was upon the information that the search was made. The noble Duke objected to the letter he had sent on the 19th of November; but he was ready to justify it under the circumstances of the case. In that letter Mr. Phillipps said—
10571056" The defence set up is, that the country was in an excited state. It appears that warrants were granted for searching other houses, but that no warrant was granted for searching Broyan's, and that Mr. Unwin reserved that for his own personal search; for what object does not appear."" This is what I all along wanted."1055" It excites surprise in my mind, that the man who gave this information is not here today. This appears to me to be the result of management,' and that the object was not to search for arms, but for papers."" It has been stated that Lord John Russell's letter had been acted upon; but Lord John Russell's letter was not the law, and if it had been, it did not go to the defence of Mr. Unwin. The information did not state that the arms had been seen. It was a mere suspicion on which the magistrates acted, and this fell far short of what was required by Lord John Russell."" Sir—Lord Normanby directs me to inform you, with reference to a statement made by you as to the fact of a large number of arms being kept in the house of a person, who has been in the habit of attending Chartists meetings, (to which statement the Duke of Portland has called his Lordship's attention), Lord Normanby advises, in case you can obtain information upon oath that a large number of arms are kept in the house of such a person for an illegal use and purpose, as the informant believes, that a warrant should be issued for searching for the arms; and that the arms, if found, should be taken possession of, and kept safely by the magistrates."" Whitehall, Jan. 25, 1840.1054" Under these circumstances Lord Normanby cannot take part in this business, nor offer any advice with reference to the action of which Mr. Unwin has had notice; but in case an action should be brought, and the party should proceed to trial, Lord Normanby will be ready, after the conclusion of the proceedings, to take the matter again into consideration, upon a review of the whole of the evidence which shall have been laid before the court."" Gentlemen—I am directed by the Marquess of Normanby to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 15th instant, with its enclosures, and to inform you that Lord Normanby regrets very much that before Mr. Unwin issued his warrant for entering the house of Joseph Broyan and for the seizure of arms, information was not given to the Secretary of State, in which case Mr. Unwin would have been informed that such a course was not to be justified in point of law, and dangerous, and that it would be contrary to the course which the Secretary of State has recommended, and at variance with the opinion which he had generally made known among the magistrates.The Marquess of Normanby.—
1064bonâ fide observed, that what had fallen from the noble Baron who last addressed their Lordships, relieved him from the necessity of stating the objections which he entertained to the motion then before them. The noble Baron talked of "protection for the magistracy." No one knew better than he did the ample protection which they enjoyed. It was well known, that if they acted 1064bonâ fideLord Brougham
 had not intended to say anything against the character of Mr. Unwin.The Marquess of Normanby
 would act upon the suggestion which had been thrown out by his noble Friends, and withdraw the motion.The Duke of Portland
: What he said was, that the noble Duke had said he would not object to inquiry in the usual way.The Earl of Radnor
ad captandum1063Normanby" Juryman.—My Lord, we find for the plaintiff, with nominal damages."" The jury having conferred together very shortly," Mr. Justice Littledale.—I do not think, he had a tight to take away these papers; it seems to me, Gentlemen, he had no such right." Juryman.—But if he discovered such papers, was he justified?" Mr. Justice Littledale.—I cannot say he has such a right; only see, if he comes to search for arms, it cannot give him a right to go into the house and seize papers; it seems to me to be exactly the same thing as if he suspected there were treasonable papers, and while searching for them, he finds arms. He did not go for arms, it has nothing to do with it. So, if he was searching for arms, that would not give him a right to search for papers." Juryman.—The jury wish to know, whether a magistrate, while searching for arms, finding treasonable papers, has a right to seize them?" The jury thereupon consulted, and after conferring together for a few minutes, one of them addressed his Lordship as follows:—1062bona fide" Mr. Justice Littledale—(having read the letters given in evidence)—Gentlemen, I have pointed out the distinction as to arms being kept for legal and iilegal purposes; and, as to these letters, you will say whether the defendant was justified. If you are of opinion he is not, the plaintiff is entitled to compensation if the defendant has acted illegally. You will say, upon the whole, whether you think the plaintiff is entitled to a verdict, and if so, then to what damages. Gentlemen, I have pointed out the distinction to be observed between arms kept for legal and illegal purposes. Every man has a right to have arms in his house, but if there is reason to believe such arms are kept for an illegal purpose, for the purpose of aiding and assisting in the overturning of the Government, and that this gentleman had an honest, just, and reasonable ground that arms were kept by the plaintiff with some such evil design, then he was justified in going to the House as he did, and either taking a constable, or granting a warrant to a constable. Then, gentlemen, with regard to the papers, that stands upon a different ground, because these papers, you see, cannot of themselves be used for any purpose; it is only that they are there, and that they may chance to afford information of what the plaintiff's proceedings are. I must own I have great difficulty in saying he can be justified in seizing papers, whatever he may do about aims. I do not know that a magistrate having a suspicion, has a right to go, upon a mere suspicion, and take away papers that may have a tendency to j overturn the Government. You see the magistrate acts entirely on his own head; he docs not go to search for papers, and he finds no arms: but, on looking over some papers, he finds the name of a person, and his attention is thus directed to them, and he takes them away. Now, I have great difficulty in saying that a magistrate, whatever notion he may have of acting 1062bona fide" Mr. Serjeant Adams.—There are eight letters, and there is one which talks of ' Bloody butchers.'"" Now, with regard to papers, nothing is said in the information about them; but, when he gets there, on looking into various drawers, it appears there is a letter in which is the name of a person, who says ' has been going about the country inciting people to acts of rebellion and treason, and who ought to have been hanged long ago, this is what I want and I shall take them all away.' Now, I do not know whether he had a right to take them all away. Now, what are the letters? There is a letter which alludes to—10611060bona fideBroughambona fidebonâ fide1059" Now, Gentlemen," says Mr. Justice Littledale," it will be material for you to consider the question about the arms and the question about the papers. With regard to arms, it appears there had been a regular information laid before Mr. Unwin, (the defendant), that there was reason to believe arms would be found in different people's houses, and accordingly warrants appear to have been granted, and several houses were searched, and nothing found in them; but as to the plaintiff, Mr. Unwin thought he would take the responsibility himself, and, instead of granting a warrant, he would go and execute the duty himself, and that he certainly had a right to do. Then, gentlemen, they find no arms in the House; well, but had he a well-grounded reason for supposing the plaintiff had arms? You see information is laid before him, and it is the duty of a magistrate, when information is made, to consider whether that information is sufficient for him to act upon; if the information is slight, or if it does not look like the truth, he ought to discard it; he ought to watch the information he receives well before he grants a warrant. However, he goes for arms, but no arms were found. Still you will recollect it is in evidence that on Broyan's being told there was a report abroad there was to be a search for arms, and being advised to get any arms he might have
bonâ fide1059contrapro1058bona fide was far from denying that his noble Friend opposite had always shown himself ready to attend to the business of the Home-Office, and that he showed every disposition to perform his duty; but he could not help thinking that his noble Friend had in this country been influenced by the same sort of feeling which he manifested in Ireland, namely, a disposition against the country gentlemen and magistrates, rather than an inclination to look favourably and kindly upon their actions. Now, he conceived that it was the duty of a Secretary of State to put himself, in the first place, upon a footing of confidence with the magistrates of the country; but it was impossible for him to perform that part of his duties, if, upon every occasion he was betrayed into a leaning against them, and in favour of every one who thought proper to complain of their conduct. To betray a feeling adverse to the country gentlemen and the magistracy, was, in all respects, inconsistent with the character and duties of a Home Secretary, and no country could be well governed where such a state of feeling and the practice consequent on it could be suffered to exist. His noble Friend, the noble Duke near him, had said, that Lord John Russell's letter gave no authority for the seizure of arms; now, he (Lord Wharncliffe) distinguished between the seizure of arms and the seizure of papers. It was true that no warrant had been issued in the case for the seizure of papers, but if the magistrate made a ad captandum1063Normanby" Juryman.—My Lord, we find for the plaintiff, with nominal damages."" The jury having conferred together very shortly," Mr. Justice Littledale.—I do not think, he had a tight to take away these papers; it seems to me, Gentlemen, he had no such right." Juryman.—But if he discovered such papers, was he justified?" Mr. Justice Littledale.—I cannot say he has such a right; only see, if he comes to search for arms, it cannot give him a right to go into the house and seize papers; it seems to me to be exactly the same thing as if he suspected there were treasonable papers, and while searching for them, he finds arms. He did not go for arms, it has nothing to do with it. So, if he was searching for arms, that would not give him a right to search for papers." Juryman.—The jury wish to know, whether a magistrate, while searching for arms, finding treasonable papers, has a right to seize them?" The jury thereupon consulted, and after conferring together for a few minutes, one of them addressed his Lordship as follows:—1062bona fide" Mr. Justice Littledale—(having read the letters given in evidence)—Gentlemen, I have pointed out the distinction as to arms being kept for legal and iilegal purposes; and, as to these letters, you will say whether the defendant was justified. If you are of opinion he is not, the plaintiff is entitled to compensation if the defendant has acted illegally. You will say, upon the whole, whether you think the plaintiff is entitled to a verdict, and if so, then to what damages. Gentlemen, I have pointed out the distinction to be observed between arms kept for legal and illegal purposes. Every man has a right to have arms in his house, but if there is reason to believe such arms are kept for an illegal purpose, for the purpose of aiding and assisting in the overturning of the Government, and that this gentleman had an honest, just, and reasonable ground that arms were kept by the plaintiff with some such evil design, then he was justified in going to the House as he did, and either taking a constable, or granting a warrant to a constable. Then, gentlemen, with regard to the papers, that stands upon a different ground, because these papers, you see, cannot of themselves be used for any purpose; it is only that they are there, and that they may chance to afford information of what the plaintiff's proceedings are. I must own I have great difficulty in saying he can be justified in seizing papers, whatever he may do about aims. I do not know that a magistrate having a suspicion, has a right to go, upon a mere suspicion, and take away papers that may have a tendency to j overturn the Government. You see the magistrate acts entirely on his own head; he docs not go to search for papers, and he finds no arms: but, on looking over some papers, he finds the name of a person, and his attention is thus directed to them, and he takes them away. Now, I have great difficulty in saying that a magistrate, whatever notion he may have of acting 1062bona fide" Mr. Serjeant Adams.—There are eight letters, and there is one which talks of ' Bloody butchers.'"" Now, with regard to papers, nothing is said in the information about them; but, when he gets there, on looking into various drawers, it appears there is a letter in which is the name of a person, who says ' has been going about the country inciting people to acts of rebellion and treason, and who ought to have been hanged long ago, this is what I want and I shall take them all away.' Now, I do not know whether he had a right to take them all away. Now, what are the letters? There is a letter which alludes to—10611060bona fideBroughambona fidebonâ fide1059" Now, Gentlemen," says Mr. Justice Littledale," it will be material for you to consider the question about the arms and the question about the papers. With regard to arms, it appears there had been a regular information laid before Mr. Unwin, (the defendant), that there was reason to believe arms would be found in different people's houses, and accordingly warrants appear to have been granted, and several houses were searched, and nothing found in them; but as to the plaintiff, Mr. Unwin thought he would take the responsibility himself, and, instead of granting a warrant, he would go and execute the duty himself, and that he certainly had a right to do. Then, gentlemen, they find no arms in the House; well, but had he a well-grounded reason for supposing the plaintiff had arms? You see information is laid before him, and it is the duty of a magistrate, when information is made, to consider whether that information is sufficient for him to act upon; if the information is slight, or if it does not look like the truth, he ought to discard it; he ought to watch the information he receives well before he grants a warrant. However, he goes for arms, but no arms were found. Still you will recollect it is in evidence that on Broyan's being told there was a report abroad there was to be a search for arms, and being advised to get any arms he might have
bonâ fide1059contrapro1058bona fideLord Wharncliffe
 said, that if the House were to sit to-morrow, it would be for the public convenience, as he could then move the second reading of this bill, so that they might go into committee upon it on Monday, with the understanding, that any discussion which noble Lords might wish to go into upon the measure might betaken on going into committee on Monday.The Duke of Wellington
 said, he would not follow the noble Earl into any discussion on the Corn-laws on the present occasion, for the reason which he had assigned on a former evening—that it would be impossible to enter into any inquiry at the present period which would lead to any practical result. He did not mean to deny, that there was distress in some parts of the country, but it was not arising from want of food. There was a large supply of corn in the country, though it might be somewhat dear. The noble Earl had referred to what he had stated on a former evening, as implying a pledge for an inquiry.The Duke of Wellington
1049: What he said on the occasion referred to was, that if the subject (of a change in the Corn-laws) were to be considered as a measure of finance, it should be considered in a committee; but by that he did not pledge the Government or himself, or anybody, to take that particular course, and most certainly he should not be understood as being favourable to an inquiry at the present time, which, he would repeat, could lead to no practical result. Under these circumstances, he was ready to take his share of the responsibility of advising her Majesty to prorogue Parliament until the measures were ready, which would be submitted for its consideration; and until due time could be afforded for that consideration. It would be impossible to consider the subject to which the noble Earl referred at this time, or to get that attendance of Members which would be de-
1049The Duke of Wellington
sds wished to give an explanation of a statement he had made last night, respecting the average price of foreign corn. In stating the average at 40sdsThe Earl of Radnor
1094109310921091 begged the indulgence of their Lordships for a few moments while he called their attention to a subject which he felt to be one of importance, as relating to one great branch of the public service, and also important to the character for fairness and impartiality of the late
1094109310921091The Earl of Minto
 hoped, from what had fallen from the noble Lord at the head of the Board of Trade, and the noble Duke, that they would, between the present and. next Session, apply their attention to a subject of great importance, and at an early period of the next Session come forward with a measure respecting the general state of our commercial policy.Lord Brougham
1103 of Chudleigh, wished again to call the attention of Government to the condition of the Irish Roman Catholic priesthood in India. They did not receive the sanction and support to which their merits and utility entitled them, and the Roman Catholic soldiers of India were consequently deprived of that benefit which they derived from their presence—a benefit of such a nature, that on one occasion an undisciplined regiment had been brought to a perfect state of
1103Lord Clifford,
 would not follow the noble Lord through his remarks, but he would tell him what he had done on the subject of the Roman Catholic priesthood in India, to which he had before called the attention of their Lordships. He had sent by the mail of that day, the first that had been dispatched since the speech of the noble Lord, letters to the Governor-general of India, as well as to the Governor of the Presidency of Madras, asking- for the fullest information on the subject; and he had himself written a letter to the collectoral magistrate of Madura, sending him the report of what had taken place in their Lordships' House on the former occasion, and demanding explanation of his alleged misconduct. The noble Lord had talked of the discipline of certain regiments in India. He was quite sure that there was not an undisciplined regiment in the Presidency of Madras, and he was equally sure that "their discipline had not been caused by any Roman Catholic priest. If he had understood the noble Lord he would not follow him, because it was not necessary; but he did not understand him, and so he could not.Lord Ellenborough
1101ll1100: His noble Friend; did not object to the bill; but there was one thing to which he did object, and in very strong language, too. He objected, that the measure was a failure. Now, he must deny, that it was a failure; for his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, though he had not raised all the money which he had first intended, had raised a million more than was sufficient to cover the deficit. But then his noble Friend contended, that the Government were not justified in bringing in such a measure as this, which all must admit, was a temporary expedient, on account of the amendment which they had moved to the Address. What was it, let him ask, which had called the attention of Parliament to the subject? Was it not the notice in the Speech from the Throne? The Government were bound to bring their measures forward, having had ample time to prepare them. But if other Gentlemen moved an amendment to the Address and carried it, did it follow, that they were at once to be prepared wish a whole batch of measures in opposition to those referred to in the Speech, or was an individual to be precluded from moving an amendment unless he was prepared to strike off at once a new system of commercial and financial policy? The idea was absurd, and no man knew, that it was so, better than his noble Friend. The present Government were, therefore, not liable to the reproach cast on them by his noble Friend. If, coming into office nearly at the beginning of September, they had undertaken to propound a whole scheme of finance and a revision from beginning to end of our whole commercial system, the country would have laughed at them as fools, or rejected them as madmen. It was easy for persons not practically acquainted with such matters
1101ll1100The Earl of Ripon
"Hints a doubt, and hesitates dislike."1099 was always disposed to be amused when his noble Friend (the noble Viscount) chose to be jocular, and he was not the less so when his noble Friend's jocularity was directed against himself. He did not feel that he was
"Hints a doubt, and hesitates dislike."1099The Earl of Ripon
 stated, that the object of the bill was the payment of the persons who had been engaged in taking the recent census.Lord Wharncliffe
 did not object to the bill.Viscount Melbourne
1098109710961095 said, he did not rise to offer any objection to this bill, or to the mode proposed for carrying its provisions into effect; for it appeared to him, that as soon as it was known that the Government had come to the determination that they would not, for the present, consider the financial state of the country— that they would not enter into any inquiry into its financial difficulties—that they would not adopt any of those measures which had been proposed by the late Government, or bring forward any measures with similar objects of their own—as soon, he repeated, as those determinations of the Government became known, it was impossible but that some such measure as
1098109710961095Viscount Melbourne
1102lll said, he thanked the noble Lord for his suggestion of a scheme for procuring a large attendance in that House; but he would give the noble Lord his answer to his scheme; he never would announce to that House an intention which he did not entertain. He had no intention of bringing forward a scheme for the alteration of the Corn-laws; he had not the power of so doing; he had not sufficiently considered the subject to be able to bring forward any scheme for an alteration of the Corn-laws, and had, therefore, no intention of announcing one to the House; he, therefore, suggested to the noble Lord, that he should propose some other scheme for effecting his purpose. The noble Lord had referred to what he had said three or four nights ago, respecting the funding of: Exchequer bills, as brought forward by her Majesty's late Government at the time; being part of their annual system of finance. But the Government of this day, had to take up a system of finance, at the termination of the Session of Parliament, a Budget having been brought forward by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, showing a deficiency of 2,500,0001102lllThe Duke of Wellington
 said, the object of the bill was, to continue the Poor-law Commission till the 31st of July next, otherwise it would expire at the end of the present year, in order that the Poor-law might be carried into effect.The Duke of Wellington
FUNDING OF EXCHEQUER BILLS— DRAINAGE OF TOWNS.] moved the third reading of the Funding Exchequer Bills Bill.Lord Ellen-borough
1104 wished to take that opportunity of calling the attention of the noble Duke opposite, to a portion of the public business to which he attached considerable importance. He alluded to the measures which he had brought forward on the first day of the
1104The Marquess of Normunby
 had communicated with his right hon. Friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, on the subject, and expressed the anxiety felt by the majority of their Lordships on the subject. His right hon. Friend represented that the bill must necessarily undergo investigation by a committee of the House of Commons, that there was a new opposition to some of the details, and that it was practically impossible to proceed with it in the course of the present Session. With respect to the noble Marquess's question, he could only say, that the Government had as yet no opportunity of looking into the bill, and were not prepared to say, whether, as a Government, they would take it up. It should, however, receive their most attentive consideration during the recess, and they would state what they were prepared to do at the commencement of next Session,Lord Ellenborough
 said, the answers he had received were perfectly satisfactory; and he would only add, that if the Government did not adopt the bills, he would again bring them forward early in the next Session, satisfied with the efficient support of the noble Duke.The Marquess of Normanby
Richmond1108" The new Parliament will not do anything for the people, and they (.the people) will be taught this fatal lesson, that everything which they may obtain they will owe to violence, or to the fear of violence, and that nothing will be granted to argument or common sense. If Parliament should now separate, as he feared it would, without anything being Hone for the people, and that disturbances should follow, and then that some measure should be brought forward in the next Session, would not that teach the people another lesson— that everything was to be obtained by violence, and that nothing would be conceded to argument? It would 4be a repetition of the lesson taught by the Catholic Emancipation Bill."11071106Wellington said, that he had to present to their Lordships several petitions, praying that the House might address her Majesty not to prorogue Parliament until some measure should be adopted with respect to the Corn-laws. Though there were only a few petitions, they were in principle similar to those which had already been sent before the two Houses, and which had received the signatures of not less than 300,000 persons. There could be no doubt that the subject was one which had excited the most intense interest throughout the country, in which the wish was very general, that the Parliament should not separate until something had been done on this important question. He feared, however, that the Session would close without anything being done in the matter, and he was confirmed in that fear by what had fallen from the noble Duke last night, when he said, that he did not intend to bring forward any measure on the subject of the Corn-laws— so he, at least, had understood the noble Duke; and another noble Duke opposite (the Duke of Buckingham) had, since his accession to office, made a similar statement in his address to a meeting of farmers in Buckinghamshire. But he looked with more attention to the statement made last night by the noble Duke (Duke of Wellington), whom he understood to say, that he had no intention of bringing forward any measure relating to the Corn-laws. [The Duke of Richmond1108" The new Parliament will not do anything for the people, and they (.the people) will be taught this fatal lesson, that everything which they may obtain they will owe to violence, or to the fear of violence, and that nothing will be granted to argument or common sense. If Parliament should now separate, as he feared it would, without anything being Hone for the people, and that disturbances should follow, and then that some measure should be brought forward in the next Session, would not that teach the people another lesson— that everything was to be obtained by violence, and that nothing would be conceded to argument? It would 4be a repetition of the lesson taught by the Catholic Emancipation Bill."11071106WellingtonThe Earl of Radnor
1112 said, there was a question before the House, which was, that the petition presented by his noble Friend (the Earl of Radnor) do lie on the Table. He was glad that the noble Duke had entered into these explanations, because they would remove an erroneous impression which had gone abroad. For his own part, he did understand the noble Duke's declaration of his intention not to introduce any measure on the subject of the Corn-laws to refer to that question generally, and not with reference merely to the present Session of Parliament. He owned, that how-ever necessary an inquiry might be into the state of the country, and the distress which prevailed in consequence of the Corn-laws, he had no hope that any such inquiry would be gone into now, or that when gone into at any time, any practical result would come from it under the present Government. They had been brought into power by the monopolists, who would soon turn them out again if they saw any indication of an intention to make any substantial change in the Corn-laws. No such change could, therefore, be expected from the present Government. This was his own impression, and he believed it was that of the country generally, and it was greatly strengthened by the declaration said to have been made by the noble Duke (Richmond) on the cross-benches, who had said, in the terms he had already quoted, that the agriculturists or monopolists who had brought in the present Government, could send them out again if they found it necessary. The Government asked for time for the consideration of the great questions connected with the subject of the Corn-laws. He believed that they required it on other grounds, for he thought that the materials of the Cabinet were of so heterogenous a nature that
1112Lord Kinnaird
 did not know whether it was necessary to trouble their Lordships with a rather extraordinary letter he had received from a Mr. Lacon, who had charged him with having taken steps to suppress the production of certain papers with reference to proceedings that had taken place in the borough of Great Yarmouth. The letter was written in a complete misapprehension of the facts, for their Lordships were aware, that he had not the power to suppress any portion of the documents referred to, as the correspondence was not produced, because the noble Earl who had put the question to him, had not moved for it.The Marquess of Normanby
11241123"We now went off to Thuneiseir, where we
11241123" I left my home with a gang of forty Thugs, and proceeded to Husseeagunge, where Heera Dass and Rookmunee went to the city of Muttra for the purpose of buying some clothes, and succeeded in winning the confidence of four travellers, two men and two women, with their three children, whom they brought with them to our encampment; after passing two days with us, Teella Dass, Mudhoo Dass, Byragees, and Dewa Hookma, Teelake, Gungarem, Brinjarahs, Balluck Dass, Chutter Dass, Neput Dass, and Hunooman Dass, prevailed on this family to accompany them to the banks of the Jumna, and murdered the four elderly travellers in a garden near the village of Gokool; after throwing their bodies into the Jumna, they took their three children to the tanda, or encampment, of Dewah Brinjarah, near the village of Kheir, and sold the two female children for forty rupees, and the male for five rupees."l"After the capture of Bhurtpore, Nanoo Sing Brinjarah, and four other Byragees, residents of Kurroulee, came to me with four travellers and their four children, and invited me to participate in their murder, which I consented to, and with the assistance of my gang we strangled the whole of them, preserving the lives of the children, whom we sold at Jeipore for 120 rupees, half of which was divided among the members of my gang. After this affair, I resolved on selecting for my victims the poorest class of travellers, and murdering them for their children, for whom there was so great a demand in all the great cities; since which I have committed the following murders, the particulars of which I will detail as I may remember."1122"Q. You have stated in your various depositions that you invariably preserve the children and sell them. Are you not afraid that these children will disclose the manner in which you got them, and thereby get you into trouble?— A. We invariably murder our vic-
1122"We call our trade, viz., murdering travellers for their children, megpunna."1121"This system of murdering indigent parents for their children has been flourishing since the siege of Bhurtpore, in 1826; and the cause of
1121Ellen-borough112011191118" Nothing hereinbefore contained shall be taken or deemed to prevent any person from dealing, or trading in, or from purchasing, selling, bartering, or transferring, or from contracting to deal or trade in, purchase, sale,
1118" Except in such special cases as are herein, after provided for, if any person shall deal, or trade in, or purchase, sell, barter, or transfer, or contract for the Healing, or trading in, or for the purchase, sale, barter, or transferring of any slave, or slaves, or persons intended to be dealt with as slaves he shall be guilty of felony."111711161115 said, he rose to call the attention of their Lordships to a question of great importance, and on which, as there happily existed no difference of opinion in that or the other House of Parliament, and as there, indeed, was in every part of the kingdom a singular unanimity on the subject, it would be the less necessary for him to trespass at any considerable length on their Lordship's attention. The subjects he was about to introduce to their notice were the Slave-trade and slavery, and he believed that in either House of Parliament, or in any part of the kingdom, there did not exist any description of persons who felt other than the strongest desire to see the traffic in slaves abolished everywhere and the state of slavery itself universally, and with all practicable expedition, instantly extinguished. The ground on which he felt it his duty to trouble their Lordships on the present occasion was, that great misapprehension had, he understood, prevailed in the country touching the law applicable to this subject. He had presented to their Lordships, some ten or twelve days back, a petition containing a variety of allegations, and he, at that time, wished it to be distinctly understood, that the truth of the allegations, must rest upon the responsibility of the respectable petitioners who had brought the matter before the House. But if the facts were, as alleged in that petition, it would appear that there had been not only a large capital embarked in slavery
11241123"We now went off to Thuneiseir, where we
11241123" I left my home with a gang of forty Thugs, and proceeded to Husseeagunge, where Heera Dass and Rookmunee went to the city of Muttra for the purpose of buying some clothes, and succeeded in winning the confidence of four travellers, two men and two women, with their three children, whom they brought with them to our encampment; after passing two days with us, Teella Dass, Mudhoo Dass, Byragees, and Dewa Hookma, Teelake, Gungarem, Brinjarahs, Balluck Dass, Chutter Dass, Neput Dass, and Hunooman Dass, prevailed on this family to accompany them to the banks of the Jumna, and murdered the four elderly travellers in a garden near the village of Gokool; after throwing their bodies into the Jumna, they took their three children to the tanda, or encampment, of Dewah Brinjarah, near the village of Kheir, and sold the two female children for forty rupees, and the male for five rupees."l"After the capture of Bhurtpore, Nanoo Sing Brinjarah, and four other Byragees, residents of Kurroulee, came to me with four travellers and their four children, and invited me to participate in their murder, which I consented to, and with the assistance of my gang we strangled the whole of them, preserving the lives of the children, whom we sold at Jeipore for 120 rupees, half of which was divided among the members of my gang. After this affair, I resolved on selecting for my victims the poorest class of travellers, and murdering them for their children, for whom there was so great a demand in all the great cities; since which I have committed the following murders, the particulars of which I will detail as I may remember."1122"Q. You have stated in your various depositions that you invariably preserve the children and sell them. Are you not afraid that these children will disclose the manner in which you got them, and thereby get you into trouble?— A. We invariably murder our vic-
1122"We call our trade, viz., murdering travellers for their children, megpunna."1121"This system of murdering indigent parents for their children has been flourishing since the siege of Bhurtpore, in 1826; and the cause of
1121Ellen-borough112011191118" Nothing hereinbefore contained shall be taken or deemed to prevent any person from dealing, or trading in, or from purchasing, selling, bartering, or transferring, or from contracting to deal or trade in, purchase, sale,
1118" Except in such special cases as are herein, after provided for, if any person shall deal, or trade in, or purchase, sell, barter, or transfer, or contract for the Healing, or trading in, or for the purchase, sale, barter, or transferring of any slave, or slaves, or persons intended to be dealt with as slaves he shall be guilty of felony."111711161115Lord Brougham
1125 was not aware of the existence of the documents to which his noble and learned Friend had alluded, and therefore, his only object in rising to address their Lordships was, with reference to matters of which he had more personal
1125The Earl of Ripon
11271126 observed that the report from which the noble and learned Lord had quoted was laid before Parliament on the 26th of last April, and was printed about six weeks ago. He thought it would have been a more considerate course to direct their Lordships attention, so that they might form their opinions on this subject rather to the whole tendency of the report, containing as it did upwards of 900 pages, than to a few detached ex-
11271126Lord Ellenborough
1128ll said, it was distinctly stated in the report that the object the persons had in view in the commission of these atrocities was, that they might obtain possession of the children for the purpose of selling them. There was no doubt, however, that the practice was mixed up with Thuggee of one kind or another, but it was described as a new kind of Thuggee introduced by the temptation of the slave market. He could not help feeling that his noble Friend had been very unlucky in his reference to the proceedings that had occurred a few years ago in Scotland. If he (Lord Brougham) wished to select a fact which would be illustrative of the atrocities of this species of slavery, he could not have found an instance more strikingly appropriate and illustrative of his case than that to which his noble Friend had directed the attention of the House. It happened that some years before the discovery of these disgraceful proceedings, three or four friends and himself were discussing the subject of the enormous price of dead bodies for the purpose of anatomical dissection. He recollected that his friend, Mr. John Smith, the late Member for Midhurst, was one of the party present, from a circumstance which he would presently state. It was said, in the course of the conversation in question, that from 251128llLord Brougham
1113 said, that the noble Earl must have been after the stag-hounds when the noble Earl had heard of the speech to which the noble Earl referred. On that occasion he had stated his 'readiness to give his support to the Government of the right hon. Baronet now at its head, when an observation was made by some Gentleman present, that though Sir R. Peel and his friends were opposed to the Corn-law question as brought in by the Whigs, yet they might, when in power, turn round upon the agriculturists, as they had done on the question of Ca-
1113The Duke of Richmond
1114l, was happy to hear from the noble Duke, that there was no fixed lime to which Parliament was to be prorogued, and therefore, that the people might entertain some hope that their distressed condition would be taken into consideration much earlier than was generally supposed. He had no fear for want of food in the country, but what he dreaded was increase of discontent, for which he saw no remedy, except a temporary coming forward on the part of the aristocracy, especially that part that had shown themselves he richest at the last elections. This country was burdened with a debt of 800,000,0001114lLord Clifford of Chudleigh
 said, that the noble Lord must, on a slight consideration, be aware that the question he had asked was one which he ought not to put, and which could not be answered. He would wish to ask, in his turn, what the noble Lord meant by the word "monopolists?"The Duke of Wellington
11111110Melbourne1109 said, that the person, who, from his situation, was called upon to tender, his advice to her Majesty, should consider well before he gave that advice, and he had always done so; but he would tell the noble Earl what he would not do. He would not allow himself to be intimidated by the noble Earl, or by his friends or correspondents— Radical he thought he called them— from giving that advice which his sense of duty prompted to his Sovereign, let the consequences of
11111110Melbourne1109The Duke of Wellington
 said, that he had given his individual support to those bills in their progress through that House, and would do so again when they came before him, but he could not answer for the course which his Colleagues in the other House might feel it necessary to adopt with respect to them.The Duke of Wellington
115411531152 presented a petition to which he begged to call the particular attention of their Lordships, from a respectable member of the Society of Friends, Edwin Swan Rickman, complaining of the dreadful excitement, intimidation, and corruption which he had witnessed at the late election for the place of his residence, and states, that in many of the places in the three kingdoms, where he had since been, the same scenes were said, by all he saw, to have been exhibited; and praying for the prevention of canvassing. Whatever he might think of the remedy, he (Lord Brougham) thought the subject of the petition deserv-
115411531152Lord Brougham
, with several Members, having appeared at the bar, the commission for giving the royal assent to several bills was read, and the royal assent was given with the usual formalities.The Speaker
" Her Majesty has commanded us to repeat the expression of her deep concern at the distress which has prevailed for a considerable period in some of the principal manufacturing districts, and to assure you that you may rely upon the cordial concurrence of her Majesty in all such measures as shall appear, after mature consideration, best calculated to prevent the recurrence of that distress, and to promote the great object of all her Majesty's wishes—the happiness and contentment of her people."" The measures which it will be expedient to adopt for the purpose of equalizing the public income and the annual expenditure, and other important objects connected with the trade and commerce of the country, will necessarily occupy your attention at an early period after the recess." My Lords and Gentlemen," My Lords and Gentlemen," We have it in command from her Majesty to thank you for the supplies which you have granted to her Majesty for those branches of the public service for which complete provision had not been made by the late Parliament." Gentlemen of the House of Commons," Gentlemen of the House of Commons,1155" In conformity with the advice of her Parliament, and in pursuance of the declared intentions of her Majesty, her Majesty has taken the re-
1155" We are commanded by her Majesty to acquaint you that it appears advisable to her Majesty to bring to a close the present Session of Parliament." My Lords and Gentlemen," My Lords and Gentlemen, read the speech as follows:—
" Her Majesty has commanded us to repeat the expression of her deep concern at the distress which has prevailed for a considerable period in some of the principal manufacturing districts, and to assure you that you may rely upon the cordial concurrence of her Majesty in all such measures as shall appear, after mature consideration, best calculated to prevent the recurrence of that distress, and to promote the great object of all her Majesty's wishes—the happiness and contentment of her people."" The measures which it will be expedient to adopt for the purpose of equalizing the public income and the annual expenditure, and other important objects connected with the trade and commerce of the country, will necessarily occupy your attention at an early period after the recess." My Lords and Gentlemen," My Lords and Gentlemen," We have it in command from her Majesty to thank you for the supplies which you have granted to her Majesty for those branches of the public service for which complete provision had not been made by the late Parliament." Gentlemen of the House of Commons," Gentlemen of the House of Commons,1155" In conformity with the advice of her Parliament, and in pursuance of the declared intentions of her Majesty, her Majesty has taken the re-
1155" We are commanded by her Majesty to acquaint you that it appears advisable to her Majesty to bring to a close the present Session of Parliament." My Lords and Gentlemen," My Lords and Gentlemen,The Lord Chancellor
 declared, it was her Majesty's command that the Parliament should be prorogued to Thursday, the 11th of November next. Parliament accordingly prorogued to the 11th day of November next.The Lord Chancellor
