 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, there was a general understanding that no new writs should be issued for boroughs in the same position as Sudbury, without notice having been given of the intention to move them. He was surprised that the hon. and gallant Gentleman should now, without giving any notice, ask for a new writ for this borough. A bill affecting this borough had been passed through this House, and had been sent to the House of Lords, where there was not sufficient time to pass it during the last Session. The subject being, in fact, still under consideration, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not now persist in his motion for the new writ.
 Colonel Rushbrooke  thought that it had been understood that no opposition, after such a lapse of time, was to be offered to the motion for a new writ, and he therefore had deemed it unnecessary to give any notice whatever respecting it. He would now give notice of his motion for Monday next.
 Lord J. Russell : I can assure the House it is not my intention to express by my vote any dissent from the Address which has been moved in answer to the Speech from the Throne. I think, considering the great variety of topics which are touched upon in that Speech, and the great difference of opinion which prevails with respect to some of those topics, the Speech has been judiciously and wisely framed, in order to avoid occasion for any difference of votes on this, the first night of the Session. Among the various topics of the Speech I will take first that which is of a very gratifying nature, namely, the successes of our armies in China, and the honourable and satisfactory peace which has been concluded with the emperor. With respect to that subject I am quite willing to agree with the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Address, who praised the energy and promptitude with which her Majesty's Ministers have directed the military and naval forces at the disposal of the Crown, in order to obtain an honourable peace, and bring the war to a termination. If there had been any change made with respect to the means which were placed at their disposal by the late Government when they left office, if there had been any intimation that they were obliged themselves to prepare those means which they found ready to be sent to the scene of action, I would have felt myself compelled to enter into that topic; but as nothing of the kind has been said, I am most willing to bear my testimony to the promptitude and decision with which that war has been brought to an honourable conclusion. Another topic, of far more difficulty, and in which we require some elucidation before we come to the motion for a vote of thanks, of which the right hon. Gentleman has given notice, relates to our operations in Affghanistan. These operations do the greatest credit to the gallantry, the skill, and military talents of the generals who were placed in command of our troops; to General Pollock, to General Nott, to General Sale, and to many other officers placed in subordinate command. But, Sir, if the right hon. Gentleman is to move thanks to the Governor-general and to the army, there are one or two points on which I think he will especially be bound to give some information to the House. One of these I did not hear at all touched upon by the hon. Gen-
 99 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 s s 108 s 109 s ad captandum l l l l l 110 l l 111 112
 Lord Stanley  must observe, in the first place, that there appeared to be no in considerable difference of opinion between the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Charles Wood), who was then speaking to him, and the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) who preceded him in the debate. For whilst the hon. Member for Greenock told the House that the Speech from the Throne would be received in every quarter of the kingdom with universal dissatisfaction—that there never was a Speech so objectionable, and that he objected to each and every part of it, the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman, sitting on the same side of the House, had declared, with great candour and fairness, that with regard to the topics introduced into the I Speech, they appeared to them to be judiciously selected, and judiciously handled—that they entertained very little objection to any portion of them (or with very few exceptions), and that, upon the whole, they should disclaim the notion of moving or supporting an amendment. After the sweeping denunciation which the hon. Gentleman had made of all that was in the Speech, and all that was not in the Speech he thought that the hon. Gentle man should have tried his hand at an amendment, either by moving the rejection of some paragraph in the Address to which he objected, or the insertion of some paragraph which he preferred. But the expression of the hon. Gentleman's objection, notwithstanding the general denunciation in which he indulged, was confined to two subjects. The hon. Gentleman objected to the language in which the royal visit to Scotland was spoken of, as if because her Majesty expressed the gratification which she felt at the universal sentiment of loyalty and attachment with which she was received from one part of Scotland to the other—it was, therefore, the intention of Ministers to insinuate that her Majesty had reason to expect, or that her advisers were so ignorant of the general feeling of the people of Scotland towards the Sovereign, as to suppose that she would not be received with every demonstration of affectionate loyalty in that part of her dominions, and consequently
 116 John Russell: 117 118 119 120 121 122 "It involves the sacrifice of a portion of the Madawaska settlement—good ground should be assigned for the abandonment of that territory. The line of the river was a very plausible and equitable argument in the mouth of Mr. Webster, but when you had taken up the line of the river, why did you not trace it out to its full extent? The river was the natural boundary." "But you do not take the river St. John from its source to its mouth—you pursue only the river to a certain point, then take the line of another river, and strike across to the nearest point of the highlands, which all parties admit to be the proper boundary." "That he could not but think that the pertinacity with which the American minister had insisted upon the adoption of this line was for the sake of some great advantage in a military point of view." 123 124 125 126 Hear.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that he would not detain the House, for he observed its patience was exhausted; and if it was not, he could hardly claim it, for he was not going to talk of foreign policy, or of sandal-wood gates, or of other topics which had engaged their attention that night; but having heard something of the suffering, and much of the opinions of large portions of the people at home, he could not suffer the debate to close without expressing his surprise, which on their part, would be a stronger feeling, at the Speech from the Throne, and the explanation given of it by the right hon. Baronet. He could hardly believe that persons who did not wish to offend the feelings or disregard the sufferings of the people, could take so peculiar a view of both as he concluded was done by the Government, for them to have so commenced the session. His own impression was, that the sacrifice of property and the suffering of
 138 139 140 Ferrand:
 Mr. C. Wood  said, I am convinced that the noble Lord in no degree miscalculated the feeling of the House, when be stated his belief that it would readily unite in an expression of satisfaction at the assurance given in her Majesty's most gracious Speech of the termination of the hostilities in which this country has been engaged in two portions of the East, and of the adjustment of disputed questions with the United States of America. Every Member of this House, will, I am sure, cordially join in congratulating her Majesty on the important announcement, which, in these respects, she has been able to make to her Parliament. With respect to the termination of our hostilities with China, but one feeling of satisfaction can prevail; for, whatever reliance might justly be placed on the skill and valour of our troops, no one could contemplate, without some anxiety, the prosecution of hostilities at such a remote distance, with a people so numerous, and in a country of which we knew so little, nor was it possible to observe, without a feeling of deep regret, the indiscriminate slaughter which necessarily attended our victories, or was inflicted upon themselves by a brave but barbarian people, after their defeats. The conclusion of the war with China is signalised by a circumstance which seldom Calls to the lot of belligerent powers, namely, the attainment of every object for which hostilities were undertaken. We have obtained reparation for the insults and cruelty inflicted on the residents in the British factory—compensation to our merchants for the losses which they had sustained; and indemnity for the expenses of the war. I trust, also, that the noble Lord is not wrong in calculating that the opening for commerce secured by the happy termination of this war, will be beneficial in the
 75 76 77 "In the enforcement of the laws and treaty stipulations of Great Britain a practice had threatened to grow up, on the part of her cruisers of subjecting to visitation ships sailing under the American flag, which, while it seriously involved our maritime rights, would subject to vexation a branch of our trade which was increasing, and which required the fostering care of the Government. And although Lord Aberdeen, in his correspondence with the American envoys in London, expressly disclaimed all right to detain any American ships on the high seas, even if found with slaves on board, and restricted the British pretension to a mere claim to visit and in quire, yet it could not well be discerned by the executive of the United States how such visit and inquiry could be made without detention on the voyage, and consequent interrup-
 78 "All pretence is removed for interference with our commerce for any purpose whatever by a foreign government. A similar arrangement by the other great powers could not fail to sweep from the ocean the slave trade, without the interpolation of any new principle into the maritime code." "The undersigned begs to repeat, that with American vessels, whatever be their destination, British cruisers have no pretension in any manner to interfere. Such vessels must be permitted, if engaged in it, to enjoy a monopoly of this unhallowed trade; but the British Government will never endure that the fraudulent use of the American flag shall extend the iniquity to other nations by whom it is
 79 80 l l 81 "You have had under your consideration measures of the greatest importance connected with the financial and commercial interests of the country calculated to maintain the public credit, to improve the national resources, and, by extending trade and stimulating the demand for labour, to promote the general and permanent welfare of all classes of my subjects." 82 83 84 l l l 85 86
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  could not but think it would have been better taste in the hon Member. who had just sat down if he had postponed his observations upon the hon. and learned Member for the county of Cork until that hon. and learned Member was in his place. He had read the two speeches of the hon. and learned Member for the county of Cork to which reference had been made, and he denied the inconsistency which was alleged to exist in them. The object of the hon. and learned Member's speech in Dublin had been to attack the efforts of certain bodies of Socialists who sought, under the specious name of civil and religious liberty, to estrange the population from the influence of their priests. He denied that there was any inconsistency between the two speeches. While on his legs he could not but complain of the omission from the Speech of all mention of the patient endurance with which the people of Ireland bore their existing distress. His attention had been arrested by one section of the Speech from the Throne referring to China, viz.:—
 "Her Majesty rejoices in the prospect that, by the free access which will be opened to the principal marts of that populous and extensive empire, encouragement will be given to the commercial enterprise of the people." 161
 Mr. Bankes  said, that having been so frequently alluded to in the course of the
 158 159
 Dr. Bowring  claimed the indulgence of the House while he ventured to make a few observations. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire had denounced the Anti-Corn-law League as illegal and unconstitutional; he did not know how the hon. Member could prove that, but he was certain that the League had produced a conviction in the minds of the people that the Corn-laws were the chief cause of the distress which prevailed amongst our manufacturing population, and that there could be no peace until that system of legislation was overthrown. The power of the League might be seen in the impression it had created, and nothing would arrest its progress but the removal of the grievances to whose oppressions the League owed its resistance. With respect to the Affghan war, he considered its end like its beginning, and its whole course, from first to last, anything but honourable to our national character, whatever acts of individual bravery might have signalized our countrymen. We had little to be proud of in the invasion of a country of which we had nothing to complain—in the bloody battles against rude mountaineers, and in the disgraceful slaughter which had closed the campaign. Now that we were at peace, an opportunity was afforded for anxious inquiry into the cause of that misery which had spread and was spreading over the land, and he hoped the House would find time, and feel the necessity for looking into the causes and consequences of our domestic sufferings. He begged the attention of the right hon. Baronet to one me lancholy fact. Last year he had stated, on the authority of the respectable vicar of Bolton, that 7,000 persons had received relief, and that their weekly earnings per head on the average were but 1 s 162 s
 Mr. Brotherton  could fully bear out the statement made by the hon. Member for Manchester, and by other hon. Members as to the continuance of commercial distress. He should be able to prove at the proper time, that trade was declining, pauperism extending, rates and taxes increasing, and a great depreciation in the value of property. There must be a cause and also a remedy for this distress. The hon. Member for Knaresborough had proposed to increase the taxation, by adding a tax on machinery. Would he tax ploughs and thrashing machines? He (Mr. Brotherton) was convinced that it was only owing to our machinery that this country was able to bear the heavy weight of taxation. The landed interest in reality paid no taxes; the revenue was supported mainly by the commercial classes when trade was prosperous. As a proof of this, in the four years preceding 1837, when food was cheap, the revenue was flourishing, and there was a considerable surplus; but in the last four years, when food and articles of agricultural produce were dear, the revenue was deficient, and it was evident that such must be the case, because when food was dear the people had nothing to spare for the purchase of exciseable arti-
 157
 Mr. Hume  would not have spoken, had not some of the sentiments of his hon. Friend (Mr. Villiers) been received by the other side of the House in a manner so extraordinary. Before he went further, he would, however, discharge the pleasing duty of expressing his satisfaction at the conclusion of our differences with America. Upon this point he differed from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), because be believed that the treaty would have the effect of placing two countries, which never should have been estranged, upon the most amicable footing. He admitted that he was one of those who had ex-
 143 144 145 l l l l l 146 s "Her Majesty regrets the diminished receipts from some of the ordinary sources of revenue. He Majesty fears that it must be in part attributed to the reduced consumption of many articles, caused by that depression of the manufacturing industry of the country which has so long prevailed, and which her Majesty has so deeply lamented." 147 148 149
 Mr. Wallace  expressed his entire dissatisfaction with the Speech which Ministers had chosen to offer to the country as coming from the Sovereign. He believed, that the people in general would think with him that the distress which pervaded the country from one end of it to the other should have been treated in a very different manner, and he was quite sure that that part of the country from which he came, to which there was an attempt in the Speech to pay a compliment, would know how to appreciate language which seemed to imply a doubt that Scotchmen could have had any other notion than that of paying a compliment to the Sovereign, and that Sovereign a woman. He was quite prepared to say, that the Income-tax, which had been so well alluded to by the noble Lord, the Member for London (Lord John Russell), was the root of all the new evil of which the country had now reason to complain. Yet it was that most iniquitous tax upon which the Minister reckoned as the source from which he was to derive the means to make up the deficiencies in the revenue which were occasioned by the distress of the country. He took it to be quite clear that the signal
 114 115
 Mr. T. M. Gibson : I hope I shall be indulged with the attention of the House for a few moments, while I reply to the remarks of the hon. Member for Knaresborough. I can assure the hon. Gentleman, that though he may fancy he does great injury to the cause of the repeal of the Corn-laws, his speeches are considered in
 154 and laughter Ferrand: Cheers Ferrand: loud cries of 155 156
 Mr. Gibson : My impression is that the hon. Gentleman last year made statements which on inquiry was not substantiated, and that he particularly attacked the hon. Member for Stockport on grounds which turned out not to be well founded.
 Mr. Ewart  did not know what the hon. Gentleman so mysteriously alluded to, as a mine about to be sprung for the destruction of the Anti-Corn-law League, if he did not mean some such anathemas as were hurled by Mr. Pitt against the Corresponding Societies in 1799. The hon. Gentleman did not surely mean to condemn all the manufacturers in his sweeping denunciations.— [Mr. Ferrand: "Certainly not all."]—Then why were the hon. Gentleman's charges so general, and his meaning so particular. We all deplored the misery of the working people, but it was wonderful that want of employment never struck the hon. Gentleman as a cause of that distress with which he so strongly sympathised. He must confess he heard Her Majesty's Speech with great disappointment, because it showed that however the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had the will, he had not the power to give effect to his free-trade principles. Above all, there was no hope given that the food of the people would be freed from taxation; and the agitation thus passed over, was diffusing itself throughout every part of the community. The very circumstance which the hon. Gentleman alluded to of women so frequently attending those meetings, showed that this was becoming not only a political, but a social question. The right hon. Baronet held out no hope of any change as to corn and provisions. There was, however, something like an
 153 s d s
 Mr. Ferrand : As the hon. Gentleman has said that I brought forward charges which I could not substantiate, I beg to refer him to the evidence on the Payment of Wages Committee. By that I am ready to stand or fall.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, he had not intended to take part in that night's debate, but the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had chosen to throw out a sly insinuation, which was intended to go to the large meetings in the north of England, that he would not accept his challenge to meet him upon his favorite topic of free trade; but, if the hon. Gentleman would give notice of the subject, he would be prepared to meet him: he would join issue with him upon that ground, they would fight the battle upon the floor of that House, and refer the decision to the country as the umpire between them. They might make a stalking-horse of free-trade, and hold out a pretence to the poor man that the nostrum of free-trade was a sure remedy for his sufferings; but he would tell them that there could be no protection secured for the poor unless machinery was taxed. Machinery deprived the poor man of his daily bread. It was pronounced of him that he should
 150 Cheers. Laughter. d d d s d s 151 152
 Sir Charles Napier  objected to the articles of the Ashburton treaty. He complained particularly of the absence of any stipulation in the treaty with respect to the power of taking British seamen from American ships in time of war. As regarded the boundary question, he looked
 113
 Captain Pechell  could have wished that answers of a more satisfactory character than those which he had returned had been given by the right hon. Baronet opposite to the inquiries put by the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary. He wished in particular to know whether the cruizers appointed to the coast of Africa for the slave-trade were or were not to be confined to that coast in their operations?
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that the only suggestion he had heard thrown out during the discussion, for remedying the distress of the country, was a tax upon machinery. He hoped the hon. Member for Knaresborough would fix an early day for the discussion of that question. If there were any persons who thought that trade was fast reviving, and again flowing into its wonted channels, they very much deceived themselves. People on the first news of the intelligence of peace with China, believed that another and an immediate market was thus opened up for our manufactures; but he could assure the House and the country that if trade was to receive any benefit from the Chinese treaty, such effects would be the work of time, and by no means to be immediately expected. With respect to tea, they could not force much additional consumption in that article without lowering the high duties, and if they wanted an extensive trade with China he would urge the necessity of a revision of the Sugar-duties.
 Sir R. Inglis  observed, that his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) had deprecated the premature discussion of the policy of the Governor-general of India: but, notwithstanding this implied rebuke to those who introduced matters affecting personal character, he thought that he should not discharge his duty if he suffered the debate to close without showing that one Member on the Ministerial side of the House (he hoped many would concur with him) censured the character of at least one of the proclamations of the Governor-general. For four days he had indulged the hope that it was not genuine; and, although something had been said about the smiles and laughter with which it had been received, he apprehended that it would excite a very different feeling in a Christian people. He was persuaded, that it was a proclamation which no Mahometan Governor-general would have issued. He begged to repeat his conviction that no Mahometan Governor-general would have paid such respect to Indian idolatry, or such disrespect to his own true faith. He did not mean to pre-judge the general question of the Indian administration of Lord Ellenborough; but he had heard it said, on a former occasion, by a secretary to the India Board, that it was not fit to
 136 137
 Sir R. Peel : I am happy, Sir, to infer from the general tone of the speech of the hon. Member who has just addressed you, and from the spirit in which the speech was received by those who generally concur in opinion with him, that there is every prospect of an unanimous vote on the Address in answer to her Majesty's Speech. I listened to the hon. Gentle man's speech, and particularly to that portion of it which referred to the foreign policy pursued by this country, with great satisfaction. It appeared to me, that the hon. Gentleman was willing to afford his unqualified approbation to the policy which governed the conduct of Ministers with respect to foreign affairs generally; and the only reserve he made referred to the conduct of the Government in relation to those districts west of the Indus. I concur with the hon. Gentleman in the observations which he has made respecting the great skill and ability with which the military operations were carried on in India, and the constancy and valour of the troops engaged in executing them; and I also concur in the justness of the remark that these will be more properly brought under our view when the notice upon the books calls the attention of the House more particularly to the subject. That will be the more becoming season to enter upon such a subject; and for that reason, I shall not at present dwell upon it. The hon. Gentleman, in referring to that portion of the Queen's Speech which alludes to the treaty lately concluded between this country and the United States, for the regulation of the boundary question between Canada and the state of Maine, said very truly, that the possession of a few hundred square miles of territory, more or less, was of little importance compared to the adjustment of differences which had now existed for nearly half a century between two great nations—differences which, from their long continuance, and from their peculiar nature, were calculated, unless speedily and definitively adjusted, to leave but little hope that peace could be preserved between the two nations. I was glad to hear the hon. Gentleman's frank admission with respect to the settlement of the boundary question, and I feel satisfied, that I shall be able, when the occasion offers, to show the House that the
 87 88 bon° fide "The undersigned apprehends, however, that the right of search is not confined to the verification of the nationality of the vessel, but also extends to the object of the voyage, and the nature of the cargo. The sole purpose of
 89 90 91 bon° fide 92 93 l 94 95 96 97 s 98
 Sir R. Peel : I presume I must answer the questions put to me by the noble Lord. I regret that I have not an opportunity of entering into more detail. I did not rise until I thought the debate was about to be brought to a close. It is because I cannot infringe the orders of the House, that I do not now vindicate my noble Friend the Governor-general from what I may venture to call the aspersions cast upon him. I must limit myself to answering the question put to me by the noble Lord. I apprehend that there is no foundation for saying that the British Government has contracted to reduce the number of cruisers on the coast of Africa, or is about to reduce the number. The statement to which the noble Lord refers was that, whereas we had eighty cruisers on the coast of Africa last year, we now intend to reduce them to only half. That, I believe, is an error: eighty warrants were granted, and hence it seems to have been assumed that eighty ships were employed. I am informed that last year we had fifty cruisers, and that this year we have forty-nine cruisers. I speak from memory only, but I think I am right.
 135
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he was not pre-
 163
 Mr. W. P. S. Miles  said, in rising to second the Address, which has just been so ably proposed by the noble Lord, in answer to her Majesty's most gracious Speech, I trust I shall be allowed that indulgence which I know this House is ever ready to extend to a young Member making his first address. It is with no ordinary feelings of embarrassment that I undertake the task for which I have found it necessary to ask the favourable consideration of the House, and I trust that in the few remarks which it will be incumbent on me to offer, I shall make use of no expression calculated to disturb that spirit of harmony and unanimity which it is so desirable should prevail on the present occasion. I shall endeavour to confine my remarks to as short a space as will be consistent with the importance of the topics on which it will be necessary for me to dilate. It is with feelings of peculiar pride and satisfaction that I advert to the glorious termination of the campaign in Affghanistan. I believe that on few occasions in the history of that country have victories so important to the security and stability of our Indian empire been achieved. I conceive that it is a matter of congratulation that her Majesty's army should have so nobly triumphed over every difficulty, and should have so gloriously recovered the laurels which previous events had torn from their brows; that, notwithstanding the severity of the climate, and the almost insurmountable nature of the mountain passes, they had, by the skilful guidance of their commanders, rescued the prisoners from captivity, and exemplified the maxim—that England leaves no insult unavenged, that her faith is inviolable when once pledged, that her punishment of treachery is instant and certain, and that while she strikes terror into the hearts of her enemies, she is at all times ready, even in the midst of success, to listen to the dictates of humanity and reason. It would be presumptuous in me to enter into the question of our Indian policy; but I cannot
 72 73 74
 Viscount Courtenay  then said, Mr. Speaker, in rising for the purpose of proposing a humble Address in answer to the Speech which you have just read, I feel that I shall not be preferring any unreasonable request if I entreat for myself on this occasion that kind and indulgent consideration, which, under similar circumstances, this House is wont to bestow. While, Sir, the magnitude and variety of the topics touched on in her Majesty's Speech are such as to place under no ordinary difficulties the proposer of an address in reply, under more than ordinary difficulties, I feel at the same time an encouragement derived from the circumstance that there are amongst the topics it alludes to many which are likely to meet with unanimous concurrence, and that amongst its announcements there are many with regard to which we shall all be anxious to manifest cordial sentiments of satisfaction. I am sure that all will hail with satisfaction the assurance, which I am happy to say her Majesty has had occasion to make in several of her previous Speeches, as well as this—I mean the an-
 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71
 Viscount Howick  concurred in the opinion that much disappointment would be occasioned by the Speech from the Throne, and by the commentary of the right hon. Baronet upon it. He for one had not been sanguine as to the intentions of Government, but there was no Gentle man who knew how long, and to what a degree distress had prevailed, not only in the manufacturing, but in the agricultural districts, who would not say that the lime was now come when, discarding all party considerations, it was the duty of the administration to look the difficulties fully and fairly in the face, with the view of adopting some measures for the removal of them. In a natural state of things such distress could not continue, at all events after a harvest which the right hon.
 141 142
 Viscount Palmerston  thought the expectation just expressed by the noble Lord was some what unreasonable, It was unreasonable for a Minister of the Crown to expect on the first day of the Session, after the delivery of a Speech from the Throne, embracing so many topics of foreign and domestic policy as those that were treated of by the present Speech, that he should not only have an unanimous vote, but also that he should escape the expression of a difference of opinion upon the Address in answer to that Speech. He thought the noble Lord ought to have been sufficiently thankful for an unanimous vote to have refrained expressing dissatisfaction at some slight difference of opinion upon some of the topics contained in the Speech. Nor did he think the complaint just that this difference of opinion led to partial discussions of those topics; for how was it possible, in one short night, that a full discussion could be gone into upon even any one of the subjects touched upon in the Speech? Whatever discussion took place on the first night of the Session must of necessity be partial; the matter complained of by the noble Lord was, therefore, an inevitable consequence of the nature of things. But if the complaint of the noble Lord should be considered well founded he thought that the notice which had already been given, and the discussions which would in all probability take place during the present Session, would at all events satisfy the noble Lord; for he considered it highly probable that most of the important topics to which the Speech from the Throne referred, would, when the opportunity arose, undergo full and ample discussion. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had said, with respect to the first topic to which the Speech related, namely, the Ashburton treaty, or, as the noble Lord who had just spoken had more properly—as he(Lord Palmerston) thought—called it the Ashburton capitulation—the right hon. Baronet had said, with respect to that topic, that if any future opportunity for its discussion should be afforded, he should be prepared to go into a full defence and justification of that treaty. Now, undoubtedly, if no other Member should bring that subject under discussion, he could assure the right hon. Baronet that he should afford him that opportunity for which he had expressed himself so anxious. Therefore as the House would have the opportunity of hearing the
 128 "If you admit the argument of Mr. Webster, and take a boundary which would leave
 129 "Because," said the noble Lord, "if you want to discard these colonies, and make them independent, it is your duty to take care that when they became independent they should have the very best boundary." 130 131 132 133 l 134
 Sir R. Peel  was surprised to hear the hon. Gentleman complain of a delay in the appointment of the commission. Those with whom the hon. Gentleman usually acted had been for ten years in power, and yet they had not gone as far as a commission. A right hon. Gentleman who was well acquainted with the affairs of Scotland had been an Under Secretary of State during a portion of that time, and he had made no proposition on the subject. The subject, it appeared, was so difficult a one, that during ten years the preceding Government had not been able to take a single step; and yet the present Government was to be censured because he had proceeded no further than a commission since July last. From what had been said last year upon the subject, especially as regarded the operation of the system in large towns, he (Sir R. Peel) said, that it was absolutely necessary that some inquiry should be set on foot, and the consequence was, that the present commission was appointed, and it was to be regretted that the hon. Member for Wigton, who was so eminently qualified to enter into the inquiry, was prevented by ill-health from acting with the commission. But the hon. Gentleman said, that because there were clergymen and men of landed property upon the commission, the inquiry could not be an impartial one. He felt himself called upon to vindicate the hon. Gentleman's country from the aspersion which the hon. Gentleman himself had thrown upon it. So far from being desirous of retaining the power of relief in their own hands, they were desirous of having it confided to commissioners. Were such men as Lord Melville and the others who composed the commission liable to the charge of partiality? Having now for the first time instituted a commission to inquire into the operation of the Poor-law system in Scotland, what could be more desirable, what could be more useful, than
 181
 Mr. F. Maule  complained that the right hon. Baronet in answering the hon. Member for St. Andrew's had thought fit to aim at the late Administration. [No, no.] Why, it was stated, that having been in power for ten years, they had not during that time made any inquiry into the working of the Poor-law system in Scotland. The fact was, the hardships of the present system did not appear so prominently until the last two years. Had the same circumstances occurred sooner, and had the attention of his noble Friend behind him (Lord J. Russell) been called to the subject, that noble Lord would have acted in the same manner as the right hon. Baronet had done, and would have taken the question into his own hands, but he would not have legislated without first instituting a full inquiry. The attention of the House had been called to the subject on the 17th of last June, upon which occasion the right hon. Baronet said that the attention of the Government should be directed to it. A commission might have been sooner appointed, and sufficient information procured in the interim, so as to enable the Government to propose some remedy during the present Session. With respect to the commission which had been appointed, he (Mr. F. Maule) considered that none could be more fairly constituted. No name could inspire more confidence than that of Lord Melville, and no person was better informed upon the subject. Scotland was deeply indebted to him for the Prison Bill, and there was no doubt would be equally indebted for his exertions in the proposed inquiry. It was necessary that the commission should inspire confidence, and though he was sure the one appointed could not fail to do so, still it would increase this confidence—and it was not yet too late to make the attempt—if some individuals from the large towns were appointed on the commission.
 Sir R. Peel,  in explanation, said, he
 182
 Mr. Campbell  complained of the hon. Member for St. Andrew's for stating that the clergy made an injurious use of their power of distributing relief. It was an assertion which he would not allow to pass uncontradicted, as there was no body of men who could more fairly or judiciously manage the relief fund than they had done; and if by the circumstances of the day a great body of those men should be compelled to leave the church of their fathers, it would be too late to find bow much the aristocracy would lose when deprived of the assistance of those whose services were so valuable in administering the funds for the relief of the poor. Did the hon. Member for St. Andrew's remember the distress in the western highlands in 1830?
 Mr. Ellice  in explanation said, that he had not intended to imply anything injurious to the clergy of Scotland; he merely meant to say that they did not exactly constitute the body best qualified to distribute relief to the poor.
 Mr. Wallace  was convinced the commission would give great satisfaction in Scotland. It ought to have been appointed sooner, but better late than never. He had only one objection to make to it, and that was, that one or two dissenting ministers had not been placed on it. It was not, however, too late to correct the error. The men whose names were already there, were very competent, and would give great satisfaction. He was sorry to be obliged to differ on the subject from his young friend.
 Sir James Graham  said, it was a long time before he could make up his mind to grant this commission, and he was, therefore, the less surprised that the late Government should so long have delayed the inquiry. Nothing but a conviction of the great sufferings that had prevailed in the manufacturing districts had induced him to consent to disturb a system which, on the whole, had acted well. He could not, however, conceal from himself the fact that the existing system of Poor-laws in Scotland had been framed for a state of society different from that which now existed there. The system was well calculated for a rural population, but not for
 183 184 "They shall make full inquiry into the practical operation of the laws which provide for the relief of the poor in Scotland, and whether any and what alterations, amendments, or improvements may be beneficially made in the same laws, or in the manner of administering them, and how the same may best be carried into effect." 185
 Lord John Russell  certainly did not feel that the smallest blame could fairly be imputed to the late Government for not having issued such a commission as the present. He had felt, when he had the honour of filling the office now held by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, just as the right hon. Gentleman said he now felt—that it was a matter which required very considerable caution. It was, as he thought, a matter of much doubt, and there being a pressure of other questions relating to poor-laws in England, the introduction of a Poor-law in Ireland, and the new circumstances arising from the working of those alterations, he had always thought it was desirable to postpone any inquiry into the subject. With respect to any immediate destitution which might arise in the mean time, those cases of distress were not unattended to; and as his right hon. Friend (Mr. F. Maule) had said of the destitution that had occurred, persons were sent down for the purpose of investigating the particular cases. He remembered that a large deputation had once come to him on the subject of distress in Scotland, and he had suggested that some alterations in the Poor-laws might be required. That suggestion did not seem to him to be very acceptable to the gentlemen forming the deputation. He was perfectly satisfied, as far as he knew, with the commission, because he thought the name of Lord Melville was an earnest that the inquiry would be fairly conducted. It was right to issue that commission, yet he owned he could hardly venture to anticipate, with the right hon. Gentleman (Sir James Graham) that there would be perfectly satisfactory legislation on this subject. He admitted that, from the novel features by which the condition of Scotland was marked in recent times—the increase of population, the growth of large manufacturing towns, and the change in particular occupations which had taken place, in part of the Highlands, it might be desirable to alter the present laws for the re life of the poor of Scotland; but, on the other hand, he did not see how they could very well make an alteration without making it general. On comparing the situation of an able-bodied labourer in the rural districts of England with his condi-
 186
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether it were his intention that the inquiry of the commission should be extended to the whole of Scotland, or should be limited to the manufacturing districts only, as the right hon. Gentle man had observed that the law in its pre sent state was well suited to the wants of rural districts? He was of opinion, that the inquiry would not be satisfactory unless it extended to the rural as well as to the manufacturing districts, especially as in the former the most extensive destitution had prevailed. He observed, that out of the members of the commission, I there was not one individual especially connected with the large towns, or acquainted with their interests, and qualified to watch over them. He would remind the right hon. Baronet of the proceedings of the committee, which had inquired into the stale of the Highlands. When evidence was to be taken by them, what did the House think was the course they pursued? The chairman was a barrister, and the committee, which was composed of men connected in interests with the land-
 187
 Sir J. Graham  would offer a word of explanation in reply to what had fallen from the hon. Member. He could assure him it was the intention of her Majesty's Government, in appointing this commission, that its inquiries should not be limited to the town population, but should be extended to every portion of Scotland. The commission would sit in Edinburgh, but would have power to move from place to place, and institute inquiries, by the subdivision of its members in all quarters. With respect to the hon. Member's suggestion as to the appointment of a dissenting clergyman, it did so happen, fortunately for Scotland, that there was little difference of creed among its inhabitants, and that the points of variance between the Church and the Dissenters were merely questions of discipline. It was somewhat extraordinary that he, who had been called on to take part in the dispute which now divided the Church of Scotland should be accused on the one hand of giving an undue preference to the Church in this commission, and, on the other of having given a decision unfavourable to her pretensions.
 Mr. C. Bruce  would slate, in reference to an observation which had fallen from
 188
 Mr. Hume  said he was anxious to be correct, and he would therefore state that on the 3d of May, 1841, in the committee before named, it was moved by his Friend near him (Mr. Ellice), that certain witnesses be summoned to give evidence on various points connected with the inquiry. The motion was rejected by the casting vote of the chairman; so that the fact was, that the committee declined to receive any evidence but that of landed proprietors in the distressed districts.
 Mr. Mackenzie  said the resolution alluded to was come to by the committee after they considered that the subject of the inquiry had been exhausted.
 Mr. Hume  said he thought the inquiry ought to be conducted by individuals connected both with towns and rural districts, and inquired if the right hon. Baronet meant to adopt his suggestion with regard to appointing a person especially interested in the large towns.
 Sir J. Graham  said he had used his
 189
 Mr. Ellice  must declare that his opinion as to the composition of the commission remained unchanged. Looking to the proceedings of the former committee, in which the landed proprietors had prevented any inquiry from being made with reference to the Poor-laws, he must say that the success of the commission was extremely doubtful, and that in the meantime it had caused great dissatisfaction and distrust.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had not the least objection to give the hon. Gentleman the information he wished for, except on one point, where it would not be possible to furnish it. The hon. Gentleman wished to know if loss were caused by sending the silver to the Mint instead of at once to the market. He could give the hon. Gentleman the market price for silver at the particular times; but it would have been impossible to say what depression in price might have been produced if the silver had been thrown into the market in large quantities. He could not tell what the effect of bringing it into the market might have been. It was not his fault that the silver had been remitted to this country. He had taken every means in his powor to have it sent to India; but from the rapidity with which events in China had been brought to a close, the first shipment had been made to this country.
 Mr. Hume  had not meant to impute the slightest blame to the right hon. Gentleman. The value of silver could be ascertained by the price per pound, and the return would not be complete without that.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said the price by tale could be given, but the market price would, of course, have been much depreciated, if large quantities had been introduced at particular times.
 Mr. Liddell  must object to the inconvenient, he might say, the unfair course of getting up a discussion on the Corn-laws, on the question for bringing up the Report on the Address, which did not contain one word in allusion to that subject; but after the speeches of the two hon. Members who had preceded him, it was impossible for him to remain silent. The observations which the hon. Member for Nottingham had quoted from Mr. Huskisson's speeches were directed, not against such a law as now existed, but against the law of 1815. Mr. Huskisson was himself the author of the sliding scale, and it was absurd to quote him with the view of making it appear that he was opposed to a law founded upon that principle. Although the hon. Member for Sheffield had complimented the hon. Member for Nottingham's speech, it was evident that he did not concur in the views of that hon. Member. The principal ground on which the agricultural interest opposed a fixed duty was, that it was intended to be merely the steppingstone to total repeal. The hon. Member for Sheffield would not venture to say, that he thought a fixed duty would be maintained for any long period; what, then, would become of the hon. Member's argument respecting the feeling of uncertainty which prevailed under the existing Jaw? He, however, denied that any such uncertainty did exist. The agriculturist felt that he enjoyed much greater security under the present law, than he could have under a fixed duty. In fact, a fixed duty would be no security at all. He rejoiced that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had declared his determination to maintain the present
 176 177 s s d s
 Lord Eliot  said it was not the intention of her Majesty's Government to propose, in the present Session, any alteration in the fundamental provisions of the Irish Poor-law Act. Inquiries respecting the working of some of its provisions were now in progress, and he was in hopes the result would speedily be obtained. When the Government were in possession of proper information, they would be prepared to state what alterations they would propose to make.
 Mr. Villiers  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Northumberland, which was, whether he had been correctly represented by him, or whether he had been misapprehended on that side of the House. The hon. Member for Northumberland congratulated his friends on the pledge which the right hon. Baronet had given last night to adhere to the present Corn-law, as a final settlement, and as considering himself bound by that declaration to make no farther change; he had been understood, on his side, to confine that declaration to the present moment. Would the right
 178
 Mr. H. Grattan,  seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland in his place, wished to put a question to him. Was it the intention of Government to introduce any measure for altering the mode of assessment under the Poor-law in that country? The noble Lord was aware that, at present, the occupant was the party assessed.
 Mr. Walter  said, he could assure the House that it was not without reluctance he rose to address it on this occasion, and the more so, because he feared that some portion of his opinions might not be very favourably received by the side on which he sat; and the other portions of it even less by those to whom he was opposed on the other side of the House. He still,
 164 165 166 167 "The commissioners shall have power lo re duce allowances, but not to enlarge them." 168 "After this has been accomplished, orders may be sent forth, directing that after such a date all out-door relief should be given partly in kind; after another period it should be wholly in kind; after such another period it should be gradually diminished in quantity, until that mode of relief was exhausted. From the first the relief should be altered in quality, course brown bread being substituted for fine white; and concurrently with these measures as to the outdoor poor, a gradual reduction should be made in the diet of the indoor poor, and strict regulations enforced." "Lamented from the bottom of his soul the mass of evil, and misery, and destruction of capital which the Corn-law, in the course of its twelve years' operation, had then produced; and asserted that he could make it distinctly appear, that the effect of that bill, as far as regarded the agriculturists themselves, had been to keep the prices of produce lower for those twelve years than they would have been if the trade in corn had been free." "The agricultural interest had been, during that time, retrograding from bad to worse. He described the period from the passing of the Corn-law in 1815, down to the time at which he was speaking, as eighteen years of suffering, of decay, of privation, and vicissitude." "In 1815 you were at least fifty years in advance of all that could render manufactures prosperous; the greater portion of the natives of both hemispheres were unacquainted with the different arts by which you were distinguished; there were few restrictive laws in force abroad; none of those prohibitory tariffs which now encircled every frontier (and which had since then been greatly increased). Our advantages we might have preserved, but instead of that we threw them away and imposed the Corn-law. We obliged them to enter into competition with us, to make those articles for themselves which we would not suffer them to purchase from us, because we re-
 169 "He protested against the bill, against its principle, the mode of carrying it into practice, and against the precipitation with which it had been hurried through the House, in defiance of the petitions of the people. He characterised the measure as a bribe given to the landed interest, to induce them to acquiesce in the maintainance of war establishments in a time of peace; and considered it as most un just to the other classes of the community, that the landholders should thus have secured to the them, in a time of peace, the high prices which they had obtained during a period of war." "If the effect of the proposed measure should be to reduce rents 20 per cent., he spoke advisedly when he said that two-thirds of the landed property of England would at once change hands." 170 171
 Mr. Ewart  observed, that the distress of the people was universally admitted; and he therefore hailed with infinite satisfaction the support to justice and humanity which had been that night given by the hon. Member for Nottingham, whose opinion was of great importance, not only because he represented a great manufacturing constituency—not only because he was connected by residence and property with a great agricultural district, but because he was likewise connected with one of the greatest combinations of talent which the press of this country possessed.
 Mr. Ward  did not expect that the discussion on the address would be reopened on the present occasion; and certainly, but for the important observations of the horn. Member for Nottingham, he would not have taken any part in the debate; but the position of that hon. Member, his connexion with a great agricultural county, and now representing a large manufacturing constituency, and the side of the House from which he spoke, gave to his remarks, in themselves well chosen, an importance which could not be passed over without notice. He thought the country was under much obligation to that lion. Member for the expression of his sentiments on the important subject to which they referred, and for the time chosen for that expression. The hon. Member's speech showed that there was a growing disposition in the country to meet the question by discussion. It showed the existence of a desire to have it discussed with calmness. It also showed that many hon. Members who sat behind the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and who gave him generally their support, would not allow the questian to remain in its present position; and that even amongst those who were most connected with agriculture a great change of opinion was being gradually brought about. Among this class of men there was a sincere desire to see things placed on a footing which would afford some promise of stability. Everybody out of the House felt that the present Corn-law was not, nor could be, nor would be lasting, Everybody knew this; everybody knew that, though the subject was not included in the Queen's speech at the beginning of the Session, the right hon. Baronet himself was fully aware that this law could not be left where it was. There was a general feeling of dissatisfaction at the working of the law, which was becoming every day stronger and more general throughout the country. This feeling existed among the agriculturists them selves. He spoke now from his own experience; and he knew that many who, three years ago, would have shown them-
 172 173 s 174 175
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had no objection to give the best answer in his power to the question of the hon. Gentleman, and, whatever objection their might be to answering general questions of this kind, still, on a matter of such importance, he would endeavour to return as complete an answer as he could. He did not at present contemplate any alteration in the Corn Bill, as agreed to last Session. He did not think that a sufficient period had elapsed since the passing of that bill to give it a fair trial; and he certainly preferred that bill to any proposition that he had since heard. He did not believe that the substitution of a fixed duty would secure for agriculture the same degree of protection. When the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward) calculated that a fixed duty, say of 5 s s s .l
 Lord Courtenay  brought up the report of the Committee on the Address.
 Lord J. Russell : I wish to know whether the papers relating to Afghanistan will be soon laid before the House.
 Mr. Williams  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer what course had been taken by the Government for the purpose of ascertaining the frauds in the Custom-house, and whether it were the intention of the Government to lay the information on that subject on the table of the House?
 Sir E. Peel  thought last Session, when the facts of the case were fresh in his recollection, that there was ample reason for sending the bill for disfranchising Sudbury up to the House of Lords. Considering the unanimous report made by the committee and the evidence which they reported to the House, and as he was not aware of any new facts [ loud cheers
 Colonel Wyndham  approved of the course taken by the right hon. Baronet; therefore he also would give his vote against the amendment.
 Mr. Bernal  must admit that he was not particularly enamoured of the motion now introduced, nor in love with the present mode of proceeding upon private bills. There were very great difficulties in the way, and, do what they might, the conflict of opinions to which the right hon. Gentleman had just adverted, and which he wished to avert from the time applied to public business, could not be prevented. If there were any thing like a public principle in any bill that was introduced, he defied them to get rid of that conflict of opinions; but he had long thought they should do something to radically change the present system, and he did not think it impossible to obtain one less objectionable. He considered that they should have some person in the capacity of a judge who should sit and preside over the tribunal before which opposed bills should be instituted, conducted, and finally settled, and, that there should be certain rules and regulations of conduct maturely considered and agreed to by the House by which that judge, be he whom he might, should guide the decisions of the Committee in conformity with them. When all the information was collected and decided on by that judge, who should consider whether the rules and regulations of the House had been properly followed or not, that should be transmitted with a report from the judge to the House, and then the House would have something
 213
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department, whether he intended to introduce any bill this Session with regard to chapter property in North Wales?
 Lord John Russell  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) had asked whether the papers to be placed on the Table of the House would afford an opportunity of taking a view of the policy of entering on the war in Affghanistan. He (Lord John Russell) was not certain whether he had distinctly understood the right hon. Baronet's reply. It had hitherto been usual, when votes of thanks had been proposed, to confine that vote merely to thanks for the manner in which the military operations had been carried into effect, assuming the policy out of which these operations had resulted to be correct, leaving it perfectly free to the Members who might concur in the vote of thanks for the military operations, to question the policy, the adoption of which had led to those operations. Now, the notice of the right hon. Baronet had been given in the usual terms, and he wished to know whether it were the intention of the right hon. Baronet to propose the vote of thanks in the usual way; that was to say, to confine himself to asking for a vote of thanks for the manner in which the military operations had been carried into effect, or whether he meant to ask the House for its approval of the policy of withdrawing the army within the Indus, and of the whole of the policy of the Governor-general and the Government?
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member might obtain his object by allowing the amendment of another hon. Member to stand as an original motion, to which he could move, if he pleased, an amendment.
 Colonel Dawson Damer  appeared at the Bar of the House, and read the following Answer from her Majesty to the Address:—
 "I thank you for this loyal and dutiful Address. "I rely with confidence on your attachment and support; and you may depend upon My constant and anxious disposition to watch with equal care over the interests of all classes of My Subjects."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, a commission had been actively engaged in the prosecution of inquiries, and there was every prospect that in a short period the result of its investigations would be presented to the House. He thought it right to say, that in case any part of the report should involve materials respecting which prosecutions were pending, he should withhold that part of the report until the prosecutions had been determined.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  entertained an opinion decidedly adverse to
 212
 Mr. Labouchere : I am anxious to ask whether the right hon. Baronet can communicate any information respecting two other commercial treaties, which have long been the subject of negotiation between the British Government and the Governments of France and Portugal. The right hon. Baronet must feel how injurious this long suspense must be, and how desirable it is that an end should be put to it. I should be glad, therefore, if it were in the power of the right hon. Baronet, that he should give a satisfactory assurance to the House of the probable termination of the negotiations. From a late declaration of M. Guizot, that statesman appears to entertain some hope that the negotiations between this country and France may be brought to a satisfactory conclusion; and I shall be glad if the right hon. Gentlemen can confirm that declaration, or can hold out a hope that a more liberal system of commercial policy will be adopted between the two countries than that which now prevails.
 Mr. Tufnell : After the bill that had been unanimously passed last Session by that House for the disfranchisement of Sudbury, he had not expected on the first night of the Session notice would have been given of a motion for the issue of a new writ. The most extensive bribery was proved to have prevailed at Sudbury, but as the motion for the new writ was not to be pressed, he should make no farther remarks on the subject, but would, in the course of the evening, move for leave to bring in the bill, of which he had given notice, for the disfranchisement of the borough. In the mean time he would move that the Speaker should not issue his writ for the election of a new Member until the 20th March next.
 Mr. Tufnell  then moved, "That leave be given to bring in a bill to exclude the borough of Sudbury from sending burgesses to serve in Parliament." He founded his
 208
 Dr. Bowring  said, that these resolutions seemed to him to be recommended by sound sense and an accurate estimate of what such a tribunal ought to be. The tribunal in question ought to approximate more nearly than it did at present to a court of law. This country prided herself on her judicial tribunals, where such evidence as ought to be received was admitted, whilst such as ought to be rejected was refused, and he saw no reason why Committees of this House on private bills should not be of the same nature. He also approved of the resolution which went to reduce the number of the Members of the Committee to seven. In his opinion the responsibility of the private bills Committee ought to be greatly increased, and he thought his hon. Friend took a very accurate view of this subject by endeavouring to throw on the shoulders of every individual in the Committee every possible responsibility; all that his hon. Friend proposed was, that with respect to Committees on private bills, they should introduce the same principle and recognize the same rules as had been for some time adopted, and, he might add, with so much convenience elsewhere.
 Mr. Roebuck  felt some difficulty relative to the position in which the question then stood, and for this reason: the right hon. Baronet had introduced into one motion two very separate and distinct propositions; the one a vote of thanks to the Governor-general, and the other a vote of thanks to the troops. Now, no matter what might have been the policy or justice of the war, it would be proper for the House to vote thanks to the army. That was quite clear. But the whole policy of the Governor-general was connected with a proclamation issued by him, in which he set forth his opinion respecting the policy of the whole war, as well as his motives for the withdrawal of the troops within the Indus. He wanted to know whether the vote of thanks would include that proclamation? He quite agreed, for his part, with the Governor-general, as far as his present lights conducted him; he should be prepared to support the vote of thanks, on the ground of that proclamation. But he could clearly understand that there might be strong feelings on that side and on the other side of the House respecting that proclamation. He thought that it would not be sufficient to lay before the House those papers only which related to the transactions immediately previous to
 206
 Mr. Roebuck  rose for the purpose of putting a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had asked when the papers relating to the Affghan war would be laid on the table of the House. He (Mr. Roebuck) wished to ask if those papers would include all the information that existed relative to the commencement of the war? His reason for asking that question was this: the vote of thanks which the right hon. Baronet had given notice of his intention to move, included not only the army, but the Governor-general, and inasmuch as the vote of thanks to the Governor-general would necessarily depend upon the policy which he had pursued in withdrawing the troops within the Indus, the House ought to have all possible information respecting the policy of the war from the commencement. Therefore, he would ask the righ hon. Baronet, first, if he could, consistently with his duty, submit the two questions separately to the consideration of the House; and, if not, whether he would be prepared to give to the House, before he proposed the vote of thanks, all the evidence which would be necessary to enable the House to judge of the propriety of the war?
 Mr. Walter  said, that as the subject of the Poor-law had not yet been adverted to, he wished to know whether it were the intention of the Government to bring that question under the consideration of the House within the next fortnight?
 Mr. Walter  gave notice, that on that day fortnight he would call the attention of the House to the question of the Poor-law.
 Mr. Hume : I wish to know whether the right hon. Baronet intends to lay upon the Table copies of the correspondence which took place between Lord Ashburton and Mr. Webster relative to the boundary treaty. After what has appeared in the newspapers during the last two days, it is very necessary that the House should be in possession of it.
 Mr. Hume : The right hon. Baronet says, he did not intend to do so; I wish to know whether he now intends to produce it.
 Mr. Hume  approved of the resolutions which would approximate the practice of the House of Commons to that of the House of Lords, and had been recommended by former Committees. Members connected with districts from which bills were pending were now placed in a most embarrassing situation, being equally pressed by both parties to support them. He could not conceive any two cases more exactly similar than the trial of a question of property before a jury, and the trial of such a question before a Committee of that House. All the improvements which had been made in election Committees had for their object to find individuals to serve on the Committees free from local influences and party feelings. The same arguments applied to the present case; and as to the difficulty of obtaining the services of Members, was it to be supposed that in the whole House five impartial and uninfluenced men could not be found to try a question affecting a particular section of the country.
 Colonel Rushbrooke  rose to move, that the Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown, directing the issue of a writ for the election of Members for the borough of Sudbury. The hon. Member observed, that he had undertaken his present task in compliance with the wish of his constituents, who, as they had no one else to ask, had applied to him,—" Quoniam nemini obtrudi potest itur ad me."
 Colonel Rushbrooke  said he would not object to such a motion.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that when this question was before the House in the last Session he took the liberty of interposing between the hon. and gallant Member and the issue of the writ, and the House agreed with him on the occasion, and he hoped it would not now stultify itself by giving a negative to the report of the committee of last Session, and by allowing the hon. and gallant Member to steal a march upon it in the beginning of the present. The committee to which the election petition relating to the return for Sudbury had been referred had unanimously reported that gross and systematic bribery had prevailed at the last election, and that the borough ought to be disfranchised. To carry out the report of that committee such a measure as the proposed bill was necessary. When the bill was before the House in the last Session, it was first moved that counsel be heard
 209
 Mr. Milner Gibson  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet opposite whether the Government intended to
 198
 Mr. Blackstone  thought that no case had been made out which could justify the House in taking the extreme course of disfranchising all the electors of the borough. He had taken an opportunity last Session of moving that the adjacent hundred be added to the borough. This, if acceded to, would have had the effect of introducing a sufficient number of good electors into the borough. The committee had not carried their inquiry far enough to prove the general corruption of the borough. At Stafford it had been proved that of 945 electors, 804 had received money for their votes; but if they looked into the case of Sudbury, they would not find more than eight or nine cases of persons who had received bribes; and it was not, therefore, just to take away the franchise from those who had done nothing to forfeit it. He thought that before the House proceeded to this step it ought to be in possession of the fullest information. With this view, he would move, as an amendment, "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the corrupt practices alleged to have prevailed at the last election for the borough of Sudbury, and to report the result of their inquiries to the House."
 Mr. Ewart  was very desirous to improve the constitution of committees on private bills, by prohibiting the attendance on them, as Members, of any Member of the House who was interested for or against any bill. He wished to assimilate the practice of that House to the practice which prevailed in the House of Lords, where it had been eminently successful. To attain these ends he begged leave to move the following resolutions:—
 "1. That it is expedient that committees on private bills should be approximated more nearly than they now are to judicial tribunals, and exempted as much as possible from all motives of local and personal interest; and that the responsibility and efficiency of committees of this House in general would be promoted by diminishing the number of Members composing them. "2. That, with a view of attaining these objects, the number of Members composing
 210 "3. That such seven Members be appointed by the Committee of Selection, after the second reading of such bills; but that, previous to such appointment, the Committee of Selection do ascertain from each of such seven Members, that he is willing to serve, and that he is, neither through his constituents nor himself personally, interested for or against the bill in question; and that, in case he is unable to serve, or is interested as aforesaid, the Committee of Selection do appoint some other Member to serve in place of him. "4. That the Committee of Selection appoint no Member to serve on more than one such private bill committe at a time. "5. That the number of Members composing Select Committees be likewise reduced to seven; except on special cause shown to the satisfaction of the House for extending the number to more than seven. "6. That, previous to the naming of any such Select Committee, the Member who moves for its appointment shall communicate with the Committee of Selections; in order to avoid, as much as possible, the appointment of Members to serve on such select committee who may already be fully occupied by a private bill committee, or by other select committees.
 Mr. Ewart  said, select Committees were to be considered as not legislative but judicial bodies, and the more impartial they were rendered the more of public confidence they would enjoy. Since this had been in some degree regarded in the election Committees they had been much more respected.
 Sir C. Napier  thought our ambassador at Paris might be written to for a copy.
 Sir C. Napier : Would it not be right to produce a copy of the map?
 Sir C. Napier  said, that public attention had been drawn to a map, marked with a strong red line, bearing on the question of the American boundary. Had the right hon. Baronet received any information respecting that red line?
 Sir C. Napier : I wish to ask a question connected with the affairs of Syria. I have received a letter informing me that those persons who had their houses burned and property destroyed by our operations in Syria, have not received a single shilling in the way of compensation. I beg to ask whether Emir Beschir has received compensation for his losses?
 Sir G. Clerk  could not give his assent to the resolutions proposed, because the amended system which was in practice in private committees during the last Session had worked very well, and had given pretty general satisfaction. No Member could now vote upon any bill in committee who had not attended and heard the whole of the evidence which was offered either in support of it or against it. The Committee of Selection now appointed three Members who were wholly unconnected with the locality to which the bill they were appointed to consider applied; they were, therefore, impartial judges, whose opinion had great weight. It was found very difficult, upon many occasions, to secure the attendance of three gentlemen who had no interest in or were wholly indifferent to the matter brought before them, and it would be still more difficult to secure the regular attendance of seven. Gentlemen would find it a heavy tax upon their time, and if these resolutions were adopted the consequence would be that many days would be lost and great expense incurred by necessary adjournments, consequent upon the absence of some of the gentlemen appointed, But he thought it was absolutely necessary that gentlemen locally connected with
 211
 Captain Pechell  said, that in the statement made the other night by the right hon. Baronet, in reference to the number of cruisers on the coast of Africa, he had said, that he should be able in two or three days to afford the information required. Since then the question had been mooted in the French Chambers, and it had been stated that the cruisers furnished by each power were to be attached to the African station alone, and that they were not to go to the coast of Brazil and to the Cape of Good Hope. It had also been stated by the Foreign Minister of France, that in the execution of the article he had stipulated for a certain number of cruisers, and had demanded that they should remain attached to that coast for which alone their warrant was issued. He wished to ask whether the Government assented to what M. Guizot had stated to have been agreed on, or whether, in the treaties of 1831, and 1833, there was any mention of a stipulation to that effect?
 Sir J. Graham  said, he would take an early opportunity of introducing a bill for the amendment of the Poor-law Act; but he would not pledge himself to do so within the next fortnight.
 Sir James Graham  said, that he intended to introduce a bill upon the subject, and it would be the same in substance as that brought in last Session.
 Sir Robert Peel : The map is represented to be in the king's library at Paris.
 Sir Robert Peel : No, but he had received another map, with a completely different boundary line marked on it.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he thought it would then be premature to enter upon a discussion of the question. He would undertake to lay before the House such papers as her Majesty's Government might think desirable; and he would communicate them to the House some days before he would call upon the House to adopt any proceedings with respect to them. He would also undertake to give several days' notice of the precise terms of the motion he should propose. He believed that such a course was warranted by former precedents. That was the course pursued in the case of the vote of thanks to Lord Auckland, a vote of thanks which he (Sir Robert Peel) supported, although he protested at the time against being supposed to approve of the policy of Lord Auckland. Still he thought it right to give his thanks for the skill and energy displayed by the noble Lord in his preparations for carrying on the war. When the papers were before the House the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) would see whether they were sufficient to enable him to form his views. For his (Sir R. Peel's) part, he intended strictly to follow the precedent of the vote of thanks to Lord Auckland.
 Sir R. Peel : I have not heard sufficient from the hon. Member to induce me to alter my intention.
 Sir Robert Peel  said that, in moving the vote of thanks, he intended to adhere strictly to the object mentioned in the notice which he had given. He intended to confine the vote expressly to the military operations, and did not intend on that occasion to ask the House to express any opinion of approval or disapproval of the policy which had led to the withdrawal of the troops within the Indus. Those, therefore, who might be opposed to the policy of the war, might still join in the vote of
 205
 Sir R. Peel : I did not intend to produce the correspondence.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Gentleman
 203
 Sir R. Peel  did not think that the statement of the hon. and gallant officer could be an accurate report of the Speech of the French Minister for Foreign Affairs. There had been no engagement entered into which compelled this country to limit the number of its cruisers—it was at liberty to exercise its own discretion as to what force was necessary for the suppression of the Slave-trade. The French had an equal right to exercise their own discretion in determining what number of cruisers they should employ; they had entered into no engagement to limit their number. The hon. and gallant officer asked him whether it was true that the right of search had been confined to the coast of Africa. What this country had undertaken to do was this, that when an officer was removed
 202
 Sir R. Peel : The papers are rather voluminous; but I will take care that a proper interval shall intervene between the delivery of the papers and the motion for the vote of thanks to the Governor-general and the army.
 Sir R. Peel : If the hon. and gallant officer had given me notice of his question.
 201
 Sir R. Peel : I concur with the right hon. Gentleman in lamenting the long delay which has taken place in these negotiations. With regard to the commercial treaty with Portugal, that delay has been most injurious to trade. At the same time, being convinced of the policy of securing to both countries the reciprocal advantages to be derived from the extension of commerce, the Government has been most unwilling to break off the negotiations. But they have remained so long in suspense, that it is now almost a doubt whether it would not have been better to close the correspondence than submit to the inconvenience of so long a delay. The negotiations are still going on. Within a few days we have received new proposals from the Portuguese government, and the time will shortly arrive when her Majesty's Government will feel it necessary to break off the negotiations, unless they can be brought to an issue. I am convinced that the delay which has occurred with respect to the negotiations with Portugal, by paralysing the wine trade, has materially affected the revenue, and is one cause of the deficiency which we have reason to lament. With respect to France, I have the satisfaction to state that negotiations for effecting a commercial treaty with that country have been renewed, and have been received with that degree of favour which leads her Majesty's Government to hope that a beneficial arrangement may be made. Her Majesty's Government feel deeply that the advantages of such an arrangement should not be confined to mere commercial transactions, but that it should be the means of cementing more closely the ties of friendly connection between the two countries, and, though I wish not to speak with undue confidence, I sincerely hope that a sense of the common interests of both countries will finally lead to more extended commercial intercourse between them.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that, without intending anything like personal disrespect to the hon. Member, he must decline answering his question. To do so would be inconsistent with his duty, for he might be asked a similar question with respect to every other article upon which a duty existed.
 Sir R. Peel : The noble Lord is perfectly aware, and probably a great majority of the House is also aware, that there existed a material difference of opinion between the British Government and the Brazilian Government, relative to the duration of the commercial treaty which was concluded between the two countries some years since. I understand the difference to have been this:—The Brazilian government contended that the treaty expired in the month of November, 1842, whilst the British Government (the late as well as the present) contended that the proper duration of the treaty extended to, at least, November, 1844. The Brazilian
 199
 Viscount Palmerston : I rise to propose a question of which I gave notice on Friday, and to which the right hon. Baronet may return an answer or not, as circumstances may determine him. The question relates to the negotiations now going on with Brazil. In the first place I will ask whether the British Government has acquiesced in the interpretation which her Majesty's late Government put upon the article in the existing treaty with Brazil, which relates to the duration of that treaty? The next question I have to propose is, whether the right hon. Baronet thinks himself at liberty, in the present state of the negotiations now going on, to say whether those negotiations, as far as they have hitherto gone, justify him in entertaining a well-founded hope that they will lead to a satisfactory conclusion, by the ratification of a treaty of commerce with the Brazilian Government? I wish, also, to ask a question relating to another matter, and, although I have not given notice of my intention to propose it, I hope the right hon. Baronet will give an answer to it, either now or on some future day. I beg to ask what is the state of our negotiations with the government of Hanover upon the subject of the Stade duties?
 Lord J. Russell  said, he could only answer for his noble friend that he would bring forward his motion on the 13th instant. He did not know what the hon. Member for Greenock's intentions might be.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had a petition to present from the Cape of Good Hope, praying that the plan of sending young criminals to the Cape of Good Hope might not be persevered in. If, as he understood, the plan was abandoned by the Government, it would be unnecessary for him to present the petition. He wished to know what Government had determined upon.
 Mr. B. Baring  said, that the papers for which the hon. Gentleman had moved had already been presented to the Court of Proprietors, and the Government, therefore, could, of course, have no wish to refuse the motion.
 Lord Stanley  regretted that he felt it to be his duty to interpose between the exercise of that which was the highest prerogative of the Crown, the exercise of mercy, and those unhappy men who had transgressed the laws of their country. He was well aware of the impression produced on the House by the forcible and temperate manner in which the hon. and learned Gentleman who had opened this question had appealed to their feelings on behalf of those who were now suffering under a sentence imposed upon them under extraordinary circumstances; but he must not shrink from the performance of his duty, however painful it might be, and he did earnestly hope that the House would not be so far led away by the eloquence of the hon. and learned Gentleman as to induce them to take a step which the hon. and learned Gentleman admitted to be one of a most unusual character, namely, to interfere with the prerogative of the Crown, and take into the hands of the House of Commons that grace and favour which, if bestowed at all, ought to emanate exclusively from the Crown. He was sure that under any circumstances it would be most unfavourable and most inexpedient that the House of Commons should interfere with those functions and that prerogative of the Crown; but under the circumstances which the hon. and learned Gentleman had himself detailed, he thought that even if the constitutional objection did not prevail, the objection of discretion as to the time and circumstances under which the motion was made was one that must have peculiar weight with the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had told them that by the recent changes in the councils of Canada universal contentment had pervaded the people formerly dissatis-
 246 247 248 Roebuck:
 Lord Stanley  certainly thought that every hon. Gentleman who had just heard what the hon. and learned Gentleman had said would have thought he was speaking in favour of the French population, and that they had entered into rebellion in consequence of the pressure upon them.
 249 Roebuck: Roebuck: Roebuck: 250 Roebuck 251 252 253 254
 Mr. Fox Maule  wished to know whether her Majesty's Government had it in contemplation to bring in any bill connected with medical reform?
 Mr. F. Maule  asked whether it was intended to introduce the County Courts Bill into this House or the House of Lords.
 Lord Eliot  did not rise for the purpose of opposing the motion of the hon. Gentleman, for he quite concurred with him that the subject was one of vast importance and deserving of the utmost attention of the House. In much that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman he entirely concurred. The hon. Gentleman had drawn a very faithful picture of the abuses which at present existed in the administration of medical charities in Ireland. He had been so strongly impressed with the number and the magnitude of the evils which prevailed, that he had been most desirous to find a remedy for them, and accordingly he desired the Poor-law commissioners to prepare a bill embodying the recommendations they had made, to him upon the subject. Certainly he considered medical relief as much a part of the Poor-law as any other kind of relief whatever—it was considered so in England, and it was ad-
 235 ex officio 236
 Mr. C. Buller  had never seen any notice of motion with deeper regret than that of his hon. and learned Friend, because, though he entirely concurred with him in the practical object he had in view, and considered that it would be an act of the wisest policy as well as an act of mercy, and, of enlarged justice in the Government to wipe out all traces of the late disturbances in Canada—still he could not but think that his hon. and learned Friend had taken a course by no means calculated to attain the object he had in view. It was, of course, with the greatest reluctance that he referred to any of the circumstances connected with the rebellions in Canada. There were associations connected with them of which he could never think without infinite regret, and which led him at the present moment to abstain from alluding to the horrors of that insurrection. He should object to the motion of his hon. and learned Friend
 256 Stanley: 257 258
 Mr. French  said, he had entertained hopes that some measure for the better regulation of the Irish medical charities would have been brought forward on the responsibility of her Majesty's Government. He trusted, that the most helpless class in the community, the destitute sick poor of Ireland, would have had the powerful advocacy, and the official influence of the noble Lord, the Secretary for that country exercised in their be half. An intimation had lately been made, through Mr. Hall, one of the Assistant Poor-law Commissioners in Dublin, that it was not the intention of her Majesty's Government to propose any legislative measure on the subject of these charities during the present Session of Parliament, which induced him (Mr. French) to renew his exertions to correct those evils that, from personal experience, he knew belonged to the system under which these charities were at present administered. In taking this course, he did not conceive he was about to place
 227 l l s l l s d l l l l l l l s 228 229 230 l s l s d l s d l s d l s d l l s l s d l s l s l s s s d s d l l s l s d l s d l l s d l s d. 231 "There was scarcely any medicine, although the large sum of 78 l s d l s s l. s d. l s d l. s l s d l s d l l 232 ex-officio l 233 l l l d. l 234
 Mr. French  thanked the noble Lord for his frankness and courtesy, and considered that the discussion of the objections urged, many of which he was sure he could prove unfounded, had better be postponed till the bill was presented to the House.
 Mr. Roebuck  was sure the noble Lord did not intend to misunderstand him; but he never uttered one syllable to show why they entered into a state of rebellion.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to move
 "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that pardon may be extended to all persons transported from Upper and Lower Canada to our penal colonies, for political offences committed during the late unhappy disturbances in those provinces." 238 239 240 241 242 C. Buller: 243 244 "You have a majority in the House of Assembly, and unless we choose to govern by 14,000 bayonets, the people of Canada, by their leaders, must be leaders of my councils." 245
 Mr. Roebuck,  in reply, contended that his motion would by no means interfere with the prerogative of the Crown, inasmuch as he merely called upon the House, by an humble address, to pray her Majesty to exercise it. He denied having said that the leaders of the rebellion were in the councils of the Crown; what he had said was, that the leaders of the people were in the councils of the Crown; and it seemed hard, consistently with justice, that the poor uninstructed Canadians should still suffer the penalties of the law. He acknowledged that the noble Lord had pointed out one error in his motion, and that it must be confined to such prisoners as were subjects of her Majesty, leaving the American freebooters, as the noble Lord designated them, to be dealt with on separate grounds. He should, however, withdraw his motion, his object having been obtained by the engagement of the noble Lord to pay attention to such circumstances in each case as should be brought before him.
 Mr. Walter  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, whether he had any objection to lay before the House a document printed about the end of 1833 or beginning of 1834, entitled, "Measures submitted by the Poor-law Commissioners to his Majesty's Ministers." ft was further entitled, "Notes of Heads of a Bill altered and amended," and contained the recommendation of a course of treatment and of a dietary, gradually diminishing in quantity, and deteriorating in quality.
 Mr. Walter  said, he would not trouble the House by any motion on the subject. He did not require the document for his own use, as he was in possession of a copy, but for the general use of the House. He was perfectly satisfied with the right hon. Baronet's answer.
 Mr. Hume  supported the motion of the hon. Member for Bath. Sir Charles Bagot himself had recommended that all past differences in the province should be buried in oblivion. He recommended, that the future Government of the country should be carried on in a conciliatory spirit. Could that be interpreted in any other way than that there should be a removal of all the irritation and excitement which would be kept up by the relatives and connections of these unfortunate men in Van Diemen's Land. It was a fair inference, from Sir C. Bagot's conduct, that he thought an amnesty should be granted. These men were the victims of bad Government, and for that reason the right hon. Baronet deserved the thanks of every friend of humanity for the change he had effected in giving a good Government to the Canadas. It was an opposite course of policy that had raised all the angry feelings they had seen excited, till at last actual rebellion prevailed. The Government would do well to complete the good work they had begun. In every case of this kind, there were different shades of guilt, but as the Government had admitted the evils arising from the former mismanagement, he hoped it would come round to give the people that which alone was wanting to give full satisfaction. The hon. Member for Bath had only recommended the House to follow up the advice of Sir C. Bagot, that no remains of this unfortunate feeling should be allowed to exist. He admitted, there was some force in the argument of the
 255
 Mr. Hume  rose to move the following return, of which he had given notice:—
 "Copy of the additional papers transmitted to the Court of Directors, in relation to the Commission of Inquiry held at Sattara, in October, 1836, and ordered by a General Court of Proprietors of the East India Company, held in Leadenhall-street, the 21st day of December, 1842, and printed for the use of the proprietors." 237
 Mr. Wallace  thought, that the Government had done itself great credit by consenting to the motion; and he could assure the right hon. Baronet that his selection of the members of the committee would be such as to afford a perfect guarantee that the inquiry would be conducted with the strictest fairness and impartiality. With respect to the observations of the right hon. Baronet as to what had been stated at the meeting in Renfrewshire, it was true that the claim of the destitute in Paisley to relief from the public funds had been asserted; and he had now in his possession documents to show that there were precedents for giving relief from the public funds under circumstances similar to those of Paisley. He would adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet and withdraw the other motions, being satisfied that the committee would be the fittest place in which to elicit the information he desired.
 Mr. Wallace  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the treatment of the unemployed and destitute inhabitants of Paisley, independent of the parochial poor, between the month of May, 1841, and the present time. It was not his intention to go into the details of that distress. What he wished at present was, to be informed of the treatment the people received at the hands of the local committee, and indirectly from the London relief committee. He had expressed his motion in such a way as to exclude from the inquiry the parochial poor within the borough of Paisley. He had no other reason for excluding the parochial poor than because it would perhaps be desirable that the inquiry into their condition should be left to the Commissioners lately appointed by the Government. He was also desirous of not alluding, upon the present occasion, to a recent resolution of the local relief committee, who had determined on excluding from the benefits of the money sent to them to distribute as charity, all Irish families whatever who had not been resident in Paisley for more than ten years. He should not then enter into the merits of that resolution, because he wished to simplify as much as possible the case to which he desired to call the attention of the House. If he could obtain a committee of inquiry, his object would be completely obtained, and he should only allude to the subject in question by saying that the number of Irish families thus excluded amounted to somewhere about 700, and the number of persons dependent upon these amounted to about 1,300; so that the number altogether was not less than between 1,500 and 2,000. Her Majesty's Ministers would take a heavy responsibility upon themselves if they refused this committee. He was there to plead the cause of an unfortunate locality; but before he did so, he thought it would be best to put it simply to her Majesty's Ministers whether they would grant the committee of inquiry which he was about to move for?
 Mr. Wallace  said, his notice of motion was given previous to that given by the noble Member for Sunderland. The noble Lord had given his notice for an order day. By what good fortune the noble Lord expected to bring it on be did not know; but if the noble Lord should not succeed in bringing on his motion, he (Mr. Wallace) would certainly bring forward his on Tuesday.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that the right hon. Baronet had somewhat unnecessarily entered into a description of the measures which he did not intend to propose. All he wanted to know was whether Church-rates were to be abolished. As to County Courts, the Bill on that subject was laid upon the table last Session, in order, as it was said, that Members might digest it during the recess; now if a different measure were to be introduced, hon. Members would have been exerting their digestive powers to very little purpo e during the last six months.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce any measure this Session upon the subject of Church-rates; and also whether they meant to renew this Session two Bills which they brought forward last Session, namely, the County Courts Bill, and the Registration of Voters' Bill?
 Sir G. Staunton  asked whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to bring any bill into Parliament, in the course of the present Session, for the purpose of regulating the administration of Justice in the island of Hong Kong, and
 221
 Sir G. Staunton  expressed his gratification with the answer of the right hon. Baronet.
 Sir James Graham  said, he should take an early opportunity of giving another notice of the introduction of the Bill into the House of Commons.
 Sir J. Graham  was sure the House would approve of the moderate and praiseworthy tone in which the hon. Member had introduced this motion. On the part of the Government, he felt bound to repeat the assurance which he had given last Session respecting this case of wide-spread, long-continued, and pa-
 225 226
 Sir James Graham  said, he hardly knew the particular document to which the hon. Member referred. The hon. Member had given him notice of his intention to put this question, and in answer he would say, that no such document was to be found in the department over which he presided. He had a faint recollection that a document such as that referred to by the hon. Member had been sent as a confidential communication to Earl Grey's Government, and as such he was not prepared to consent to its production. But if the hon. Member was desirous to have it produced, he had better give notice of a motion to that effect.
 Sir James Graham  said, he had bestowed the utmost attention upon the subject to which the right hon. Gentleman referred. In the course of last Session the Government had been in correspondence with the two great colleges connected with the medical profession, with a view to some legislative measure affecting the profession. They were now approximating to an arrangement with those two colleges, and he trusted that he should shortly be able to introduce to the consideration of Parliament two bills, one affecting the constitution of the charter of the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons of London, and another affecting the medical profession generally throughout the kingdom.
 Sir James Graham  said, it had been the intention of Government to send a small number of juvenile convicts to the Cape of Good Hope. Representations having, however, been made to his (Sir James Graham's) noble Friend, that there was a general feeling in the colony against their introduction, his noble Friend had thought it best not to carry his design into execution.
 Sir R. Peel:  if the hon. Member had asked him a question to that effect, he would at once have answered in the negative; but as the hon. Member had asked whether the Government intended to introduce "any measure" on the subject of Church-rates, he had considered it necessary to qualify his answer. With respect to County Courts, it was much better that the person whose duty it would be to introduce that measure should state its details, than that he should now be called upon to enter into any explanation respecting them.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that a measure relating to County Courts would be introduced. With respect to Church-rates, he did not contemplate the introduction of any measure for transferring the present charge upon property, either to the consolidated fund or the ecclesiastical revenues; at the same time he did not wish it to be under-
 222
 Sir R. Peel  said, it would be absolutely necessary to introduce some legislative measure for the regulation of courts and other matters in the island of Hong Kong. It would, however, be advisable to postpone all legislation until the ratification of the treaty had been received. He had reason to believe that the Government would soon be in possession of the opinions upon the points to which the hon. Baronet's question referred, of Sir Henry Pottinger, to whose activity and ability he was happy to bear public testimony. It was impossible for any man to act with greater moderation, discretion, good sense, energy and firmness, than Sir Henry Pottinger had done. There was reason to believe that long before the Session could be brought to a close the Government would be in possession of that gallant officer's opinion upon several important points, and it was, therefore, considered that it would be desirable to defer general legislation until then. It was possible, however that legislation upon some detached points might take place at an earlier period.
 Sir R. Peel  said the noble Lord the member for Sunderland, on giving notice the other night of a motion for Monday next, had said that he was not sure whether a notice previously given by the hon. Member for Greenock for Tuesday next might not supersede the necessity for his (Lord Howick's) motion. He (Sir R. Peel) wished to know whether both motions were to be brought on.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  asked whether the Government intended to bring in a bill for regulating the elective franchise in Ireland.
 Mr. Williams  said, he attached, perhaps, more importance to this committee than many hon. Members might do, and he therefore wished to express his regret to see upon the proposed committee the names of several Gentlemen who he believed would not give their attendance, several who were on the committee last
 311
 Mr. Wallace  considered the committee as of no importance at all. The people had no confidence in the manner in which their petitions were treated, and he for one cared nothing about how the committee was composed. They ought to resort to the practice that was formerly customary, of discussing petitions on presentation; until that was done it was impossible the people should take any interest in the matter. Nor aught they. He had made a motion last year to return to the ancient practice, but the majority by which he had been defeated was so large that he felt unwilling to revive the motion, though he had at the time given notice that he would do so in the course of the present Session. He would not, however, let the matter drop, but would apply for some committee that should enquire whether some plan might not be suggested that would give Members a greater latitude than they now enjoyed. He frequently availed himself of his privilege of taking strangers to the gallery, and when he did so, he never failed to direct their attention to the manner in which the petitions of the people were crammed into the big bag, and he could very well sympathize with the disgust which people felt and expressed in seeing the petitions dealt with in that manner. For his own part, he cared so little about the construction of this committee, that if his hon. Friend were to divide the House on the subject, he would not take the trouble of dividing with him.
 Mr. G. W. Wood  regretted to find that the proposed list had not given satisfaction to the hon. Member for Coventry. There was certainly one omission which he (Mr. Wood) was sorry for, but he could assure the House it was the result of mere inadvertency. He had really believed the name of the hon. Member for Coventry
 312
 Mr. Hume  thought the committee too numerous. If they wanted to have the work well done, they ought to have the responsibility less divided. For his own part he thought the committee ought to be limited to five.
 Mr. Williams  said he should decidedly object to that motion.
 The Speaker  said that the motion could not be put without a regular notice.
 Lord J. Russell  was disposed, as far as he could follow the statement of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, to give his
 333 l l Nicholl.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to afford the hon. Gentleman all the information he could possibly require upon the subject of his motion; but at the same time he felt very considerable objection to the latter part of the return asked for,—namely, the amount received by Privy Councillors. It could not by possibility furnish any useful information. He therefore hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press for that part of the return.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that his object for moving for the return in its present shape was to contrast it with a return made in 1828, on the motion of the right hon. Baronet who now held the office of Secretary for the Home department. On that occasion the country was astounded at being informed that 113 privy councillors received out of the public funds no less a sum than 650.000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that upon the hon. Gentleman's own showing it was not necessary to call for a return in the present form, because the return made in 1828 was granted in the very shape in which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) now proposed to give it.
 Mr. Hume  could not understand why it should be considered invidious to state the sum actually received by any man out of the public money. It was of great importance that the House should see how many privy councillors there were who received the public money. Upon that ground he would advise his hon. Friend not to accept the return in the shape proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was of opinion that a great reduction had been made in the payment to privy councillors since the return made in 1828, and he was anxious to know how great that reduction had been.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose seemed to misunderstand the nature of the objection which had been made by his (Sir R. Peel's) right hon. Friend. His right hon. Friend had not the slightest objection to present the name of every person, without exception, who had a salary of 1,000 l 337
 Mr. F. Baring  would advise his hon. Friend (Mr. W. Williams) not to press for that portion of the return which the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had objected to.
 Mr. W. Williams  was quite willing to withdraw the latter part of his motion; and he did so the more readily, inasmuch
 338
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , though he did not object to the return, considered it one almost impracticable to be made, and one which would, at all events, impose a task of extreme difficulty upon the Government. He put it, therefore, to the hon. Gentleman, whether he would persist in his motion.
 Dr. Bowring  said that the motion was in consonance with the recommendation of a committee of that House, and was the adoption of a great principle—namely, that the whole public revenue, without any deduction whatever, ought to be paid into the public treasury, and that no payment ought to be made without Parliamentary control.
 Mr. W. Williams  was glad that the right hon. Gentleman did not object to the return, which he considered to be one of very great importance, and, if granted, would do great public service.
 Sir George Clerk  did not understand his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to say that he would furnish the information required, but merely that it was very difficult to do so, and that it was equally difficult to ascertain what was the real object of the motion.
 Mr. Williams  was only anxious to obtain the information, and cared comparatively little for the wording of the motion. A return of a similar kind had been moved for by the hon. Member for Greenock last session, and to communicate to the House all that was required, would give little trouble and occupy little time.
 Sir R. Peel  remarked that the most important part of the information con-
 339
 Mr. F. Baring  said that after a general principle had been laid down, it was the business of the several departments to carry it into execution by degrees. In any case where a recommendation had been carried completely into effect, that information might be conveyed to the House, and perhaps the better course would be, for the hon. Member for Coventry to move specificially upon each recommendation. He believed that a good deal had been done already, and had no doubt that more would be done hereafter. Practically, it might be advantageous for the hon. Member to confine his motion to particular points.
 Lord Stanley  said, that the fittest opportunity for discussing the subject would be when the papers were before the House, and on a former evening he had stated that it was not his intention to resist the production of them. He should now confine himself to stating that he agreed with those who thought that all the necessary information should be freely and frankly furnished to Parliament; and so strongly did he feel this, that he should take no technical objection to the production of the act of the Colonial Legislature, although it had not yet received the royal assent. Such a course was not usual; but the present instance, he thought, ought to be an exception to the general rule.
 Lord Stanley  should be ready to lay upon the Table the followingdocuments:—1. A despatch sent by him to Sir C. Bagot, dated 2d March, 1842. 2. The communication of Sir C. Bagot on laying that despatch before the Colonial Legislature. 3. The act of the Colonial Legislature passed in consequence. 4. An extract from the despatch accompanying that act when sent to this country. 5. An extract from a despatch, containing further observations, sent out since the receipt of the act of the Colonial Legislature. In the mean time, until these papers were before the House, it would be injudicious to enter into any partial statements.
 Lord Stanley  answered in the affirmative. By the suspending clause the act was not to come into operation until July next, nor then, unless the royal assent had been given to it. When it was sent home
 341
 Lord Stanley  thought that he ought to apologise to the House for having already spoken four several times. The whole correspondence would be upon the Table in the course of about three days; it bore immediately upon the very question put to him, and, if it were thought necessary to repeat the question then, he would willingly reply to it.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said that, in bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, it would be necessary for him to occupy a little more time than he usually claimed from the indulgence of the House. He was not aware whether the papers for which he was about to move
 342 343 "His hope was to give to India peace and surplus revenue—by means of that surplus revenue to emulate the magnificent benevolence of the Mahomedan Emperors in the great works of public improvement, and more than all by gradually and cautiously having regard to the prejudices and feeling of the natives, imparting to them all we know of arts and civilization, at once to elevate the character, and better the condition of that generous and mighty people." "Whatever might be the confidence, (his Lordship added) which had been expressed in him, he could assure them that it had not created in his mind the slightest delusion with respect to himself." 344 "Going with these feelings (his Lordship continued), he did trust that he might obtain some portion of the favour of Providence on his exertions, which should only be directed to the public good, and the advancement of the interests of England and India—of his native and his adopted country." animus 345 Times "One of the greatest Turkish princes was Mahmoud the Gasnevide. The principal source of his fame and riches was the holy war (mark the words, 'holy war!') which he waged against the Gentoos of Hindostan. To the religion of Hindostan the zealous Mussulman was cruel and inexorable; many hundred temples or pagodas were levelled with the ground; many thousand idols were demolished, and the servants of the prophet were stimulated and rewarded by the precious materials of which they were composed: the Pagoda of Somnauth was situated on the promontory of Guzarat, in the neighbourhood of Dia, one of the last remaining possessions of the Portuguese. It was endowed with the revenue of 2,000 villages; 2,000 Brahmins were consecrated to the service of the deity, whom they washed each morning and evening in water from the distant Ganges; the subordinate ministers consisted of 300 musicians, 300 barbers, and 500 dancing girls, conspicuous for their birth or beauty. The faith of Mahmoud was animated to a personal trial of the strength of this Indian deity; 50,000 of his worshippers were pierced by the spear of the Moslems, the walls were scaled, the sanctuary was profaned, and the conqueror aimed
 346 "Oh, sire! like nothing but themselves they are." 347 Si nos non timeas, at Deum time. "All religious rites and offices which are in this sense harmless, that they are not flagrantly opposed to the rules of common humanity and decency, ought to be tolerated, however false the creed by which they are sanctioned; but they could not properly be said to be tolerated if those who are engaged in them did not experience that ordinary degree of protection to which every citizen, not offending against the laws, is entitled at the hands of his rulers. A religious festival attended by immense crowds cannot be said to be tolerated if the Government does not provide a police sufficient to enforce order, and to ensure the safety of individuals during the celebration; and, on the other hand, the providing of such a police is not an act of favour or friendship to the mode of worship, but one of simple justice to the worshippers. Beyond this civil protection, however, we do not see that the maxims of toleration enjoin us to proceed. It is not necessary that we should take part in the celebration of an idolatrous ceremony, or that we should assist in the preparations for it. or that we should afford to it such a systematic sup. port as shall accredit in the eyes of the people and prevent it from expiring through the effect of neglect or accident. The application of these principles to the subject before us is not very difficult. Although it is possible that the Hindoo rites, or at least those of Juggernaut!), are less liable than formerly to the charges of cruelty and open indecency, their essential character is of course not changed. They are at variance with the precepts and spirit of Christianity, and they seem opposed even to the plain injunctions of a natural religion. This, however, is not a reason for prohibiting them by law; and if they are not to be so prohibited, if they are to exist at all, they must receive from the civil power that
 348 "We fully concur in the opinion expressed by Mr. Ironside, to the effect that if religious societies and religious publications recommend the adoption of measures, and that if, as it were in consequence of them, the Government immediately carries those recommendations into effect, our native subjects may conceive that we, as rulers of the country,
 349
 Sir Thomas Munro  said on the same occasion, (no mean authority!)
 "In every country, but especially in this, where the rulers are so few, and of a different race from the people, it is the most dangerous of all things to tamper with religious feelings. They may be apparently dormant, and when we are in unsuspecting security, they may burst forth in the most tremendous manner, as at Vellore; Should they provoke even a partial disturbance, which is quickly put down, even in this case the evil would be lasting. Distrust would be raised between the people and the Government, which would never entirely subside; the district in which it happened would never be so safe as before." 350 [Sir It. Inglis: "He could not believe that a government which not only tolerated, but sanctioned, the continuance of idolatry; which not only sanctioned and encouraged it among the natives, but compelled a Christian people to give an unwilling sanction to it—could look for the blessing of Providence on acts which were so strongly opposed to the dictates of religion." "He would not have anything done which would lead them to think it was a matter of indifference whether they should embrace the true religion, or live in the practices of idolatry. That appeared to him to be so plain, so clear, so faultless a course, that he could not anticipate what objections could be started against it, except those which were suggested by expediency. But, if indeed we could secure our dominion of that vast territory; if we must be masters of that immense population only at the expense of sacrificing the holiness of our awn religion, he confessed he would rather give up all; nay, he believed all attempts to retain it would be in vain if we acted upon such a principle; for he never could suppose that a merciful Providence, which had entrusted us with that empire for the purpose of carrying out its benevolent designs towards mankind, would keep it in our possession that
 351 352 "A copy of any despatch from the Governor-general of India to the Court of Directors, containing a proclamation addressed to the chiefs and princes of India, respecting the recovery of the gates of the temple of Somnauth, and any answer of the Court of Directors to the Governor-general of India."
 Mr. Bingham Baring  said, that although the right hon. Gentleman had not referred to topics mentioned in the Indian newspapers, he had indirectly alluded to them, and in such a manner as to let them have some effect upon the discussion that evening; and, before going into the general question, he would state some reasons for making an allowance for the attacks which proceeded from that quarter. It must be remembered that the noble Lord had entered India with the declared intention of introducing great reforms, and particularly of bringing the expenditure within the limits of the income. He had found it absolutely necessary to check the correspondence which had taken place between persons connected with the public administration of affairs and the newspaper press, and to interrupt the communications which passed between them. The tendency of the measures which he was obliged to take for this purpose had the effect of irritating the conductors of the public press, while the anticipation of future reductions alienated or might be expected to alienate those for whom the European press was conducted, the main portion of their readers the salaried servants of the company. He wished to speak of that service with the utmost respect. There was no country which enjoyed more devoted public servants than India; still there were some who, looking upon their offices in the light of private property, considered those who deprived them of their offices, increased their duty, or diminished the
 353 "That the Shah shall disclaim, both for himself, his successors, and all the tribe of Suddozye, every right and title to the countries which have been acquired by his highness, his dependants, and tributaries of every kind; for instance, to the city of Peshawur, with the territory and customs, Cohaut, Heshtrugheo, Isefzie, Khyber, Cashmere, Mooltan, Menkera, Kolebagh, Bootchee, Serai, Tenouls, territories farmed by Bahawulpore, the two Ketchees north of the Sutledge, Tonk, Sengher, Gherang, Fort of Rolien, Gooldhurree, Akora, territory of Khittek, the seat of Preadah Khan's family; Derhend, Terbelah, and Preadah Khan's places of abode." "That the portals made of Sandal, which have been carried away to Ghusnee from the Temple of Jughernaut, shall be delivered to the Maharajah, when the Shah's government is well established." "Regarding the relinquishment, on the part of myself, and all the tribe of Suddozyes, of all right and title to the countries conquered by his highness, that point may be settled when a meeting takes place, and the boundaries of those countries are defined. Regarding horses, &c.; I agree to the presentation of them yearly, according to the list given. Regarding the assignment of three lacs of rupees
 354 "Regarding the demand of the portals of sandal at Ghusnee, a compliance with it is inadmissible in two ways; firstly, a real friend is he who is interested in the good name of his friend. The Maharajah being my friend, how can he find satisfaction in my eternal disgrace? To desire the disgrace of one's friend, is not consistent with the dictates of wisdom. 355 356 "To communicate with the several chiefs through whose territories the trophies would be carried, for the purpose of making every necessary previous arrangement for their safe reception and transmission, and for the avoiding confusion on the inarch." "Proudest record of their national glory," as "the proof of their superiority in arms over the nations beyond the Indus." from the Opposition."] 357 "Any despatch from the Governor-general of India to The Court of Directors, containing a proclamation addressed to the chiefs and princes of India." "Any answer of the Court of Directors to the Governor-general of India." V. Smith:
 Lord Stanley:  As to the question put by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, it would be more convenient to answer it when the paper should be on the Table.
 Lord J. Russell  had not intended to have taken any share in the present debate, and he did so now chiefly for the purpose of making a suggestion to his right hon. Friend who had brought forward the motion. With respect to the question which his right hon. Friend had brought before the House, he had always thought, since he had seen the proclamation, that the question of right was so clearly on our side, that nothing further could be said, and this was, above all, the case after the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford. He was sure also that such would be the general opinion out of doors on the appeal to those whom the hon. Secretary for the Board of Control designated as men of practical understanding. He felt that it was unnecessary for him to say a single word after what had fallen from his right hon. Friend and his hon. Friend the Member for the university of Oxford; and he felt that it was still more unnecessary for him to do so after the right hon. Gentle man, after several palliative expressions, almost avowed, as almost every man of sense in the country did, his unqualified disapproval of it. For although his language was cautiously clothed in an official guise, the expressions which he was understood to have used to Lord Ellenborough on the subject were clearly not those of approbation, but condemnation. [Sir  R. Peel 377 378 Member " 379 380
 Mr. V. Butler  said, the right hon. Baronet had changed the whole issue of the question, which was not to turn upon a single act of Lord Ellenborough, and whether that single act was indefensible, and of such a nature that it would not only efface the past merits of his Lordship, but prevent the possibility of any confidence being placed in his prudence for the future; for the right hon. Baronent had You must not condemn him for a
 381
 Lord John Russell  asked whether the act received from Canada did not contain the ordinary suspending clause?
 Mr. Hawes  asked what course the Government intended to take upon the subject of Church Extension?
 Mr. C. Buller  claimed no credit for an  impromptu. "That there be laid before this House, a copy of any despatch from the Governor-ge
 382
 The Speaker:  That certainly would not be in accordance with the rules of the House. He had not collected the whole of the hon. Member's notice, but from what he had heard, it appeared to him that it was not the sort of notice which was sanctioned by the rules of the House, and he thought the hon. Member would act wisely if he withdrew it for the purpose of reconsidering it.
Notice withdrawn.
 Colonel Sibthorp  rose to protest against the bringing forward of a measure of this nature. It was a measure of what was called "reform"—a thing which he detested as he detested the devil. It was an innovation, and he agreed with Mr. Pitt that in all innovations there was danger. He demanded, therefore, that there should be no undue haste in urging it forward. It embraced many matters that required to be gravely and maturely considered.
 Mr. Villiers  inquired whether Ministers intended to bring in any Bill for the regulation of the trade in corn between this country and Canada.
 Mr. C. Wood  apprehended that the terms of his motion were large enough to include the documents enumerated by the noble Lord.
 Mr. C. Wood,  in the unavoidable absence of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchere), rose to bring forward a motion for
 "Copies or extracts of any communications which have taken place between her Majesty's Government and the authorities of Canada, respecting the duties levied on wheat imported from the United States into Canada, or from Canada into the United Kingdom, since the 1st. day of January, 1842." s 340
 Mr. Protheroe  did not think the diocesan courts entitled to favourable consideration. They had by no means fulfilled the duties assigned to them as regarded the custody of wills. He felt grateful to the right hon. and learned Gentleman for the plan he had proposed. It went far beyond what he had contemplated when he intended to submit to the House a reform of these courts. Great praise was also due to the Bishops for the manner in which they had consented to surrender their patronage.
 Dr. Bowring  wished, while they were on the subject of Syria, to put a question to the right hon. Baronet. A chief named Achmet Reschid had, in consequence of our interference at Constantinople, been nominated to the government of a district in Syria. He (Dr. Bowring) had been given to understand that this chief was set aside and imprisoned by order of the Turkish government of Syria. He wanted to know if the right hon. Baronet had any knowledge of the fact?
 Dr. Nicholl  rose, pursuant to the announcement in her Majesty's Speech, that measures for the improvement of the administration of the law would be submitted to Parliament, and in discharge of a duty cast upon him by the Government, to move for leave to bring in a bill to carry into effect certain recommendations of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners relating to the administration of justice in the ecclesiastical courts in England and Wales. The jurisdiction in those courts was of a mixed spiritual and temporal character. The spiritual inherent in the Episcopal, hardly came within the scope of Parliamentary legislation—the temporal derived from the law and custom of the land. The latter related chiefly, though by no means exclusively, to matrimonial contracts and testamentary cases. He conceived that the jurisdiction in matrimonial contracts was given to the ecclesiastical courts, partly in consequence of the fact that marriage at that period was regarded as a sacrament, and partly because the marriage law was chiefly founded on the canon law, a foreign law, adopted in part as the law of England, but little known to English lawyers or courts—only to be found in manuscript, or handed down by oral tradition. In the present day, however, marriage was, by the law of England, no longer regarded as a sacrament. Its validity or invalidity rested not on the canon manuscript law, but the statute law of the
 313 a vinculo matrimonii. 314 l 315 316 l l l l 317 318 l l 319 l l l l de excommunicatio capiendo. de contumace capiendo, sequestrari facias viva voce, 320 John Russell: "That it is expedient that the Diocesan Courts should not retain any power of granting probate or administration, but that the whole of their present jurisdiction, voluntary as well as contentious, should be transferred to the provincial courts respectively." 321 "That after the fullest and most mature deliberation, the board have come to the conclusion that it is highly desirable to transfer the jurisdiction of the provincial court at York, as well as those of the diocesan courts, to the metropolitan courts of Canterbury, and that his Grace, the Archbishop of York, be conferred with on the subject." "The committee find that the question to which the petitions relate has frequently been
 322 "Stated it to have been drawn up on the supposition that the provincial court of York was to be retained, but that a doubt had presented itself to their minds whether the arrangement which they had proposed for the improved administration of the ecclesiastical law would be rendered more complete and effective if the contentious and testamentary jurisdiction exercised by other courts of the province of York were transferred to the metropolitan courts of Canterbury; but they did not offer a specific recommendation on that head." "That in April, 1833, the commissioners appointed to inquire into the law respecting real property, made their fourth report, in which they stated their belief that greater general convenience would be obtained by the abolition of all district jurisdictions whatsoever. On the 15th of August, 1833, a select committee of the House of Commons recommended that all the courts in England and Wales, exercising ecclesiastical jurisdiction, or the power of granting probates and administrations, be abolished, except the Arches Court and the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, and that these two courts should be united; and they also recommended, that one court sitting in London should be the only court for the probate of wills and the granting of administrations." "The committee entirely concur in the opinion, that it will be expedient that all the courts in England and Wales exercising ecclesiastical jurisdiction in granting probates and administrations should be abolished, and that one court sitting in London should be the only court for the probate of wills and the granting of administrations." 323 l pro tempore 324 l 325
 Mr. Roebuck  asked whether it were in accordance with the rules of the House that, under the guise of putting a notice on the books, an hon. Member should print a political pamphlet.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know what was intended with respect to the fees. It was a wise regulation to have fixed salaries; but was there no alteration to be made in the fees? For many years the complaint of the expense attending wills had been general and extremely well-founded; were the public by this change to have business done at a lower rate of charge than heretofore? The recent reform in the Court of Chancery had, in this respect, been no improvement. So far from business being accelerated or carried through at less expense, the expense had in many cases been doubled. Was the public to be mulcted to the same extent in this instance? There ought to be a new schedule of fees, reduced in amount to the lowest scale, so that not one shilling should be taken from the suitor more than would pay for the business actually done. He had always been of opinion that the diocesan courts should be abolished; but now that they were about to establish county courts perhaps they would be better able to deal with the ecclesiastical courts if they knew beforehand what was to be the jurisdiction of the local courts. He was in favour of a general registry of wills, but he thought there might be inconvenience in bringing all parties to litigate in London. If parties prefered litigating in the county where they resided, he did not see why they should be prevented from doing so with regard to wills any more than other property. In the general objects of the bill he entirely concurred, and could not help thinking that the time had come when every civil matter should be entirely re moved from the jurisdiction of the clergy, who were often seen meddling, active, and troublesome in things quite foreign to their spiritual duties to which they ought exclusively to devote themselves.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask this question: Whether the duty of 3 s
 Mr. Hume  rose to make one or two remarks, in consequence of the right hon. Baronet having told them that he meant to call for a vote of that House upon the whole conduct of Lord Ellenborough. [Sir  R. Peel: 376
 Dr. Stock  said, after hearing the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Chester, and that of his right hon. Friend the Judge Advocate, he had now, comparatively speaking, the two plans before him on which to form a judgment. The result of his consideration of them was, that he had not the slightest hesitation in saying, that of the Judge Advocate
 330
 Mr. Mangles  had not entertained the slightest intention of addressing the House on this occasion, for he thought any observations on the subject now under discussion would be offered more fitly when the papers were produced, and when the House was in possession of more full information. He could not, however, listen to the misrepresentations—he was sure they were not wilful—of the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of the Board of Control, without giving them some contradiction. The hon. Gentleman had attributed the universal condemnation which had been expressed by the Indian press with regard to Lord Ellenborough's proclamation, to the hostility entertained towards his Lord ship by the civil service, who were sup posed to have great power over the press, and who, it was said, were offended at some measures of reform proposed by Lord Ellenborough. He begged to say that the press of India was as little under the control of the civil service as it was possible to be. He denied that Lord Ellenborough had introduced any reforms affecting the civil service. If he had acted in that respect as Lord William Bentinck had done, if he had introduced judicious or even honest and well-intentioned reforms, Lord Ellenborough would have secured, as his predecessor had done, the cordial support of the many high-minded members of that body. But his Lordship had wilfully and gratuitously insulted that body of men through whom whether he liked them or not, he must conduct his administration of the affairs of the country. Then the hon. Gentleman had seemed to think, that the great bulk of the Mahomedan in habitants of India would regard with favour the removal of the gates of the temple of Somnauth. He thought it had been well understood that the Mahomedans of India are a single undivided people, entertaining bitter hatred towards the English, who had wrested the power from their hands, and despising the Hindoo population. Now the Hindoos, whom Lord Ellenborough desired to conciliate by the removal of the gates of the temple, required no conciliation at our hands, for they were already strongly attached to us;
 374 375
 Mr. M. Gibson  supposed that Ministers must be aware of their own intentions, and, for the sake of trade, it seemed expedient to remove all doubt and uncertainty on the subject. Perhaps they would state whether they meant to make any great alteration in the Colonial scale of duties.
 Mr. Christie  hoped the opening of the courts in London to proctors from the country, who were duly qualified, would be taken as an available opportunity for relaxing the still existing restrictions upon the admission of persons not belonging to the Church of England.
 Mr. Ewart  saw nothing unreasonable in the question put by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. Ministers had had ample time to make up their minds as to their intentions, and there were three parties deeply interested in the subject. First, the agriculturists of this country; next, the Colonial population; and thirdly, the noble Lord himself. The Legislature of Canada, in their act, had put a positive interpretation on the words of the noble Lord, and, for the sake of all parties, it seemed material that the question should be answered. Whether the noble Lord would condescend to reply to it was another matter.
 Mr. Ferrand  did not know whether he should be in order if he were to offer a few words in explanation. The description of the bank, to which the hon. Member objected, was applied to it by Mr. Greg, of Manchester, who was one of the proprietors.
  Mr. Ferrand  gave notice that when the hon. Member for Wolverhampton brought forward his motion for the repeal of the Corn-laws, he would move the following amendment:—
 "That this House is of opinion that the total repeal of the Corn-laws, instead of diminishing the present depression of trade, and the dreadful sufferings of the working classes, would tend greatly to increase the shock lately given to all those whose modes of thinking, feeling, and business have been regulated by living under a wise and benignant constitution, which has till lately, recognised the rights of property, the protection of industry, and the just and equitable requital of labour; under which great and extensive interests have grown up both in the agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing property of the country; and that the preposterous conception of the present depression in trade being caused by the Corn-laws cannot have a place anywhere, except possibly in the minds of a few among our own countrymen, hard pressed by the recent complications of commercial disaster, and predisposed accordingly to the most doleful imaginations, or of discarded ministers and greedy expectants of office. That a gambling principle has of late years entered into trade, which has been exhibited by the failure, to the amount of 800,000 l 306
 Sir C. Napier  asked whether the right hon. Baronet was in possession of information which would enable him to state that the Turkish government had made compensation to the Emir Beschir, and to the inhabitants of the Lebanon, for the property which was destroyed during the late war in Syria?
 Sir C. Napier  said, that a considerable portion of the property of the inhabitants of the Lebanon had been destroyed by the troops under his command, by his orders. He wished to know in the event of the Turkish government refusing compensation on that account, whether the British Government would consider itself bound to make it?
 Captain Pechell  expressed his approbation of the introduction of this bill, and hoped that it would be pressed forward without delay, so that by Easter all the iniquities of these courts in the country might be removed.
 Mr. Elphinstone  strongly condemned the constitution of the diocesan courts. The chancellors in most cases were wholly unfit for their duties; the registrars whose names generally corresponded with those of the deceased bishops, were equally ignorant of their duties; and the consequence was, that the whole of the business being left to deputy registrars, who were generally speaking attornies practising in the cathedral town, very gross injustice was often practised, and when the cases came before the superior courts in London the most extraordinary and ludicrous mistakes were frequently discovered. With respect to wills, what the public required was, that the property of the testator should be distributed to those who were entitled to it with as little delay and expense as possible. In order to this he believed it was necessary that one central court should be established in London, with a registry attached, and every facility of access afforded to the public. With respect to the admission of proctors to practise in London, it would be necessary not only that a very strict examination
 334
 Sir J. Graham  said, he had already announced that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill respecting the registration of voters in England, and it was also their intention to bring forward a Bill on the subject of the registration of voters in Ireland. In that Bill the Government would deal with the franchise as they might deem expedient.
 Mr. Jervis   did not rise for the purpose of offering any opposition to the motion, at this stage, but as be had been instrumental, in conjunction with Mr. Sergeant Goulburn and the hon. Member for Yorkshire, in bringing forward a measure on this subject, he wished to point out some of the objections he entertained to the bill now introduced by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the very clear and lucid statement he had made, and for his explanation of the reasons which had influenced the Government in submitting this measure to Parliament. He cordially agreed with much that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. He considered it extremely desirable to abolish all the criminal jurisdiction of ecclesiastical courts, which he understood to be one of the main objects contemplated by this bill. He also thought it important to abolish many of the peculiar jurisdictions, for they led to great inconvenience and confusion, not only with regard to the actual deposit of wills, but from want of uniformity in the administration of the law. To this extent, alone, could he agree with the right hon. Gentleman, for he objected to the principle on which the bill was founded. If the principle of centralization was to be adopted, he considered that the measure of the late Government, which was proposed by the late Lord Chancellor, was infinitely preferable to that which was at present under their consideration. He thought, there was no reasonable ground for the distinction which was proposed with regard to the amount of property. Property under the sum of 300 l. 326 bona notabilia, caceat 327 l 328 l l l l l Nicholl: 329
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that, before the notice was entered on the books, he begged to call the hon. Member's attention to one expression contained in it, and which he believed the hon. Member, if he reconsidered it, would not allow to remain. He alluded to the description of the Manchester Commercial Bank as the "Bank of Squander." He submitted to the hon. Member that it would be inexpedient to place upon the records of the House words
 307
 Sir It. Inglis  said, whatever other objections there might be to the measure proposed by his right hon. Friend, at least the Government could not be charged with precipitancy in regard to its introduction, for there was no question, he believed, as to which so much had been written and so little done since 1829 as that of the Ecclesiastical Courts. But while his right hon. Friend was clearly not guilty of precipitancy, he wished he could with as much ease acquit him of the charge of inconsistency which had been made against the Government by the hon. Member for Chester; or, that he could acquit the right hon. Gentleman, in his capacity of representative of the Government, of having violated that great principle of the laws of England, which requires that justice should be brought as near to every man's door as possible, instead of its being, as by this bill it would be, removed to the greatest distance. If that great principle were admitted right, as regarded all cases of a civil or a criminal nature, why should it not be extended with equal advantage in cases of testamentary and matrimonial affairs? Why should the principle avowed by the Government be, that the one class of cases should be disposed of on the spot, but that the other should be removed to the metropolis? Was it not obvious, that less time and less money would be occupied in the one case than in the other? And what was the evil which by this means it was proposed to remedy? Why, the ground urged by the right hon. Gentleman was, that many of the judges in those district courts were clergymen. Very amiable men, he admitted them to be. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to say, that he could bring forward any instance of neglect of duty, of unsound judgments, or of judgments hastily formed and promulgated against the interests of the parties in the causes? Unless abuses could be proved in existing institutions, he looked upon the abolition of those institutions with anything but a feeling of favour. He must say, that in his opinion one great vice in our present system of legislation was a desire to centralise every thing.
 331 332
 Sir Robert Inglis  had hoped that his right hon. Friend at the head of her Majesty's Government would immediately, after the not intemperate yet justly indigdant speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite have interfered between the House and any further prolongation of the present debate, and so have avoided the present discussion of a subject which must be painful to them, and which, he thought, must produce feelings of an equally unwelcome character in the public mind. His right hon. Friend had not so interfered, but he had compelled, by the course which he had adopted, those who agreed with the right hon. Gontlemen opposite to rise in their places, and to state the feelings which they entertained on the subject of this motion. His hon. Friend who had just addressed the House had complained of the right hon. Gentleman opposite that he had not quoted any parts of the proclamation to which he objected. He was persuaded that the right hon. Gentleman, in abstaining from making any quotations, had felt that he was sparing the House the pain of listening to the recital of matters which could not but fail to excite sensations of the most melancholy description. But his hon. Friend had endeavoured to turn the attention of the House from the proclamation and its author (for even he had not read the proclamation), to the newspaper writers in India, whom he supposed to be disappointed and degraded civil servants, who, their claims of patronage having been disregarded, or their offices having been suppressed, might be supposed to have personal feelings of animosity towards the Governor-general. But he really hoped that the noble Lord, the Governor-general, had better friends than the hon. Gentleman; for a defence more hopelessly ineffective than that of the hon. Gentleman, he had never had the misfortune to hear. The hon. Gentleman began by stating that Lord Ellenborough could not have had any intention of "identifying himself with heathenish feelings," and throughout his speech he had striven to show that the object which that noble Lord had had in view was to obtain some military trophy of the success of our arms, and that the proclamation was only to encourage the chiefs to receive those trophies with the respect due to the ensigns of successful valour. Even if that were so, there would still remain great objections altogether distinct from those of a religious
 359 "You will yourselves, with all honour, transmit the gates of sandal wood through your respective territories to the restored temple of Somnauth." 360 361 362 363 R. Peel: 364
 Sir R. Peel:  Sir, when my hon. Friend calls upon me for an immediate expression of my opinion, and casts his censure upon me because I have not at once risen and announced my resolution not to defend this proclamation, I think he has not sufficiently adverted to the words, to the nature and object of this motion, or to the course pursued by the right hon. Gentleman who is the mover of this question. I understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that if this motion were complied with, he should take a future opportunity of moving an address for the recall of the Governor-general of India. [Mr.  V.Smith: 365 366 "I followed him at the Board of Control, and had then an opportunity of proving his prudence, discretion, and the intimate knowledge he possessed of Indian affairs. The papers he left behind him were sufficient to convince me that no appointment could be better chosen." "I enclose for you a copy of the circular letter I have addressed to all the clergy of India. You see I am not unmindful of the real source of the success which has attended me." 367 animus Simla, Oct. "Rev. Sir;—The seasonable supply of rain, following our prayers recently offered to God for that blessing, whereby the people of the north-western provinces have been relieved from the fear of impending famine, and the great successes recently obtained by the British arms in Affghanistan, whereby the hope of honourable and secure peace is held out to India, impose upon us all the duty of humble thanksgiving to Almighty God, through whose paternal goodness alone these events have been brought to pass. Nor have we less incurred the duty of earnest supplication that we may not be led to abuse these last gifts of God's bounty, or to attribute to ourselves that which is due to Him alone; but that we may have granted to us grace so to improve these gifts as to show ourselves worthy of His love, and fit instruments in His hand for the Government of the great nation His wisdom has placed under British rule. In the absence of any superior ecclesiastical authority in these upper provinces, I request that you will take these matters into your serious consideration, and that you will on the 16th of October offer to Almighty God such prayers and thanksgiving, at the time of Divine service in your church, as may seem to you best suited to impress upon your congregation the greatness of the blessings which the British nation in India, and the whole people of India, have recently received; and the high moral responsibility under which God has placed all those who have committed to them any part in the Government of this empire. I remain, reverend Sir, your affectionate friend, "ELLENBOROUGH." 368 "The fertile kingdom of Guzerat attracted his ambition, and tempted his avarice." 369 "The tomb of the great Sultan Mahmoud is also standing, about three miles from that city. It is a spacious but not a magnificent building, covered with a cupola. The doors, which are very large, are of sandal-wood, and are said to have been brought by the sultan as a trophy from the famous temple of Somnauth, in Guzerat, which he sacked in his last expedition to India." "In this foreign narrative I may not consume a page; and a volume would scarcely suffice to recapitulate the battles and seiges of his twelve expeditions. Never was the Mussulman hero dismayed by the inclemency of the seasons, the height of the mountains, the breadth of the rivers, the barrenness of the desert, the multitudes of the enemy, or by the formidable array of their elephants of war. The Sultan of Ghuznee surpassed the limits of the conquests of Alexander; after a march of three months over the hills of Cashmir and Thibet, he reached the famous city of Kinnoge, on the Upper Ganges; and in a naval combat on one of the branches of the Indus he fought and vanquished 4000 boats of the natives. Delhi, Lahore, and Moultan were compelled to open their gates: the fertile kingdom of Guzerat attracted his ambition and tempted his stay, and his avarice indulged the fruitless project of discovering the golden and aromatic islands of the Southern Ocean." "It was with no ordinary feelings that I stood at Ghuznee, by the tomb of Mahomet of Ghuznee. My long residence in Guzerat, and intimate familiarity with its people, its history,
 370 "This man of blood sleeps in peace in a spot of great rural beauty. His direful ravages are consecrated by bigotry as holy wars against infidels." 371 372 loud cheers from the Ministerial side,] 373
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was not prepared to contract any engagements of that kind. He apprehended that we interfered for the purpose of restoring the dominion of the Porte in Syria; Turkey gladly availed herself of our assistance, and the result was the establishment of the supremacy of her power. He thought, therefore, that, as far as considerations of equity went, Turkey ought to make the required compensation. It was rather-too much to ask him to make compensation for acts which were considered necessary for the establishment of Turkish supremacy. If the gallant Officer would favour him with an account of the details of his operations, and the extent of the damage he had done, he (Sir R. Peel) would undertake to submit it to the consideration of the Porte.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Member should receive ample notice of any measure which the Government intended to introduce upon the subject. In the course of last Session, he (Sir R. Peel) had stated that the superintendence of the spiritual wants of some districts, particularly the great manufacturing towns, deserved, and should receive, the utmost consideration on the part of the Government, and, certainly, the events which occurred last autumn had only tended to confirm the opinion he then expressed. The subject had occupied the attention of the Government. He was aware of the inconvenience arising from making statements in answer to questions. He knew the misconstruction to which he would be liable if he merely stated, that it was the intention of the Government to bring forward a measure for Church Extension. It would at once be supposed that he meant to propose large grants from the public funds for that ob
 310
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that the hon. Gentleman had claimed the credit of an  impromptu
 Sir R. Peel  replied, that her Majesty's Government bad constantly urged on the government of the Porte the justice and necessity of making compensation for the losses sustained by the Syrian population during the war. Her Majesty's Government had frequently received assurances from the government of the Porte, that in some cases full reparation had been made, and that other cases were under consi-
 308
 Sir R. Peel  hoped he was not to be made responsible for the acts of other governments. The British Government would use its influence to induce the government of the Porte to keep its engagements; but he hoped hon. Gentlemen would act upon their own doctrine of non intervention, and not press him to speak, as if they considered him the minister of the Porte, and responsible for the acts of that government. He could only say, that the influence of the British Government should be exerted to the utmost to induce the Porte to fulfil the engagements which it had made; but he would not go
 309
 Lord Stanley  said he should have no difficulty in answering the question which had just been put. The intention and meaning of the treaty were correctly stated by the right hon. Gentleman, and the arrangement proposed to be made by that compact had for some time past been practically acted on. The district to which reference had been made did not produce any corn. It produced timber; but timber was felled at both sides of the river—it was laid on the ice in the winter, and when the ice melted the logs floated down the stream without its being possible for any one to know whether they had been cut within the territory of the United States or in that of Great Britain. Although it was unimportant whether the trees were felled upon the right or on the left bank of the river Aroostook or the river St. John, yet that circumstance did not necessarily involve a concession on our part of the free navigation of the St.
 385
 Mr. Wall-lace  begged to ask the noble Lord opposite at the head of the commission for inquiry into the frauds in the revenue, what progress had been made with the inquiries, when they would be brought to a close, and whether the names of all the parties concerned in the frauds would be laid before the House.
 Mr. Baillie  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, whether it were the intention of the Government to bring in any bill this Session to amend the law relating to the Registration of Voters in Scotland.
 Mr. Rice  admitted the very bad management of turnpike trusts at present, and he was glad to learn that Government had taken the remedy into its own hands. He hoped that Government would be now induced to bring forward some general measure on the subject.
 Mr. Lid-dell  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for the purpose of preventing the fraudulent Personation of Voters at contested elections. He had had sufficient
 389 390 bonâ fide 391 bonâ fide l bonâ fide bonâ fide
 Lord Lincoln  said, in was quite unnecessary to lay any such returns before the House. He would at once inform the hon. Gentleman that the amount expended during the present year would be about 2,000 l
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that his bill was defeated, but it was because one object of it was to introduce some economical reforms into the management of turnpike trusts; and thus he was at once beset by the trustees. He was sorry that a similar provision was not in this bill, for without some such economical reforms it would be impossible ever to deal with the debts of the several trusts, which now amounted nearly to 9,000,000 l
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that the inquiries were still in progress, and it was impossible for him to say precisely when they would be concluded. When they were, there could be no objection to laying the evidence before the House.
 Mr. Ross  wished to address a few observations to the House in consequence of the hon. Member having said that he had gained much of his experience on the subject from having been one of a committee which set upon the election for Belfast, in 1841, when the return for that town was set aside. Before that com-
 392
 Mr. F. French  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if it was his intention to introduce during the present Session, a bill for the regulation of the law courts of Ireland, and, if so, whether it would be brought in before Easter.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to introduce a bill for the purpose of improving the regulations of the law courts in Ireland; but, from the present state of public business, he could not say when it would be brought in.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied that no instructions had yet been issued.
 Mr. Manners Sutton  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws relating to Turnpike Trusts in England and Wales. The present state of the law he observed, had occasioned great inconvenience. Not that he wished materially to effect the rights of the whole body of mortgagees; but this at least he desired to do,—to render it impossible for any individual to go into the market and possess himself of a mortgage, of the value say of 100 l 388
 Mr. Brotherton  offered his thanks to the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Liddell) for so excellent and necessary a measure. He hoped the remedy proposed would not only be salutary but effectual.
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his motion before Monday. A meeting had been lately held in Paisley, at which a resolution had been come to, that no person from Ireland who had not been resident in the town upwards of ten years should receive relief from the funds at the disposal of the relief committee. He would say no more than that the fact had caused considerable dissatis-
 393
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  asked when the Irish Registration Bill would be brought in?
 Mr. Wallace  had no objection to postpone his motion to Monday.
 Mr. Wallace  proposed to nominate the committee proposed by him to inquire into the distress of Paisley.
 Mr. Wallace  wished to know whether the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests would have any objection to lay before the House an account of the expenses incurred in the improvements at Holyrood Palace, and of the funds from which those expenses were to be defrayed.
 Mr. Christie  expressed a hope that the right hon. Baronet would fix the second reading of the English Registration Bill and the County Courts' Bill for such period as would suit the professional arrangements of Members of the House who were connected with the legal profession.
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, that having been twice chairman of committees on this subject, he could bear testimony to the difficulties by which it was surrounded. As to a general measure which should relate to all turnpike trusts, he thought it was quite out of the question. It would be impossible to arrange such a measure, unless Government were prepared to pay off all the debts of the several trusts, amounting at present to between 8,000,000 l l
 Mr. Mackinnon  seconded the motion.
 Mr. F. Baring  asked whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have any objection to produce any instructions which had been given to the Customhouse authorities in connection with the subject.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  rose to put a question to the noble Lord opposite respecting the treaty of Washington. By one of the articles of that treaty certain privileges were granted to a district which is now given up to the United States. These privileges related to timber, as well as to corn and other agricultural produce, and they consisted in allowing goods of that description to be brought into British ports at the same rates of duty as if they were the produce of British possessions. What he wanted to know was, whether the corn and timber specified in that treaty could be introduced into England at the same duties as if they had been the produce of New Brunswick; and, assuming that he should receive an answer in the affirmative, he then desired to know whether it would be necessary that an act of Parliament should be passed for the purpose of giving full effect to that part of the treaty in which this matter was referred to.
 Sir James Graham  could assure his hon. Friend that he was perfectly alive to the
 386
 Sir J. Graham  said, he had a great respect for the gentlemen of the long robe, and was sensible of the value of their assistance, but it was impossible for him to undertake to arrange public business with a view to their convenience. He would give notice of motion, for leave to bring in the English Registration Bill in the course of next week, and before the expiration of a fortnight he would ask for leave to introduce the Local Courts Bill. He could not, however, undertake to fix the second reading of bills of so much importance, with reference to the convenience of gentlemen connected with the legal profession.
 Sir J. Graham  said it was not his intention to move for leave to introduce the Irish Registration Bill until the English Registration Bill should pass through all its stages.
 Sir R. Peel  felt much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for the notice which he had given of his intention to ask the question, and he would suggest to other hon. Members the propriety of following
 387
 Sir E. Colebrooke  gave notice that it was his intention, on Monday next, to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, as to the state of our relations with the government of Scinde. He wished to know whether the treaty entered into with the government of that country in 1839 was still in force, and whether any act had been committed in contravention of the treaty, which would justify an armed interference on the part of the British Government in India.
 Mr. Bernal  wished to call the attention of the Government to the very imperfect transmission of letters from the West Indies, and especially from Jamaica, under the
 420
 Mr. Williams  admitted the fairness of the right hon. Gentleman's statement; but he must declare that he was not at all satisfied with the evidence adduced before the commission, which he did not think of a sufficiently searching character to enable the House to proceed to grant an immense sum of the public money. Nothing had been said by the right hon. Gentleman as to recovering any property of parties to the fraud that might be accessible.
 Mr. Williams  said this explanation certainly rendered the transaction better in point of principle, but he feared it would not work much benefit for the public in point of practice. What expectations could be had as to realizing anything from property which had been allowed to remain a year and a half in the parties' hands? He was of opinion that the inquiries of the commissioners on this, as on other points, had been most defective. When Rapallo was asked what benefit Beaumont Smith derived from the bills, the reply was that he received whatever he required. Yet that answer was not followed up by an inquiry, what was the probable amount of that which he received? And when the same statement had been made by Rapallo as to Mrs. Solari, there had been a similarly unaccountable neglect of any further inquiry by the commissioners as to any means of ascertaining the probable amount of money received by her. Yet, had these things been ascertained, the result would have been most important. Mr. Bush, the solicitor engaged in the affair, had visited Rapallo in Newgate, and had stated that he had received most important disclosures, of which he had made a memorandum, which he was ready to show the commissioners; yet he had never been asked for them. Rapallo had not even been asked whether he knew by whom the forgeries had been committed, or what had become of the 40,000 l 431 " You have stated, as to the property received through Mr. Morgan, that it was lost by you in speculation; does that statement equally apply to the property received through other parties?" l 432 "The like could never have been in the possession of such a party as the young man who offered them (respectable though he was), except through something wrong." 433 "Although the Act of Parliment directed that the bills should be compared with their counterfoils, as the only means to discover fraud, yet that the instructions from the Treasury to the Paymasters, by which they considered themselves bound to act, did not point out or allude to the necessity of conforming to the directions of the act. The practice of comparing the bills with the counterfoils had therefore been discontinued for many years: there was no check on the senior clerk (Beaumont Smith), the forger of these bills; he had the sole direction of the quantity to be made and printed, the custody of the moulds, the plates and paper (printed and un printed), of the press, seals, and counterfoils, as well as the entire preparation of the hills. Everything was in his hands without any check or control." 434
 Colonel Sibihorp  should not have trespassed on the time of the House had he not in a former Session of Parliament taken some part in the discussions upon this subject. He had never, as he stated at that time, held any Exchequer-bills, he never issued any, and he should take very good care hereafter how he bought any. Though he had not done that, and therefore there was no selfish motive on his part, yet he had heard with considerable satisfaction what had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought that when they looked at the whole transaction, and investigated
 435
 Mr. Williams:  The fact is stated in the evidence that they were exchanged at the usual period of exchanging Exchequer-bills.
 Mr. James  desired to know whether the Government had taken proper precautions for the prevention of the recurrence of such a calamity to the public? Surely, something ought to be done, and, for his own part, he agreed with the hon. Member for Coventry, that the best means of putting an end to the evil would be to fund the Exchequer-bills altogether.
 Lord Eliot  wished to take this opportunity of correcting a misconception which prevailed in Ireland, as to what he had said with respect to medical charities, in connection with the Poor-law in that country. He stated that he had requested the Poor-law commissioners to prepare a bill to regulate medical charities in Ireland. The bill was laid on the table last Session of Parliament. He certainly did, on a subsequent occasion, say that no suggestions had been made to him for the improvement or alteration of that bill. Now, he was always anxious that any information he gave to the House should be accurate, and he therefore willingly admitted that he ought to have said that only a few suggestions, and not that not any, had been made to him. Instead of receiving suggestions favourable to the measure, the suggestions he had received were generally of a hostile character to the principle of it.
 Viscount Howick  again rose and said,* Mr. Speaker, I rise for the purpose of moving that the House do now resolve into a committee of the whole House to take into consideration that part of her Majesty's Speech which has just been read. My object in making this motion is, to call upon the House to pronounce a decision upon the question, whether the distress under which the country now unhappily labours is not of such a character as to impose upon Parliament the duty of some immediate interference upon the subject. I apprehend that I am taking the most regular and the most Parliamentary manner of
 * 449 450 451 452 453 454 l l s 3½ d . 455 4s. Ad. s l l l 456 [Hear, Hear, hear, [Hear, hear, 457 [_Hear, hear, 458 " A want of employment seems to be more felt hereabouts, amongst that class of artizans —masons, joiners, and plasterers—than among agricultural labourers. Many of such who found employment in the large towns are thrown back upon the country, and the demand
 459 460 l l l l 461 462 463 [Cheers from the Ministerial benches]. 464 465 466 bond fide "Coincident with general prosperity, there might exist in particular districts the severest partial distress." 467 468 Gazettes 469 470 [Dissent from the Ministerial benches."] 471 " Suppose that 50,000 head of cattle were to be annually imported, such importation would produce but a small effect upon the prices of meat, but it would create an import trade to the amount of half a million of money—a trade which, in its nature, would tend by a smooth, and, under ordinary circumstances, a certain, though a gradual course of operation, to produce an export trade, in return of an equal amount; which would contribute—he did not say in a moment—but in the course of years— to an increased demand for employment and labour." Gazette. 472 473 " He thought he had shewn by these examples that the present distress in this country was not caused by the successful competition of other nations. This was an important point to establish. We were distressed, not because our prices were too high, but because other nations could not purchase more of our goods in consequence of our laws excluding the importation of the produce which they could give us in return." 474 475 476 477 478 [Murmurs from the ministerial benches.] 479 " This House do resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, to consider so much of her Majesty's speech as refers to that depression of the manufacturing interest of the country which has so long prevailed, and which her Majesty has so deeply lamented."
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  said, Sir, I feel the
 480 481 482 Howick: 483 l l l l l 484 485 486 ? 487 488 eclat, 489 490 491 492 d s d 493 d d s d 494 495 496 [Cheers.] 497 498 499 500 501 l l l 502 ad valorem. 503 504 505 bonus, 506 507 508
 Mr. Labouchere:   I can assure the House that I am well aware how difficult it will be for me to arrest its attention at this late period of the evening, and when it is exhausted by the length to which the debate has already run; but the question brought forward by my noble Friend is one of such infinite moment and importance in the existing state of the country, that I cannot justify myself by giving a silent vote on it. I have always entertained, in common with the entire body of the House, a very high opinion of the abilities of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down; I have always acknowledged that on any side of a question which he embraces and supports, he can argue with great ingenuity and force; but his speech to-night has convinced me further, that in one and the same speech, he has powers of arguing, with singular dexterity, on two totally opposite views of the same subject; for one part of his speech, which I listened to with the utmost satisfaction, appeared to me the best argument that could be advanced in support of the principles and motion of my noble Friend, which he rose to oppose. I am happy to see that the field of discussion between us is exceedingly narrowed by the admissions which have been made by the right hon. Gentleman. In the first place, we find that the appalling distress which my noble Friend has stated to exist in large and important portions of the country, is in no degree denied by the right hon. Gentleman; that he makes no attempt whatever to palliate or weaken the fact and effect of the statement. If then, this be so, indeed; if these painful and heartrending facts be facts universally admitted by the House, as well as by those out of the House, it becomes a serious, an all-important, an unavoidable question, what course it behoves the representatives of the people to pursue under
 509 510 511 512 513 s s 514 515
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  said, he was quite ready to admit that there had been great irregularity in the transmission of the mails through the West India packets. The present scheme of routes carried into execution by the company was, however, a provisional scheme. In the mean time, the Admiralty and the Post-office were collecting as much information as they could on the subject, and he hoped they would speedily be able to introduce some improvement.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  said, that the point had never yet been raised. If the question ever should arise, the case would be submitted to the law officers of the Crown.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that his colleagues and himself were preparing an account of the investigation to be submitted to the Treasury; and when the result of the investigation was before the Treasury, it would be for the First Lord to decide when the report should be placed before the House.
 Lord Granville Somerset  thought it quite natural that the commissioners should in the first instance, have called for the evidence of the custom-house officers; but in no instance had they refused to examine any one who had expressed a willingness to be examined. It was the desire to receive the evidence of all such persons that had chiefly led to the delay that had taken place in preparing the report.
 Mr. Escott  did not dispute the propriety and the justice of compensating the innocent holders of Exchequer Bills, who had been exposed to loss by the culpability of others. But there was one point upon which this question was still placed before the House and the country in a very unsatisfactory light; and that unsatisfactory point was this—that the whole transaction was involved in mist and obscurity, so that no one knew whether to trust or to condemn a great public officer of the Crown. The House, in fact, was about to vote this large sura of money, without knowing who the really guilty parties were. It was right, however, that the innocent holders should be compensated, and he should, therefore, support the motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Colonel Sibthorp  maintained, in spite of what had just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. F. Baring), that it was manifest, upon the face of the report laid before Parliament, that one-third of the gross amount of the Exchequer Bills issued at the time that the frauds were in the course of execution, were signed by Lord Monteagle during non-attendance at his office.
 Mr. C. Wood  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet opposite, upon a subject which had of late excited a good deal of public attention—the subject of currency and banking. An impression seemed generally to prevail that some legislation would take place upon the matter in the course of the present Session; and he now wished merely to ask whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure during the present Session upon that subject?
 Mr. Turner  expressed his approbation of the course which the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) proposed to take.
 Mr. Bankes,  seeing the noble Lord in his place, wished him to inform the House when it might be expected that the report of the commission for inquiring into the customs frauds would be presented.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that it was the intention of the Government to issue 262,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  proceeded to say, that he rose in pursuance of the notice he had given at the close of the last Session of Parliament, that he should take the earliest opportunity of submitting to the House the views of the Government
 421 422 l 423 l l l 424 425 426 l l l 427 l l l 428 429 mala fides "That her Majesty be enabled to direct Exchequer Bills to an amount not exceeding 262,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  having moved the Order of the Day, that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider the report of the Committee on the forged Exchequer bills,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he really was unable to answer the hon. and learned Member as to that point. During the time the Comptroller had held his office he had had that reasonable leave of absence which every man in a public office did take during the summer months, but as to the practice existing before the appointment of the present Comptroller, he could not at all speak. At the same time he expressed no opinion at all as to whether the inference of the hon. and learned Gentlemen were correct or not.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would offer a few remarks in the way of reply to thevarious points that had been raised by different Members in the course of the discussion. He thought that the hon.
 440 441
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  That is admitted: but the time when the forgery was committed is quite another thing. The right hon. Gentleman then proceeded to say, that the hon. Member for Montrose seemed to think that there was some great mystery on the part of the Government with regard to this subject— that they were anxious for concealment. He could only say that no such wish for concealment existed, and with regard to the admission of Rapallo as evidence, that was done on the advice of those who conducted the case.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged pardon for interrupting the hon. Gentleman. He proposed by the bill to give power to the Crown to take measures for pursuing any property that might be available, in order to its recovery. He did not mean that it should be supposed that there would be any considerable amount available at the present moment, but he thought it quite right and proper, in asking a grant of this sort from the House, that the public should be in a capacity to assert its claim to any property which belonged to those who were the originators of the fraud, to which access could be procured.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The hon. and learned Gentleman has asked me a question which is a combination of a question of fact with a question of law. As I understand the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, it is whether the law does not require that—[Mr.  "Roebuck:
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  That question it is impossible for me to answer. When the forgeries took place I cannot possibly tell. When Beaumont Smith thought fit to attach the signature to those documents is perfectly unknown to me. I presume that it was generally done about the time of issuing Exchequer-bills, but as to that I have no evidence whatever.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question respecting the Comptroller of the Exchequer. It appeared that the Comptroller was appointed by the 4th and 5th of William 4th, and was appointed by letters patent, and there were these words in the Act of Parliament respecting his attendance at the office,—
 " And the letters patent shall continue in orce during good behaviour, subject to his
 438 " And the duties, powers, and authority, by this Act imposed on or vested in the Comptroller, shall and may, in the event of illness, or of occasional and necessary absence of the said Comptroller from the office, be executed by such assistant."
 Mr. Roebuck:  I must have made myself very badly understood by the right hon. Gentleman. The question I put to him was this,—whether or not the forgeries which took place did not take place during the absence of the Comptroller, which absence extended to some months?
 Mr. Roebuck  asked, if the right hon. Gentleman was aware whether or not the Comptroller of the Exchequer had been absent at any time for some months together?
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask a question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because he had stated that he had acted upon the report which had been laid before the House. His hon. Friend the Member for
 436 437 bond fide
 Mr. Hume  asked whether it were the intention of the Government to allow interest to those parties whose claims were to be admitted?—eighteen months interest would be due to them.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  asked whether the commission had examined or intended to examine any of the merchants connected with the city of London? He had understood that the examinations had chiefly been confined to persons connected with the Custom-house; whereas persons engaged in trade were much better qualified to afford valuable information on the subject.
 Mr. Greene  said, before the Speaker left the Chair, he hoped the House would allow him to offer some explanation relative to the practice he had adopted in committees last Session, and that which he intended in future to follow. It had been generally understood that, after the question upon any motion had been put, it was not competent to the Chairman to repeat that question, and that no party could vote upon a question unless he had heard the question so put. He had acted upon that understanding upon two occasions during the last Session; but he found that the propriety of the course he had taken had been called into question. He wished, at present, to give notice that, unless he were otherwise directed, it was his intention, after he had put the question in the first instance, to put it again as soon as the gallery was cleared, and to allow Members who might then be present to take part in the division.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  expressed a wish to have some information from the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government respecting the papers connected with Affghanistan. Did the right hon. Baronet think there was any prospect of his being able to bring on the motion for the vote of thanks on the day fixed for it?
 Sir Charles Napier  asked whether there could be any objection to submitting the question at once to the law officers? The uncertainty which at present prevailed on the subject might lead hereafter to considerable difficulties.
 Sir Charles Napier  wished to put a question to the Secretary of the Admiralty. Considerable doubts prevailed among naval officers of high rank whether commanders serving on board line-of-battle ships were qualified to sit on courts martial as commanding officers. He wished to know whether the opinion of the law officers of the Crown had ever been taken on the subject?
 Mr. F. T. Baring  would not detain the House by offering more than two or three words upon the course which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to pursue. Turning for a moment to the question which had been put by the hon. and learned Gentleman below him (Mr. Roebuck), he would beg to refer that hon. and learned Gentleman to some papers which would
 442 443
 Mr. F. Baring  had addressed his observation to the questions of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck), as to whether Lord Monteagle was in attendance or not—not the question of whether he was actually in his office or not.
 Sir James Duke  was anxious to make a single observation, and in making it he begged to be understood as throwing no imputation upon the class of gentlemen to whom the observation would apply. But he thought that the practice of official gentlemen associating themselves with mercantile speculations, which frequently exposed them to great loss, was much to be deprecated. Taking into account the general habits and education of these gentlemen, he was sure that the Government would only be doing them a kindness by laying down some rule to prevent such a practice. He was aware that Government could not prevent individuals from embarking their money in any speculation that they thought proper; but he thought that steps might be taken to prevent them from becoming directors, and openly associating themselves in a public capacity with joint-stock speculations, which commonly led to great loss and great embarrassment. He was induced to make this observation, and to throw out this suggestion to the Government, from the circumstance of Mr. Smith, the party in this instance convicted of the fraud, having stated to him in New gate, that his association with speculations of that nature was the first step towards his defalcation and appropriation of the public money.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he held in his hand the papers which it was his intention, in two minutes, to present to the House, in obedience to her Majesty's commands. He thought that the voluminous nature of the papers, and the important subjects that would be likely to occupy the House, during the present week, might make it difficult for hon. Members to find sufficient time to make themselves acquainted with the contents of the papers. Under these circumstances he thought it would be better to defer the motion for the vote of thanks; and he would, therefore, name Monday as the day on which he would bring it forward.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the treaty con-
 419
 Sir R. Peel  said, he believed that the present state of the law with respect to banking, so far at least as the Bank of England was concerned, was, that the charter of the Bank of England would not expire till the 1st of August, 1844; or rather that it would then be competent for the Government to give notice of an intention to introduce a change in the charter of the Bank. He was aware that they might legislate with reference to private and joint stock banks, but her Majesty's Government did not think there was any necessity for calling the attention of the Parliament to the subject during the present Session
 Sir T. E. Colebrooke  rose to ask the question of which he had given notice on Friday. By the last mail from India they had been informed of some coercive measures likely to be taken against the Ameers of Scinde. He was desirous of knowing what justification could be adduced for this interference, and whether the treaty concluded with the Ameers in 1839 was not still in force?
 Sir Thomas Wilde  did not know very distinctly to whom the observation of the hon. Gentleman, who had just spoken, applied; but he did know that there was nothing whatever in the case to which such an observation could be justly applicable. Where charges were made or implied against a public officer, he thought that it would be more just (although in this instance he was sure the hon. Gentleman did not intend anything unjust) to make those charges the subject of a separate and specific motion, rather than to introduce them incidentally upon an occasion like the present, when it was im-
 444 445 to bond, fide 446 bond, fide bond fide. bond fide bond fide bond fide 447 bond fide bond fide bond fide bond fide bond fide bond fide
 Lord Stanley : Under ordinary circumstances, Sir, I should have been unwilling, even on a notice-day, to interpose, on the part of the Government, with any motion that might have interfered with the progress of an adjourned debate; but understanding from the noble Lord who originated the debate, and from hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House, that there will be no objection to bringing forward, as a substantive motion, the vote of thanks to the officers and troops of the army engaged in the operations in China, and not anticipating that the motion will be likely to lead to any lengthened discussion, I will, with permission of the House, proceed to propose it. But first I must beg to move that so much of her Majesty's gracious Speech as referred to China be read. "The increased exertions which, by the liberality of Parliament, her Majesty was enabled to make for the termination of hostilities with China, have been eminently successful. The skill, valour, and discipline of the naval and military forces employed upon this service have been most conspicious, and have led to the conclusion of peace upon the terms proposed by her Majesty. Her Majesty rejoices in the prospect that, by the free access which will be opened to the principal marts of that populous and extensive empire, encouragement will be given to the commercial enterprise of her people." 548 549 "Partly surrounding the old fort of Anunghoy, and in advance of it to high water mark, was a new and well built battery of granite, forming a segment of about two-thirds of a circle: on it were mounted forty-two guns, some of them of immense weight and large calibre; several strong entrenchments extended to the southward of this battery, and the ridges of the hill were crowed with guns up to a camp calculated for about 1,200 men, and at the north side was a straight work of modern erection, mounting sixty heavy guns; about 150 yards of rocky beach intervenes between the end of this battery and the northern circular battery, on which forty guns were mounted; all the works were protected in the rear by a high wall, extending up to the hill, on which were steps or platforms, for firing musketry, and in the interior were magazines, bar racks, &c. On the east end of the island of North Wangtong is a battery with a double tier of guns, defending the passage on that side, and also partly flanking a number of rafts, constructed of large masses of timber, moored across the river about twelve feet apart, with two anchors each, connected by and supporting four parts of a chain cable, the ends of which were secured under masonry works—one on the South Wangtong, the other on Anunghoy. On the western end of North Wangtong is a strong battery of forty guns, flanked by a field work of seventeen; indeed, the whole island is one continued battery. On the extreme western side of the channel was a battery of twenty-two heavy guns and a field-work of seventeen, protecting an entrenched camp containing l,50o or 2,000 men." 550 551 Gazettes 552 "At about half-past nine o'clock, said the general, the advance was sounded, and it has seldom fallen to my lot to witness a more soldier like and steady advance, or a more animated attack. Every individual, native as well as European, steady and gallantly did his duty. The 18th and 49th were emulous which should first reach their appointed goals; but under the impulse of this feeling they did not lose sight of that discipline which could alone ensure success. The advance of the 37th Madras Native Infantry and Bengal Volunteers in support was equally praiseworthy. The result of this combined movement was, that the two forts were captured with comparatively small loss, and that, in little more than half an hour after the order to advance was given, the British troops looked down on Canton within 100 paces of its walls. The well-directed fire of the artillery in the centre was highly creditable, and did great execution. In co-operation with these attacks I witnessed with no ordinary gratification the noble rush of the brigade of seamen under their gallant leader, Captain Bourchier, exposed to a heavy fire from the whole of the north-western rampart. This right attack was equally successful, and here, also, the British standard proudly waved on the two western forts, while the British tars looked down upon the north-western face of the city and its suburbs" 553 554 "The enemy's defences were evidently of great strength, and the country by nature difficult of access. Every island, every projecting headland, from whence guns could bear upon the harbour, were occupied and strongly armed, commencing from the point of entrance into the inner harbour on the Amoy side; the principal sea line of defence, after a succession of batteries and bastions in front of the outer town, extended for upwards of a mile in one continuous battery of stone, with embrasures roofed by large slabs, thickly covered with clods of earth, so as to form a sort of casement, and afford perfect shelter to the men in working their guns. Between some of the embrasures were embankments to protect the masonry; and ninety-six guns were mounted in this work, which terminated in a castellated wall, connecting it with a range of precipitous rocky heights, that run nearly parallel to the beach, at a distance varying from a quarter to half a mile. Several smaller works were apparent at intervals amid the rocks. The entrance into the inner harbour is by a channel about 600 yards across, between Amoy and the island of Koo-lang-soo, upon which several strong batteries were visible, and some of these flanked the sea line and stone battery. It appeared expedient, therefore, to make a simultaneous attack on these two prominent lines of defenec" 555 556 "We found Chin-hae to be, I may almost say, one great arsenal, with a cannon foundry and gun-carriage manufactory in active operation on improved works, together with warlike stores of various descriptions. In a battery upon the river one of the carronades of the Kite was found with an excellent imitation alongside it, and many of the new Chinese brass guns are very efficient."
 Sir Hugh Gough  then proceeds to de-
 557 "It having been determined to push on with the least possible delay to Ningpo, Sir W. Parker proceeded on the 12th, in the Nemesis steamer, to ascertain the practicability of the river, and actually reached, without the slightest attempt at opposition, the bridge of boats which connects this city with the opposite suburb. Upon his returning in the evening, arrangements were made for the attack on the following morning, lest the enemy by his apparent submission, should intend to entrap us. Having left the 55th, with the exception of the light company, 100 of the Royal Marines, with detachments of artillery and sappers, in Chinhae, the rest of the force, about 750 bayonets, exclusive of the artillery and sappers, in steamers, by eight, a.m., on the 13th, and we reached Ningpo at three o'clock. No enemy appeared, and it was evident no ambuscade was intended, as the inhabitants densely thronged the bridge of boats, and collected in clusters along both banks. The troops landed on and near the bridge, and advanced to the city gate which we found barricaded, but the walls were soon escaladed, and the Chinese assisted in removing the obstructions and opening the gate. This little force of soldiers, seamen and marines drew up on the ramparts, the band of the 18th playing 'God save the Queen.' The second city of the province of Che-keang, the walls of which were five miles in circumference, with a population of 300,000 souls, has thus fallen into our hands. The people all appear desirous to throw themselves under British protection, saying publicly that their mandarins had deserted them, and their own soldiers are unable to protect them. I have assembled some of the most respectable and influential of the mercantile class that have remained, and have assured them of my anxiety to afford them all protection consistent with our instructions to press the Chinese government. Proclamations have been issued, calling upon the people to open their shops, which I have engaged shall not be molested. This they have done to some extent, and confidence appears to be increasing. It affords me very great satisfaction to be enabled to report to your Lordship that the orderly conduct of the troops calls for my warmest commendations, evincing the constant attention of the officers, and the true British feeling which exists in this little force." 558 "Her Majesty's sloops and the steam ves-
 559 "We have in vain endeavoured," said one, "to impress on the population that those barbarians are the thieves and robbers they have been described They feed the poor—they protect the helpless—they release their prisoners—they heal the wounded; in every case they put themselves forward as the protectors, not the enemies, of the people; and we, the military authorities, tell you, the Government, that against such conduct as this, and against troops so conducting themselves, we find the people lukewarm in our cause; and we cannot make head against an enemy who fights with such weapons." 560 561 562 563 Charles Napier 564 565
 Mr. Gaily Knight  said, that he certainly did not rise to reply to the noble Lord who had just sat down, for he was happy to find that, on this subject, the noble Lord coincided in opinion with himself, and he would, therefore, only take leave to compliment him on the candour with which he had come to that opinion, and on the courage with which he had avowed it. But he did rise, because he wished to make it clear, that if he refused to go into committee, it was not from any indifference to the distress and privations of the manufacturing towns—for, though he did belong to that class which the hon. Member for Stockport called "the
 597 598 599 600 601
 Mr. D'lsraeli  said, that the objection of he hon. Member for Sheffield against the isolated instance of prosperity, adduced in the case of Hartlepool, by his hon. Friend, the Member for Durham, was not very fair or very felicitous; for the hon. Member for Sheffield himself had argued throughout his whole speech from a particular instance, that of the town he represented. Moreover, it was the noble Lord who introduced the motion who had originated this style of argument, and his hon. Friend has only brought forward the instance of Hartlepool to explain and refute the case of Sunderland adduced by the noble Lord. The noble Lord had taken a "single captive," he had dwelt on the sufferings of Sunderland in minute detail, and as far as his general conclusions were founded on that particular instance, he (Mr. D'lsraeli) must say, that he thought the reply of his hon. Friend was not only fair and justifiable, but most appropriate and effective. It would, indeed, be an entire answer to the motion of the noble Lord, if that motion did not in fact, involve a much more comprehensive question, one which was not to be decided by any isolated case. He would not, on the present occasion, attempt to investigate the origin of the distress, the prevalence of which was now universally recognised. But he would observe, that that origin must be sought in no single cause, but in a complication of causes; some vast, some comparatively minute, but all, with a simultaneous action, even though unconnected together,
 616 617 618 619 620 621 622 droit d'aubaine l l 623 624 625 626 627 628 terra firma
 Mr. B. Hope  rose, and spoke amidst cries of "Adjourn," and "Go on," but little of what the hon. Member said was heard in the Gallery. A more unnecessary or futile motion he said than that made by
 634
 Lord Worsley  understood the hon. Member who had just sat down to imply that the motion to be decided that night, was not to be considered solely on the grounds on which it was brought forward by the noble Lord below him, but also as a vote of confidence or of no confidence in her Majesty's Government. He thought, that if the hon. Gentleman had recollected the terms on which hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House were returned, that they were sent to oppose a ministry which had proposed an alteration in the Corn-laws; and if he now appealed to the country, he would find that there was not the same confidence in her Majesty's present Ministers which the agricultural party held at the last election. He believed, that the agriculturists had not the same confidence as the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down in the right hon. Baronet. He believed, that what the
 595 596
 Mr. Liddell  said, that it would be difficult to make out from the speech of the hon. Member, who had just addressed the House, any argument in support of the present motion. It appeared to him, that the
 587 588 589 l nil; 590 l l l 591 592 l l l l l l l 593 594
 Mr. Hawes  thought the statement of the right hon. Baronet extremely satisfactory. All three of the subjects to which he had adverted were of the utmost importance to the metropolis. After the statement which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman, he hoped that the hon. Member for Lymington (Mr. Mackinnon) would inform the House what course he proposed to take. He (Mr. Hawes) had a strong objection to the measure proposed by the hon. Gentleman, although it was not his intention to oppose the introduction of it; but after the declaration made by the right hon. Baronet that the subject was immediately under the consideration of Government, and that it would probably be in his power, before the Session ended, to introduce a bill upon it, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press his own measure to a second reading, until some further progress had been made in the inquiry which her Majesty's Government had instituted.
 Mr. Bickam Escott  would not oppose the introduction of the bill; but at the same time he could not help doubting whether his hon. Friend had read the evidence given before the committee, upon whose report he supposed the bill was founded.
 Mr. Ross : Sir, I have many good reasons for wishing to sit a silent listener to the end of this debate. But as I perceive no one from my side of the channel has yet risen, and as I know that the deep and painful interest excited through all parts of the country is no where more keenly felt than in that great, and till lately thriving and advancing community which I have the honour to represent, I consider it my duty to request the attention of the House. I know I have cast away one of my best chances of obtaining a favourable hearing by the few words extorted from me on Saturday. Perhaps, however, the House will be so generous as to let those few words go for nothing; and in return for the indulgence I bespeak at its hands, I promise not to tax its patience unreasonably. Sir, I consider the motion of the noble Lord proper and necessary. Objections have been raised against its form as quite too vague and indefinite. I apprehend the noble Lord would find it impossible so to shape his motion as to make it acceptable to Gentlemen opposite. If instead of a general demand for enquiry he had put forward a series of remedial propositions, then hon. Gentlemen would have warned the House against the dangers of embarking in such a wide sea of troubles. I wish I could agree with the hon. Member for Shrewsbury in thinking that this country is likely to attain to a greater height of commercial prosperity than it has yet reached; I am sure that if we persevere in our present system his predictions will not be verified. The same hon. Gentleman claims for himself and his friends the credit of free-trade principles, and charges us with obstructing the progress of their enlightened principles. Nay, he traces all this mischievous opposition to the Reform Bill. Now I grant the Re-
 629 Laughter 630 s s 631 "Exiit ad cœlum ramis felicibus arbos, Miraturque novas frondes et non sua poma." ߞ"The primal curse Was softened into mercy, made the pledge Of cheerful days and nights without a groan." 632 633
 Dr. Bowring : I move the adjournment of this debate.
 Mr. Hardy  wished to know what was the earliest date at which any complaints were made by the French government relative to the detention of French vessels by our cruisers?
 Mr. Hardy 
 546
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that in consequence of the motion for a vote of thanks to Lord Ellenborough having been postponed from Thursday next to the following Monday, it would be impossible for him to bring forward his motion upon the subject of the Affghan war on the day he had appointed; and as other engagements would prevent his attendance in the House on the day fixed, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet to postpone his motion for a vote of thanks till the Friday following.
 Mr. Hume  concurred in the motion, but wished for an explanation why Sir Henry Pottinger was not included in the vote? The evils at the beginning of the war had arisen from the want of such an able director. He had been glad to observe the cordial feeling that had subsisted between the army and the navy.
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the hon. Member for Lymington as to the necessity of adopting some measure of this kind. The subject, however, was necessarily one of so much detail and of so much complication as to render it next to impossible for an individual Member to frame and carry such a measure as the great importance of the subject demanded. He should be glad, therefore, to see it undertaken by the Government. He was satisfied, that if some measure of this kind was adopted, and some general regulations laid down to secure a more perfect drainage and a better plan of building, London would become one of the healthiest places in the world.
 Mr. W. Gladstone  said, that he used the term generally, as applied to the Corn-laws and to all commercial laws.
 Mr. Ewart  rose and expressed his approbation of the motion which the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, had brought under discussion. He considered the noble Lord justified in making the motion by the condition, feelings, and sufferings of the people. If he went further than the noble Lord, and broached doctrines which the noble Lord might not be prepared to support, he begged the House to believe, that he should do so from the sincerest conviction of their soundness. He hoped he should be considered guilty of no discourtesy towards the hon. Member for Knaresborough, if he did not dwell on the arguments contained in the speech with which that hon. Member closed the debate of last night. The hon. Gentleman's main arguments were directed against machinery and free-trade. Considering that her Majesty's Government, to their great credit, were the advocates equally of machinery and the extension of free-trade, he should leave the hon. Member to be answered by his own friends, by their conduct and principles. He (Mr. Ewart) had heard with mingled feelings of satisfaction and surprise the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade. It was a speech of mingled tendency. All the principles of the speech were in favour of free-trade, while all its parentheses were in favour of protection. What did the right hon. Gentleman say on the subject of the Corn-laws? He did not deny that they were a source of evil; while on the subject of the importation of cattle he was equally inconsistent. The right hon. Gentleman consoled, on the one hand, the country gentlemen by assuring them that the importation of cattle had been exceedingly small, while on the other hand, he consoled the people by telling them that he was sorry he could not hope for the im-
 579 580 581 582 entrepôt 583 584 l l 585 Burn's Commercial Glance 586 terra firma
 Mr. Mackinnon , in moving for leave to bring in a bill to improve the health of towns, by preventing interments within their precincts, promised not to detain the House by many observations. It was his anxious desire, that this bill should have been taken up by her Majesty's Government; but as the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, did not appear willing to undertake it, he (Mr. Mackinnon) felt it to be his duty to proceed with the measure which he had proposed. When he first introduced the subject to the attention of Parliament; it was received with a levity which it did not deserve. Opinion, however, had since changed upon the subject; the public prints had taken it up; the evils of the existing system had been fully exhibited and strongly deprecated, and it was now perfectly impossible that that system could be allowed to continue. It had been as-
 575
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, that after the representations which had been made to him from almost every quarter, of the injurious effects that resulted from the present system of interments, he should feel it to be his duty to proceed with his bill. He had been appealed to by many hon. Friends to postpone his bill, in order that the Government measure might be brought forward. If by postponing it he could think that he should be accelerating the measure of Government, he would willingly adopt that course; but, believing that by urging his own bill forward there would be a greater chance of stimulating the right
 577
 Sir C. Napier  agreed with the noble Lord who had just sat down as to the clearness with which the noble Mover had brought forward the whole matter, and he felt he should not do his duty if he did not bear testimony to the gallant conduct, not only of Sir W. Parker and the naval officers, but of the military officers likewise. He had been accustomed to go up rivers, and storm batteries; and he knew what it
 571
 Sir G. Staunton  said, that whatever might be the opinion of any person of the original policy and justice of the war; and he was perfectly satisfied both of the abstract justice and practical expediency of our operations in China, it was impossible not to entertain peculiar satisfaction at its brilliant result. It was a great consolation to consider that whatever temporary suffering the Chinese might have experienced, yet the ultimate consequences of the war would be more beneficial to them than to this country. It would, moreover, be the first step towards introducing Christianity into that great empire. He must further express his regret that the name of Sir H. Pottinger could now be included in the present vote of thanks. He was sure, however, that if it could have been done that distinguished officer would have received the unanimous thanks of the House.
 Mr. Ward  understood the right hon. Gentleman used the term merely as applied to the Corn-law of last year, and if he had mistaken him, he had done so in common with the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, and who had thought it necessary to affix his own interpretation to the term. The language, however, of the right hon. Gentleman was altogether so diluted that even when he
 611 612 613 614 615
 Mr. Ward  was of opinion that the hon. Member who had just sat down had entirely confounded cause with effect. The hon. Member had spoken of the Anti-Corn-law League as one of the causes of the depression of the industry of the country. It was nothing of the kind. The League, instead of being the cause of the distress, was the consequence of it. Its
 602 603 felo de se 604 l s 605 s d l l l l l l s d l s l "SEPT. 6th.—Average price of wheat, 52 s d l l "OCT. 5th.—Sheffield Poorhouse: Inmates, 536; casual poor, 467 l l Report of bettering society: Since the year 1837, there has been manifestly a most disasterous turn in trade, and manufactures here, not the consequence of a sudden shock from violent, and temporary derangement,
 606 l s s l s l l "The period comprised in the report which the directors have now to lay before you has been one, as you all know, of continued commercial embarrassment and depression." "In presenting the Seventh annual report of the affairs of the bank, the directors have again to deplore the continuance of commercial depression and embarrassment in every branch of trade." 607 "I have not at this moment a single tenant who is not in arrears with his rent—some two, others three half years, and I believe this to be the general condition of the town." "I am sorry to say that the affairs of this town are worse and worse, and no appearance of improvement. The distress is intense, and increasing. The sums raised for the relief of the poor are, 1840, 26,000 l l l l 
 
 SHEFFIELD UNION, CONTAINING TOWNSHIPS OF SHEFFIELD, ATTERCLIFFE, AND BRIGHTSIDE, AND THE PARISH OF HANDSWORTH:ߞ 
 1843. Jan. 7. Jan. 14. Jan. 21. Jan. 28 Feb. 4. 
 £ £ £ £ £ 
 Payments to casual poor 505 509 492 498 486 
 Number of able bodied 1,274 1,295 1,297 1,362 1,331 l l 
 
 ECCLESALL UNION, CONTAINING TOWNSHIPS OF ECCLESALL, UPPER AND NETHER HALLAM, NORTON, HEAUCHIEF, AND DORE. 
 Out Payments. In Paupers. 
 1843. Same wk. of 1842, last qr. 1843. Same wk. of 1842. 
 Jan. 7 £134 80 420 259 
 14 136 88 420 261 
 21 143 83 435 356 
 28 166 93 434 263 
 Feb.4 141 93 444 276 608 "Increasing misery, increasing pauperism, increasing crime, with decreasing employment, decreasing capital, decreasing hope, and, above all, decreasing religion and morality; and the industrious classes see not merely their domestic comforts and respectability annihilated, but their power to purchase the commonest articles of food or clothing destroyed. s "This they prefer to parish relief, and to the wretchedness of wandering over the roads and streets with a broom or rake, with empty bellies, in storms and cold, and what is even worse to the sensitive and once independent mind of a skilled mechanic who has lived in comfort and respectability for 26 or 30 years, the degradation which they actually feel when forced to stoop to parish relief." 609 "These two trades are generally supplied by the sons of respectable families from country districts, well educated, and who give premiums with them. Of fifteen young men, who have just served their time, three are partially employed, four are upon the parish, and eight have returned to their parents or friends. Of fifty-one who have come of age in the last two years, only seven are partially employed—the rest are living either upon the parish or their friends. There are ten other trades still supporting their own poor, 1,000 families, averaging four in each, subsisting upon 1 s d 610
 Sir J. Graham  admitted the great importance of the three subjects to which the hon. Member for Montrose had alluded. It was, undoubtedly, desirable to prevent interments in cities, to secure a perfect drainage, and to improve the mode of building. Each and all of these subjects were under the consideration of her Majesty's Government. With respect to interments in cities, careful inquiries were now in progress. All the appliances which the Government could command were directed to obtain information upon the subject, and although they were not as yet prepared with any measure sufficiently mature in details to command the consideration of the House, he did not entirely despair of being able, before the Session terminated, to bring forward some proposition upon the subject. Not being prepared to do so at the present moment, it would be unbecoming in him to offer any opposition to the introduction of the measure proposed by the hon. Member for Lymington. At the same time he was bound to say, that if the measure of this year resembled that which his hon. Friend introduced towards the close of the last Session, he could not hold out the prospect that he should feel it consistent with his duty to give it his support. With respect to
 576
 Mr. M. Phillips  had received communications from the town he represented (Manchester) hostile to the measure which the hon. Member introduced last year, and as the present bill appeared to be quite similar to the former one, he apprehended that the same objections would be urged against it.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that, without entering into the question of the origin of the war, he concurred with the noble Lord who seconded the motion in thanking Heaven that we had been so long at peace, and he would add that he thanked God that the wars in which we had been recently engaged, had been brought to an end. But while by the present motion they thus acknowledged the obligation which they felt to be due to the human instruments of success, they ought, as Christian legislators, also to express their gratitude to that great source from which all blessings were derived. Although he would not yield to any one in his sense of services rendered by the army and navy,
 572
 Sir R. Peel : The unanimous disposition of the House to express their commendation of the zeal, energy, and gallantry, as well of the officers in command as of every man concerned in these operations, induces me to say, that I most cordially concur in all those expressions of admiration which I have heard. With respect to Sir Henry Pottinger, I think that the opportunity which I took on a former occasion of publicly acknowledging the sense entertained by the Government of the services of that distinguished man, must exempt the Government from the suspicion of wishing to throw any slight upon him. I then took the opportunity of stating, that nothing could exceed the zeal, discretion, and forbearance of Sir Henry Pottinger. And now, when others concerned in the same expedition are to receive a mark of public gratitude, I should be sorry to allow the opportunity to pass without repeating the sentiments I then expressed. I wish it had been consistent with usage to have included the name of Sir Henry Pottinger in the vote; but at the same time I think it of great importance to adhere in these matters strictly to precedent; because if we did not do so—if we did not strictly adhere to those precedents, which I think have been founded upon good sense, every omission that we happened to make in a vote of this nature would imply a censure. We avoid the risk of such an implication by adhering to the established usage. If
 573 574
 Sir R Peel  was very sorry if by delaying the motion for a vote of thanks, he had interfered prejudicially with the motion of which the hon. and learned Gentleman had given notice. Nothing was further from his intention than so to interfere. He had fixed his motion for Monday next, because (and in noticing the fact, he hoped he was not transgressing the usages of Parliament) that they had been fixed for a similar motion in the other House of Parliament. The papers took a longer time printing than was expected, and on bringing them up yesterday, and finding that they consisted of nearly 500 pages, he felt that he was conforming with the general sense of the House by reluctantly consenting to postpone his motion till Monday. With respect to the motion itself, he, referring to precedents, should confine the vote of thanks strictly to military operations. He could not now bring the motion forward at an earlier period, consistently with the usages of the House, than Monday. He could not conceive why it should override the motion of the
 578
 Sir W. Clay  approved of the object of the measure, but was of opinion that his hon. Friend would act more wisely by postponing it until the Government bill should be brought forward, than by pressing it to a further stage.
 Viscount Palmerston  said that no complaint had ever arisen till a very short period before he and his late Colleagues quitted office. The complaint that then arose originated in no detention, in consequence of the conventions in question, but in consequence of the detention of a vessel in our own waters, on the coast of the Gambia, the detention arising out of a violation of our own municipal laws. He might, therefore, say that no complaint whatever, founded on the execu-
 547
 Viscount Palmerston : Concerned as I have been, said the noble Lord, with those transactions which form the subject of the motion of the noble Lord, the House will not be surprised that I should be anxious to second the motion which the noble Lord has just submitted to the House, and to express my most cordial and hearty concurrence in the vote which he has proposed. In doing so, Sir, I shall follow the example so properly set by the noble Lord, by abstaining from anything that could by possibility disturb the unanimity which I trust will prevail in the House, on the present moment, by infusing into the discussion the slightest alloy of party feeling. Of course, Sir, the House must feel that we upon this side of the House, who are peculiarly responsible for the operations, the triumphant termination of which this House is now commemorating, must feel no ordinary gratification at the success which has been achieved;
 566 567 568 569 570 "That the thanks of this House be given to Lieutenant-general Sir Hugh Gough, G.C.B., Vice-Admiral Sir W. Parker, G.C.B., and Commodore Sir Gordon Bremer, K.C.B., for the distinguished skill, intrepidity, and indefatigable zeal, with which they have conducted the combined operations of her Majesty's naval and military forces on the coast and on the inland waters of China; whereby a series of brilliant and unvaried successes has been concluded by an honourable peace on the terms proposed by her Majesty. "That the thanks of this House be given to Major-general Lord Saltoun, K.C.B., Major-general George Burrell, C.B., Major-general Sir Robert Bartley, K.C.B., Major-general Sir James Holmes Schoedde, K.C.B., and the other officers of the navy, army, and Royal Marines, including those in the service of the East-India Company, both European and native, for the energy, ability, and gallantry with which they have executed the various services which they have been called upon to perform. "That this House doth acknowledge and highly approve of the gallantry, discipline, and uniform good conduct displayed by the petty officers, non-commissioned officers, and men of the navy, army, and Royal Marines, including the troops in the service of the East-India Company's service, both European and native; the cordial good feeling which has subsistsd between all the branches of the united services; and the honourable emulation exhibited by all in the discharge of the various duties required by the peculiar naure of the operations to be performed; and that the same be communicated to them by the commanders of the several ships and corps, who are respectively desired to thank them for their gallant behaviour."
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that as soon as the late Government came into office in 1830, proposals were made to the French government for a treaty granting to each country reciprocal powers of search, with a view to the prevention of the slave-trade. The convention of 1831 was concluded in consequence, and in that convention was recorded the general principle agreed upon by the two Governments. There were other details, however, including, among other matters, instructions to cruisers, which had not been regulated by the first convention. The convention of 1833 became necessary in consequence of these omissions, but that convention was essentially a part and continuation of the former, the general principles of which it sought to carry out more completely. He felt bound to say, in justice to the French government and to the French ambassador then accredited to the British court, that it was impossible any government or any ambassador could have entered with more readiness or more philanthropy into the negotiation. It was the honourable desire of both governments to concur in the most effectual means to obtain the suppression of the slave-trade.
 Mr. Steel,  manager of the Clyde Shipping Company, states that such is the depression with them, that only about the one-half of their vessels are at present employed.
 "Glasgow Distress— Jan. 21, 1843. The parish officers are busy in the suburban districts, examining and transferring vagrants to their respective parishes. Glancing at a long list of cases lying before us, in which every necessary particular is stated, we find a goodly number from Ireland, but the majority belongs to this country, their ages varying from nine years to ninety-two; again, in hovels situated in closes and winds, the distress reached such an alarming height that, in the absence of all other public aid to prevent death from starvation, the directors of the Night Asylum, with a generosity worthy of imitation, have come forward and supplied four hundred daily rations of bread and soup to the most necessitous
 655 656 
 
 1839 15,445 vessels 2,158,691 tons. 
 1840 15,998 vessels 2,445,708 tons 
 1841 16,108 vessels 2,425,461 tons 
 1842 16,450 vessels 2,423,519 tons "In 1839,1840,1841, the building in Liverpool was considerable; in 1842, few vessels were built; and at present there are not more than three upon the stocks. North American vessels, which were sold in 1840 10 l s l .l s l s l "On the 16th of December, 1842, 22,868 tons of shipping were on sale in the docks at Liverpool. The statement made is undoubtedly underrated, as it only contains the ships actually on the market for sale at that time. Could owners get anything like cost prices, the number of ships offered for sale would be greatly increased. The number was fifty-three ships, which gave the above number of tons." "The whole of the past year has been one of severe loss and disappointment to the shipowner. Freights, both in the East Indies and America, have been depressed below all previous experience, and the utmost difficulty has been found in procuring employment for vessels on even saving terms, while seeking ships have, in most cases, sunk money. That under such circumstances, the sales of ships have been few, and at rates far below their cost; and that many not actually broomed for sale have lain idle in dock for months together, is only what might naturally be expected. The news from China gave slight impulse to the demand for vessels, and a few sales were effected, and higher prices asked, but I believe not obtained, and this slight relief appears to be passing away." 657 Morning Chronicle, Morning Chronicle, Member Morning Chronicle, 658
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, that he should have abstained from taking any share in the debate, feeling how completely every topic and statement that could bear on the question had been exhausted, but he should not have wished to have his silence construed into any doubt of the existence of the distress which had been so often described. He should be sorry, representing as he did a large portion of the population who were suffering from the existence of that distress, to allow any inference to be drawn that he did not concur in the statements that had been made. At the same time, he would not have it thought that he was in any degree afraid of meeting the question raised as to the cause of that distress. But if he had had no other reason for presenting himself to the House, he should have done so to remark on the speech of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. Till that speech was made, he must say, in justice to hon. Gentlemen opposite, the debate had maintained a tone at once creditable to the speakers, and worthy of the great and important subject they were now called on to discuss. But the hon. and learned Gentleman had thought fit. to adopt a different tone; he had imitated the inflammatory language so common out of doors; he had pointed to Gentlemen on that side of the House as being actuated by selfish motives, and had told them they were revelling in luxury at the expense of people who were pining in distress. He took upon himself, in the name of the Gentlemen by whom he was surrounded, to reject and deny those imputations. The hon. and learned Member might talk of the diatribes of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, but he should be glad to know whether the hon. and learned Member had not been more inflammatory in his language. The hon. Gentleman had recited to them a most melancholy series of cases of distress and suffering; and he did not mean to dispute the extent and intensity of the national distress; but when the hon. Gentleman went so far as to tell them that he believed the Corn-laws were daily causing the deaths of hundreds of our fellow-creatures, he should say to the hon.
 647 648 649 l l l l 650
 Lord Eliot  said that if notice had been given him that such a question would be asked, he would have prepared himself to return a more distinct answer; but he believed he might take it upon himself to state that there was no foundation at all for the statement referred to. Nothing like an official communication had ever been addressed, on the subject, to any of the gentlemen mentioned in the newspaper paragraph which he had seen.
 Lord Eliot  said, that whatever alteration might have taken place, there was no foundation for the statement that that alteration was made in reference to the ball alluded to.
 Mr. Escott  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had truly stated that the question for the House to consider was, how, as the Representatives of the people of England, they were to find work, employment and remunerative labour for the distressed portion of the population. But had any hon. Member stated how by adopting the motion of the noble Lord, they were to find remunerative labour for the people or one particle of relief for their distress? If he thought that such would be the effect of the motion he would scorn party on such a question, and support it. The existence of some distress was admitted on both sides of the House. He agreed with the noble Lord that the distress ought to be remedied; but he had listened in vain to the noble Lord and those who followed him, for the proposal of any practical remedy for that distress. The noble Lord disclaimed party motives in bringing forward this motion, but when he saw that one possessed of the great ability of the noble Lord, brought forward a motion of this kind, without offering any practical remedy, one was compelled to look about him not for the motives but for the reasons of the noble Lord in making his motion. They were told that, if they refused this motion, it would be a refusal to inquire into the distress of the country. He would tell the noble Lord before he sat down why they refused this inquiry, and he wished the country to know what was the real question before them. The real question before them was, whether they would consent to go into a discussion of the question of the Corn-laws, with the Speaker in the Chair, or with the Chairman of the committees of Ways and Means. That was this mighty question propounded to the House by the noble Lord for the relief of the people. It was not for a select committee to inquire into particular distress. The noble Lord very plausibly staled, that the object of his motion was inquiry, and that it would be time enough to propose a remedy when they entered on the inquiry. But if the noble Lord had not a party object in bringing forward his motion, it was
 659 l 660 661 662 663 664
 Mr. C. Wood  expressed his surprise that, after the admissions and statements which had been made by several hon. Member in proof of the general nature of the distress, two hon. Gentlemen, the Members for the county of Durham, and Shrewsbury, should have ventured to assert that it was but local. If the motion of his noble Friend rested merely upon local distress, he (Mr. C Wood) would agree at once that there were no sufficient grounds for it; but the admission on both sides of the House, offered a convincing proof that the distress was general as well as most severe. It had been already admitted to exist in Sheffield, in Nottingham, in Ireland, in Scotland, and in the West Riding of Yorkshire, and all doubt on the subject was dissipated by the statements which had been made on the subject. In fact, the distress was more general and more severe than had ever been remembered by the oldest inhabitants of the country. In Leeds, for instance, the capital of the domestic woollen cloth manufacture, it appeared that the distress of the people had more than trebled in the short space of two years. This was shown by the number of paupers relieved in that township on each of these periods. There were relieved in 1840, 3,400 persons; 1841, 7,300; 1842, 14,800. In the adjoining township of Holbeck, the poor-rates were doubled within the same period of three years. For instance, they were in 1840, 1,900 l l l l 665 l l l s l 666 667 668 l l 669 670 s d s d s d 671 672 l 673 s d s d s s s 674 675
 Mr. Grattan  said there had certainly been an alteration in the tine fixed for the Munster circuit.
 Mr. Grattan  said, seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland had taken his seat, he was very anxious to put a question to him on a subject of the utmost importance connected with the administration of justice in that country, A report had got abroad, and was pretty generally believed, that the time for commencing the circuits had been altered, after having been once fixed, some of them four days, and one even so much as a week. The reason given for such an extraordinary occurrence was a very strange one; it was said that a grand ball was to be given by a well-known establishment in Dublin, and that it was found that the time fixed for it and the time for commencing the circuits were so near as materially to threaten the enjoyments of the bar. It was said, in fact, that the time for holding
 635
 Dr. Bowring,  seeing the right hon. Baronet had just entered the House, hoped he would allow him (Dr. Bowring) to put the question of which he had given notice whether the Government had received any official account of the murder of Colonel Stoddart and Mr. Conolly at Bokhara?
 Dr. Bowring  said, that before he referred to the general subject of the debate, he felt himself called upon shortly to refer to another personal attack directed against him by the hon. Member for Knares-borough, who had indulged in a series of personalities, attacks more remarkable for jactancy than good sense, and rather exhibited the wish than the power to wound. The hon. Member appeared to have elected himself to the office of a kind of general inquisitor or common accuser, and he (Dr. Bowring) should therefore have thought himself at liberty not to refer to the attack to which he had been himself exposed, were it not for his anxiety to set himself right with the House. The hon. Member for Knaresborough, who certainly wanted no industry in hunting out with the busiest assiduity whatever was likely to give piquancy to his diatribes, had paid him the compliment of alluding to a speech delivered by him (Dr. Bowring) many years ago on the subject of the handloom weavers. His object was then to show that it was in the mysterious destinies of man to have misery treading closely upon the march of civilization—and that some evil invariably marked the progress of good. It was in the stern necessity of our mortal lot that no great advance could be made in knowledge or in virtue but at the cost of suffering. Did not the establishment of Christianity overthrow hosts of heathen priests and temples and those who depended upon them? Did not the Reformation throw thousands and thousands who lived on the bounty of monks and convents upon the public charity? Did not the invention of printing embarrass and distress multitudes of scribes who lost their employment? Who could follow the consequences of the application of the steam engine, without tracing crowds of impoverished labourers in its immediate neighbourhood. Have not railways directly and for a time alarmingly interfered with other means of communication? Nay! justice itself—an active and a wholesome police attacks many interests, and will be regarded with distrust and alarm by those whom it disquiets. The speech probably dwelt no longer in the memory of the House; but in that speech he had stated that the
 637 s 638 s d 639 640 s l s s d l s l l l l l l s s d l s d l 641 642 s d d d d d d 643 644 645 "The larger our ability to take the products of China, the larger will be the capability of the Chinese to buy our manufactures. If it be an object to give employment to our starving population at home no better plan could be devised than to equalize the tea duties and admit the sugars of China as those of India, at the low duty. Were not China sugars in effect prohibited in England, we are assured they would be largely sent as returns for cotton manufactures. In several of the northern ports they could be cheaply and abundantly supplied as returns, but our merchants are debarred from taking them, and hence the Chinese there cannot become purchasers; and what would be an important outlet for our manufactures is effectually closed by our suicidal policy. We understand that the beautifully refined and highly saccharine sugars of Chinchew could be regularly deliverable in London at or under  id. d s s d d d 646
 Mr. Wallace  conceived that the real question before the House was the deep unmitigated distress, not of one class only, but of all the trading and manufacturing classes of the community. He would not be led away from the consideration of that question by embarking in any discussion of the Corn-laws. Since the 1st of July last, when he brought forward a motion similar to that now under the consideration of the House, the distress of the country had considerably increased, and was still increasing. Nearly the whole mass of the community, in the great manufacturing
 651 652 l l l " Wages generally have declined: male cotton spinners, who in 1840 were receiving on an average 1 l s d s d s d s d s d s s l l l l 653 l l l "I have on several occasions had to speak of people who are in this prison, not as offenders undergoing imprisonment, but either as persons whose periods of confinement having expired, had applied for permission to remain until they had earned money enough to buy clothing, or till they could procure employment, or who, being in a state of destitution, had applied for admission. Except those engaged in washing and cooking, and a few others, these prisoners are placed in separate cells, like ordinary prisoners, and all of them receive the same plain food—are expected to perform the same quantity of work, and to rise at the same early hour as the other prisoners, and, in short, are subjected to the same discipline, including, of course, the total loss of personal freedom. Nevertheless, owing to the present state of distress, there are at present no fewer than fifty such prisoners, consisting almost entirely of females, and there would probably be more if there were room for more." "The fact that a considerable number of persons are found willing to place themselves under the severe discipline of a prison, argues a state of want and privation in a portion of the community, calling loudly for inquiry." 654 d 
 
 COALS. 
 1841. Exports 193,619 tons. 
 1842. Exports 163,777 
 Decrease 29,842 
 PIG IRON. 
 1841. Exports 89,489 tons, 
 1842. Exports 78,314 
 Decrease 11,175 
 CORN AND FLOUR. 
 1841. Imports 92,684 
 1842. Imports 66,298 
 Decrease 26,386 
 COTTON. 
 1841. Imports 19,150 bales. 
 1842. Imports 11,188 
 Decrease 7,962
 Mr. Wallace  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had, doubtless, from his being misunderstood, misrepresented his words. He had distinctly stated, that if the Government would give him an assurance that they would institute an inquiry, he would vote against the motion of the noble Lord. As they had given him no such assurance he should certainly vote for it.
 Sir James Graham : Sir, I listened with great pleasure and attention to the admirable speech addressed to the House by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Winchester, and I was more particularly struck with the latter portion of it, in which my hon. and learned Friend appealed with earnestness to the opposite side of the House for a clear and distinct statement of what is the real object of the motion we are now discussing. When, therefore, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax rose to address the House, I thought that if there was any Member in it, next to the noble Lord himself who introduced the motion, who was most certain to give a full and satisfactory explanation of its object, it was the hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax. But though I have listened to the hon. Gentleman's
 676 677 Howich: 678 " Drags its slow length along," 679 l l l l l 680 Member: s. 5s. 681 682 "Employment continues to increase here, but very gradually, and the tranquillity of the town continues undisturbed. For each of the three weeks ending the 7th current the numbers upon our relief list stood at 9,678, 8,88.5, and 8,031, showing a decrease in each of 558, 793, and 854 persons." "Our measures for procuring employment from Glasgow have done good; and I understand that all our first class weavers, or nearly all, are now engaged." 683 C. Wood: C. Wood: 684 Howick: 685 s s 686 d d d 687 Member 688 689 "The capital employed in agriculture not only puts into motion a greater quantity of productive labour than any equal capital employed in manufactures, but that in proportion to the quantity of productive labour which it employed, it added a much greater value to the annual produce of the land and labour of the country, to the real wealth and revenue of its inhabitants. Of all the ways," he says, "in which a capital can be employed it is by far the most advantageous to society." Wallace: "In years of average abundance the united kingdom produces a quantity of corn nearly sufficient for home consumption. In such years the importation of a large quantity of foreign
 690 691 M. Gibson M. Gibson: " A population dependent, in so great a degree as that of Great Britain, on the wages of manufacturing labour, is especially liable to be seriously influenced, and to have its interests deeply compromised, not merely by the occurrence of scarcities and pecuniary derangements at home, but also by whatever may affect the sale of its products in those foreign countries to which they are largely exported. It is not to be denied that a large population so situated is in a very perilous position. And yet, critical as is the present condition of society from the vast increase of manufacturing labourers, it would really seem as if we had done little more than enter on this new and hazardous career. At present, notwithstanding the vicissitudes and revulsions that occasionally recur, manufuctures are ex-
 692 "At present, however, nothing of this sort can be thought of. Whether for good or for evil, we are now too far advanced to think of retreating. But if we be right in the previous statements, it will appear that the beneficial influence of manufactures depends in a great degree on their being subordinate, in point of extent, to agriculture and other more stable businesses; and there is much reason to fear that their influence is of a decidedly less salutary description when they constitute the paramount interest." "The tampering world is subject to this curse, They physic their disease into a worse." 693 694
 Sir R. Peel  said that the latest accounts the Government had received on the subject to which the hon. Gentleman had called the attention of the House, were contained in a dispatch from Colonel Sheil, dated Teheran, the 12th of November. In that despatch Colonel Sheil stated several grounds that made it almost impossible to draw any other conclusion than that Colonel Stoddart and Mr. Conolly had been murdered by the Ameer of Bokhara. There was to the despatch a postscript dated the 23rd, in which Colonel Sheil said, that he had seen an Affghan gentleman, commonly called Koomsedda, who had been formerly attached to Mr. Conolly, and who had arrived direct from Bokhara. The information brought by this person confirmed the report of the murder. All the interest that the representative of the Emperor of Russia possessed was exercised to save Colonel Stoddart and Mr. Conolly, but in vain. He feared there was every reason to believe that the report was but too well founded.
 Lord Stanley  could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that the smile to which he had adverted was caused, not by what the right hon. Gentleman stated, but by the length into which the right hon. Gentleman thought it necessary to enter in putting a question on this subject. He was ready to give the answer required. The only reason why he had abstained from entering into any detail on this subject on a former occasion was, because he conceived the papers in the hands of hon. Gentlemen furnished the best answer. But if the right hon. Gentleman asked for a distinct statement of the intentions and views of her Majesty's Government on the subject, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would allow him to answer the question at as much length as that at which the question had been put. He might remind the House, that as the law now stood, the produce of the United States was exported into Canada free of duty, and there converted into flour, and that it had been imported for many years into this country as colonial produce, and at colonial duties. The effect of that was, that this American or foreign corn was imported in its most convenient form, namely, that of flour, at a maximum duty of 5 s d 702 bonâ fide
 Mr. T. Duncombe  begged to ask if any inquiry had been instituted into the circumstances attending the loss of the two transport ships, Abercrombie Robinson and Waterloo, in Table Bay, at the Cape of Good Hope, during the last year. One of these was a convict ship, the whole of the crew of which, as well as the soldiers
 703
 Captain Gordon  believed that certain inquiries had been made regarding he melancholy occurrence to which the hon. Gentleman referred. The convict ship alluded to stood on Lloyd's list in the first class. On the occasion in question, both ships had driven from their anchors, and been blown on shore in a heavy gale of wind. One ship went to pieces in a very short time, while the other certainly held together for a considerably longer time. One went on shore at the top of high water, the other at low water; one end on, the other broadside on. These were very important points of difference; and though both ships had been equally sea-worthy, one of them would have gone to pieces much sooner than the other. Since that time a new system of surveying had been originated by the Admiralty for all ships to be taken up as transport or convict ships, by which the whole of the inner part of the ship's framework would be laid open, and the surveyor would be enabled, if necessary, to remove the whole of the planking.
 Captain Pechell  suggested the propriety of admitting evidence before the hon. Member's committee, as to the necessity of forming breakwaters in the various harbours on the coast, for which a variety of plans had been suggested, and as to the best species of breakwater.
 Mr. Gladstone  begged to set the hon. Member right. He had argued, that it was perfectly possible that measures might rest on arguments, all of which might be good for the time, although some of them might be permanent, and some of them temporary.
 Mr. Cochrane  said, that although it was not in his power to support the motion of the noble Lord the Member for Sunder-
 716 717 mole ruit suá 718 719 s s s s s s 720 721 Ista quidem sententia quœ neque amicos parat neque inimicos, tollit. s s
 Mr. Villiers  said, that the speech which they had just heard from the hon. Member for Bridport convinced him, as other
 722 723 724 725 l 726 727 728 729
 Mr. Muntz  did not approve of the present motion, it was not straightforward and English enough for him. Whilst it bore upon the face of it an inquiry into the distresses of the country, the details changed that face, for the noble Lord who moved it, repudiated all distress except that caused by the Corn-laws. But as it bore upon the face of it an inquiry into the distress of the country, and as he knew how much that distress had increased, he felt that he would not be doing his duty to his constituents and to the country if he did not take some part in the debate, and eventually vote for the motion.
 733 734 s s s d s s d 735 Richard "Now is the winter of our discontent Made glorious summer by this  Tamworth And all the clouds that lowered upon our house In the deep bosom of the ocean buried."
 Mr. G. W. Wood  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet whether the report of Mr. Horner would be laid before the House before the close of the present debate, on the motion of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had listened with great attention to the speeches which had been delivered during the progress of this lengthy debate, and he had found great difficulty in discovering either for what special object the motion of the noble Lord had been made, or what course hon. Members opposite intended to pursue in the event of the House agreeing to the formation of a committee to inquire into the present state of the country. He had paid great attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Baring) who had contributed so much that evening to their amusement, but he was still at a loss to conceive what useful object was contemplated by the motion of the noble Lord. The right hon. Gentleman commenced his Speech by alluding to the form of the motion. He expressed his wish not to speak in terms of disparagement of the forms of the House, for those best conversant with Parliamentary proceedings knew that forms
 760 s s 761 762
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies—namely, whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government, to propose to the House to alter the duty now levied on corn imported from Canada into this country, during the present Session of Parliament? Under ordinary circumstances he should not think himself justified in putting that question, nor would he require the noble Lord to give any answer to it; but, as the noble Lord must be aware that the despatch which had been sent out to the Legislature of Canada, and the acts of that Legislature founded upon that despatch, had raised expectations that it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to make some speedy alterations in this matter, a state of suspense was created in the Canadian trade, which produced considerable difficulties and embarassments. The noble Lord, he perceived, smiled at the statement, but he could assure the noble Lord that he was not making the
 701
 Dr. Bowring  explained, that what he had said was, that the Corn-law League, by its moral influence, would do more than those who overthrew, the Bastille had been able to accomplish with physical force.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that with the permission of the House, he would put a question to the hon. Member for Knaresborough. He understood that hon. Members had written to an individual in Glamorganshire, urging him to get up two petitions against the truck system, and urging him to obtain information whether a Member of the House of Commons was not, at present, sharing in the profits of the truck shop, in connection with some iron works in that county. He understood that he was the Member referred to, and he was, therefore, desirous of asking the hon. Member for Knares-borough whether the accounts that had reached him were true?
 Dr. Bowring  said, the hon. Member had been quite misinformed. The payments at the works in question were all made in the shape of checks on a banker. There was formerly a shop connected with the works, and he believed the shop had been a great blessing to the people employed; but immediately he became connected with the establishment, he directed that the shop should be done away with, that the law might not be evaded either directly or indirectly.
 Mr. Colquhoun  said that the hon. Member who had just sat down had favoured the House with an impressive warning against the heats of party, and the strife of debate; and he thought that, in the latter respect, at least, the hon. Gentleman was, at least, free from blame, for, although the debate had now reached the fourth night of its continuance, the hon. Gentle man had seen or heard little of what had been said, and had, as it appeared to him, much misconceived many of the arguments which had been adduced. The hon. Member could not have heard the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. C. Wood) per form the duty of commentator upon the text of his noble relative the Member for Sunderland; for the hon. Member who had just sat down urged that an inquiry was necessary in order to derive a remedy from the concentrated and accumulated wisdom of the House. The hon. Gentle man, as well as all the other hon. Members who addressed the House from the opposite side, dwelt on the state of distress, but none of them seemed to agree as to the best mode of removing that distress. A great many suggestions had been made, but hardly two Members recommended the same remedy. The hon. Member for Dumfries has proposed to get rid of the excise and customs, with the view of alleviating the distress. [Mr.  Ewart tendens adsidera palmas 745 746 747 l l l 748
 Mr. Hardy  rose to move for
 "A copy of any complaints made by the French Government to the Government of this country relating to the detention or search of any French vessels on suspicion of being concerned in carrying on the slave-trade." 704 "One word to our fellow-countrymen. We are numerous, brave, rich, and powerful, but we must acknowledge that England has over us a great advantage. It is not in the treasures of her industry, which to-morrow may be dissipated—it is not her inexpugnable position on the waves, for to-morrow an internal explosion may put an end to her greatness—it is not her wooden walls, of which she is so proud, for in a few hours, without the aid of our canon, the winds of heaven might disperse them in all directions; but it is in that real and living power which consists, and is to be found in the humble prayer which is every day lifted up for her to the throne of God by those on whom she has conferred the blessing of liberty."
 Mr. P. M. Stewart:  In a war of words that explanation might serve, but whether the measure were temporary, or the argument were temporary, he maintained that the vice of the present Corn-laws was as great as that which had preceded it. This was made manifest by the heavy importation of nearly 2,000,000 quarters of wheat just as our farmers were securing the late abundant harvest, and the explanations attempted by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, on this point, were, in the minds of all practical men, utterly unsound and untenable. With regard to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman upon the subject of the shipping interests, the right hon. Gentleman had said, that the distresses of those interests proceeded from the cessation of emigration to Australia. He begged the right hon. Gentleman to hold to this view of the question, and to consider whether, in the present state of the population of this country, and of the acknowledged want of population in our colonies, there was not a vast field presented wherein, by a good and sound system of emigration, much might be done towards relieving the distresses of our people at home, and towards contributing to the strength and power of our colonial possessions. The right hon. Gentleman had also spoken of the hostility of tariffs as an argument against further legislation in the direction of free-trade. Whether the right hon. Gentleman had seen an article which had appeared in the  Foreign and Colonial Re- 742 view "Without anticipating experience, but while awaiting its instructions, we rest for the present in the confident belief that England, with courage and consistency, will succeed, and that ere long, in imparting to other nations much of the tone of her own commercial legislation; and that, in despite of her burthens and disadvantages, she will maintain her commercial position among the nations of the world, provided only she can also maintain, or rather also elevate, the moral and spiritual life of her own children, within her borders. It is in the creature man, such as God has made him in this island, that the moving cause of our commercial pre-eminence is to be found," "How ineffectual are all our efforts to preserve the morals of a people, if the laws which regulate the political order, doom the one-half of mankind to indigence, and the other half to be the slaves of all the follies and vices which result from the insolence of rank and the selfishness of opulence. Suppose for a moment that the inordinate accumulation of wealth in the hands of individuals, which we everywhere meet with in modern Europe, were gradually diminished by abolishing the law of entails, and by establishing a perfect freedom of in-
 743 744
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  thought it had been admitted that there was at the presen moment an unprecedented degree of distress: there was but one exception, which was in the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Home Secretary, last night, when he attempted to explain away some of the statements of that distress. He had eminently failed in doing so, and remembering a similar attempt made eighteen months ago, when petitions of distress were presented, he (Mr. Stewart) was surprised that the right hon. Secretary should again have ventured on such a course. The national interests were in a state of the most complete prostration, our ships were decaying in our harbours, our manufactures were deteriorating in our warehouses, and our people, though willing to work, were stalking about in idleness and poverty, in the midst of the bounties of nature. With such a state of things
 739 "I agree in the existence of that general distress which the noble Lord had so fully and feelingly described, and which is the basis of this motion; I agree also in the remedy pointed out by the noble Lord—namely, the extension of the means for the employment of labour; but my objection is, that the noble Lord has not stated any specific remedy for the evils which undoubtedly exist, and on this ground I oppose the motion as being indefinite and useless." 740 741
 Mr. Borthwick  said, because on the one hand he would not refuse his support to any party in this House who moved so much as one step towards the amelioration of the condition of the people, and because on the other he would be equally cautious to avoid any mere appearance which, however, it might secure popularity", must leave the evil worse than unhealed—he had ventured even at that late stage of the debate to ask permission to explain the vote he would feel it his duty to give. He had listened with unmixed attention to every sentence uttered on both sides of the House on this important question, and he observed that whatever might he the opinions of successive speakers—and they were as various as their complexions, as to the causes of the distress, as to the distress it self, their reigned the most melancholy unanimity. The admission of the Ministers increased the pain. The noble Lord who commenced the debate, had divided his speech into two propositions—first, that great distress existed, and secondly, that the Legislature might find a remedy for that distress. If the noble Lord had intended to propose any measure for the relief of the distress, and moved for a committee of the whole House, in order to enable him to propose it, surely he ought to have given the House some hint as to the nature of the measure he intended to propose. If, however, he had no measure to propose, then the motion of the noble Lord was tantamount to asking that House to transfer their confidence from those who now conducted the Government to the noble Lord and his friends, and looking back to the events of the last ten years during which the noble Lord's friends had held the reins of power, he certainly was not prepared to give them such confidence. If they went on making change
 707 708 l l l l 709 710 711 l
 Mr. Milner Gibson:  If in consequence of a bankruptcy a mill were sold, and passed into the hands of a new person, would the right hon. Baronet call that new person a new mill?
 Mr. Milner Gibson  seeing the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, was desirous to obtain from him some explanation of a statement made by him last night. The right hon.
 699
 Mr. Milner Gibson  was not satisfied with the explanation. It was sometimes necessary that an explanation should be explained. Was he to understand under the expression "new mills" new constructions, or was he merely to understand concerns that had changed hands? If a man sold his mill, and a new tenant came into possession, was that mill a new mill?
 Mr. Ewart  (in explanation) said, that he had been accused by the hon. Member (Mr. Colquhoun) of using treasonable language against those venerable institutions, the Boards of Customs and Excise. What he really said was this—that the extension of the principles of Free-trade, combined with the increase of foreign competition, would ultimately have the effect of turning taxation, from articles now paying Customs' and Excise duties, towards accumulated capital; or, in other words of commuting indirect, for more direct, taxation; and he had shown that this opinion had passed through the mind of Mr. Huskisson in the last year of his life, and been expressed by him in the last speech which he had delivered.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, that a few days ago, he had received a letter from a gentleman residing near the iron works alluded to, who stated that the truck system was carried on there in the same cruel and oppressive way as last year, and inquired whether he had not a right to make the matter a subject of a petition to Parliament. He said, that Dr. Bowring, a Member of the House of Commons, was one of those who were profiting by the system. He (Mr. Ferrand) had written in reply to the Gentleman in question, that he would have a perfect right to petition Parliament on the subject, if he could show that a Member was profiting by a truck shop.
 Sir Charles Napier  feared, that after a debate of four nights it would not be in his power to add much to what had been already said, or to offer anything that
 712 l
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that a good deal of the discussion hitherto had turned, more than he should have thought it possible, on the form of the motion; and he would, therefore, say a few words on that point, before he proceeded to comment upon the substance of that motion, and the arguments which had been brought forward respecting it. As he understood the motion, it arose from this circumstance, that her Majesty having been advised by her Ministers, in her Speech from the Throne, to refer in distinct terms to the great distress prevalent throughout the country, the Government had declared that it was not prepared to propose any measure in consequence of that distress. His noble Friend, being of opinion that there were measures which the Government might and ought to propose, which might meet and mitigate that distress, with the view of calling on the House for its opinion on that subject, had taken the regular and constitutional course of proposing to refer the declaration made by her Majesty to a committee of the House. His noble Friend had not shrunk from stating the opinion he held. He had stated, too, the remedy which he proposed; he declared over and over again his firm conviction that it was a mitigation of the restrictions in our commercial code to which we had to look for a remedy for the distress; and it was this view and this opinion that his noble Friend had in the fairest and frankest manner put before the country, and he was, therefore, much surprised at the mode in which it had been met; no, he was not surprised at it—not by any means, for a long experience of the proceedings of hon. Gentle-
 750 "That, in any reduction of the burthens of
 751 "He protested that he was in no way animated by a desire to oppose the Government." 752 753 754 R. Peel: Stanley Stanley 755 756 757 758 759
 Captain Pechell  rose to put the question
 700
 Sir James Graham:  I can answer this question with greater ease than any of the preceding ones. I should certainly not call a person entering on a new concern a new mill.
 Sir James Graham  had hoped the debate would have closed this evening; but if it was to be continued in the spirit in which it had hitherto proceeded, it might be carried over to the end of next week. In that case, he could promise the House they should be in possession of Mr. Horner's report before the close of the debate.
 [Sir J. Graham:  I was speaking of the cotton
 713 J. Graham l l l 714 715 s s s
 Sir James Graham  certainly thought that a new mill generally meant a new construction, but the expression as used by Mr. Horner, appeared to include mills that had formerly been out of employment.
 Sir James Graham  said, although the hon. Gentleman had given him no notice of the question, he was prepared to answer it. He had used the precise expression contained in Mr. Horner's report, which referred to mills that had been out of employ, or working short time.
 Sir John Hanmer  objected to the motion, on account of its entire want of practical character; because in terms it proposed a vote of censure on the Government, which intention in his speech the noble Lord was most anxious to disclaim; and it was evident that neither he nor any of his friends were prepared with a course of action, in the event (which it was, however, impossible to anticipate) of his motion being carried. Still he did not wish to give his vole against the motion, under the present circumstances of the country, without expressing his opinion that much good might proceed from legislative as well as from administrative measures. He was aware of the difficulty which had been found in the adjustment of foreign treaties, and of the reserve which it was proper for the Government to maintain up to a certain point regarding them. Yet it was too much that this country should be baffled year after year in those affairs, and that the policy of a
 736 737 738
 Sir R. Peel  wished that the House would consent to leave the matter in the hands of the Government. He was perfectly ready to admit that the complaints had been very few indeed; in two cases a decision had been given, but in three
 706
 Sir R. Peel  hoped his hon. Friend would not press for the production of these papers; if he did, he was sure it would not be consistent with his public duty to vote for the motion. The ma-
 705
 Sir Robert Peel  trusted that the hon. and gallant Member would not hold him responsible for all the delays that had taken place in these matters. Where there were two parties to a negotiation, a settlement could not take place without the consent of both. He had before given the hon. and gallant Officer all the information he possessed at the time. He had now every reason to hope that the fisheries regulations were adjusted, as far as the commissions were concerned, and that the draft of the treaty was in that state that it would shortly be submitted for the approbation of the Governments, and, of course, he had a confident hope that these regulations would very shortly be submitted for approval to the two Governments. When they had been approved of it was highly probable that an act of Parliament would be necessary. On that point he reserved himself for the present; but if an act of Parliament should not be necessary, the regulations themselves would be laid before the House with the least possible delay.
 Viscount Palmerston  admitted the force of the right hon. Baronet's reasoning; but if he understood the object of the motion, it was to show that there had been very few cases of complaint, and none on strong grounds. He would just throw out, for the consideration of the right hon. Baronet, whether the motion might not be modified into a return of the number of complaints up to a certain date. Whether that would answer the purpose he could not tell, but, as far as his recollection served him, at the time he left office there had not been any complaints—he was sure there could have been very few. He did not recollect any complaints specifically arising out of the conventions of 1831 and 1833. The hon. Member might move for the number of complaints which had been made up to the end of 1841. A return of that sort would, he apprehended, have the effect rather of altogether removing, than of increasing the irritation that existed.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that it appeared to him that the whole question was, in what way should they give the greatest amount of employment to every class of labour? The hon. Member who had just sat down seemed to imagine that, by adopting the principles of free-trade, they could gain a great amount of foreign trade without any sacrifice of any trade which we at present possessed. To decrease the price of production was obviously to diminish the remuneration of labour, and the Vice-president of the Board of Trade had truly stated, that it well deserved the consideration of the House whether they should not sacrifice a great deal of the employment, that was given to labour at home by exposing our agriculturists, without any protection, to a competition with countries differently circumstanced. They should consider whether, in endeavouring to gain those advantages, they did not sacrifice more than an equivalent by sacrificing one trade to another. The home trade was a certain trade, and though the foreign trade was one which it was important to encourage, yet it should be
 730 731 732
 Mr. V. Smith  said, that he was desirous of asking a question of the right hon. Baronet relative to the papers on Affghanistan. The right hon. Baronet was probably aware that there appeared among those papers only two despatches from General M'Caskill bearing on the capture of Istalif. He (Mr. V. Smith) was desirous of knowing whether her Majesty's Government were in possession of other information, or whether they could take it on their own responsibility to say what foundation there was for a report of cruelties said to have been committed on that occasion by our troops? The report had been directly alluded to in the Indian papers. There was nothing in General M'Caskill's despatches either to confirm or contradict the report. The statements in the Indian papers, said to have been given by a high witness, was to the effect that not a single person had escaped, either with or without arms. He should be glad if the right hon. Baronet had it his power to contradict the report.
 Mr. V. Smith  had thought, that every one must have heard of the statement. It appeared in the Indian papers, and was copied into all the London papers. It was there stated that the women and children were saved, which, however, would be but poor mercy if their fathers and husbands had all been put to the sword. The noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had also referred to the report the other night.
 Lord Stanley  in anything he might have said a few evenings ago, had had no intention to refer to any such report as was now alluded to. He had stated that, in one or two cases, excesses had been committed; but he had spoken generally, and without allusion to any particular case.
 Mr. Attwood  said, he should regret if the debate closed without his expressing briefly the reasons which would decide his conduct on the occasion of a motion which brought under the consideration of the House that most important question, the present condition of the country. He viewed with those painful feelings common to every man, the distress of the people, and partook of those sentiments of apprehension as to the result which were felt by every sober-minded and considerate person in the country; but if any one circumstance more than another alarmed him, and caused him almost to despair of the country, it was to observe the manner in which this subject had been treated in this House. He heard, neither from those entrusted with the powers of Government on one side of this House. nor from the Benches opposite, where sat the Gentlemen who held recently the powers of Government, any satisfactory or consistent exposition of the causes which had reduced the country to its present state; nor were any measures proposed on either side, of permanent remedy, or even of temporary relief. The course taken by the Members of the Administration who had spoken would be viewed with dissatisfaction by the country. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department had spoken with that power which belonged to him, but his speech had disappointed him, and would disappoint the expectations of the people. In a
 795 796 l l l l l 797 l s d 798 799 800 801 802
 Lord J. Russell : I can assure the House, that if I had the disposition to address it at any length at this, the close of the debate, an impediment would pre-
 870 871 872 873 874 875 876 877 s s s 878 879
 Lord F. Egerton , said at that late hour of the night he should endeavour to compress into the smallest possible space any observations he might deem it his duty to make. He was satisfied, whatever the object of the noble Lord might be in bringing forward this motion—for there had been some dispute and difference of opinion as to that object—that the noble Lord himself would be the last to take advantage of his motion, and impute to any Gentleman who differed from him on that (the Conservative) side of the House that that difference arose from want of sympathy for the prevailing distress, which all acknowledged and lamented. They had been told, indeed, and by those who, he thought, had stamped this motion with a very party character, that they were supporting a Government which had deranged every thing and supported nothing. He thought that reproach came not with a good grace from those of the late Government who, whatever might have been the character of their policy, it must be admitted (he did not presume to say from want of ability or public virtue), had left such an account to be settled as it was rather hard to expect, after their having been ten years in office, that their successors, be they whom they might—the angel Gabriel, Sir Robert Peel, or any other being, should settle. With regard to one part of the speech of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, with regard to our transactions with foreign nations, he (Lord
 822 823 a priori, 824 Manchester Guardian l usque ad nauseam. [Cheers.] 825 s 826 827
 Lord H. Vane  felt great unwillingness, after so protracted a debate, to solicit the indulgence of the House; but he felt himself obliged to express his reluctant dissent from the motion of his noble Friend—it was with reluctance he did so, because he concurred in many of the views of the
 787 788 789
 Sir A. L. Hay  considered it his duty to say a few words in explanation of the vote he was about to give. It appeared to him that a more extraordinary debate than that which was now going on on the noble Lord's motion, had never taken place in that House. Had he not been acquainted with the relative position of parties, had he not known that the noble Lord was now in Opposition, he should have thought that the noble Lord was, as a Member of the Government, proposing a motion to carry out the wishes expressed in the Speech from the Throne. It had been alleged that this was a motion brought forward for mere party purposes, but he trusted that a British House of Commons would not so treat a question which concerned the state of the country. No man who knew the relative strength of the parties, and the great majority possessed by the present Government in both Houses, could, for a moment, suppose that the noble Lord, in bringing forward this motion, had the slightest intention or hope of overthrowing the Government. Was such a charge then fair, when the only object of the noble Lord was the relief of the national distress? He, for one, did not support the motion with any party view, his object was to get the Government to inquire into the present unparalleled distress, and, if possible, to find a remedy. He could declare, that in the northern part of the island, from which he came, there was the greatest distress even among the agricultural population, and there was a general impression among the farmers, that it would be better to have the Corn-laws repealed at once, as they would be certain of the permanency of that arrangement. It might be asserted that this was a party motion, but the people would see through such sophistry. They would see that there were still some men in that House willing to redress their grievances. It was not necessary that he should trouble the House at much length after the incomparable speech made on the previous evening by the right hon. Member for Ports mouth. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had promised not to alter the Corn-law during the present Session. Did he mean to wait until the completion of the collection of the most odious tax ever levied on the people of England? He did hope that before the conclusion of the debate they should hear something more satisfactory from the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government.
 771
 Captain Layard  said, he had long been anxious to speak, but he had not until now been able to catch the Speaker's eye, whose brilliancy regulated the volubility of hon. Members. The hon. Member for Evesham had made a speech in favour of a protective duty, though he admitted that the principle of a free exchange was the principle on which mankind had always acted, and the hon. Gentleman had brought forward the example of Adam and Eve, in the garden of Eden, making an exchange of a rose. But he would not have risen at all were it not for the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, who brought forward opinions and facts which would do more for free-trade than any other speech he had heard. That speech had convinced him. The right hon. Gentleman had said that the present law was only "temporary," though he had afterwards endeavoured to explain away the word. [Mr.  Gladstone 772
 The Speaker  interrupted the hon. Member, and informed him, that he would not be in order if he read any letter referring to a speech made by an hon. Member in that House.
 The Speaker  here interposed, and intimated to the hon. Gentleman that he was overstepping the rule of Order when he extended his observations beyond what was strictly necessary for explanation.
 The Speaker : I must inform the hon. Member that he has no right to address the House but for the purpose of explanation.
 The Speaker : I have already stated to the hon. Member, that he cannot make any observations but in explanation of something that he said.
 The Speaker : I think the hon. Member has exceeded the proper limits of an explanation. The hon. Gentleman will, I am sure, perceive that I cannot permit him to reply to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Bath.
 The Speaker : I am sure that whatever the hon. Member for Stockport may have to say in justification of his conduct, the House will be ready to hear; and if he will confine himself to such observations, I am sure the House will hear him. If the hon. Member goes into a general reply in answer to the Speech of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, I feel it to be my duty to stop him.
 Mr. Bankes : Sir, after the length of this debate, I shall not detain the House, and I should not have risen now had I not been so unfortunate as not to catch your eye, when I rose immediately after the hon. Member for Stockport. It may, perhaps, be supposed that some of those emissaries which were to be got ready to send to Bath, to displace the hon. and learned Member from his seat, may be some of the same parties, as the hon. Member for Stockport informs me, have been sent into Dorsetshire by that same Anti-Corn-law League to examine the property belonging to me, and the condition of the labourers upon it. How long those emissaries may have been on my property, or in my neighbourhood, the hon. Member did not inform the House. I have been absent from that part of the country for some few weeks, and if those emissaries have been there so long, it may be that the condition of that neighbourhood is in the state which has been described by the hon. Member. With their tracts and their pamphlets sent over the hills and through the valleys, and pushed into the doors and the windows of the cottages, I cannot tell what effect they may have produced, and that they might rapidly produce an effect of that nature must be sufficiently evident after what the House has witnessed this night. I have only boldly and simply to state, that the assertions of the hon. Member, as to that part of the country, are not warranted by fact. That the condition of the labourers there is not such as I could wish, I have already admitted in this House; and I then stated, that whatever was the cause, whether or not it was in consequence of that alteration in the Corn-laws and the tariff which was made in conformity with the views of hon. Gentlemen opposite, it is unquestionably true that the state of the peasantry there is much worse now than it was this time last year. The hon. Member has been pleased to make me out as the decided enemy of the Anti-Corn-law League: that designation I am willing to adopt. But I tell the hon. Member that any endeavour I may use, or any speech which I have made—and some speech of mine has unhappily excited his irritation—will not have the effect of damaging the Anti-Corn-law League so much as his speech this night has done.
 Mr. Darby  did not think any practical good could possibly arise from acceding to this motion, and therefore, instead of showing sympathy with a suffering people,
 781 782 783 784 785 [Cheers.] 786
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was his intention that interest should be paid to the holders of the bills from the time at which the last payment of interest had been made. But there must be a settlement in each individual case. Some persons had received these bills in deposit, and had paid no premium on them, so, of course, the amount of premium at the time the bills were received must be deducted in all such cases from the arrears of interest due.
 Mr. Kemble  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer to explain what course the Government intended to take with respect to the payment of the interest on the forged Exchequer-bills?
 Mr. Roebuck : At this time of night I am not about to make a speech, but to ask the House to give me the opportunity of making an explanation on the part of a person not now present. It refers to a remarkable expression on the part of the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Cobden), applied to a noble Friend of mine in another place. He said that he did not believe a certain report, but that if he could do so, he should consider it, I think he said, the result of mania. I was wrong in the words I imputed to him. He said that he should consider it a maniacal display; but I am somewhat startled when I come to make even an explanation on this point from a very remarkable circumstance which happened to myself previous to this debate. The hon. Member for Stockport addressed me personally as a friend of the noble Lord to whom he alluded, and he made use of the same expressions, I afterwards took the liberty of applying to him to know if he were about to offer any remarks upon an observation which had been made in another place; because, if he were, I should be here to give the requisite explanation. His answer to me was, "I would advise you not to have anything to do with him—not to mix yourself up with him—for if you do, the Corn-law League will go down to Bath and turn you out." I feel nothing but contempt for any attempt of that description, and very little respect for the
 881 "Being a friend of Corn-law reform, I would beg and entreat the Corn-law League to separate themselves as soon as possible from those imprudent persons." Morning Chronicle. Chronicle Quarterly Review. Quarterly Review 882 "There were several operatives who refused to communicate to him the history of their sufferings; they told him they knew his intentions were charitable, but as they thought his energies were made with a view to petitioning Parliament, they refused to enter into any disclosures. 'It was not words,' they said, 'would move Parliament, but force they should have if they did not change their system!' That was, no doubt, violent language; but it was not the oppressed, but the oppressors, that would be answerable for the consequences of the excitement created by the sufferings endured under our present legislation. 'He heard of a Gentleman, 'a gentleman! 'who in private company said, that if one hundred persons cast lots, and the lot should fall upon him, he would take the lot to deprive Sir Robert Peel of life. He felt convinced that no such attempt ought to be made under any pretence whatever; but he was persuaded of this, that when he (Sir Robert Peel) went to his grave, there would be but few to shed one tear over it.'"
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that the distress which had existed for two or three years past still continued to an alarming extent; and, being convinced of this, he should support the motion, not from any party feeling, but from a sincere desire that the people should be relieved from the evils they experienced. He could state from his own knowledge, that all classes of traders were suffering to a great extent; the merchant, the manufacturer, the ship owner, were all going in a downward course. Letters he had received within these two days from merchants and manufacturers stated, that they thought things were growing worse, and that the distress was becoming more and more prevalent. He had in his hand a statement relative to the borough of Salford, taken from returns made by the Poor-law guardians, from which it appeared that in the Salford Union, in the quarter ending December, 1839, there were 2,181 persons relieved; in 1840, 2,239; in 1841, 2,380; in 1842, 4,230; and he was told that since these returns had been made in January last, there had been an increase of numbers. The poor-rates levied in Salford in 1836, amounted to 7,079 l l l l l l l l 790 l l l 791 792 s s 793 s. l [Hear.] 794
 Mr. Hume : Surely when an hon. Gentleman whose conduct has been brought before the House, states to that House that he has not been fairly represented, he cannot be prevented from entering into an explanation. I understand the hon. Member to be about to state what did take place, to remote any undue impression which may have arisen.
 Mr. Hume : I beg to move that this House do now adjourn.
 Mr. Cobden : I should not have alluded to the conversation about the Sabbath Bill, but that it was essential to the explanation which I was about to offer.  [Cries of "
 Mr. Cobden : I will confine myself strictly to what I consider necessary to an explanation of what passed between the hon. and learned Gentleman and myself. When I alluded to the Sabbath Bill, and drew his attention to the fact, that in opposing that bill the hon. and learned Member had drawn upon him the hostility of the dissenting minister, I then stated, "If you justify Lord Brougham in this attack on the ministers who attend the conference of the Anti-Corn-law League, you will get into trouble at Bath, and you will be considered the opponent of that body, and you will have your Anti-Corn-law tea parties, and some Members of the League visiting Bath." Now, I come to the head" and front of my offending," that I menaced the hon. Member for Bath. I deny it. The spirit of my remarks was in strict friendship. I wish the House to understand that the hon. and learned Member threatened no attack on me in this House.
 886
 Mr. Cobden  again rose and said, I wish, Sir, to give an explanation in consequence
 884 [Cries of
 Mr. Cobden : As such is the rule of the
 880
 Mr. Cobden  again rose [amid cries of "Order."] I had no intention of offering any explanation until I had given the right hon. Baronet an opportunity of giving an explicit explanation of what he said. ["Order,"  and confusion.]
 Mr. Cobden : We have heard much objection made to the form of the motion; we have heard it charged as being a party motion. Now, Sir, I can at all events say, it is not a party motion as far as I am concerned; I was absent from town when it was put on the books. I am no party man in this matter, at all events; and if I have any objection to the motion it is this, that whereas it is a motion to inquire into the manufacturing distress of the country, it should have been a motion to inquire into manufacturing and agricultural distress. If the motion had been so framed, we should not have had the words manufactures and agriculture bandied between the two sides of the House, but we should have had the Gentlemen on the other side of the House put in their proper position as defendants, to justify the operation of the law as it affects their own immediate interests. I ask you, are the agricultural districts of the country in such a state now, that you are entitled to say that this law—for this has been made a Corn-law debate—that this law, which injures the manufacturers, has benefited the agriculturists? There is the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, one of the most clamorous assailants of the Anti-Corn-law League, he will probably speak on this question—there is plenty of time—the debate may be adjourned if necessary—and when he speaks he can
 828 s s. s 829 s "If there be more farmers than farms, then will not the competition amongst us for your farms raise the rent of the land? and will there not be a proportionate value of the pro duce to whatever value you may give it in your acts of Parliament." "If there were more farms than farmers, and if you raised the value of your produce, you would be bidding against each other for farmers, and then I could understand how the farmers could get some benefit in the shape of extra profit, for you would be compelled to pay him better for cultivating your farms." 830 l l 831 832 833 [Cheers.] 834 835 836 A laugh.] l s s 837 838 839
 Mr. Cobden : I rise to explain, being in the most extraordinary position in which any Member was ever placed. When the right hon. Baronet at the commencement of his speech assumed that I had referred to him personally, I thought that the word "personally" was used in the ordinary sense of personally offensive to him. I had not the least suspicion of any other meaning being attached to what the right hon. Baronet said. After I sat down, I heard an interpretation put upon his language which I shall not now particularise, and the remarks of the noble Lord the Member for London (for which I thank him), have given such a definite form to the insinuations of the right hon. Baronet, that I rise not for the purpose of offering any explanation ["Order"] beyond that which I gave. ["Order."]
 Mr. Cobden  rose and said: I did not say that I held the right hon. Gentleman personally responsible—[ shouts of cries of Robert Peel: much confusion] from the Ministerial Benches].
 Mr. Mangles : I rise to order. I appeal to the justice of the House whether the hon. Member ought not to be heard. A grievous charge has been brought against him, and if it is a matter of indulgence—if it is a little against the rules of the House—I think that it is only fair that he should, in explanation of his conduct, be allowed to show that which he says actually occurred.
 Mr. Gibson : It was the October report which he had read  [cheers]. J. Graham: 810 "1. A continued deterioration in the character of our exports, viz., more twist or yarn in proportion to woven goods, and this yarn itself going largely in an early stage of warp or cop, ready for the loom, instead of reeled and bundled as formerly, thus saving one English operation, and an additional duty has just been laid on this by the German League, to bring it equal in price to the bundled. 2. A further deterioration in the character of the woven goods exported, viz., a diminution of all kinds but grey calicos, which is only one stage removed from the yarn. 3. Almost cessation in the export of handloom goods, in which Switzerland and Germany beat us at open market in every country. 4. In yarn the whole export shows an increase of 19,000,000 lbs. In goods some diminution of yards, but in value a reduction of 2,500,000, or 14,000,000 in the eleven months, up to December, 1842, (January not yet made up). 5. Out of 350 millions of pounds spun last year, only forty-eight millions, or one-seventh, remains for home consumption and stock." 811 "That whether foreign countries reduce their duties on our exports or not, we will reduce our duties on imports, if it be for the benefit of this country." 812 "Convince me that America and other foreign countries will take British goods in exchange for their corn, and I will make a surrender of the Corn-laws, but I will not on a speculation—that export will follow import run the risk of displacing the agricultural labourer from his present employment." 813 Morning Post "We are told, and I believe truly (said Mr. Gladstone), that the American states lying in the vale of the Mississipi, when a population exceeding 5,000,000, whose occupation is solely agricultural, possessing great advantages from soil and climate, are confined, and their energies cramped by the want of markets for their pro duce, and therefore unable to purchase such manufactures as ours, of which they stand in need; that such is also the situation of certain countries in South America, that lie on the shore of the Pacific, particularly Chili, where wheats are raised of a superior quality at a very moderate expense. These countries are without manufactures; and I am led to believe that they are  bond fide "Convince me that the export of goods will follow the importation of corn, and I will surrender the Corn-laws." 814 815 816
 Mr. Gibson : The Solicitor of the Home Office had sent Mr. Gregory into the manufacturing districts; and he had gone in two capacities:—one, professionally to assist in the legal proceedings against certain persons in custody, the other of a confidential nature. What could have been the second object of Mr. Gregory's exertions? He was sent down at the precise time of the disturbances; he had some duty of a confidential nature to perform, and, considering that he was the solicitor of the Home-office, was it any great tax on the belief of the country to suppose that he had had instructions to inquire into the origin of the disturbances which had arisen, and that, having nothing to say on the subject that was satisfactory to the Members of her Majesty's Government, it had been thought right that he should hold his tongue? That was the fair construction to be put on his mission and his silence. But he would ask hon. Gentle men to apply their minds to the denial of the Anti-Corn-law League, that they had had any thing to do with the late disturbances. The Anti Corn-law League was composed for the most part of manufacturers;—of men who employed nearly two-thirds of the population of parts of Lancashire, and to whom the country was in debted, not for having instructed the people to break the peace, but for having opposed all measures of disturbance, and he asked whether men whose property was most exposed to destruction and waste were likely to commit acts the tendency of which was the creation of disturbances and a contempt for the law? Was there any property so exposed to the operations of a lawless mob as that of the manufacturers? and would not their own interests induce them, above all others, to prevent a breach of the peace? There was a much more plausible argument for accusing the opposite party of that which they laid to the charge of the League. He did not make assertions without being ready to substantiate them. He believed that the disturbances had originated in the reduction of wages; and the first reduction of wages had been made by Conservative firms, and not by firms belonging to members of the Anti-Corn-law League. He did not throw out this as a charge against those persons, because there was nothing which he so much deprecated as the doctrine of teach-
 818 Standard Standard Standard "Any appeal to justice, to humanity, is utterly out of the question. The die is, therefore cast, that the wages of the labourer are to be measured by the power of purchasing what will barely support life, including the contingency of premature discussion." 819 "There is no real excess of labour, though you, the mill-owners make an artificial excess of your own profit; you violate the order of nature by working women and children in riyalship with men one year, with the certainty of abandoning all, men, women, and children, the next year to famine." "When before have English men, English women, English infants, had to work under the cudgel and thong for more than ten hours a day." "As a mere matter of policy, therefore, the course which has been pursued by the manufacturing capitalists has been most injudicious, putting altogether aside the consideration of reciprocal moral duties or Christian feeling for the poor or oppressed. The impression continues uniform that the misguided persons that have been or may be guilty of excesses during the excitement of the strikes should be as leniently dealt with as is consistent with the supremacy of the law." Standard, "A longer continuance of the turn-out, how ever, must exhaust the Savings-banks deposits, and reduce the labouring manufacturers to utter destitution—a circumstance of which the mill-owners will know how to take advantage in the next adjustment of wages. The expression of feeling among the manufacturing labourers has gone already as far as it can be useful, and in many instances something too far. The attention of the Legislature must be directed to the subject next Session, and doubtless a good factory-law and a greatly amended Poor-law will be the result. Let the manufacturing labourers look patiently for these
 820 Cries of 821
 Mr. M. Gibson , although he could not but express his strongest opposition to the doctrines advanced in the latter part of the speech of the hon. Member, yet he must say that the remarks which the hon. Member made in the former part of his address met with his full concurrence. He thought that the remark was perfectly just upon the course taken by hon. Members on the other side of the House in making the form of the present motion a chief topic of discussion. It appeared to him that if ever there were a practical motion if ever there were a motion supported by parliamentary precedent—if ever there were a plain and distinct course of proceeding to be adopted by a Member of that House, it had been adopted upon the pre sent occasion in the mode taken for bringing on this debate. It was an emphatic appeal on the part of the House to the executive Government to come forward at a time of unparalleled distress, and apply some remedy; and the issue of the question was this—that those who voted for it
 803 804 * l * 805
 Mr. Blackstone  hoped that his hon. Friend the Member for Knaresborough would withdraw his amendment; for much as he might go along with his hon. Friend in the views he entertained as to the evils of machinery, he thought that if his amendment were carried, it would be most inconvenient. If, however, his hon. Friend would make a substantive motion for a select committee to inquire into the subject, he would give to it his support. He must equally oppose the motion of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, as in his opinion it would lead to no useful result; but he felt bound to announce, that in opposing the motion of the noble Lord he did not do it on that occasion with a view of expressing reliance on the measures of her Majesty's Administration. He felt it his duty in the last Session of Parliament to offer opposition to some of the measures of the Government. He then told the right hon. Baronet, in the face of that House, that if the measures he brought forward were such as would tend to alleviate the unparalleled distress in the manufacturing districts, he would have made ample concession on his part, and those who sent him to that House concurred in his view; but he did venture to predict that the operation of the New Corn-law would not only not tend to alleviate the distress of the manufacturing districts, but would add to them considerable difficulties and embarrassments in the agricultural districts; and, as far as that measure had at present proceeded, it had fully borne out his prediction. He had listened with much attention to the speeches of several Members of the Administration. He had listened with painful attention to
 773 s Mark-lane Gazelle, 774 s d s d
 Mr. Ferrand  wished to explain. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Philips) stated that in the debate of a previous evening, he (Mr. Ferrand) had asserted that the owners of mills in Manchester had lately introduced the system of apprenticeship. [Mr.  M. Philips;
 Mr. Ferrand  said, that it had been urged upon him by several hon. Members on his side of the House not to trouble it to divide on the amendment which he had proposed; under these circumstances he should, with the permission of the House, withdraw it.
 Mr. Rashleigh  considered this as a mere party motion, and not one for the relief of the national distress. He had been sent there by a numerous and important constituency to support her Majesty's Government, and believing that the motion of the noble Lord was intended as an impediment in the way of that Government, it should have his oppositon.
 Mr. Mark Philips  had regretted to observe the asperities that had been introduced into the debate. He thought it was desirable, in a discussion of this kind, that hon. Members should confine themselves to facts; and having stated their own feelings, to leave the public to draw their conclusions. An attack had been made upon a relative of his by the hon. Member for Knaresborough, which was most unfounded; and he could only wonder that any one should venture to cast such imputations upon a Gentleman, who, wherever he was known, was respected. That gentleman would never have appeared in this House as the representative of a numerous constituency, who had voluntarily elected him in his absence, had he been capable of tyrannising over the young people in his employ, as represented by the hon. Member for Knaresborough. He now begged to read a letter from that individual, Mr. Greg, in answer to the charge which had been brought against him.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that as he was debarred from reading the letter, he would make a general statement in conformity with its contents. Mr. Greg gave his most unqualified contradiction to the statements of the hon. Member,
 775 s d. 776 s 777 s 778 779 780
 Sir J. Graham : Would the hon. Gentleman allow him to ask whether the report which he had read was that of October or January? Mr. Horner had made two reports, and it was important to consider which of them was alluded to.
 Sir J. Graham : I did not send a com-
 817
 Sir Robert Peel  said: Sir, the hon. Gentleman has stated here very emphatically, what he has more than once stated at the conferences of the Anti-Corn-law League, that he holds me individually— [Great excitement]
 Sir Robert Peel : Sir, the expression of the hon. Gentleman was not, that he held her Majesty's Government responsible; but, addressing himself to me, he said, in the most emphatic manner, that he held me individually responsible [ Cheers. 840 841 842 l 843 844 845 "In the course of last year, forty-nine new concerns were set to work, having 1,378 horses' power, and employing 3,490 persons. Calculating five persons to each horse power, the usual rough estimate, when these mills are in full work they will give employment to 7,000 persons. Some of them are new buildings, and some of these are additions to pre-existing buildings; in other cases, the occupiers have removed from smaller to larger premises; but in all of them the parties must have invested new capital; and it would be irrational to suppose otherwise than that all of them have entered upon a branch of trade which they believed to hold out a fair prospect of yielding a remunerating profit. The greater part of the information from which these tables have been constructed, was collected between the beginning of September and the middle of November—that is, before there were any symptoms of that revival which began about the latter date; so that if it had been possible to give the actual state of the mills in the present week, there is every probability that a comparison with the same time last year, would give a still more favourable result than I have shown above. I have formed this opinion, not merely on general reports of improved trade, but from facts such as the following, contained in returns recently received from the superintendents in my district:—Mr. Superintendent Davies, resident at Ashton-under-Line, reports to me, that on visiting the mills of A on the 9th of November, 1842, 252 looms were standing; on the 18th of this mouth all were at work, and 22 added. On the 10th of November, 1842, B had 500 looms, and 2–5ths of the spinning machinery stopped; on the 18th of January, only 250 looms, and 1–4th of the spinning machinery stopped. On the 28th of October, C had 186 looms stopped; on the 18th of January all were at work. In July, 1842, D had 252 looms stopped, and eight pair of mules working short time; in January, 1843, all were at work, and on full time. In July, 1842, E had 190 looms stopped; in January, 1843, all were at work. In July, 1842, F had 167 looms stopped; in January, 1843, nearly all were at work." 846 l 1 l 847 848 "I can assure the committee, that if I am about to recommend alterations which are at variance with the ancient sentiments of this country, in respect to colonial policy and trade, it is not because I consider the views of our ancestors as necessarily erroneous, or that innovation must necessarily be improvement; but it is because the circumstances and state of the world, in which we have to examine colonial interests, have changed; and it becomes us, as practical statesmen, to deal with those interests with a reference to that change. It is only in this sense, and with this qualification, that I desire to be looked upon as an innovator. I am not anxious to give effect to new principles, where circumstances do not call for their application; feeling as I do, from no small experience in public business—and every day confirms that feeling—how much, in the vast and complex interests of this country, are general theories, however incontrovertible in the abstract, require to be weighed with a calm circumspection, to be directed by a temperate discretion, and to be adapted to all the existing relations of society, with a careful hand, and a due regard to the establishments and institutions which have grown up under those relations." 849 "The case in which it may sometimes be a matter of deliberation how far, or in what manner it is proper to restore the free importation of foreign goods, after it has been for some time interrupted is, when particular manufactures, by means of high duties or prohibitions upon all foreign goods which can come into competition with them, have been so far extended as to employ a great multitude of hands." "Humanity may in this case require that the freedom of trade should be restored only by slow gradations, and with a good deal of reserve and circumspection. Were those high duties and prohibitions taken away all at once, cheaper foreign goods of the same kind might be poured so fast into the home market, as to deprive all at once many thousands of our people of their ordinary employment and means of subsistence." 850 851 Howick 852 853 l s d. l s d l s d l s d l s l l s d l s l s l l l s "You have coal and iron cheap; make timber cheap too, and you have the three great elements of commercial prosperity." 854 855 s s d s d s d s d s d s d 856 857 s s 858 s. s s. s l s s l l s 859 s s s s s s l l l 860 861 862 "My Lords and Gentlemen—I learn with great sorrow that the commercial embarrassments which have taken place in this and other countries have subjected many of the manufacturing districts to severe distress"— 863 s s s s s 864 "It would be untrue were he to say that he had any hope or expectation that their Lord ships would agree to the noble Earl's motion, but he should still deeply regret a contrary decision, because negativing the resolution would affirm that the present law required no change, and, therefore, admitted of no consideration." 865 "Indeed, upon the motion itself, as presented to the House by his noble Friend, he had very little difficulty. For the noble Earl proposed, that 'it was expedient to enter into an inquiry upon this subject.' Now, he (Lord Melbourne) was distinctly of opinion, that it was inexpedient." "Yet he would guard himself against being supposed to pledge himself to maintain the existing duties. He had never so pledged himself, nor did he mean to do so. This was no question of stubborn principle from which he could safely pledge himself not to swerve; for considerations of various kinds of economy or of policy might arise, not only to justify, but to render necessary the adoption of a different course. Yet, under present circumstances, he did not think it wise for Parliament to stir the question, as they would stir it, if they adopted the motion of his noble Friend." "He could not dismiss from his mind the apprehension that it was unwise to rely entirely for the maintenance of a great portion of the population upon a foreign supply. In that opinion he had the support of Mr. Van Buren. The United States, with a great and yearly increasing population, with almost an unlimited amount of land which yet remained to be brought into cultivation, might be supposed to be in less danger than any other nation in the world; but Mr. Van Buren was of opinion, that it would be unwise to rely upon a foreign supply of food for the people of the United States. Mr. Van Buren was a sensible man, his opinion was entitled to great consideration; but this was not his opinion alone, but that of a great portion of the people of that flourishing nation. Mr. Van Buren was a great magistrate, and he (Lord Melbourne) entertained the greatest respect both for him and for the people over whom he presided; and he was justified in believing, that he would not have expressed such an opinion, if it had not agreed with the opinions of a great portion of the people of the United States." 866 867 l 868 "Stetimus tela aspera contra Contulimusque manus." 869
 Sir R. Peel : I am bound to accept the construction which the hon. Member puts upon the language he employed. He used the word "individually" in so marked a way, that I and others put upon it a different interpretation. He supposes the word "individually" to mean public responsibility in the situation I hold; and I admit it at once. I thought that the words he employed, "I hold you individually responsible," might have an effect which I think many other Gentlemen who heard them might anticipate.
 Sir R. Peel  was prepared to ans w these questions, though he had received no notice of the noble Lord's intention to put them. The noble Lord had asked him three questions. He did not recollect the order in which the noble Lord had put them, but he would give the answers as they occurred to him. First, with respect to the supposed omission of a letter from General Nott addressed to Mr. Maddock referring to the receipt of an order from Lord Ellenborough, dated the 19th of March, 1842. That letter would be found
 769
 Sir R. Peel  said, that as far as his me-
 768
 Sir R. Peel  regretted that he had not received notice that such a question would be asked. He had understood that on that, occasion 500 women were in possession of our soldiers, and were treated by them with exemplary kindness. He had no recollection of having ever read or heard of the report to which the hon. Gentleman alluded.
 Viscount Howick , in reply, amidst much confusion, was understood to say, that after the lengthened debate which had taken place on this question, he felt it to be impossible for him to enter into a full discussion of the varied and various arguments which had been employed on both sides of the House. The right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government, in the speech which he had addressed to the House, had said that to carry a proposition such as that which was now before the House would be to paralyse the efforts of the Government; and he had heaped ridicule on the right hon. Gentleman, the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, for the suggestions which he had offered. He felt, that if he had on this occasion come forward with any distinct proposition in the present stage of the proceedings, he should have adopted a course which was not parliamentary; and which would have subjected him also to the same ridicule which his right hon. Friend had experienced. For his own part, be begged to say that he had not said one word par taking of any party or personal consideration. He had discussed the question solely as affecting the highest and most important interests of this country—that was the spirit in which it ought to have been discussed; but if that was the opinion of the right hon. Baronet, he wished that he had inculcated that opinion in the minds of his Colleagues. What was the first word of party discussion which had been introduced? It was introduced by the right hon. the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, who had said that there never was a Government which made so little advance in improving our commercial regulations as that which had existed between 1830 and 1841. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department had followed in the same line, and the great staple of his speech was a tissue of party considerations. But he would adhere to the rule which he had laid down for himself, and would abstain from all further reference to this part of the question. All he asked the House
 887
 Viscount Palmerston  was desirous of putting a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government, relative to the Indian despatches. At page 223 there was a letter from Mr. Maddock to Major-general Nott, dated Benares, the 19th of April, directing him to evacuate Candahar, and take up a new position at Quettah. No answer to this letter appeared in any part of the papers, and he (Viscount Palmerston) wished to know whether the Government were not in possession of any such answer? At page 252, there was a despatch from the Governor-general to Sir Jasper Nicholls, dated Allahabad, the 14th of May, in which mention was made of a letter from Mr. Clarke, that did not appear in the papers. Were her Majesty's Government in possession of that letter? At page 296 there was a despatch from Major general Pollock to Mr. Maddock, dated Jellalabad, the 20th of May, in which reference is made to a preceding letter in these terms:—"I have already in my letter dated the 13th instant, entered on the subject, and must receive a reply before I shall be able to move." This letter of the 13th of May did not appear among the papers.
 Mr. Bingham Baring  thought that he should be able to satisfy the hon. Member that the papers to which he alluded had been produced, and were now published with the rest of the despatches. In page 327 of the Blue Book, was a letter from the Governor-general to Major-general Nott, in which he authorised him to advance, and, not only so, but gave him full instructions as to the conduct which he was to pursue in the course of his progress. He said—
 "I have now reason to suppose, for the first time, that you have the means of moving a very large proportion of your army, with ample equipment for any service. Nothing has occurred to induce me to change my first
 996 "You will recollect the Governor-general said that what you will have to make is, a successful march: that that march must not be delayed by any hazardous operations against Ghuznee or Cabul; that you should carefully calculate the time required to enable you to reach Jellallabad in the first week in October, so as to form the rear-guard of Major-general Pollock's army. If you should be enabled by a  coup-de-main
 Colonel T. Wood  said, that it appeared to him the hon. Gentleman who described the Governor-general as having exhibited an hiatus of spirit between the 15th of March and the 4th of July, had himself manifested an hiatus of observation and candour, in not taking into his consideration at the same time the circumstances in which matters in India were at the period when, on the 19th of April, the Governor-general wrote to General Nott. The hon. Gentleman talked of the noble Lord's having sought to shift the responsibility from himself upon General Nott; but let him read the despatch of the 4th of July, and see whether he was authorized in such a suggestion. Writing as he was to General Nott, at a distance of 1,300 miles, under constantly varying circumstances, the noble Lord would not have done his duty had he not left much to the discretion of General Nott. Lord Ellenborough, at the close of his despatch to General Nott, dated 10th July, distinctly said:—
 "With these cautions, I must again leave
 1013
 Captain Bernal  had hoped this motion would have been agreed to unanimously; and he, therefore, much regretted that the hon. Member for Montrose should have thrown the apple of discord into the arena, in the shape of an amendment. He trusted, however, that the hon. Gentleman would withdraw that amendment. He (Captain Bernal) had read the ponderous blue book with great attention, and he had risen from the perusal with a feeling that Lord Ellenborough was amply entitled to this vote, because it was evident to him that his Lordship had carried out the original policy of Lord Auckland, as to withdrawing from Affghanistan. Lord Auckland, in his despatch dated 22d December, 1841, says:—
 "We have laid it down as a rule of our conduct that we would do all in our power to rescue our detachments wherever they may be encompassed by danger; but that, if the position of command and influence, which we have held at the capital of Affghanistan, should once be absolutely and entirely lost, we would make no more sacrifices of the very serious and extensive nature which could alone be effectual, except under positive instructions from England, for the reestablishment of our supremacy throughout the country. If matters should, by force or negotiation, be restored at Cabul, we shall have time for deliberation; and, if they should be but barely maintained in their present state of precarious difficulty, we must await the approach of spring before we can act with vigour or advantage. We have particularly, however, felt it our duty distinctly at this distance to give instructions applicable to all contingencies, and therefore to contemplate the most unfavourable issue to the struggle which our troops are maintaining at Cabul; and, in this case, upon the anticipation of which we cannot conceal from ourselves the hazard of extending dangers, and of the insurrection assuming in other quarters also the
 1014 "In the midst of all my difficulties there is none which distresses me more, and causes more trouble and importunate references to me, than the commissariat department, at every instant of the day, occasioned by the insufficiency of cattle, and the prospect that one-half of what may accompany us will probably die from sheer starvation, as food for animals, in advancing through the Khyber Pass, must be carried along, as well as for man. On no occasion that has ever come under my observation would it have been so desirable to have an experienced and efficient commissariat officer with a force, as at Peshawur; and there is no European responsible person,—none but a parcel of Gomashtis, each bent on his own interested purposes, without any controlling authority." 1015
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  referred to the expedition which, four years before the proclamation of 1842, had been ordered to proceed beyond the Indus, and they could not, he was understood to say, remember that proclamation, and reflect upon what had been done and not done in India since, without feeling the great responsibility which attached to those who originated that expedition a responsibility in which all in that House must share. It was not that they felt less grateful to the army for the great deeds it had per-
 1023
 Sir J. Graham  was not aware, till the hon. Gentleman rose, that he meant to bring forward his motion that evening, and he was unwilling to allow it to pass without saying one or two words on the proposition. He must call the attention of the House to the important constitutional question involved in the motion. It was now proposed to confer on the Crown the power of naturalising foreigners, which had hitherto been in possession of the Legislature. Parliament had entrusted the Crown with the privilege of enabling foreigners to hold property in the country; but Parliament had reserved to itself the power of concurring with the Crown in granting to foreigners the privileges of
 1025
 Mr. Hume  agreed in the view taken by the right hon. Gentleman, but thought that in the present circumstances of the country the bill might be useful.
 Mr. Hutt,  in reply, was understood to say, that what he proposed was not exactly new, for an act was passed in the reign of Queen Anne, by which any foreigner could obtain an act of naturalization, and be enabled to sit at the Council Board and in Parliament, only on condition of taking the oath of allegiance and paying a fee of 1 s
 Sir J. Graham  was prepared to give a qualified assent to the motion, but deprecated the strong, harsh, and unjustifiable language which had been used by the hon. Gentleman, which he thought was quite inconsistent with the legitimate principles of freedom of debate. He could not consent to retain in the motion the words "correct, entire, and unmutilated." Such expressions conveyed a direct insinuation that a public office from which the return was expected was in the habit of garbling, or returning inaccurate statements to the House. If, therefore, the hon. Gentleman did not withdraw those words he should oppose the motion. He was unable to procure a return of the letter of Mr. H. Greg, neither original nor copy being to be found among the records of the Poor-law Commissioners. It was, in fact, a private letter addressed to Mr. Chad wick. The Poor-law Commisssioners did not possess either the original or a copy. Mr. Ash worth's letter was in the possession of the Poor-law Commissioners and he was ready to consent to its production. With respect to the next return, as to the
 1029
 Mr. M. Gibson  said he would not have troubled the House, if the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Ferrand) had not made statements which would go forth to the public affecting parties who had no opportunity of giving the same publicity to the contradictions as would be afforded to the accusations. He thought it very desirable that such dislogistic terms as the hon. Member had introduced should be omitted from motions submitted to that House. The hon. Member for Knaresborough had asserted that persons were "kidnapped" and induced to go from the agricultural into the manufacturing districts by the promise of conditions which had not been fulfilled; but he was convinced that a fair inquiry would show the erroneousness of this statement. The hon. Gentleman had now, as he had on former occasions, made assertions which could not be substantiated He would
 1030
 Dr. Bowring  said, that one of the gentlemen to whom the hon. Member for Knaresborough had referred was a personal friend and constituent of his; and having on several occasions visited that gentleman, he had had an opportunity of noticing the condition of the labourers in his employ. He could state that many of the persons who had been transferred from the agricultural districts blessed the day that had seen them removed from a state of great distress to a condition of comparative ease and comfort. He would refer the hon. Member to the statements of Dr. Cooke Taylor, who, in the account of his visit to the manufacturing districts, repeatedly noticed the comfort and happiness of the workmen employed by Mr. Ash worth. He recommended the hon. Member to be cautious how he indulged in these vituperative attacks.
 Mr. Ferrand,  in reply, said he had referred to the case of a manufacturer Who was convicted by the magistrates in penalties amounting to 125 l 1031
 Mr. Gibson  said the hon. Member for Knaresborough had made charges against the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Cobden) which he had not substantiated. The hon. Member had also made charges against manufacturers connected with the Anti Corn-law League, that they were especially the supporters of the truck system. But against whom did the hon. Member prove this charge in the committee he obtained? As far as he was aware, the charge was not proved against any member of the Anti Corn-law League; it was proved only against two manufacturers in Lancashire, who were of conservative politics, and opposed to the League.
 Mr. Ferrand  expressed his surprise to hear that the truck system was proved against only two manufacturers in Lancashire. He could tell the hon. Member that it was proved against scores of manufacturers in Lancashire.
 Lord Eliot  said, that the subject had been inquired into by her Majesty's Government; and, from that inquiry, it appeared that the magistrates had received information that the Temperance Society of Monaghan were about to enter Dungannon in procession. They had also been informed that the inhabitants of a neighbouring district, chiefly composed of Protestants, were determined to oppose the entry of the procession. It, therefore, appeared to them, to be imperatively necessary to prevent an array of this kind in the town, from which there was every reason to apprehend a breach of the peace. Accordingly they went out on horseback, accompanied by a small party of the constabulary force he believed about a dozen. Most hon. Gentlemen were aware that the temperance societies were almost exclusively, or at least chiefly, composed of Roman Catholics, [Mr.  H. Grattan: 939
 Lord John Russell : I am sure it must be a source of the greatest and most general satisfaction, that after the afflicting intelligence of the fearful details and disasters that occurred in Affghanistan, we should now have to rejoice over the success of our arms, and to thank those men who have so gallantly retrieved the honour of this country, and restored the glory of the British name. To all the latter part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, concerning the military feats of the generals who commanded, and the officers and soldiers who fought under them, there cannot be any other than a feeling of ready sympathy with all that the right hon. Gentleman has expressed. I cheerfully concur with him that those events do shine
 971 "That whatever may be said of the Affghans being the greatest warriors, give me a 1,000 of well-disciplined Hindoos, and I would be ready to defeat 5,000 Affghans." 972 973 "I propose, at the earliest practicable period in next month, to move the head quarters of this force up the Bolan Pass to Quetta, with the following detachment of the troops now in the low country:—One troop horse artillery, two squadrons 3d Light Cavalry, her Majesty's 41st Regiment) 6th Regiment Native Infantry, 150 Poonah horse." "Thus the force which will be assembled at Quetta very early, I trust, in April, will consist of two squadrons, four battalions, and fourteen guns; and leaving a sufficient body of troops to protect that place, amounting, in fact, to almost its present garrison, I am of opinion that the following detachment may be at once most advantageously employed in opening the communication with Candahar, or in effecting such other operation in aid of that post as circumstances at the moment may suggest." 974 975 976
 Sir A. Leith Hay  begged to give notice to the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) that he should to-morrow repeat his question as to whether the Government intended to introduce any measure into Parliament on the subject of the Church of Scotland.
 Sir A. L. Hay  considered that the conduct of the right hon. Baronet had been very discourteous. As a Member of that House.
 Sir A. L. Hay  explained that the reason he had not given notice of his intention to put the question was, that as a motion was to be brought under the notice of the Government in another place tomorrow night, he (Sir A. L. Hay) certainly thought that a Secretary of State would
 940
 Sir A. L. Hay  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department. He had not given notice of his intention to put the question; but he had no doubt that the right hon. Baronet was perfectly prepared to give an answer to it one way or the other. He wished to know whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to propose, during the present Session, any measure for the purpose of settling the unfortunate differences which had arisen in the Church of Scotland?
 Captain Layard  said, he was most ready to concur in the vote of thanks to his gallant comrades in India. He had himself served in that part of the world, under a gallant officer whose name was well known both to India and to Europe.
 1020 1021
 The Speaker  informed the hon. Member that he was not in order.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he should not have addressed the House, but for the allusion to the reference which he had made on a former night to the reports of excesses said to have been committed by our troops. It was now but justice in him to say, that he had derived much satisfaction from the perusal of the orders contained in the Blue Book, from Lord Ellenborough, and from the generals commanding the troops; and also the statements made by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary at War. It was impossible that orders could be more clearly expressed than were those from the noble Lord, and also those from Generals Nott and Pollock, enjoining forbearance and humanity. The contradiction by the Secretary at War of the reports alluded to, was as complete as circumstances would allow. He rejoiced in the removal of such a stain from the character of our troops. Reference had been made to the absence of any succours to General Nott at Candahar for six months. But if the hon. Member would refer to the Blue Book, he would find that not only had orders been given by Lord Auckland for the forwarding of succours, but it was to be seen, in a letter from General England to Major Outram, dated 18th February, that before Lord Auckland left India, measures had actually been taken for sending help to General Nott. The letter stated—
 "I have the honour to acquaint you that, under the circumstances of the determination of the Government to maintain Candahar, and with a view to give support to that important measure, I propose, at the earliest practicable period in the next month, to move the head quarters of this force up the Bolan Pass to Quetta, with the following detachment of the troops now in the low country," 1022 "You are probably aware that, independent of the expediency of forcing the communication with Candahar, the troops at that place are much in want of carriage, treasure, medicines, and other stores; also that several officers, as well as a company of Bengal artillery, destined for Candahar, have been for some time prevented from reaching it, owing to the interruption of the road by the insurgents. The movement, however, which I contemplate, will at once remedy these evils; and thus place the corps of Major-general Nott in increased efficiency." "Before the receipt of your letter of the 19th April I had equipped this force, which, with two additional regiments of infantry, another troop of horse artillery, and the remainder of the Shah's First Cavalry, I had intended to march in command of, for the purpose of throwing supplies into Khelat-i-Ghilzie, and endeavouring to recover the late Ghusnee garrison, now in the hands of the enemy, and making a diversion in favour of General Pollock's army."
 Mr. Bankes  was not surprised that the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat had shrunk from the invidious task of refusing the vote which was now proposed, but he wished that the noble Lord had shrunk also from the task of presenting them with the unnecessary and invidious speech which he had just delivered. The right hon. Baronet had distinctly and sedulously divided the military question from any political considerations, and had carefully guarded the vote he proposed from any excuse for disagreement. He put it to the noble Lord whether the right hon. Baronet had not so guarded the question as to avoid the possibility of dispute in regard to the merits of Lord Ellenborough. In some points these merits might be shared by Lord Auckland; and would not the noble Lord have gladly concurred in such a vote to Lord Auckland, if that Governor-general had continued in India, and the same successes had followed his
 977 978 979
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  knew, that the hon. Member was alluding to the case of Mr. Inglis, to whom he was most anxious to shew every attention which was not inconsistent with his public duty. His case certainly stood on a different footing from the most of those in the same schedule. In his case Mr. Rapallo, the chief instrument of issuing the forged bills, had placed s considerable amount of them in the hands of the Messrs. Morgans, whom Mr. Inglis had employed as his brokers. Before he left England, he had placed in their hands the sum of 7,000 l l l 1024
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained that the effect of the bill would only be to give the holders of the Exchequer Bills the amount of those bills which they held—it would go no further, and give them interest from the date when the bills commenced. It would be necessary, hereafter, to pass another vote to pay the parties interest on the Exchequer Bills from the time they came into their possession. The parties must not, however, expect to receive 5 or5½ percent, interest, but the market interest which Exchequer Bills bore. They had not given any premiums on these bills, and they must not expect, therefore, to receive any premiums.
 Sir H. Hardinge  rose with regret on the present occasion, because he had hoped that the statement of the right hon. Baronet would have been sufficiently satisfactory to the House. But after what had fallen from the hon. Member, he felt it his duty to make a few observations in reply. The hon. Member complained of the inhumanity and excesses of the troops on their retreat from Affghanistan. He did not credit the reports of those excesses. He was convinced, that many of them were not borne out by truth. The hon. Gentleman would find, that some months ago, when it became necessary for General Nott, with a view to the safety of the troops at Candahar, to turn out a considerable number of the inhabitants, the Indian press indulged in the most libellous attacks upon that gallant officer, and accused him of having committed the most extravagant excesses and cruelties upon the unfortunate inhabitants of that town. Now, the reports which had since been received from General Nott's army, proved distinctly that there was not a word of truth in that accusation. But at present there was this difficulty to be contended with, that as yet that gallant army accused of so many excesses, had not had time to reply, and they were, therefore, without the means of arriving at the real truth. Although these accusations came, in a great degree, from the press of India, he should be sorry to stigmatise the whole of that press as libellous; but certainly the statements he had seen of what was called the inhumanity of the troops in India he knew to be utterly false. The hon. Member stated that General Nott had committed some of these excesses, and that Ghuznee had been levelled to the ground. Now, he must observe, that
 985 986 "My commendations have been specially earned by Major G. Browne and her Majesty's 41st regiment, for the share they took in these gallant efforts (now mark this), and for the exemplary humanity displayed by the men towards the unfortunate families of the vanquished." 987 988 "A faithless enemy, stained by the foul crime of assassination, has, through a failure of supplies, followed by consummate treachery, been able to overcome a body of British troops, in a country removed by distance and difficulties of season from the possibility of succour. But the Governor-general in Council, while he most deeply laments the loss of the brave officers and men, regards this partial reverse only as new occasion for displaying the British power, and the admirable spirit and valour of the British Indian army." 989 "You will, as long as the season permit you to remain with perfect security, rely upon your own force, and upon that alone, for the effecting of your objects, and exert that force vigorously, giving every proof of British power which is not inconsistent with the usages of war, and the dictates of British humanity; but you will never forget that, after so exhibiting that power, you are, without allowing yourself to be diverted therefrom by any object, to obey the positive orders of your Government to withdraw your army from Affghanistan."
 Dr. Bowring  asked whether the present bill would be quite sufficient for its purposes, as he understood that it would not secure to the holders of the bills both their capital and the interest of their capital?
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, a question respecting a transaction which occurred in Ireland in November last. On the 1st of November the Temperance Society of Dungannon was about to hold a festival, and sent to the Monaghan Temperance Society, asking them to come in procession to Dungannon, with their band, which they did. They marched towards Dungannon, and were met by Lord North land and another magistrate, who violently interrupted them, and, by their orders, two persons were taken into custody and
 938 l
 Mr. Hume  having withdrawn his amendment,
 Mr. Hume  explained, with reference to the observations of Captain Layard, that no man more cordially than himself joined in the vote of thanks to the army.
 Mr. Hume  wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the case of a gentleman to whom some Exchequer Bills had been assigned which happened to be forged, and who was a most innocent holder of them. That person had suffered the serious loss of 6,000 l
 Mr. Hume  was not sorry that the hon. Member for Gateshead had brought forward this topic, because it had called forth the expressions from the gallant General opposite. Although he (Mr. Hume) had heard many statements relating to Istalif, this "would not have been a place to which he would himself have referred. He thought that even greater excesses might have been expected under the circumstances. This was not a part to which he would have objected. There was, however, one thing for which he was undoubtedly sorry, and that was the destruction of the commercial bazaar at Cabul. When he read the despatch of Lord Ellenborough, declaring that he was anxious to leave as few marks of revenge and retaliation as possible, it did appear strange that after our troops had invited the natives into the town, when the town was full, and supplies readily brought in, we should have destroyed the bazaar. Still it was done by the proper officer, I sent in for the express purpose by the proper party. He was informed that notice had been given to the individuals who inhabited the bazaar that it was to be destroyed; and, except a few Hindoos, who did not believe that we should have destroyed it, no one was injured. Still, he thought it important that they should have some further explanation. As to the other excesses, the House had so little information concerning them, that at present nothing more could be said. With respect to the troops, he would be happy to concur in any testimony the House could offer. Any one who had read the despatches must be satisfied that no troops ever endured more hardships—no troops had ever shown more devotedness to the service, or had seen their exertions attended with more success,
 992 "Intelligence having been received which leaves no room to doubt that, after the British force at Cabul had maintained its position against overpowering numbers of insurgents for more than six weeks, the officer commanding had judged it necessary, in consequence of a failure of provisions, to agree to a convention of the enemy, and to retire, in reliance on the faith of that convention, towards Jellalabad, when the troops, exposed to the worst rigours of cold and privation in the mountain defiles, and harrassed by treacherous attacks suffered extreme disaster—the Governor-general in Council deems it proper to notify, that the most active measures have been adopted, and will be steadfastly prosecuted, for expediting powerful reinforcements to the Affghan frontier, and for assisting such operations as may be required in that quarter for the maintenance of the honour and interest of the British Government. The ample military means at the disposal of the British Government will be strenuously applied to these objects, so as at once to support external operations, and to ensure efficient protection to its subjects and allies. A faithless enemy, stained by the foul crime of assassination, has, through a failure of supplies followed by consummate treachery, been able to overcome a body of British troops, in a country removed by distance and difficulties of season, from the possibility of succour. But the Governor-general in council, while he most deeply laments the loss of the brave officers and men, regards this partial reverse only as a new occasion for displaying the stability and vigour of the British power, and the admirable spirit and valour of the British Indian army." 993 994 "I send herewith copies of letters addressed by me to Major-general Nott, to Major-general Pollock, to Major Outram, and to the Governor of Bombay, and of a memorandum for Major-general Sir Charles Napier. All these documents I have deemed it necessary to withhold, for the present, from the records of the offices here, on account of the absolute necessity of preserving secrecy in the important matter to which they refer. They will be placed upon the records as soon as Major-general Nott's decision shall be known. My letter to Major-general Nott so fully explains the grounds upon which I have ventured to afford him an option as to the line of his retirement upon the Indus, that I deem it unnecessary to do more than refer you to the document itself, for an explanation of my views upon the subject." 995 "That the consideration of the thanks of this House to the right hon. Lord Ellenborough, Governor-general of India, be deferred until all the documents, consisting of letters addressed to Major-general Nott, Major-general Pollock, to Major Outram, and to the Governor of Bombay; and of a memorandum for Major-general Sir C. Napier, alluded to in the letter of July 8, addressed to the Secret Committee of the Court of Directors, and which have been withheld, shall be laid before this House, to enable the House to judge why, after repeated positive orders issued by Lord Ellenborough to Sir Jasper Nicholls and Major-general Nott, and Major-general Pollock to withdraw all their forces from Cabul towards the Company's possessions, those generals actually advanced their forces, and by their gallant conduct and brilliant successes, vindicated the character of the British arms in the scene of their former disasters."
 Mr. Mangles  said, that after the eloquent and touching addresses of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and that of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, he had congratulated himself on being spared the necessity of saying a word on the present occasion, and it was only what had occurred within the last few minutes that had induced him to depart from the resolution that he had formed. But he could not sit silent to hear the hon. Member for Beverley taunt that side of the House with having their assent to the vote of thanks wrung from them, unwillingly, by a mere sense of justice. He knew and felt, that it was ungracious to say a word in opposition to the present motion, and only a sense of duty induced him to rise and make the few observations with which he should trouble the House. He was sure that on both sides there were the same feelings of admiration and gratitude at the exploits of the troops, and that there was the same desire to give expression to that feeling which was embodied in the resolution which had been submitted to the House. Being taunted however, as he and those who sat near him had been by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he would not be deterred from saying what he felt with respect to Lord Ellenborough's conduct. He said the necessity of thus guarding himself the more, as he was convinced that when Lord Ellenborough's other merits were brought into question, that the vote of that evening would be appealed to, and an attempt would be made to throw that
 1009 1010 "If Government intend to recover even temporarily and for the saving of our national honour their lost position in this country, even if doubtful of the policy that it may be deemed expedient to pursue, I earnestly hope, that before any immediate retrograde step is made in either direction, our whole position in Afghanistan will be attentively viewed, and that the effect which a hasty retirement would certainly and instantly have on the whole of Beloochistan, and even on the navigation of the Indus, will be taken into consideration." "At the present time the impression of our military strength among the people of this country, though weakened by the occurrences at Cabul, is not destroyed; but if we now retire, and it should again become necessary to advance, we shall labour under many disadvantages; the most serious of which, in my opinion, will be a distrust of their strength among our soldiers, which any admission of weakness is so well calculated to induce; and in what other light could a withdrawal from Jellalabad and Candahar be viewed?" 1011 "I give you leave to advance, if you see no objection;" "You must advance, unless you see a decided objection." 1012 "I certainly could have wished to have taken her Majesty's 41st regiment with me, knowing the great consequence of the adventurous march before me. But, when I look to Sinde, and to the want of confidence in our brave troops, shown by certain officers, I must give up that wish, however desirable, to ensure the safety of the division which I am not to accompany. I can see no difficulty or danger to the division which will retire to Sukkur; and their numbers will be augmented at every post on their route. What the division, retiring  viá
 Mr. Ewart  begged to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. Certain negotiations had been entered into with the Government of Paraguay. Several English merchants had gone into Paraguay, and had entered into negotiations with the Government. He had been given to understand that these negotiations had suddenly ceased, without any cause being assigned. As he considered the subject highly important, he was desirous of knowing whether any measures had been taken for the purpose of opening communications with Paraguay.
 Mr. Ferrand  wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether the Government had made any inquiry into the late outbreaks in the manufacturing districts; and, if so, whether they would lay the evidence before the House; and if they had not caused any inquiry to be made, whether it was their intention to do so?
 Mr. W. Williams  seconded the amendment.
 Sir H. Douglas : I was in great hopes that the Vote of Thanks proposed by the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government would have passed not only unanimously, but by acclamation, and without entering into any of those discussions consequent upon the observations made by the noble Lord, the Member for London, which have certainly disturbed and protracted the discussion. I shall not take up the time of the House in going at any length into the general merits of this important and most interesting subject, as presented to the House in the splendid statement made by the right hon. Baronet, in proposing the Vote of Thanks which we ar? now co?siderin?; but s?all con?ine mys?lf stri?tly to?rofessi?nal mil?tary ob?ervatio?s, appr?priate?o the q?estion?ow befo?e us, n?mely, t?e condu?t and e?ecution?of the?ilitary?operati?ns, by?hich th? war in?Affghanistan ha? been b?ought t? a most triumph?nt and?atisfac?ory con?lusion.?I am ve?y sensi?le, Sir? that n?thing that I can say, c?n add t? the we?ght of?he sple?did sta?ement m?de by t?e right?hon. Ba?onet in?proposing this?ote of?hanks,?r give?ny addi?ional value wha?ever to the tha?ks whic? are, I?trust,?o be un?nimousl? bestow?d. But? hope t?ese wil? not be?the les? accept?ble to?y galla?t comra?es in a?ms, tha? an old?soldier? admiri?g what they hav? done,?nd capable, I trust, of?appreci?ting it?professionally,?should?eel him?elf called upon not to?ive a s?lent vo?e upon?n occas?on on w?ich, th? reputa?ion of?he prof?ssion,?nd the?nterest? of the country?have been so no?ly uphe?d. With?respect?to the?osition?of mili?ary affairs in?ndia an? Affgha?istan,?t the t?me Lord Ellenborough assumed his high functions, I need only advert to the despatches and documents referred to by
 1016 1017 advance. 1018 "As long (says Major-general Nott) as both
 1019 Re culer, pour mieux sauter.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that part of the
 941
 Sir James Graham  had certainly deemed the hon. and gallant Officer wanting in personal courtesy in not having given him (Sir James Graham) notice of his intention to put a question of importance. The hon. and gallant Officer had now done so; and that there might not be the possibility of suspicion that he (Sir J. Graham) intended to treat the hon. and gallant Member with discourtesy, he begged to say, that on the hon. and gallant Member repeating his question to-morrow, he must repeat the reply he had given to-night, namely, that he could not give an answer till Thursday.
 Sir J. Graham  said, the hon. Gentleman had not been so obliging as to give him notice of the question he had just put, but his hon. Friend, the Member for Argyleshire, had been more obliging, and had notified to him his intention of asking the very question just put to him by the hon. Member. His hon. Friend would propose the question on Thursday next, and on that day he should give an answer to it.
 Mr. Hogg  supposed that the hon. Member for Montrose would now withdraw his amendment—[Mr.  Hume: 999 "Reading your instructions literally, especially those of the 3d December and 6th January, I have not commenced any preparation for a renewal of the contest." "That we possess an army perfect in its equipment, possessed of all the means of movement, and so secure in its communications with the country from which its supplies and its reinforcements are drawn, as to be able at any time, to act with vigour and effect against any enemy." 1000 1001 1002 R. Peel "I have now, therefore, reason to suppose, for the first time, that you have the means of moving a very large proportion of your army, with ample equipment for any service." "But the improved position of your army, with sufficient means of carriage for as large a force as it is necessary to move in Affghanistan, induces me now to leave to your option the line by which you shall withdraw your troops from that country." "That the loss of another army, from whatever cause it might arise, might be fatal to our Government in India." 1003 "Upon the minds of our soldiers, of our allies, of our enemies in Asia, and of our countrymen, and of all foreign nations in Europe." "To leave decisive proofs of the power of the British army, without impeaching its humanity," 1004 "The right hon. Baronet makes a speech about the Income-tax and shortly afterwards certain orders are sent out to India." 1005 Agra Akbar, 1006 "The enemy were driven from their strong forts and pursued with a rapidity which left no time to rally, and a singular spectacle was then presented in the escape up the mountain side of the women and children from the place, to which no interruption was offered;" 1007 1008
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that as he was almost the only person on that side of the House who had expressed any disapprobation of the other parts of the Governor-general's conduct, he trusted the House would allow him to lake this opportunity of expressing his entire concurrence in this vote of thanks, not only as it applied to the gallant military officers engaged in the operation, but the Governor-general himself. He was only anxious further to call the attention of his gallant Friend to the conduct of the troops at Istalif and the treatment of the women. At page 413, it was said, that—
 "The enemy were driven from thence, and pursued with a rapidity which left no time to rally; and a singular spectacle was then presented, in the escape up the mountain side of the children and women from the place, to which no interruption was offered." 991 "Leave decisive proofs of the power of the British army, without impeaching its humanity."
 Sir Robert Peel,  who was heard indistinctly in the gallery, we understood to reply, that some time since a British merchant, named Hughes, had applied for the sanction of the Government to go out to Paraguay for the purpose of making inquiry into the state of the country. The answer given at the Foreign-office was, that he must go out on his own responsibility. That gentleman had made an interesting report upon Paraguay, but he believed was not fortunate in his commercial speculations. In January, 1842, application was made to the government of Buenos Ayres to allow a gentleman named Gordon, an attaché to the embassy at Rio, to proceed to Paraguay; but they threw difficulties in the way, and eventually declined. Mr. Hughes had given Mr. Gordon some useful information, and the only account that had been received from him was, that he had met with a favourable reception. Since this, however, a merchant at Liverpool had received a letter, saying that Mr. Gordon's mission had been unsuccessful, and he had been expelled the country. The Government, however, had received no confirmation of that report.
 Sir T. E. Colebrooke  had listened with
 990 "You will bring away from the tomb of Mahmood, of Ghuznee, his club, which hangs over it, and you will bring away the gates of his tomb, which are the gates of the temple of Somnauth. These will be the just trophies of your successful march."
 Mr. Hutt  heartily concurred in nearly all that had been said by the right hon. Baronet. No man could read the documents in the hands of Members without arriving at the same conclusion. The conduct of General Sale and the intrepid garrison Of Jellalabad—the distinguished fortitude and endurance of the army of Candahar—the spirited successes of General Pollock's division in the field after having forced their way through some of the most tremendous passes in the world—all of them evinced the very highest temper of self-devotion and had Well deserved the gratitude of their country. He was also of opinion that Lord Ellenborough merited much credit for the zeal and solicitude with which he applied himself to the supply of the army with the necessary resources of equipment. In these points he fully concurred, and if he thought that the motion involved no other question, he should not have ventured to offer himself to the House. He must, however, be permitted to remark that it was difficult to pass Over these subjects without casting was eyes upon a part at which all must look with pain and regret—he referred to the excesses said to have been committed by out troops on the evacuation of Affghanistan. It was not his intention to cast reflections upon any individual. He did not know Who authorised those excesses. He could believe that the military commanders were wholly blameless, but he knew that the first duty of a soldier was
 980 "I am most anxious, notwithstanding the conduct of the Affghan chiefs, that the army should leave behind it a deep impression on the people of this country of our character for forbearance and humanity." "I have directed the city of Ghuznee, the citadel, and all the works, to be destroyed." 981 "I have directed the town to be set on fire in several places, after taking out of it various supplies which might be useful, and the demolition is "proceeding under the direction of Major Sanders." "Previous to my departure from Cabul I destroyed with gunpowder the grand bazaar of that city, called Chahain Chuttah, built in the reign of Aurungzebe, by the celebrated Ali Murdan Khan, and which may be considered to be' the most frequented part of Cabul, and known as the grand emporium of this part of
 982 983 984
 Viscount Ebrington  explained, that he had not intended to disparage the services of Lord Ellenborough in providing the army with those things that were necessary for its wants. On that ground he thought the noble Lord deserved the thanks of the House. Indeed, he could scarcely quarrel with the hon. Gentleman opposite, for having praised Lord Ellenborough as an excellent commissary-general.
 Viscount Ebrington  had not intended to take any part in the debate; but when he heard the hon. Gentleman laud the despatch which he had read, he could not say, that in his mind it contained any directions; it was permissory merely, and even the permission given was a shabby one. The despatch in his opinion was a shabby despatch, and the permission given to General Nott to use his own discretion in respect to advancing was given in terms the effect of which would be to throw on I that officer the whole responsibility of the I movement, and to relieve the Governor-
 997 "It has given great satisfaction to the Governor-general to learn, from your letter of the 14th ultimo, that you have sufficient means of movement to be enabled to act upon the suggestions contained in my letter of the 1st ultimo. You will not have mistaken the object of that letter, which was merely to suggest that, as far as your means of movement allowed, you should make your strength felt by the enemy during the period of your necessary detention in the valley of the Cabul river. No change has, from the first, taken place in the Governor-general's views of the expediency of withdrawing your army at the earliest period consistent with the health and efficiency of the troops, that is, as is now understood, in the beginning of October." "It would be desirable, undoubtedly, that before finally quitting Affghanistan you should have an opportunity of striking a blow at the enemy; and since circumstances seem to compel you to remain there till October, the Governor-general earnestly hopes that you may be enabled to draw the enemy into a position in which you may strike such a blow effectually. You have already full powers to do everything you may deem necessary for the comfort of your troops, and for their efficiency." 998
 The Attorney-General  said, he should meet the proposition of the hon. Gentleman with a direct negative. Perhaps the House would allow him, in the outset, to state the part he had taken in these transactions. Lord Abinger wag appointed head of the special commission that went to Cheshire and Lancashire, and he happened to practise before Lord Abinger. He was not aware that against the conduct of the Crown, or the immediate servants of the Crown, there had been uttered one single word of complaint. He had conducted the prosecutions in the cases referred to; he had addressed the juries; he had called upon the court to inflict punishment upon the prisoners; but he was not aware—though he might be mistaken in the view taken of his conduct—that, in any part of the kingdom, any expressions had been uttered, impugning the conduct of the law officers of the Crown. He could not avoid expressing his surprise that, after the imputations which the hon. Member had cast upon the learned Judge—after the administration of justice had been so
 1069 1070 The Times, Chronicle, Morning Herald, 1071 1072 1073 1074 1075 "You will find that there is a society of persons who go by the name of Chartists, and who if they have not excited or fomented these outrages, which will be brought under your notice, have, nevertheless, taken advantage of them for their own purposes—have endeavoured to prevent the unfortunate people from returning to their work, and sought so to direct them, that by a stoppage of all labour, they may be conducive to the attainment of their objects." "What are the points of the Charter? Annual Parliaments, universal suffrage, and vote by ballot. Yes, gentlemen, you will find by the evidence that will be produced before you, that it has been inculcated upon many misguided persons that the sovereign remedy for all abuses, and the only means of putting themselves in possession of such a share of power as would enable them to vindicate their own rights, and secure themselves against oppression, is by the enactment of what they call the People's Charter." 1076 "There is a country which cannot be spoken of without respect and attachment, as emanating from ourselves—I allude to America." "But, gentlemen, you will find these recommendations always accompanied by false and exaggerated statements of the general feeling of the country." "The people were told that all England was in arms, that Scotland was pouring forth hundreds of thousands of men, that Ireland was coming to the battle; and that the men of Birmingham, to the number of 100,000, armed with steel, and fearless of the force of the military, were ready to join them and carry
 1077 "If you bring forward force, by which you may control and overawe the Government,—and if you use it, or conspire to use it, you are guilty of treason—at all events a combined conspiracy to effect these objects is as high an offence as can be committed." "By the law of this country the crime of high treason is technically limited to an attempt on the life of the Sovereign, or to raising war on the Sovereign; but the judges have from the earliest times considered that a conspiracy to levy war, and to employ force to restrain the will of the Sovereign, is an overt
 1078 "Here is again a new doctrine. No assembly of the people is to be allowed. Every assembly of 2,000 or 3,000 of the people is an unlawful meeting." Duncombe: "An unlawful assembly is an assembly collected together for some illegal object; and in case it exhibits by its acts and conduct some improper design, or excites alarm among the well-disposed subjects of the Queen, it is a riotous assembly." "A great deal had been said at different times as to what should be considered an unlawful assembly." "An unlawful assembly is an assembly collected together for some illegal object." "A great deal has been said at different times as to what should be considered an un-lawful assembly; and I am sorry to say, that
 1079 "Now let us separate; let one portion go to one place and stop labour there, and others to another quarter, and restrain labour there." "Will any person in his senses say, that when a man assembles together 3,000 or 4,000 individuals, be does so to form a deliberative assembly, to discuss speculative points either of law or government? Such a profession would carry with it its own refutation. If, therefore, an assembly consists of such multitudes as to render all notion of serious debate impossible—or, if you find that at such an assembly all attempts at debate are put down, and that the only object of the parties is to hear one side, the meeting ceases to be an assembly for deliberation, and cannot protect itself under that pretension." "Again (the noble and learned Lord continued), assemblies of such magnitude, without a president, or any one empowered and able to restrain and dissolve them, must lead, as every one will see, to alarm, and terror, and to the disturbance of the peace. Such assemblies are in themselves unlawful; and if their conduct occasions a breach of the peace"—["Hear, hear."] 1080 "If you, Gentlemen, find individuals among those assemblies who, by their conduct, manifest intentions of violence and mischief, and proceed to the extent of committing outrages on property, and preventing the free employment of labour, those men are rioters in the worst sense of the word. It will be your duty to find bills against all persons proved to be concerned in such proceedings." "They show by the example of their own conduct, by the violation of the law by which they live, how little calculated they are to compose a Legislature like that which they aim at as the result of the Charter. The consequence of the success of their endeavours would be, not a reform of Parliament, but a subversion of the Government; because everybody who reflects on such things, knows that the establishment of any popular assembly entirely devoted to democratic principles, and elected by persons the vast majority of whom possess no property, but live by means of manual labour, would be inconsistent with the existence of the monarchy and the aristocracy." 1081 T. Duncombe
 The Attorney-General was  obliged by the information, because his own impression as to what passed was entirely the other way. He had no recollection whatever of any part of the conduct of Lord Abinger that had excited from the prisoners and the spectators any of those emotions or feelings which the hon. Member had described. He felt this part of the hon. Member's charge somewhat personally, for he could not conceive how it was possible that counsel could have allowed case after case to go on with the judge conducting himself with the violence imputed, unless they themselves had participated in the conduct which was now made the subject matter of charge against the noble and learned Lord. The hon. Member had stated, that the parties under prosecution had not had the benefit of counsel on their trials. Now, he believed he was correct in his recollection when he said that there was no case tried at Liverpool in which counsel did not appear for some one or other of the prisoners, and that at Chester counsel appeared nearly for all. It was perhaps the same Gentleman, and he believed, if the hon. Member would refer to him, he would find that both from the bench and the bar he received every courtesy and assistance. There was one part of the summing-up of the noble and learned judge which he could not go to the length of the hon. Member in condemning. The prosecution, be it remembered, was for very inflammatory language held in a tumultuous assembly. In the course of that language the name of the Sovereign had been introduced coupled with remarks upon the expenses of royalty, and a statement that those expenses were so much encroachment upon the interests and comforts of the poor. Now, he thought Lord Abinger was perfectly right in instantly correcting the erroneous views of the misguided persons to whom such language had been addressed. The noble and learned Lord in his summing-up stated only that which was matter of history, and perfectly true, namely, that the Crown had formerly very large possessions wholly independent of grants from Parliament, and of which the Crown had made concessions to the State. If those had been retained, he believed the hon. Member for the University of
 1083 1084 1085 T. Duncombe: 1086 "They deeply deplored and regretted the degraded and distressed condition of their fellow-subjects in many parts of the kingdom." "The persons convicted before a just judge and an honest jury of any real crime connected with the lamentable outbreak should receive such punishment only as was proportionate to the wrongs proved to have been thereby inflicted upon society." "The benefit of fair and impartial trials had not been afforded to the parties charged at the special commissions at Chester and Lancaster, that the trials had been hastened on at a time
 1087 "James Scarlett, Baron Abinger, Chief Baron of the Court of Exchequer, had delivered certain charges which were improper, of a political tendency, and calculated to exasperate and influence the minds of the jury." 1088
 Mr. James S. Worthy  was surprised that his hon. and learned Friend had entered upon this discussion without having read the charge complained of. [Mr. Sergeant  Murphy 1100 "And this brings me to the next assertion and position, which I own as a most certain truth and positive assurance, that the people (under God) is the original of all just power; and that, let the Government run out into what form it will, monarchy, aristocracy, or
 1101 1102 "Government ought not to support such a motion without having themselves instituted some preliminary investigation, and been prepared to say that there was a fit occasion for following it up by an address to the Crown." "They might declaim as much as they pleased about the independence of the judges, but unless they had confidence in the protection of the Government, how could they discharge their functions." 1103 "That he would not then enter into the question which was discussed last year, as to how far political topics were or were not admissible into such addresses from the bench, than simply to record his dissent from the position taken up by the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin on that subject, on the ground that if the offences in the calendar, or the state of crime generally throughout the country, were plainly of an insurrectionary tendency, a judge would fail in the duty he owed to society were he not to advert to such topics—in doing so he would be not only exercising a privilege, but discharging a solemn and imperative duty." 1104 1105 1106 "I must say, gentlemen, that if these conspiracies, having such purposes in view, had been made the subject of prosecutions for high treason, the consequences might have been serious, indeed, to the parties concerned. I am at a loss to know what distinction there is between a conspiracy to subvert the Government, and impose force and restraint on all the branches of the Legislature, on purpose to have a particular measure passed into law, and the crime of high treason. By the ancient law of this country, the crime of high treason is technically limited to imagining or compassing the death of the Sovereign, or to levying war on the Sovereign: but the judges have, from the earliest times, considered that a conspiracy to levy war, and to employ force to restrain the will of the Sovereign, an overt act of high treason; and, if satisfactorily proved, sufficient to justify a jury, when combined with the intention of really imposing restraint on the Sovereign, in finding it to be high treason." "An unlawful assembly is an assembly collected together for some illegal object; and in case it exhibits by its acts and conduct some improper design, or excites alarm among the well-disposed subjects of the Queen, it is a riotous assembly; and all persons forming part of such assemblies, and countenancing by their presence their objects, must be taken, unless they can show that they were present innocently and honestly, as participators in a misdemeanour. "A great deal has been said at different times, as to what should be considered an unlawful assembly; and, I am sorry to say, that what has taken place in this county has given
 1107 1108 s s "Q.—Is yours a cotton mill?— A. A. Q. A. l Q. 1 A. Q. A, s s s s s l A. Q A. Q. A. Q. A. 1109 s s s "Throughout a great part of my district there was a suspension of all work for a long time, by the riotous proceedings into which so many of the workpeople were betrayed: to these, however, it is unnecessary for me to advert farther, as I can give no information of which you must not have been long since in possession," "Setting aside all other considerations, and placing the necessity of adequate means of education being provided on no higher ground than as a question of public policy, it is obvious that something effective ought to be done without loss of time; and in the circumstances of the district, the most advisable thing appears to be, to establish National Schools, and those conducted on the system of the British and Foreign School Society; and I have no doubt that excellent local committees could be formed for the management of both. Such institutions for the benefit of their children would be evidence to the humbler classes of friendly dispositions and kind sympathy in those above them; feelings of alienation between the employer and employed would be checked, and the just influence of property and education would be strengthened. That people so uneducated are in perpetual danger of being led into wrong courses by designing persons, who, for selfish purposes, work upon their prejudices and passions, has been strikingly proved by recent events. It was in this district that the late outrages began; it was here that, in 1839, agitators found ready listeners to the most fallacious and mischievous doctrines; and if it be left in the state it now is, every year will produce a fresh crop of ignorant and excitable young men and young women, similar to those who constituted a large majority of the late mobs. Had these misguided persons been better attended to by their superiors (and by "superiors" I do not mean their employers only, but use the term in a far wider sense),
 1110 Examiner "Let us now see Mr. Justice Cresswell at the special assizes for the trial of men implicated in the late disturbances. But before we look at his sentences, let us mark those of the other judges in the same district, and dealing with the same class of offences. " We take the report of the Chester trials in  The Times "With one exception, Lord Abinger's punishments ranged from eighteen months to three months imprisonment. Mr. Baron Alderson's punishment did not exceed two years imprisonment. Mr. Justice Cresswell's minimum was the maximum of Mr. Baron Alderson, and from two years imprisonment up to transportation for ten years, and even for life," 1111 1112 Edinburgh Review "We have adduced sufficient evidence to show the extreme misery under which the people were suffering. It was in these circumstances that alarm was taken by the working classes at the resolution of some manufacturers still further to lower wages already lamentably depressed. The effect was very soon and very extensively felt; the workmen combined to resist the alteration; the combination spread; a determined resolution was shown to compel the employers to submit, by forcibly stopping the factories; vast assemblages of men were brought together for this purpose: proceedings not more illegal than they were absurd, ensued, adding greatly to the distress from which they originated; the Chartists endeavoured, with more or less success, to give this movement a revolutionary tendency; the laws were violated, great towns were taken and left in possession of irresponsible multitudes, and the whole social system seemed to be endangered. This state of things was not, however, of any long duration. The authorities, both civil and military, acted with effect, but with a temper and moderation above all praise. The administration of the law by Lord Denman, by Chief Justice Tindal, and their colleagues Barons Parke and Rolfe, displayed all the highest attributes of the judicial character—calmness, temper, firmness, impartiality: no false indulgence for crime, but a natural, and therefore a just, sympathy for suffering. The proceedings of the special commission were as successful as they were honourable to the venerable judges whom we have taken the liberty of naming, and order has been completely restored."
 Mr. Scarlett  had one word to add as to the accuracy of what Lord Abinger had published. He might state that he knew that what was published in the pamphlet was taken from  The Times,
 Lord Eliot  then moved for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws relating to pawn-broking in Ireland. The noble Lord stated that the bill was partly founded upon the report of a committee of the House, which had sat in 1838 upon the subject.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Gentleman had ably fulfilled an appropriate duty, in defending the noble and learned Judge whose conduct had been brought into question. The part which he (Lord John Russell) had to perform was not so agreeable; but he felt it necessary to address the House more in reference to the tone of unqualified panegyric which had been adopted by the Attorney-General, and by the two hon. and learned Gentlemen who followed him. He would say at once, that he had no doubt as to the vote which he should give on this occasion. Without entering into the point, as to the period at which the independence of the judges might be dated—an hon. Gentleman had talked of the 1st George 3rd., he considered it to have been a maxim of the constitution as far back as the Revolution—but however this might be, he regarded the independence of the judges to be so sacred, that nothing but the most imperious necessity should induce the House to adopt a course which might, by any means, imply that the judges were to depend for the future, not on the sanction of an act of Parliament, not on that tenure which had protected them so long as they were not guilty of any crime, but on the particular views of a particular portion of their fellow-countrymen. He did not feel that the objection to giving a vote in favour of the hon. Gentleman was at all diminished by his proposition that the vote should be only one of inquiry—that evidence should be taken as to the language used by Lord Abinger during the special commission. The question was, whether, if they agreed with the hon. Gentleman's proposition, justice would not
 1125 1126 "Persons who for their own purposes have endeavoured to prevent the people from returning to their work, and sought so to direct them that they might, by the suspension of all labour, be conducive to the attainment of political objects." 1127 "And what is the object of the Charter which these people are seeking? What are the points of the Charter? Annual Parliaments, universal suffrage, and vote by ballot. Yes, gentlemen, you will find by the evidence which will be produced before you, that it has been inculcated upon many misguided persons that the sovereign remedy for all abuses, and the only means of putting themselves in possession of such a share of power as would enable them to vindicate their own rights, and secure themselves against oppression, is by the enactment of what they call the People's Charter." "What, then, would be the state of any country if multitudes were to make the laws for regulating property, or were permitted to employ physical force to restrain individuals from employing their own labour, according to their own judgment, for procuring their own subsistence." 1128
 Mr. Ross , after observing that if at that stage of the debate he rose to offer one or two remarks, it was only in consequence of the absence at that moment of hon. and learned Gentlemen better qualified to sustain the motion of his hon. Friend, proceeded thus: "I think a great deal of what has been advanced by the hon. and learned Gentleman might well have been spared, and particularly the closing appeal, which was nothing but an ' argumentum ad misericordiam.' facie 1089
 Mr. Cardwell.  He regretted much to have heard the speech of his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down, and as he had been an unworthy member of the bar who was present on the occasion and had seen the conduct of the noble Lord throughout the whole of the time which had been so frequently alluded to, he offered himself as a witness to the House. He would prophesy the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury would not be granted; but he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not imagine that any identification of political opinion between him and the noble Lord would induce him to get up in his place and give false testimony. He trusted that he had sufficient regard for the profession to which he had the honour to belong to be very sensitive as to the truth of any charge which might be brought against it, and he could assure the House that he would have been more than ordinarily sensitive if he had heard one of the lights of that profession giving expression to sentiments which with truth might have been distorted in the manner they had been that night. As to the occasion on which the noble Lord was charged with having told a prisoner that Government had dealt too leniently with him, and he would have been happy to have passed a more severe sentence, was there anything particular in that? Was it not a frequent occurrence for a judge to tell a prisoner that he might think himself fortunate that the predicament in which he stood was not of a much more serious nature, which only happened because of
 1136
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  said, there was no one who more willingly admitted the unwearing attention of the noble and learned Lord, or more admired his spirit, his acquirements, and his genius; it was, perhaps, on this account, that the weight of his example, when he brought his talents to the bench, was more likely to influence the individuals coming after him. It had been stated by his learned Friend the Attorney-general, that at the period of these charges, the country was convulsed from one end to the other, that the minds of men were deeply alarmed at the riot and rapine reigning around them, and that the symptoms of the times required the peculiar interposition of the law. It. was surely most important, therefore, in the position of the noble and learned Lord, that he should be most guarded in his statements, and he must contend that a
 1096 1097 1098 1099
 Mr. Thesiger  said, that after the able defence of the Lord Chief Baron which the House had just heard from his hon. and learned Friend, he did not think that he ought to trouble the House at any very great length. With the utmost respect and esteem for the noble and learned Lord, he must say that he was thoroughly convinced that there was not the slightest foundation for the attack which had been made on his judicial character, and he felt so strongly the inconvenience and detri-
 1090 1091 "At the same time we cannot reflect on the occurrences which have recently taken place in the manufacturing districts without mixed emotions of compassion, and, if I may so say, indignation—compassion at the weakness and ignorance of those deluded multitudes who imagined they could effect the purposes they had in view by force and violence, and who, as they never fail to do, become the victims of their own delusion, and suffer misery and privation, and many of them punishment." "I stated just now that we cannot view without emotions of compassion the situation of the industrious classes, who, not having a competent knowledge to form a judgment of their own as to the principles or the rights of property, or upon the questions in which their own prosperity is involved, imagine they can by force and violence dictate terms to their
 1092 "I cannot conclude, (he said), without repeating my expression of compassion for the unhappy people who have acted under the delusion I have referred to. But, gentlemen, the law takes no account of such delusions; and if a man commits guilty acts he must be prepared to submit to the consequences of his conduct." 1093 1094 1095
 Mr. Wallace  wished to understand whether the House were not to expect the statement until after the 5th of April.
 Mr. Wallace  could not help feeling that the hon. Member who had just sat down had made rather a singular use of the indulgence which the House was in the habit of extending to new Members, he said this as an old Member of the House, although he had only had a seat in it for the last ten or eleven years. It appeared to him that the hon. Member had totally forgotten that they had discussed the distresses of the country for five consecutive nights last week, and that he (Mr. Wallace) had also a motion on the distress of the country yet to come on; for the hon. Member had gone over great part of the ground of the speeches which had been and were to be made on this subject. With regard to the charges made by Lord Abinger whilst on the special commission, he had seen it his duty to purchase the book of the noble and learned Lord, and not to trust to reports of newspapers at all, but to trust to the learned Lord's own shilling's worth.  [Cries of " Examiner. Examiner 1117 1118 "The question for consideration is, is the panel guilty of sedition, or is he not? Before this question be answered, two things require noting; the first is this, that the British constitution is the best that ever was since the creation of the world." "That is the first thing;" (and the learned judge then advanced this rather stronger assertion)—"and the second is, that it is not possible to make it better; for is not every man secure, is not every man reaping the fruits of his own industry, and sitting safely under the shade of his own fig-tree? "As Mr. Muir has brought many witnesses to prove his general good behaviour, and his recommending peaceable measures and petitions to Parliament, it is your business to judge how far this should operate in his favour in opposition to the evidence on the other side. Mr. Muir might have known that no attention could be paid to such a rabble. What right had they to representation? He could have told them that Parliament would never listen to their petition. How could they think of it: a government in every country should be just like a corporation, and in this country it is made up of the landed interest, which alone has a right to be represented; as for the rab-
 1119 1120
 Mr. Wallace  wished that some measure could be introduced with reference to the subject, applying to the United Kingdom generally.
 Mr. Wallace  seeing the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury in his place, wished to put a question to him with respect to the proceedings he meant to adopt relative to the commerce and finances of the country. On the 4th of March last year, the right hon. Baronet told the House that as soon as he had got a vote of supply he would state the course he meant to adopt as to his commercial and financial measures, and on the 12th March he laid his interesting statement before the House. He represented a large and important community, which had a great stake in commerce, and he wished to inquire whe-
 1037
 Mr. Duncombe , in reply, said, he had listened attentively to hear whether anything might fall from those opposed to the motion which should induce him to withdraw it. He was bound to say, he had heard nothing which should prevent him in the performance of his duty to the public from taking the sense of the House as to whether there should be inquiry into the conduct of this judge. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department said, it would ill become him to be the fulsome panegyrist of Lord Abinger, and he immediately followed up the declaration by pronouncing the warmest and most fulsome panegyric that had been delivered on the whole conduct of the noble Lord. The hon. Member for Horsham complained that he (Mr. Duncombe) had
 1137 "The last time I addressed you from these hustings, I remember I had a wish to know who represented the borough of Cockermouth, and, except the returning officer, no man could tell me; and who now represents that borough? [A voice: Scarlett]. Ay; and sorry I am to hear him named in that way, for he was once a valued friend, I am glad, said Mr. Duncombe, he is restored to that honour. Yes; the ex-Attorney-general, a recreant Whig, a follower of Fox, a nominee of Earl Fitzwilliam, a man honoured and respected until he began to wage (an infamous) war with the press—he, I say, has been obliged to fly from the indignation of the people, and seek refuge in Cockermouth under the wing of my Lord Lonsdale. He has crept into the House of Commons through the postern-gate, of which a reverend vicar, now on these hustings, keeps the key. He has skulked from the offended majesty of the people, and is to be found the representative of those burgage tenures for which the late Mr. Satherthwaite showed so much fondness—[a voice in the crowd: 'How do you like that, my Lord?']" "And I say now," said Mr. Duncombe, "how do you like that, my Lord?" When the right hon. Baronet said, it would ill
 1138 Times  Manchester Guardian,  Times Manchester Guardian Times, S. Wortley 1139 1140
 [Mr. T. Duncombe  observed that Lord Abinger's name was not mentioned.] No; nor were the names of Mr. Baron Alderson nor Mr. Justice Cresswell mentioned, who had been sent to try the cases at Liverpool; and for what reasons the writer best knew. But the facts to which the writer alluded could have reference only to Lancashire, and it was clear that he had in his view the commission in that county as well as that in Staffordshire. There was only one other point to which he would direct the attention of the House. He could understand the false impression conveyed by the writer of the letter which was read by the hon. Member. The Lord Chief Baron, no doubt, was occasionally liable to some little irritation of manner, caused, perhaps, by acute suffering such as he was known to labour under. And it had happened that pain had been given to himself, which he was satisfied was least intended. He had, on more than one occasion, been witness to some slight manifestation of this
 1113 "You have all been convicted, either by the verdict of a jury, or by your own confession, of very serious offences—in the first place, of interfering with the rights of individuals and property; and in the second place, with committing acts of riot connected with those transactions. Most of you have been convicted of both; and I believe only one who stands before me has been convicted of riot only. It is quite plain, that you have lent yourselves in a most mean and abject manner, as it seems to me to be the instruments of persons who are much worse than yourselves, who have put you forward to bear the brunt of this accusation. If you had a proper spirit, and feelings like Englishmen, as you profess to be, and boast that you are, you would have resisted the force used upon you, and told those who incited you to work this mischief, that you would not lend yourselves to their purposes. The law has not yet got possession of any of those who appear to have originated this transaction. There are some, even at a distance, it appears, who have influence enough to induce you to prefer subscribing from your
 1114 1115 "Jonathan Frost, William Holroyd, George Gill Whitwell, Samuel Tillotson, Samuel Holroyd, Thomas Lightfoot, Matthew Castle, and Richard Boardley, was next called up. The learned Judge said, they each of them stood convicted of taking part in those riots, and they were all of them persons who had used considerable violence. The offence was one of a shameful and cruel description, because it deprived a man of his bread, while on the other hand no one was a gainer. It was a system of the most mischievous and injurious description that could well be devised, but when it was connected with personal violence, it became an offence of a very serious character. Many of them had had good characters given them, and he was sorry to see persons, such as they appeared to be, in the Situation in which they then stood. The sentence of the Court was, that each of them be imprisoned and kept to hard labour for six calendar months. Broadley offered to enter into his own recognizances, and to find one surety of 20 l 1116
 Mr. T. Duncombe:   From  The Times Manchester Guardian, The 1082 Times Manchester Guardian.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said he rose in pursuance of the notice he had given, and in compliance with the wishes of large bodies of his countrymen expressed to him, to discharge a painful public duty, by calling the attention of that House to the manner in which the Lord Chief Baron Abinger discharged his duty as a judge during the late special commission issued for the counties of Lancashire and Cheshire. In asking the attention of the House to this subject, he did not prefer any claim on his own account, but he implored it on the part of millions of the unprotected, unenfranchised poor among their fellow-subjects. He was satisfied he should not make this appeal in vain, especially when he considered that in former days, if there was one subject more than another on which the House of Commons
 1038 1039 Times, "Speaking constitutionally, this was not the voice of an individual—it is not even simply the voice of one in authority—it is the voice of the common law of England." Times, "We must guard ourselves from being sup posed to express an unqualified opinion of all that Lord Abinger has said or done in the performances of his trying office. We are inclined to regret the severity of some of those punishments with which he has visited many of the subordinates in this ill-judged and ill-fated rising. We regret that acts, scarcely amounting to tumultous begging, and with no proof of violence, should in these excited times have been visited with transportation, which, as robbery, has been awarded." Morning Chronicle. [Here Sir Robert Peel smiled.] Morning Chronicle, Times. Morning Chronicle "If the sentiments attributed to Lord Abinger in reports of his previous charges are objectionable, those attributed to him in this last charge are infinitely more so. Indeed, I we can hardly conceive it possible to cram a
 1040 Morning Herald "We doubt whether the mode of giving some of the matter contained in these charges publicity and circulation is very judicious and appropriate. His Lordship's charges at Chester and Liverpool do not read so judiciously as that of Sir Nicholas Tindal at Stafford; they occasionally travel out of the records before his Lordship and wander into the regions occupied by political controversialists: they aim at more than is perhaps strictly within the province of a charge to the grand jury, and discuss subjects which will not assist the noble judge's auditory in disposing of the bills brought before them. Lord Abinger's addresses are, in short, what are termed political charges. … 'Proper things in their proper places; is a homely adage; Chief Justice Tindal's charge is an admirable illustration of it; Lord Abinger's charges here and there offend against it… The Lord Chief Baron devoted but small portions of his addresses to an exposition of the law; he rushed at once into political considerations, indulged in disquisitions on the tenets of a kind of men called Chartists'—declaimed against democracy generally—declared the adoption of the Charter to be equivalent to the destruction of the monarchy—suggested that the Government was most lenient in not instituting indictments for high treason in many of the cases to be tried." Morning Advertiser "Lord Abinger is proving himself to be to the Tory Government what his Lordship appo-
 1041 Macclesfield Chronicle, "Lord Abinger delivered a lengthy charge to the grand jury at Liverpool, on (Monday, which, for bigotry and violence of language, far exceeded his former one. It was composed almost entirely of attacks upon the Anti-Corn-law League and the Chartists. This learned judge—this renegade Whig vents his Toryism in the most ignorant comments upon free-trade, and takes upon himself to be the guardian  par excellence 1042 1043 primâ facie "Whatever circumstances of palliation—whatever circumstances of justification, there may be, depend upon it this case cannot stand without inquiry and investigation." "It cannot so stand—it ought not so to stand; and the hon. and learned Gentleman who expresses such anxiety to support the due authority of the law, and the upright and fair administration of justice in Ireland, may believe me when I say—which I do most conscientiously, as from the bottom of my heart—that that authority, and that support are best given and best secured by taking care that, if possible, no doubtful cases shall occur, and that if they do occur, no attempt shall be made to prevent a full and public inquiry into them. Sir, it is with this view wishing to cast no imputation on Baron Smith, for whom I entertain the most unfeigned respect, still less desirous of doing anything to subvert the authority of the law, and least of all desirous of acceding to anything that might countenance agitation in Ireland, whether political or predial, and believing that the support of the law and the authority of justice may be best maintained by allowing a due exercise of contralto the public opinion and the public sentiment, by showing that in the British House of Commons the interests of Irish justice are not less attended to than the interests of English justice; I say, Sir, that it is with this view, and on this ground, that while I should resist any motion that tended to remove with ignominy this judge from the bench, at the same time I
 1044 primá facie "I say, that I have not that fear which the hon. Baronet (Sir E. Knatchbull) expresses, of subjecting the administration of justice to the caprice of a popular assembly. If the House of Commons wish to have all the statements brought before them, on which they should think a sufficient cause made out for instituting an inquiry, they should desire to be made more perfectly acquainted, not only with the facts that can be alleged on the one side, but with the justifications which may be tendered on the other, in order that they may be enabled to decide whether the matter be of that weight and importance which should lead them to take any ulterior steps." 1045 "It appears he wantonly delivered what must be considered a political party harangue—insulting to many of the grand jurymen who heard it, both with regard to politics and to religion. In England, no such practice prevails; and to avoid all temptation to the judge to become a partisan, it is considered inconsistent with etiquette that the bar should be present whilst he is delivering his charge. …. It is the duty of the judge to instruct the grand jury on the subject of the bills about to be brought before them, and not to enter into political matters, or make an harangue on doctrines and opinions, with respect to which many of the jurymen might think very differently from himself. It seems to me that if this practice were to obtain, a grand juryman might get up and answer my Lord Judge: he might say—'My Lord, I am of a different party in politics; I am of a different religion:' and I should like to see the judge who would have the hardihood to commit such a juryman. True, the judge might in answer say—'This is not a debating club, but a court of justice, and you must not reply upon the bench:' but might not the juryman, in return, inform his Lordship that he should have considered that before he made his inflammatory harangue? The hon. and learned Member for Dublin says, he is prepared to prove his case; and if it should be proved, I say that this judge ought no longer to remain in the seat of judgment. It is not proposed that we should immediately address the Crown to remove him; the result of the inquiry may be to prove that the hon. and learned Member is misinformed, and that there is no ground for the allegations which he has made. I earnestly pray that the learned judge may be honourably acquitted of the charge brought against him, if they be not well founded; and if that should be the result, he will return to Ireland in triumph, justified in the course he has pursued. It seems to me that, in justice to Mr. Baron Smith, we are imperatively called on to grant this inquiry." "I conceive that a motion for a select committee to inquire into the conduct of a judge is one which no Government should support." 1046 "Which no Government could support unless they have first made an investigation, and are prepared to say they think it a fit case to be followed up by an address for his dismissal. You may declaim about the independence of the judges; but if a judge whose honour and integrity are questioned, even though be should have committed an indiscretion which may make him the object of odium to a particular party, is not supported by the Government, he will not have the courage to do his duty. I venture to say that if this motion be carried, the judges in Ireland, if they have any independence, will all resign." "I hope that no Gentleman in the House will give his vote on this matter as if it were a party question. No man detests a political judge more than I do. No man, in my opinion, ought to be made a judge on account of his politics; at any rate he ought not to carry them with him on the bench." "Gentlemen—It has already been intimated that we conceive it to be no part of our province on this occasion to discuss the justice of the complaints made by the workmen against their employers. or to decide upon the merits of the dispute existing between them. Neither is it part of our duty to show by argument that the course pursued by the parties who thought themselves aggrieved was of all others the least calculated to accomplish—on the contrary, perhaps, the most likely to defeat—the very object which they wished to attain. Nor, again are we called upon to suggest or to discuss any remedies which may be provided by law for the prevention of similar mischiefs, if, unfortunately, at any future time the same ground of dispute should arise between masters and workmen—a discussion which is better fitted for a legislative assembly than for the Members of this tribunal, to whom the only duty allotted is that of declaring the law as it stands at present. Our direct and more useful course
 1047 "I do desire to press this upon your Lord ships, as an universal maxim, no more dangerous idea can creep into the mind of a judge than the imagination that he is wiser than the law. I confine this to no judge, whatever be his denomination, but extend it to all. Ingenious men may strain the law very far, but to pervert it—to new model it—the genius of our constitution says judges have no such authority, nor shall presume to exercise it!" 1048 animus "You will find that there is a society of persons who go by the name of Chartists, and who, if they have not excited or fomented those outrages which will be brought under your notice, have, nevertheless, taken advantage of them for their own purposes, have endeavoured to prevent the unfortunate people from returning to their work, and sought so to direct them that they might be conducive to the attainment of political objects. And what is the object of the Charier, which these men are seeking? What are the points of the Charter? Annual Parliaments, Universal Suffrage, and vote by Ballot. Yet, Gentlemen, you will find, by the evidence which will be produced before you, that it has been inculcated upon many misguided persons that the sovereign remedy for all abuses, and the only means of putting themselves in possession of such a share of power as would enable them to vindicate their own rights and secure themselves against oppression, is by the enactment of what they call the People's Charter." "What a strange effect, then, would the establishment of a system of universal suffrage produce! for under it every man, though possessing no property, would have a voice in the choice of the representation of the people. The necessary consequences of this system would be, that those who have no property would make laws for those who have property, and the destruction of the monarchy and aritocracy must necessarily ensue." "In the different states of America there are pure democratic associations, elected by universal suffrage and vote by ballot; and some of these states have recently exhibited the regard paid to property by democratic assemblies, by having protested against paying the public creditor, and disregarded their own obligation to obey their own law made for his security. If such a system of democracy were established in England, the first consequence would be, that the security of property would
 1049 Times "Much has been said of the privations to which the working classes have been reduced,
 1050 "It seems that a society of persons, who are recognised by the title of Chartist, have endeavoured to persuade them that the true remedy for all their grievances, was the adoption of what they call, the Charter, which appears to be principally aimed at a larger Reform of Parliament than has already been adopted; and, in defiance of the promises, and no doubt the sincere hopes, of those patriots who introduced and carried the late Reform of Parliament, that it was to be a final, efficacious, and satisfactory measure of reform, these infatuated persons—for they also must be infatuated—have formed an opinion, grounded on what foundations I know not, that a representation created by universal suffrage and vote by ballot, together with the payment of Members of Parliament, would be a panacea for all evils, and endeavour to inculcate these doctrines on the assembled multitudes they addressed; and to persuade them that to perpetuate the insurrection against their masters, and to make it universal, was the best means of getting the Charter. They mixed up with their orations many affected recommendations to peace and order; but, gentlemen, you will find these recommendations always accompanied by false and exaggerated statements of the general feeling of the country. I must say, gentlemen, that if these conspiracies, having such purposes in view, had been made the subject of prosecutions for high treason, the consequences might have been serious indeed to the parties concerned. I am at a loss to know what distinction there is between a conspiracy to subvert the Government, and impose force and restraint on all the branches of legislature on purpose to have a particular measure passed into law, and the crime of high treason." "I do not understand that the Government intend to push the indictment to that extent, and these people owe it to the lenity of the Government that they are not put in a position hazardous to their lives." 1051 "A great deal has been said at different times as to what should be considered an unlawful assembly; and, I am sorry to say, that what has taken place in this country has given rise to discussion on the point, both in courts of law and in Parliament. But one thing is clear—that an assembly consisting of such multitudes as to make all discussion and debate ridiculous and a farce never can be assembled for the purpose of deliberate and calm discussion. Will any person in his senses say that when a man assembles together 3,000 or 4,000 individuals, he does so to form a deliberative assembly, to discuss speculative points either of law or government. Such a profession would carry with it its own refutation. If, therefore, an assembly consists of such multitudes as to render all notion of serious" debate impossible; or, if you find that at such an assembly all attempts at debate are put down, and that the only object of the parties is to bear one side, the meeting ceases to be an assembly for deliberation, and cannot protect itself under that pretension". "The consequence of the success of their endeavours would be, not a reform of Parliament, bat a subversion of the Government; because everybody who reflects on such things knows that the establishment of any popular assembly entirely devoted to democratic principles, and elected by persons the vast majo-
 1052 "I have not seen the Charter, and hardly know what is meant by a 'Chartist.' I hear of its points and articles, and I learn from the newspapers that Chartists carry their views beyond the Reform Act established by Lord Grey's Government. Among the articles spoken of are universal suffrage, vote by ballot, annual parliaments, and no property qualification; with respect to these I do not agree with the Chartists; but upon these subjects their opinions are entertained by many Members of Parliament of undoubted respectability and integrity, and of considerable talent, and if it be true what I have heard on the Subject—the names of many are attached to a document, the avowed object of which is to frame what is called the Charter of the People, by expounding their principles on these points. Gentlemen, I have abstained from mentioning any name unconnected with the cause, from uttering any observation which could give offence to any One who is absent, or using my privilege—I ought to say my duty—so as to create any feeling of pain or uneasiuess to any one absent, and I am sure I shall full fill the duty which I owe to Mr. Frost better and more to his entire satisfaction, if I refrain from making any one remark which could create a moment's pain with respect to any past conduct or transaction. These Chartists, however, gentlemen, it must be admitted, stand at present in relation to the present constitution as it was established in 1832, just as
 1053 "And, however, I may differ from those who are called Chartists in opinion, I must do them the justice to say, that Chartism so far is not treason, nor the assertion, the public assertion of it, rebellion; and I must go further and say, that although I trust I shall never live to see the day, and I trust that nobody in whom I take any interest will live to see the day, fatal as I think it will be to the happiness, the prosperity, and the well-being of this country, when these principles shall be established; yet I must say, that if it be the confirmed opinion, at any time, if the large mass of the intelligence and numbers, if the strength and sinews of the country, and the intelligence which controls that strength, shall finally determine to adopt the Chartist code, doubtless, gentlemen, it will be adopted, and mere wealth would, in my opinion, struggle against it in vain." 1054 "It would not be necessary to go at length through the whole body of evidence which had been presented to them. The question for the jury to decide was—first, whether that evidence went to prove the existence of a conspiracy; and, secondly, whether it identified the prisoners as connected with it. The aim of Chartist meetings he (the learned judge) considered, was to produce a general suspension of labour, in order, that by so doing, they might facilitate an organic change in the constitution of the country. All changes in the constitution, even from worse to better, were to be deprecated if effected by force and violence. He did not mean to say that men were set
 1055 "To have a vote for our representatives, or allow their Members to sit without a property qualification." "Or, sitting, to receive a salary for their Parliamentary services. But even if the Commons should consent, the Lords would, to the last, resist the destruction of their own privileges." 1056 "To fasten the mill-stone of prejudice round the necks of those persons in order the more effectually to sink them." "Finally, was it to be expected that the Sovereign would, without force or violence, consent to the changes proposed by the Charter?" "The calling together of several thousand persons to discuss political rights was itself a farce, the object of the demagogues being invariably not to reason with, but to inflame the mob. He had always thought that a meeting, consisting of several thousand persons, must in its very nature, be illegal, because it was absolutely impossible that at such meetings there could be anything like discussion, and, therefore, for a man to say, I called together 5,000 or 6,000 persons for the purpose of political discussion, was in effect to say, that I called them together to inflame their passions." "The jury here interrupted his Lordship, and intimated that as their minds were already made up as to their verdict, they would not trouble him with going through the evidence." "He would only then trouble them with one observation, in reference to a statement of one of the prisoners, that the Queen lived upon the
 1057 l l. "The learned Chief Baron in addressing the
 1058 1059 1060 "Returned a verdict of guilty against the prisoners; but the foreman said they recommended Platt to mercy. The judge then asked the foreman, who did not appear to be very intelligent, what grounds he had for the recommendation, when, amidst much laughter, he replied, that, from the prisoners" own discourse, he did not appear to have been among the mob at all, but in other places. His Lordship told the foreman, that if the jury did not believe the prisoners were in the mob, that this disbelief entitled them to a verdict of acquittal, and not to a recommendation to mercy. He added, that, for his own part, he could see no doubt in the matter." 1061 "James Kelly, Andrew Cosgrove, and James Dolan, were charged with having, on Tuesday, the 9th of August, unlawfully, tumultously, and riotously assembled together, and feloniously demolished the mill and premises of Messrs. Stirling and Becton, in Lower Mosley-street. The prisoners pleaded not guilty. Mr. Wilkins said he appeared for Cosgrove: but the Attorney-general stated to the jury that he should not press the charge against him, as he found that the allegations consisted of an expression used by him, which did not legitimately bear the construction put upon it by the police-officers." " The foreman again manifested the calibre of his intelligence by saying that they found Cosgrove guilty also, after the declaration by the Attorney-general, in his address to the jury, that he should not press the charge against him! After the verdict had been recorded, his Lordship ordered Superintendent Stephenson to be recalled. On entering the witness-box he was asked to describe the state of Manchester on the day when the above offence was committed by the prisoners. He did so, and said that there were upwards of 10,000 persons assembled. Lord Abinger: What was their object?—Witness: A large number of persons came from other towns; and they went from mill to mill, and compelled the men to leave work. Those who did so joined the turn-outs, and they continued the attacks. Lord Abinger: Just so. I shall pass sentence upon these men now. The prisoners being ordered to stand up, his Lordship, addressing them, said, You have been convicted by a jury of your country of a very grave and serious offence." 1062 "Surely you have heard, or ought to have heard, that it is the peculiar blessing of the constitution of England, that there is no country in the world in which there is such ample security for personal liberty, and for the property of individuals. But if what you have been doing should be tolerated, of what avail would be the law? Of what use, I ask, would be the making of laws, if such rabble as yourselves should presume to usurp that authority, and to compel your fellow workmen to abandon their industrious employment? The law is a law of great leniency and great forbearance. It does not inflict penalties upon a man who quits his employment, and wanders about in idleness." "His Lordship, after addressing the prisoners in similar language to that applied to Kelly and another, on the previous day, sentenced them to be transported for the term of seven years. The moment the sentence was uttered, the mothers of the unfortunate young men uttered the most piercing shrieks, and earnestly implored his Lordship for mercy, in which the prisoners joined, saying they had never been guilty of any offence before. They were then removed from the dock, but it was some time before order was restored in the court." "The learned judge immediately passed sentence; and, after commenting upon the liberal wages paid by Mr. Morris, and the fact of there having been no reduction in wages for three years past, and the further fact that the men employed by him were unwilling to leave their employment, ordered each of them to be imprisoned and kept to hard labour for one year. His Lordship expressed his regret that he was not empowered to inflict a heavier punishment." 1063 "Messrs.—were present at the trials, and will come forward and give an account of the manner of Lord Abinger while passing sentence and summing up; they describe his manner and appearance as barely human, and that at the mention of the ' Charter,' he appeared to lose all self-command, grinning most demoniacally; and as proof of his antipathy to those who advocated Chartism, two men from a place called Dunkinfield, near Ashton, stated they were not Chartists; one of whom said he never allowed the Charter to be mentioned in his house. In answer to this set off, Lord Abinger, smiling, stated he should consider their case!' Since then a memorial has been sent to the Secretary of State, and they have been liberated, though they were charged with the same offence several others who are now suffering the extreme of human misery; their names are Turner and Fenton. Fairhurst was convicted of the same offence; his friends sent a memorial to the Queen, signed by most of the influential men in the neighbourhood of Mottram, together with several magistrates, praying for a mitigation of his sentence, which has been refused, whilst the other two, who disclaimed Chartism, were released. The whole affair is so altogether so disgusting that I will not insult you by offering any remarks upon it. The facts—the damning facts—speak for themselves." "I am prepared (if necessary) to make oath of the truth of the following statement relating to the treatment of Robert Wilde, &c., in Knutsford House of Correction. 1. That Robert Wilde told me that he and the others who
 1064 "Dear Wife—I write in hopes these few lines may find you and my dear child, my father and mother in good health, likewise my sister Martha, as they leave me in but moderately good at present, as I have suffered lately a little from indigestion; your visit gave me great pleasure, particularly when you told me that the master and manager had behaved so well to you in my absence, for which you must give them my thanks. "Dear wife, I wish to give you a little advice how you should act in getting up the memorial to her Majesty, in order to get my term of imprisonment shortened; first, then, I must show you where the evidence against me was defective, nay, even false. They swore that I spoke at the meeting, on the 7th of August last, of which scores can testify to the contrary. Secondly, they swore that I did, on August 12th, state that I had been to Mr. Dalton's, and had asked a donation, he.
 1065 "I wish you to give my best respects to the manager, overlooker, and all my old shopmates, hoping they will give their assistance, and all my friends in villages around you. "I shall be very happy to see you the first Monday of April, or my sister Martha, or any of my friends or acquaintances; if you come bring the child with you. "I hope you will keep up your spirits, as your unfortunate husband has done nothing that he or you need be ashamed of. Write in answer soon, and give me all the information you can.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  meant to support the motion for an inquiry. The main question at issue was whether the charges of Lord Abinger had not tended to raise up a prejudice against the persons to be tried. If he found that a judge entered, in his charges, into the discussion of political matters, he must say, that he felt little disposed to respect that judge's impartiality. In his opinion the charges were those of a political partizan, and could not be justified. The punishments inflicted by Lord Abinger were of a severe description. Gentlemen spoke of impri-
 1134
 Mr. Watson  could not give a silent vote on the present occasion, as he intended to give it in support of the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. He would do so, for a very short and simple reason, drawn from a former speech of the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire in the case of Baron Smith. The' noble Lord on that occasion, said:—
 "We impute no motives—we do not condemn Baron Smith. We merely say that there is a  primà facie 1135
 Sir James Graham : I am exceedingly glad that when I rose previously in 'the course of this debate, I gave way to the hon. and learned Member
 1129 1130 1131 1132 1133
 Mr. Scarlett and Sir J. Graham  rose together, but the former being called for, proceeded to address the House to the following effect:—It would ill become me to offer many observations to the House on the present occasion; but I own I should be mortified if I were not allowed to overcome my usual indisposition to address the House, and to take rank, however humble, amongst the defenders of a person so nearly
 1121 1122 1123 "His Lordship directed the juries to bring men in guilty whether or not, telling them that it was absolutely their duty to decide against prisoners when there was a preponderating amount of evidence in their favour." "His Lordship also told them that it was the purpose of the prisoners to plunder society, and to rob the very jury themselves;" "Others had been convicted for looking on; and some of them for playing in the marketplaces were sentenced to six or seven months imprisonment by the cruel Judge Abinger." "Unparalleled case of tyranny, and it was necessary to adopt the petition in order to operate on the minds of other judges during the forthcoming assizes." "The fate of every patriot would be such as had befallen the unfortunate Emmett in the sister country, who was mocked in the hour of death, and brutally murdered in cold blood by judicial villainy and rascality." "Would they sit still and see every patriot victimized by a man whose mind was as blind as his eye." (Cries of 'Oh?  "The petition was adopted, and it was ordered to be signed by the chairman in behalf of the meeting, and forwarded to Mr. T. Duncombe, M.P., for presentation to the House of Commons. A collection having been made Mr. Davis, of Hawick, delivered his lecture on the principles of Chartism, after which the meeting separated." 1124 Neque vitia, neque remedia pati possumus"
 Sir R. Peel : Certainly not till after the 5th of April—quarter-day.
 Sir R. Peel  apprehended that the question which the hon. Gentleman had asked him, and of which he had been good enough to give notice, in substance meant, at what time her Majesty's Government would bring forward their financial statement, or budget, for the year. He could only state generally, that at as early a period as was possible, her Majesty's Government would submit to the House their views as to the financial condition of the country, and, of course, its bearing on the commercial interests; but he could not lead the hon. Gentleman to expect that it would be at an earlier period of the Session than had been usual in former years. Of course it was desirable that progress should first be made in the estimates, and especially under the particular circumstances of the present year. He was sure the hon. Gentleman would see that there were particular reasons in the present year, on account of which it would be highly inconvenient to anticipate the usual period of the financial statement,
 Mr. Williams  said, although he agreed in the principle of the measure, he altogether protested against the practice (so much now-a-days in vogue) of bringing in bills to change by piecemeal great legislative enactments. These amending bills so accumulated in a short time as to render it impossible to know what the law really was. Why could not the provisions of this bill be introduced into the Registration of Voters Bill, with which, in object, it was closely connected?
 Mr. Mackenzie  differed from the hon. Gentleman, and thought the hon. Member who had brought in this bill entitled to the gratitude of the House. But, as to the clause respecting taking into custody the personators of voters, he thought as at present framed it would be practically nugatory, as affording no really efficient means of catching the fellows, or dealing with them both in a manner as exemplary as summary.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, there was no reason why the present bill should not extend to Ireland, but he denied that personation existed in Ireland.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  thought that the bill would serve no purpose but to enable people wantonly to delay the poll, and prevent electors from voting. The object of the hon. Member for Durham would be better obtained by embodying the provisions of this bill in a general Registration Act.
 Mr. Ellice , speaking alike from a knowledge of Mr. Inglis, and of the circumstances under which his loss had been incurred, pressed upon the Government the very great hardship of his case. No one who had looked into the evidence of the case could question that Mr. Inglis was an innocent sufferer from the fraud of a public servant. Upon what possible ground then, was his claim rejected? He trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, convinced as he must necessarily be, of the great hardship of this case, and of the perfect justice of Mr. Inglis's claim, would consent to reconsider the case, and to place Mr. Inglis's name upon the list of those who were to receive compensation.
 Mr. Liddell  said, after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, he considered that the object he had in view had been obtained. His object was not a private one, but to put an end to a great public grievance. He would follow the course suggested by the right hon. Baronet, and moved, that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Liddell  would be glad to profit by the suggestion of the hon. Member, and to persevere in the bill as it stood. He would not undertake to legislate for Ireland. If it had been necessary to have a separate Reform Bill for Ireland, he hoped he might be excused from legislating for Ireland on this subject. Let the House affirm the principle of the bill as regarded England, and it would be very easy afterwards to, extend it to Ireland. He would not encumber his bill by attempting to legislate for municipal elections, or any other elections except Parliamentary elections. He thought the
 1146 bond fide
 Mr. Liddell  had not thought it desirable to frame a new statutable offence, or to fix new penalties, conceiving that on those points the Reform Act was sufficiently operative. The object of this bill was to
 1144 1 l
 Lord Harry Vane  wished the House should clearly understand the terms upon which he would consent to postpone for the present the further consideration of the bill. He had listened with very great attention to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and it appeared to him, that the objections of the right hon. Baronet might have better been urged on the second reading of the bill. The right hon. Baronet had said, that from what he had learned with regard to elections in this country, the offence of fraudulent personation of voters was not sufficiently extensive, sufficiently notorious, or sufficiently general, to make it worth while to enact a specific remedy for the evil. Now he was of a different opinion upon that subject. The right hon. Baronet, however, had said, that he was in the hands of the House, and that if the House disagreed with him upon that point, he should introduce provisions similar to those contained in the measure before the House into his English Registration Bill. The right hon. Baronet had gone on to say, that in case he saw reason to approve of the provisions in England, he should also introduce analogous clauses into his Irish Registration Bill. He thought therefore it was very desirable, that the opinion of the House should be taken as to whether it was desirable that this subject should become the object of legisla
 1148
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that anything so preposterous there could not be, as on the assertion of any individual who might chance to be present, to take a man into custody and keep him imprisoned for twelve hours, till two magistrates could be provided, when perhaps there might be no means of providing those magistrates. That was a proposal which no Gentleman in that House would, he was sure, entertain. It was clear, that by taking the sense of the House on the first clause, the question would not be decided. He would recommend to the hon. Gentleman to withdraw the bill for the present, and it could, after a consultation with the Government, be decided, either that the whole question should be embodied in one bill, or that separate bills for England, Ireland, and Scotland, should be introduced, with provisions applying to the different circumstances of each country.
 Mr. Ross  thought it would be most desirable that the provisions of the bill should be extended to Ireland.
 Mr. Shaw  was sorry to find that his hon. Friend did not intend to include Ireland in the bill. But he believed that the measure would be rendered more efficient if further time were given to consider its details. The bill would also be more useful if it extended to municipal elections. He wished his hon. Friend would postpone its further consideration.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  in reply to the question which the hon. Gentleman had put to him, as to what course he would take in the event of future forgeries of Exchequer bills, could only ask the hon. Gentleman another question—if, four years ago, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could have supposed that a fraud of this kind would have been committed, and had asked the hon. Gentleman what course he would take with respect to it, would the hon. Gentleman have been able to give him any definite answer. The fact was, that the whole case was a very extraordinary one. A number
 1150
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt that if (he claim of Mr. Inglis were ad
 1151
 Mr. Brotherton  thought, that if the hon. Member introduced so many subjects into his bill, he would not be likely to carry it. When his hon. Friend, the Member for Coventry, talked of an isolated measure, he forgot his own measure with regard to freemen. He thought that the hon. Member had better not extend his bill to Ireland. He would recommend the hon. Member to let the bill remain as it was.
 Mr. M. Attwood  confirmed the statement of the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice), as to the great hardship of Mr. Inglis's case, and expressed a decided opinion that it would only be fair and just that that gentleman should be compensated. If he were not, he thought that Mr. Inglis would have reason to complain of having been treated with great injustice.
 Mr. Cripps  wished to know, whether it were the intention of the right hon. Baronet to persevere in moving the second reading of the Registration Bill on Monday next?
 Mr. Mackinnon  considered it would be a great object obtained if the bill were made a general measure. By doing that, most of the objections of the hon. Member for Coventry would be obviated. A general bill of such a nature was very much wanted in the country. The bill, as at present drawn, could not apply to Ireland; and added to this it was most desirable to prevent personation at municipal and parochial elections. He trusted his hon. Friend would withdraw this bill, and bring in a general measure. Personation had been carried on to a great extent in voting for Church-rates.
 Mr. W. Williams  expressed his dissatisfaction with the principle upon which this bill was founded, and protested against the taxing of the people to the extent of 262,000 l
 Sir C. Burrell  was also of opinion that the present bill ought to extend to Ireland, and no better reason could exist for extending it to Ireland than that the Irish Members themselves were in favour of it. It was hardly worth while to discuss whether there were more personation in England than in Ireland. His belief was, that they were both guilty. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman would consider the observation which had been made.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that when his hon. Friend had consulted him upon this measure, he said, that he did not contemplate making any alteration in the provisions of the Reform Act. With regard to the crime which was sought to be put down, as far as his experience went, he thought it was not so prevalent as to require any alteration in the existing law. In the bill which he had introduced with regard to registration, he had carefully abstained, as far as possible, from interfering with the Reform Act. With respect to personation, he thought, that in England at least the offence was not so prevalent as to require legislative interference. Still, if the House should be of a different opinion, he thought it would be as well to discuss the subject upon the bill before the House, as upon the Registration Bill, and in case the bill were proceeded with, he thought it would be desirable to extend the bill to the whole of the United Kingdom. The preamble being postponed, there would be no difficulty in effecting that object. He thought the bill before the House was open to some objections; it was he thought capable of great abuse. In the midst of an election, with its usual excitements, a gentleman might come up to vote; some person on the opposite party, a man of straw, might deny his identity, and the voter would be immediately taken into custody amidst the derision of the multitude, and be detained in custody for the space of twelve hours.
True, it might be said, that it would be easy to find two magistrates. But sup-
 1147
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the bill had been printed this day, and would be in the hands of Members to-morrow, and if, under such circumstances, hon. Members thought that Monday would be too early a day for the second reading, he would have no objections to postpone it, but he thought they might read it a second time on Monday, going into the details in committee.
 Sir J. Graham  suggested to the hon. Gentleman to move, that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again. Let the hon. Member keep the bill in its present condition till the Registration Bill, for the committee on which he had given notice for Monday next, should go into committee, and if the measure then submitted to the House did not meet the views of hon. Gentlemen, the hon. Member could then carry forward his measure.
 Sir J. Graham  did not think, that if the House were then to divide upon the clause, the result of the division would be satisfactory, as many hon. Members objected to details involved in that clause.
 Mr. Campbell,  seeing the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, begged to ask the question, of which he had given notice, respecting the Church of Scotland. Considering the extreme necessity of the case, and the anxiety felt on the subject, both within the House and out of it, be hoped that he should have as explicit an answer as possible. He wished to know whether her Majesty's Government intended to bring forward any measure regarding the Church of Scotland, and if so, whether the right hon. Baronet would submit the measure to the House in the course of the next week?
 Mr. Borthrwick  said, there was no question to which he was anxious to give such careful attention as that which was now brought before the House by the motion of the hon. Member for Nottingham. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had charged those who supported the views advocated by the hon. Member for Not-ting ham I who had so long and consistently, and he would add so ably argued the question in that House on various occasions — with popularity-hunting, and with differing from perhaps the highest authority in this country. With respect to the first charge, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman, whom did the opponents of the present Poor-law court? The poor. What advantage then might they expect to derive from flattering and courting the poor, who were incapable of rendering any other return than thanks for the exertions which were made on their behalf? He thought the right hon. Gentleman had
 1194 1195 1196
 General Johnson  was of opinion, that the country was deeply indebted to the hon. Member for Nottingham for bringing forward this question in its present shape. There could now be no doubt of the existence of the document which headed the resolutions, and he for one was glad that it had made its way into the House. He was satisfied that it contained the principles upon which the Poor-law Commissioners had acted, and all who watched their proceedings must come to the same conclusion, for no assertion could contradict the fact. It was the intention from the first to withhold out-door relief in all cases, but finding that principle impracticable, they were compelled to draw in their horns. The right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department said, that 4,000,000 l
 General Johnson  only wished that the sums so expended had been doubled It would be very desirable if the right hon. Baronet would furnish the House with the date of the document. There was no doubt that the hon. Member for Nottingham would have furnished it if he could. It was probable that some such document had been issued to the commissioners in 1832, and also that such document had been circulated amongst the framers of the Poor-law; for no one could deny—nay, not even its supporters—that the law was extremely harsh and cruel in its operation. The boards of guardians themselves in many instances were so convinced of its cruelty that they gave alms themselves from their own pockets to those to whom they were not permitted to afford out-door relief. A Christian law forsooth! Every thing Christian was characterized by goodness and mercy, but the characteristics of this law were evil, cruelty, and oppression. The noble Lord, the Member for London, when sitting upon the Ministerial Benches, stated that he was ready to defend the principle upon which the law made no distinction between the good and the bad. It was impossible that such a law—a law which made no distinction between good and evil, could emanate from, or be framed in, a Christian spirit. It was impossible that a Christian feeling could consent to throw the whole of the poor into one mass, without distinguishing between the bad and the deserving, without drawing a line between those reduced to poverty by their own intemperance and those who were afflicted by the visitation of the Almighty. Could that law be Christian which would subject those two classes to the same treatment? The principle of uniformity at first so much insisted upon was now abandoned on all hands. The principle of the present act made poverty a crime, whilst the law of Elizabeth did no such thing. How, then, could it be argued that the present law was founded upon the law of Elizabeth? Those who made that statement could not have read Elizabeth's act. It was a short one, and if hon. Members would only read and compare it with the present law they would find a material difference. The present law shut people up in prison and shortened their lives. If old or infirm at their entrance into the workhouse they scarcely ever survived twelve months without breaking down. The mere confinement produced this result He had asked an
 1206
 Sir W. James  wished that the hon. Member for Nottingham would put the last resolution, which contained the sum
 1219 1220 éclat. "The attempts which are constantly made to evade the law by indirect means whenever there is a possibility of doing so (as by voluntary rates, &c.,) confirm us in this opinion, viz., that all old abuses would creep in again if the Poor Law Commission were abolished. The only remains of it (relief to men in work and in aid of wages) are to be found in certain irregular practices, to which, if they were not occasionally suggested by erroneous motives of
 1221
 Mr. Jeston  then described the excellent effects as to moral improvement, the good conduct of the people, their attendance at public worship, the attendance of children at Sunday-schools, and the remarkable fact that not a single correction before a magistrate of any of the tenants had occurred since the commencement of the allotment system. He alluded to the objections. First he observed, that it was said the system would increase the population of the parish; the reverse of this was the case, for the population were on the decrease. With respect to a second objection, that the men would not care to work for the farmer, the reverse of this was also the case. When they could obtain work they were most anxious to have it;—
 "But this winter," (he says) "they have hardly had a day's work, and had it not been for the produce of their allotments they would have been on the parish." animus
 Mr. Miles  addressed the House reluctantly, and he would say, at the beginning, that it was his conviction the resolutions moved by the hon. Member should receive the assent of the House, if it could be credited that the words he had quoted were the basis on which the New Poor-law was founded. But, after the statement of his right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham), who was one of the persons who framed the law, he must say, that it was not true, that those propositions formed the basis of the New Poor-law. When the House remembered what was the state of the country before the New Poor-law was passed, he believed they would agree with him, that the new law had saved the country from destruction, and particularly the agricultural districts. When these were his opinions, and he was thus placed in the same situation as his right hon. Friend, he should be ashamed of himself if he were to shrink from stating his opinion of the new law, which, as a guardian, he had helped to carry into execution. His right hon. Friend having denied that the propositions were the basis of the present law, he must agree with him that the resolutions of the hon. Member were extremely fallacious. They would be so if the allegations were true, but being false, the course the hon. Member had adopted, was the most extraordinary that he had ever known adopted in that House. He could deny all the allegations contained in the resolutions from his own experience as a guardian. He should believe, with the hon. Member for Rochdale, that the Corn and Poor-laws were most disastrous to the poor, if the allegations made were true. But they were untrue. He admitted, that he was using strong language, but what was said there went abroad, and unless it was contradicted, was circulated in the country as true. He would take it on himself, therefore, to assert, as a Poor-law guardian, that not one of the allegations brought before them was true. The hon. Member (Mr. Ferrand) had complained, that the poorer classes were carried off from the agricultural districts, and made slaves of in the manufacturing districts. When he recollected what the state of the country was in 1830, before the new law was passed, when the poor
 1247 Cambridge Chronicle, "At the present moment the neghbourhood of Manchester alone offers full employment for an additional 20,000 families, at great wages. The following cases of persons recently removed from Buckinghamshire and Bedfordshire will illustrate the subject. William Wootton, a shepherd, at Risborough, Bucks, was there receiving 10 s s s .d s s d s s s s s d s s s s s s d s d 6s. 1248 s d s
 Sir P. Blake  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of Parliament
 "To the great commercial, political, financial, and other advantages which will accrue to the United Kingdom, and to the distressed portion of its population in particular, by the adoption of the safest and shortest, instead of the present dangerous and circuitous, line of packet communication across the Atlantic Ocean; the urgent necessity of giving every due facility to the sliding-scale as enacted by the present Corn-laws; and of forthwith selecting the most commodious port on the western coast of the Atlantic as a packet station to expedite the Post-office intercourse between North America and Great Britain." 1263 [Laughter.] Hansard, 1264 "On looking to the capabilities of America for growing corn, they must also remember that there was no inducement to them to send corn to this country so long as they were shut out by a sliding-scale. Intelligent gentlemen from America had represented the working of the sliding-scale as most prejudicial to the trade between the United States and Great Britain; and he then held in his hand a copy of a memorial which had been presented to the right hon. Baronet at the Head of the Government, by the merchants of the American Chamber of Commerce at Liverpool." 1265 "To make inquiry as to the port or ports on the West or South coast of Ireland, from whence the navigation to America may be best carried on by steam vessels, and to investigate particularly the facilities for the construction of lines of railroad across Ireland to such port or ports." "If this question were limited to the mere facility with which a voyage could be made from port to port, the answer must necessarily be in the affirmative; for not only are the southern and western harbours of Ireland nearer to America, but they are also more favourably situated as regards the prevailing winds and currents of the Atlantic—the saving of distance is of peculiar value where the voyage by steam is to verge on a point which will scarcely admit of the carriage of fuel sufficient, exclusive of any other cargo." l l "My opinion is, that if what was asked
 1266 "I think the point of departure should be the westernmost point of the United Kingdom, for notwithstanding the improvement in steam machinery, so as to increase space for freight and passengers, it is of the first importance to the success of the contemplated measure that the voyage from land to land be made the shortest possible. The dangers of the Channel may be best understood from the statement made at a public meeting at Liverpool, in contemplation of effecting a ship canal across Ireland, to escape the dangers of the Channel navigation, where it was stated that the average losses within the Channel amounted to 340,000 l 1267 .l "But if these advantages could be obtained (meaning the facility of intercourse through Ireland), with the present state of communication, how much more will the case be strengthened by taking into consideration the progress of the railway system? Railways are in progress to connect London with Liverpool." "The passage by them and the present packets to Dublin, will be effected in twenty-four hours easily; twenty-four hours more will convey a mail by coach to any port in Ireland and that time may be reduced by more than one-half, by the application of a railway through Ireland." "It would be a great convenience to the military department, to be quite certain of carrying on their reliefs from that particular point (meaning the west coast of Ireland)." "I was in the West Indies early in the war, and we lost island after island, when, if the troops could have come out immediately, the country would have been saved some millions." "I have no doubt, the whole correspondence of Europe would pass that way (still alluding to the western coast of Ireland); I consider that the introduction of steam is likely to increase considerably the danger of our shipping in the Channel in time of war; we should be liable to be attacked, supposing the
 1268 "That the House should resolve itself into a committee of the whole House (pursuant to the notice he had given)."
 Mr. John S. Wortley  said, that the House had been told by two hon. Gentle-
 1200 1201 1202 "That these recommendations, applicable alike to every class of the poor, and enjoining an indiscriminate reduction of their physical comforts to the lowest endurable point, are shown by the subsequent orders and practice of the Poor-law Commissioners to form the real and avowed basis of the present system of Poor-law relief." 1203 "That the suffering already caused by their partial enforcement, and the amount of outdoor relief in spite of them still administered, show those provisions to have been at once cruel and impracticable." 1204
 Lord Ashley  said, he had not communicated on this subject with the Government. He thought it extremely desirable that Government should take the subject into their own hands, and if, through pressure of business or from any other cause, they should not do so, he would make an humble endeavour to propose some measure to the House which he thought would give efficiency and vigour to the existing law.
 Lord J. Manners  was convinced in his own mind that the rule of the New Poor-law was that pauperism was a stain and a crime. He might be told that it was the practice in most parts of the country to relieve paupers out of the workhouse, and this fact had been put very strongly forward by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, and it was stated that out-door relief was so prevalent that the workhouse had become, in fact, a punishment rather to the vicious and idle, than to the industrious but unfortunate labourer. But he maintained that these cases were exceptions to the law, the general principle of the law being that relief should be prohibited, as far as possible out of the workhouse. He would only say that the workhouse test was, in his humble opinion, fraught with danger to a far greater degree than they could perceive. It had the effect of weakening the feelings of responsibility on the one hand, and of attachment and respect on the other. These were dangers which ought not to be disregarded, but he was bound to confess he did not agree in some of the statements of the hon. Member for Nottingham. He could not go along with that hon. Gentleman in speaking against the substitution of brown bread for white; for he had tasted the brown bread and thought it remarkably good bread. At the same time he should give his vote in support of the motion, in the hope that some measure would be produced to place the system of relief in the position in which it ought to be. Some Members had referred to the statute of Elizabeth, but he would go further back, and say that the administration of the funds for the maintenance of the poor ought to be in the bands of the Church.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would oppose the principles of the Poor-law, in whatever shape it came before the House, and therefore he supported the motion of the hon. Member for Nottingham, whom he wished to thank for the manner in which he had brought the question before the House. He did not wish to lay any weighty charge against the commissioners, but he did complain of the manner in which the commission was constituted, and of the way in which they had acted; and he thought it a little too much that any body of commissioners sitting in London, who could not be conversant with the wants of particular counties, should dare, as he would call it, to interfere with the local bodies of guardians, who were far better qualified to find out what description of persons were deserving objects, in their administration of relief. There could not be a question of the number of cases of cruelty and oppression which had taken place among the class of people on whom the Poor-law operated; he had heard of a number of cases himself, which he should bring forward, unless he found them contradicted. For his own part, he should be glad to resort to the old law; in his opinion it was a most excellent law; in the neigh bourhood in which he resided he knew of no one proof of cruelty to the poor under it, or of its having been administered with any other than good feeling to the poor; but in stepped this New Poor-law, and matters were changed, immediately changed, for the worse. He gave his most cordial support to the hon. Member for Nottingham, together with his thanks to him for the mode in which he had expressed his general views, and for his kind feelings to the poor. He should repeat what he had often said before,—that until he saw some measures adopted more in consistency with the feelings of humanity, he should continue to oppose the present Poor-law.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he perfectly remembered stating that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Knaresborough, was chairman of the Keighley board of guardians, and had been from the formation of the union an  ex officio ex officio
 Sir David Roche  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Ross,  in the absence of his noble Friend the Member for Dungannon, merely rose to defend the character of Mr. Clements from the aspersions that had been cast upon him by the hon. Member for Knaresborough. That Gentleman, with whose family he was intimate, was a person of great humanity and kindness of heart, and totally incapable of acting with want of feeling.
 Mr. G, Bankes  gave notice that when.
 1157
 Mr. G, Bankes  wished the hon. Member to state the terms of his motion.
 Mr. G. Bankes  rose to put the question, of which he had given notice, to the hon. Member for Dumfries. Perhaps that hon. Member would be good enough to state as nearly as he could the terms of the motion which it was his intention to submit to the House next week relative to the Corn-law.
 Mr. Muntz  felt no difficulty in supporting the motion of the hon. Member for Nottingham. Though the paper so much denounced might not have been the foundation of the Poor-law, yet the question with him was, "Is the new Poor-law a good or a bad law?" He had always opposed that law. It had always appeared very unjust to him for many reasons. In the first place, there could be no question that originally the intention was to prevent out-door relief, and that intention was carried into effect as long as the administrators of the law durst. He had it from the mouths of the parties themselves, that they could not carry the in-
 1218
 Mr. Aglionby  said, in explanation, that he had risen for the purpose of preventing it being supposed that his vote on the present occasion would be in condemnation of the principles or some of the provisions of the present law. He conceived, that according to the forms of the House, there would be a division on the first resolution; and he would vote for it. Though he might not be called on to give any opinion with respect to the other resolutions, yet he was prepared to state that he rejected the second; but abided by the spirit of the third and fifth.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the motion before the House was so peculiar in form that he should not vote upon it without giving his reasons why be should support the hon. Member for Nottingham. It might be well, lest the public should be misled from ignorance of the rules of the House, to observe that in point of form each resolution was taken separately, and that the House was, in the first place, and at present, about to come to a vote on the first resolution. That resolution was in these words:—
 "That in a document entitled 'Measures submitted by the Poor-law Commissioners to her Majesty's Ministers,' appear the following passages:—'That at any time after the passing of this act the Board of Control shall have power, by an order, with such exception as shall be thought necessary, to disallow the continuance of relief to the indigent, the aged, and the impotent, in any other mode than in a workhouse, regulated in such manner as by the aforesaid Board of Control shall be determined:' 'The power of the Commissioners would be to reduce allowances, but not to enlarge them;' 'After this has been accomplished,
 1197 1198 "That this House think it expedient to demand such a reconstruction of the existing system as shall make it conformable to Christianity, sound policy, and the ancient constitution of this realm."
 Mr. Hardy  said, that it was his intention to vote for the motion which the hon. Member for Nottingham had submitted to the House. He had opposed the Poor-
 1249 l 1250 .d d "1. That in a document entitled 'Measures submitted by the Poor-law Commissioners to his Majesty's Ministers, appear the following passages:— "That at any time after the passing of this act, the Board of Control shall have power, by an order, with such exception as shall be thought necessary, to disallow the continuance of relief to the indigent, the aged, and the impotent, in any other mode than in a work house, regulated in such manner as by the aforesaid Board of Control shall be determined. "'The power of the commissioners would be to reduce allowances, but not to enlarge them.'" 1251 1252
 Mr. Walter  then replied as follows:— After all the debate that has taken place the question is simply this—whether the House will support a law resting upon and embodying as it were the very soul and spirit of this unnatural report—a soul and spirit which will affect the future practice of the law for ever—or whether by sanctioning my propositions, or some one of them, they will impress upon the Government the necessity, if not the duty of adopting a more christian and humane principle as the ground of its legislation? Now, Sir, as to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary—with regard to the manner in which I acquired possession of this document, I do not know that I am called upon to give him the satisfaction he requires; and I beg to say, further, that I hold myself to be perfectly competent to judge of the propriety or impropriety of making use of any document I become possessed of. Nor do I come here to be schooled on points of delicacy or decorum by the right hon. Gentleman, but feel inclined to adopt and act upon my independent conviction of duty. Here is a most scandalous communication upon which is founded a most unconstitutional and most oppressive law. Others have spoken of this communication—I have dragged it to light and branded it as it deserves; and I am told, forsooth, I ought not to have done so, because the authors of the mischief have chosen, in order to screen their offence, to put the words "private or" "confidential" to their production. Why, in that case no project of guilt whatever can be detected. The authors
 1257 suppressio veri 1258 "In the West Hampnett union several parishes raise voluntary rates, by which poor persons are relieved to whom the Poor-law Commissioners will not allow relief to be given out of the cumpulsory rates. Able-bodied men are prevented being tested, as it is termed; the payers of these voluntary rates say that a considerable saving is effected by this system." "I could send you" says one of them "strong cases of the Poor-law being the cause of thefts and mendicity, and perhaps something worse. I cannot now omit stating that not long ago, in one of the parishes of the West Hampnett union, I saw in one day six women employed in leading horses, drawing loaded dung-carts into the fields. Though I have lived in Sussex all my life, I never saw anything of the kind before." "Yesterday afternoon, shortly before the sitting magistrates at the New Bailey left the court, a case of extraordinary novelty and hardship was brought before them. Two healthy, fresh-countenanced, but somewhat emaciated agricultural labourers, presented themselves in the witness-box, whilst at the extremity of the court were ranged in view of the magistrates sixteen individuals, one of them a female, about thirty, with two infants in arms, eight children, apparently all of them
 1259 to 1260 go
 Mr. Walter  hoped, that the House would allow him to say one word in the way of explanation. The right hon. Baronet had given an account of how the document upon which his resolutions were founded had come into his possession. Now he (Mr. Walter) really did not know how he got it. He did not see it, to the best of his knowledge and belief, till two days before Parliament met. It had, he supposed, been laid by with other documents; but he declared that he never saw it before the time he had just mentioned.
 Mr. Walter  then rose, and spoke to the following effect. I could have wished that it had fallen to the lot of some able or more eminent Member to have brought forward the present subject, for if the abilities of him who brings it forward are to be weighed or measured by the vast consequences involved, I fear that I shall be found greatly deficient. If, indeed, I might have had my wish indulged, I should have desired that her Majesty's Ministers themselves would have taken a more
 1160 parcere subjectis, et debeilare superbos;" 1161 "That at any time after the passing of this act, the Board of Control shall have power, by an order, with such exception as shall be thought necessary, to disallow the continuance of relief to the indigent, the aged, and the impotent, in any other mode than in a workhouse, regulated in such manner as by the aforesaid Board of Control shall be determined. "The power of the commissioners would be to reduce allowances, but not to enlarge them. "After this has been accomplished, orders may be sent forth, directing that after such a day, all out-door relief should be given partly in kind; after another period it should be wholly in kind; that after such another period it should be gradually diminished in quantity, until that mode of relief was extinguished. From the first, the relief should be altered in quality, coarse brown bread being substituted for fine white; and, concurrently with these measures as to the out-door poor, a gradual reduction should be made in the diet of the in-door poor, and strict regulations enforced." "Hoc fonte derivata clades, "In patriam populumque fluxit." 1162 "As one barrier to the increase of expenditure in the detailed management, the commissioners should be empowered to fix a maximum of the consumption per head within the workhouse, leaving to the local officers the liberty of reducing it below the maximum, if they could safely do so. Do it safely?" "The duty of supporting parents and chil-
 1163 l "The name of pauper (said that noble Lord) by no means implies, as seems to have been supposed, a man unable or unwilling to work—one whose infirmity or whose idleness would disqualify him from becoming an useful settler. On the contrary, the whole of the married labourers in many of the parishes of the south of England may be correctly described as paupers, inasmuch as the want of employment has depressed wages to a rate at which it is impossible for a man, however industrious, to maintain a family without receiving parochial relief. … It has been found that the idle and worthless paupers have frequently been rendered so by the hopelessness of their situation; and when enabled to find constant employment, at fair wages, a great change has almost invariably taken place in their conduct." "One-third of the working men in that town and neighbourhood were out of employ. A great proportion of the remainder were employed only three days in the week, and in consequence the greatest distress prevailed. Those at work subscribed something from their
 1164 "He was chairman of a board of guardians. Both in his own district and in others with which he was acquainted the measure had acquired an immense popularity. He thought the country was under the greatest obligation to those who had brought it forward. The bill worked well in the district with which he was connected. He hoped there would be no vital alteration of a measure which had worked to the entire satisfaction of the vast majority of the people. As to diet, the complaint was that the inmates of the workhouse lived too well." 1165 1166 éclat 1167 1168 "Knowing that you are about again to bring before the House of Commons the workhouse system as administered under the present Poor-law, I think it may not be without some use, if I state to you the result of my own observation of that system, not in all nor many of its bearings, but simply in its moral action upon those who come under it. To myself this is a painful though voluntary task; for it shows me the error of my own anticipations, and reminds me of the fault of once defending as right what I now regret as wrong and pernicious. "Leaving, however, such personal considerations, let me briefly state to you the conviction to which I have come on the subject, and the reasons which have brought me to it. My conviction is, that whatever may be the maladies under which our social system is suffering in the labouring part of it, the present workhouse practice is not their remedy; it is rather, under the promise of present relief, an aggravation of the disease. "I have seen the working of the system under, in many respects, favourable circumstances. I have marked its effects with all the clearness I could by personal observation in union houses, especially in one with which I have been nearly connected, and by personal inquiry among those who have been inmates of those houses; and the result of both observation and inquiry has been the same. It is a demoralizing system, tending to connect poverty with licentiousness, and to generate pauperism and crime. I only state to you what I know to be literally true, when I say that in union houses supposed to be administered as well as the system will permit, the work of demoralization has been going on in every ward except those of sickness and old age. Among the poor unhappy children,
 1169 "It would require some experience, or considerable imagination, to comprehend the extent of this mischief. It is a never-ceasing agent of evil, leaving its infection behind, when its actual presence is gone. A ward comparatively clear of it to-day may to-morrow, with a fresh incentive, break out into every abomination that can pollute the tongue, or corrupt the heart. "Now, to omit, for the present, all other objections to this system—to say nothing about its trenching hard upon the feelings of humanity, or the laws of God—I would only ask two questions in regard to it. Can the Legislature be justified in inflicting on the poor a moral evil, that apart from such legislation, has no necessary connexion with poverty? We know that in the correction of crime this is done through necessity; but then it is crime, not poverty, that is to be dealt with. The prison will always be a school of moral evil, as well as a place of punishment; but there the inmate has brought the evil upon himself—he has forfeited the protection of the laws of his country, and this is a part of the recompense of evil which he has reaped. But what has a poor family done?—poor only because they are numerous, and their wages insufficient— what have they done, that, after having striven in vain to support themselves, and then come to claim that protection which the criminal has forfeited, they should be, in one respect, treated in the same manner with him?—that they should be placed where whatever moral sense they have must be blunted and destroyed, and where their children will hear the lessons, if not witness, the practice of profligacy? "Another question I would ask. Is this the way to extirpate pauperism from the country? If it be, we must unlearn every maxim which connects prosperity, either on a large or narrow scale, with moral character. "But it is not. Whatever were the calculations or intentions of the framers of this mea-
 1170 1171 1172 "1. That in a document entitled 'Measures submitted by the Poor-law Commissioners to his Majesty's Ministers' appear the following passages:— "That at any time after the passing of this act, the Board of Control shall have power, by an order, with such exception as shall be thought necessary, to disallow the continuance of relief to the indigent, the aged, and the impotent, in any other mode than in a workhouse, regulated in such manner as by the aforesaid Board of Control shall be determined. "The power of the Commissioners would be to reduce allowances, but not to enlarge them. "After this has been accomplished, orders may be sent forth directing that after such a day all out-door relief should be given partly in kind; after another period it should be wholly in kind; that after such another period it should be gradually diminished in quantity, until that mode of relief was extinguished. From the first the relief should be altered in quality, coarse brown bread being substituted for fine white; and, concurrently with these measures as to the out-door poor, a gradual reduction should be made in the diet of the in-door poor, and strict regulations enforced. "2. That these recommendations, applicable alike to every class of the poor, and enjoining an indiscriminate reduction of their physical comforts to the lowest endurable point, are shown, by the subsequent orders and practice of the Poor-law Commissioners, to form the real though unavowed basis of the present system of Poor-law relief. "3. That the suffering already caused by their partial enforcement, and the amount of out-door relief in spite of them still administered, show their provisions to have been at once cruel and impracticable. "4. That the attempted substitution of punishment for legal relief has more and mere tended to irritate and dishearten the poor, to cheek industry, to increase crime, and to encourage various kinds of tyranny, without even the proposed compensation of reducing the expenses of the rate-payers. "5. That this House think it therefore expedient to demand such a reconstruction of the existing system as shall make it conformable to Christianity, sound policy, and the ancient constitution of this realm"
 Mr. Walter   who again rose and said,
 1173 "I would entreat that I should not be personally mentioned it would do others no good, but bring on myself some evil. A small provincial controversy with some guardian standing up for the honour of his union would be sadly inconvenient to me."
 Mr. Wallace  seeing the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire in his place, wished to ask the noble Lord if it was his intention, either in co-operation with the Government, or on his own responsibility, to bring before the House during the present Session any measure for correcting the abuses of the truck system, into which a committee had inquired last year?
 Mr. Grimsditch  said, although he had certainly agreed that the statements of Sir John Walsham had been found substantially correct by the committee to which the hon. Member for Knaresborough had referred, it was very different with respect to Mr. Mott's report, not one material part of which had been borne out by the evidence, and he was glad that the result of the inquiry had been the removal of that Gentleman from the Poor-law Commission. Now, as to the resolutions before the House, he was fairly of opinion that the document in question had been intended, at all events, as the basis of the projected measure; and although he might have suggested some alterations in the language of those resolutions, he was so sincerely opposed to the law, that he could not avoid giving his support to proposi-
 1256
 Mr. Wakley  remarked, that the manner in which the right hon. Baronet, towards the close of his address, had asked the House to try the measure by any fair test, and in which the right hon. Baronet had afterwards made a distinct reference to the motives of the hon. Member for Nottingham, was, as he thought, that the right hon. Baronet's experience would have told him, in the strictest sense,
 1182 1183 1184 1185 James Graham: 1186 1187 "Well, if there be no other good from the accession of the Tories, thank God we shall get rid of the infernal Poor-law Act." "This good, at least, (said the working people), we shall obtain from the Tories, and we will on that account support them, even if we obtain nothing else from them." 1188 1189 1190 1191 1192 1193
 Mr. Blackstone  would not have troubled the House with any observations had it
 1254 1255 s s s s s
 Mr. Cripps  was anxious to state, in reply to what had been stated respecting the Cirencester workhouse, that persons in that workhouse lived, he was sorry to say, better than many of those who were called on to pay poor-rates. The dietary table which had been printed in  The Times 1199
 Mr. Ewart  said, considering that, in the present state of the country, whether the agricultural or the manufacturing interest was regarded, it was impossible that the existing Corn-law should continue ["Order."]
 Mr. Ewart  said, he had placed them on the paper; but if the hon. Member wished him to explain them he was ready to do so. He begged that they might be read,
 Mr. Ferrand  seconded the motion, and the resolutions having been put from the chair,
 Mr. Ferrand  remarked that Sir John Walsham made it appear that the inhabitants of Keighley were to blame for the state of their poorhouse, and he perfectly remembered that the hon. Member for Halifax had joined the right hon. Baronet in blaming them, speaking, of course upon the allegations of that report.
 Mr. Ferrand  again explained. Although he was certainly an  ex officio 1246
 Mr. Ferrand  explained that what he had asserted was, that the report was in opposition to the evidence taken before the committee; and he would refer to that evidence, as published, to show whether his statement was true or not. With regard to the Keighley Union, he had not denied all the statements of Sir John Walsham, but what he had particularly dwelt on was, that in the Keighly workhouse, under the old law, there were only twelve inmates, whilst under the new law the poor of two townships went into it, and the number was consequently raised to fifty-five.
 Mr. Ferrand,  on rising to address the House upon a question on which he had
 1222 1223 Wallace: 1224 1225 "The population of the three adjoining towns of Ashton, Dukenfield and Staley bridge included, with an area of a mile and a half radius from the most central part of the district, is considered to be not less than 55,000; and the proportion of the working population, that is, those below the rank of shopkeepers, has been estimated at 80 per cent, in Ashton, 90 in Staleybridge, and 94 in Dukenfield. This dense population has been brought together chiefly by the extension of the cotton manufacture within a very short period. The population of the borough of Ashton and township of Dukenfield together was in 1821,14,318; in 1831, 29,352; and in 1841,45,074. I am unable to give the exact numbers for the whole district, because Staleybridge is partly in Lancashire and partly in Cheshire, but the increase there has probably been in a similar ratio." "How little the moral and religious improvement of the large number of the humbler classes has been hitherto an object of solicitude, the following facts will show;— In the borough of Ashton, with a population of 25,000, there is no national school, no school of the British and Foreign School Society, nor any other public day-school for the children of the working classes. The same is the case at Staley bridge and Dukenfield, with the slight exception I shall now state. I mentioned in the report above referred to that a national school had recently been built at Staleybridge, but, I regret to say, it is not yet in operation." 1226 "He (Mr. Doherty) saw the room in which these girls were confined; the light was completely excluded; they were not allowed either fire, light, or bed, and their usual allowance of food was considerably diminished. Their hair was cut off, and their confinement lasted for several days. During the confinement of Esther Price several of her fellow-apprentices mitigated the rigour of her punishment, by putting in through the crevices of the wainscoting which
 1227 1228 "Sir, —I thank you for the attention you have paid to the subject of my letter, and for your kind communication. It was Skipton union workhouse from which the hands were brought to Threlfall's mill. The precise number cannot now be ascertained, but, as far as I can learn, there would be about twenty; four of those were so lame that they could not walk between Skipton and Addingham, a distance only of six miles, so they were brought in Threlfall's tax-cart; also one was very much deranged in her mental faculties. These were all females. The name of the poor idiot was Hannah Cockshot. I regret that I am unable to give you the names of the four cripples. One of them, whose name is Elizabeth Town-end, was so lame, that she was unfit for any employment, much less to stand twelve hours a-day in a factory. After her day's work she was scarcely able to walk to her lodgings. Thus are the poor creatures conveyed, like subjects for dissection, from the union workhouse to the factory to be experimented upon by the manufacturers. These facts are well known to many in Addingham; but, if you Sir, do not think them sufficiently authenticated to warrant an exposure in the senate-house of Britain, I hope you will at least make the world acquainted with those facts which have been proved before you in a court of justice, Alice Morrill is so far convalescent as to be able partially to resume her employment." 1229 "I was about to prepare my report for the last quarter in the early part of the month, when I received notice of one of the most gross and oppressive violations of the law, during the week ending the 25th ultimo, that has occured to my knowledge since the Factory Act was passed. This induced me to delay my report, in order to wait the result of a careful investigation of the circumstances relating to that offence, and the adjudication of any complaints which might be preferred against the offenders. The investigation was very efficiently conducted by Mr. Baker, the superintendent." "And I regret to say the wilful and deliberate overworking of various young persons, both boys and girls, but chiefly the latter, between the ages of fourteen and eighteen, was clearly established. This occurred at a mill at Addingham, in Yorkshire, which has only been occupied a few months, in cotton-spinning, by the firm of Messrs. Seed and Co., of which a Mr. William Threlfall is the managing partner. The mill was at work from six o'clock
 1230 "There can be no doubt, the report continued, but that some of the hands under eighteen years of age were present during the whole of this excessively long period; but this point was not proved in the cases selected for the prosecution, because it was necessary, in order to obtain more than one penalty, to lay distinct informations for the wrong employment of different young persons for each separate day. It was, however, proved, that girls of fourteen had been kept to work from seven o'clock on Friday evening, the 23d, during all the night, the next day, and through Saturday night, until three a.m. on Sunday, the 25th,—a period of thirty-two hours; the same persons having been worked on the previous day (Thursday) till twelve at night, and again for part of the Friday forenoon. Such conduct towards young and tender females, who cannot be deemed free agents, merited, in my opinion, the heaviest penalties which the law imposed for such offences; and I felt myself fully justified in sanctioning Mr. Baker's arrangement of his complaints in such a manner as to afford the magistrates an opportunity of awarding a punishment in some degree commensurate with the offence. The offenders were convicted on seven different informations, six of which the magistrates deemed so serious as to demand severally the full penalty of 20 l l 1231 "No defence was attempted, except the often-repeated one of being pressed to complete an order for shipment, the profits of which would have been lost if they had not undertaken to supply the whole quantity required. The magistrates would not entertain this plea as affording any justification for so gross an abuse of the power an employer can exercise over the operatives in a district where labour is redundant. I regret to say the mill-occupiers do not stand alone responsible for this cruelty towards the young females." "It was proved that a parent had not merely consented to sacrifice the physical powers of his child for money, but obliged his tender girl to exert herself to the last. During the period the mill was at work, some of the girls were obliged to withdraw, from physical inability to work longer. The parent of one young woman, about 19 years of age, was determined to brave the punishment consequent upon opposing the will of the master— viz., dismissal from work for the future. He proceeded at four o'clock on Saturday afternoon to the mill, fortunately obtained access to the room where his girl had been working from five o'clock on Friday morning, and insisted on withdrawing her. He ultimately succeeded, but not, as he informs me, until both the managing partner, Mr. Threlfall, and his son, had endeavoured forcibly to remove him from the premises. This and the other cases of overwork which have occurred within the last two years in the Bradford district must surely convince the most sceptical of the absolute necessity of a strong law to protect the labouring class in these districts; and the officer employed may reasonably deem such cases as indicating what is to be expected among a certain class of mills under a more active state of trade." 1232 R. Peel smiled. 1233 "He had caught the hon. Member for Knaresborough in a trap at last." "Why, you foolish fellow, you have agreed to a packed committee; they will report against you;" "Mr. Mott's report was borne out in its most important allegations." "23rd. April, 1842. I attended a meeting of the board of guardians of the Keighley Union on Wednesday, the 13th instant, and I regret to have to report to your board, that the proceedings of the guardians are very unsatisfactory; in short, they are entirely at variance with the provisions of the law, and the directions of your board." 1234 "That Mr. Mott's report was borne out in all its most important allegations by the evidence of the witnesses who had come forward to impugn it." "Copy of all orders which have been issued by the Poor-law Commissioners of Somerset-house to the board of guardians in the Keighley Union since the formation of the same, in 1838, up to the 13th day of April, 1842; also, copy of all reports upon the proceedings of the board, and complaints thereon during that period, which have been made by the assistant Poor-law Commissioners Mr. Power and Mr. Mott to the Poor-law Commissioners; also, a statement of the particular instances in which the said board of guardians have acted contrary to the directions of the Central Board at Somerset-house; also, return of the number of times the said assistant Poor-law Commissioners, Mr. Power and Mr. Mott, have visited the said board and the poor-houses of Keighley and Bingley, and the dates thereof; also, a return of the reports they have made on the said poor-houses; and of the number of inmates within the same on the formation of the union, and on the 1st day of June, 1842," 1235 "That it did not appear that Mr. Mott had made any report on the 30th of April, 1842," "And that the commissioners had not any written evidence to show in what spirit the Said Keighley board of guardians had acted." 1236 1237 "At the Guildhall, Huddersfield, on Tuesday last, January 31, the overseers of no fewer than nine townships that were in arrears with the payment of the eall6 of the board of guardians appeared to answer to summonses which had been issued against them by order of the board of guardians. The following is the list of the differences. Golcar, 34 l s l l l l l l l l l l l l s d l l l l l 1238 l 1239
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, he rose to give his cordial support to the resolutions proposed by the hon Member for Nottingham. He did not desire to shelter himself under any particular mode in which the question might be put; he was prepared to support the whole of the resolutions of the hon. Member, and to sustain the allegations contained in them. The first resolution contained a statement that a certain document was in existence, which was not denied by her Majesty's Government; neither was it denied that the document contained certain matters set forth in the resolution. The second resolution stated,
 "That these recommendations, applicable alike to every class of the poor, and enjoining an indiscriminate reduction of their physical comforts to the lowest endurable point, are shown, by the subsequent orders and practice of the Poor-law Commissioners, to form the real though unavowed basis of the present system of Poor-law relief." "For most certainly it is, that anything more mischievous, anything more fatal to the country, anything more calculated to multiply indefinitely the number of the poor, cannot be conceived than the application to them of any regular fixed provision, be it tithe, be it tax, which they can claim at the hands of the rich, except by the force of that duty of imperfect Obligation, private charity, which is imposed upon all men; every permanent fund set apart for their support, from whomsoever proceed
 1240 "That at the present he would say nothing about repealing the Poor-law itself; but when time shall have been allowed for inquiry and consideration, and when this measure shall have paved the way for the reception of ulterior projects, they will, should experience warrant their adoption, receive my assent." "That all their proceedings had been directed to a faithful execution of the intentions of the Legislature. In particular, the intention of gradually withholding out-door relief from the able-bodied is declared in so explicit and unambiguous a manner, as left the commissioners no choice as to the course which they should pursue." "The suffering already caused by their partial enforcement, and the amount of outdoor relief in spite of them still administered, show their provisions to have been at once cruel and impracticable." "That the attempted substitution of punish-
 1241 "That this House think it, therefore, expedient to demand such a reconstruction of the existing system as shall make it conformable to Christianity, sound policy, and the ancient constitution of this realm." 1242 s s "That from that period up to the present we have not one able-bodied pauper on the parish. The men have continued to cultivate their allotments, and to maintain themselves and their families by their own exertions, with increasing comforts ever since. They pay a fair rent for their land, and pay it punctually; they also bear their full quota of parochial taxation, so that these very men who whilst dependent on the poor-rates were in a notoriously distressed state, and proved such a burthen to the community as to render all land in the parish worse than valueless, have now for nearly nine years supported themselves and families without any parochial assistance, and are at the present time in the enjoyment of far greater comforts than it may be safely asserted are the poor of any other parish in the county, whilst the property in the parish has
 1243
 Sir C. Napier : I am extremely sorry that I did not happen to be in the House when the hon. Member for Knaresborough adverted to my conduct in reference to the appointment of the committee on the Keighley union. I have been informed that the hon. Member accused me of flourishing my stick over my head, and saying, that I had caught him in a trap. Now, Sir, I certainly did flourish my stick over my head for the purpose of encouraging the Turks to do their duty, but the assertion made by the hon. Member is like many of the other assertions which he has made in this House, and which he has found it impossible to prove. When the right hon. Baronet challenged the hon. Member to come forward and move for a committee to inquire into the charges he made relative to the Keighley Union, I saw him very backward in accepting it, and I got up and proposed the committee myself. It was as fair a committee as ever was formed—it was composed of hon. Members from that as well as from this side of the House—of Gentlemen friendly to the new law as well as of those who were opposed to it, and the hon. Member for Knaresborough got the fairest hearing that a man could get, yet he could not disprove a word of the reports either of Mr. Molt or Sir John Walsham. All was proved to be perfectly correct. [Mr.  Ferrand, 1253
 Sir J. Graham  rose but gave way to,
 Sir James Graham  I anticipated that the omission which the hon. Gentleman was about to supply would relate to the manner in which he came into possession of the document upon which his resolutions are founded, and not to the letter which he read in the course of his speech. I am about to address a body of Gentlemen; and the hon. Member who has just sitten down has made an admission that I think will startle them. The hon. Gentleman has put into the first resolution, upon which he is about to take the sense of the House, a statement from a document which he himself declared to be confidential. I did hope that the hon. Gentleman was about to explain the circumstances under which he was induced to make this public use of a confidential communication but although the hon. Gentleman rose to supply an omission in his speech, nothing could be less satisfactory than what fell from him. Upon a former occasion, the hon. Gentleman asked me whether I recollected this document. I told the hon. Gentleman that I had only an imperfect recollection of it; but that I certainly did think that some such document was in existence. "I have refreshed my memory," that, I think, is the form of expression in use with the right hon. Gentleman, and I will now tell the House and the hon. Gentleman, without reserve, what I believe to be the circumstances connected with that document. The House is aware that in 1832 (I believe I am correct in the year), Lord Grey's Government appointed a commission to inquire into the condition of the labouring poor in this country, with the view of introducing a measure to amend the law for their maintenance and relief. The hon. Gentleman has mentioned to the
 1174 Walter: 1175 1176 Pechell 1177 Walter: 1178 l l l 1179 1180 l s, l 1181 l
 Sir James Graham  said, he had already stated to the House, on the part of her Majesty's Government, that in the course of the present Session it was intended to propose an amendment of the Poor-law, and he hoped also to be able to bring forward some bill respecting the law of settlement. He thought both those measures ought to precede any legislative enactment regarding rating. That subject had been brought by his direction especially under the notice of the Poor-law Commissioners. His hon. Friend was aware that, at present a variety of valuations took place, which made the rates different in different localities. The whole question of rating and valuation had been considered by the Poor-law Commissioners; their report was far advanced, though not yet ready for presentation, and he hoped, in the course of the present Session, to lay it on the Table. It was a very important, but an intricate and difficult question, and affected so many interests, that he thought it but right the report should be considered by the community for some time previous to any legislation on the subject. It was, therefore, not his intention to propose any new legislative measure, but he should move the renewal, for one year more of the temporary act which had been passed, and was now in force.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that 4,200,000 l
 Sir J, Graham  felt very much obliged to his hon. Friend for having given him such explicit notice of the terms of the question he meant to put, and it was his earnest desire to give as explicit an answer to his hon. Friend as his sense of duty permitted. Since this question was last brought under the notice of the House, a most important decision had been pronounced by the Court of Session affecting the Church of Scotland, relative to the power of that church to subdivide parishes without the intervention of the civil power. That decision had been carried to the House of Lords, before which the question was now pending, and if affirmed by the Lords, it would interfere with the right claimed by the church to erect parishes  quoad sacra. 1158
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he had received so many communications on the subject of the operation of the act regulating parochial assessments, that he wished to know if the subject had occupied the attention of her Majesty's Government, and whether his right hon. Friend at the head of the Home Department were prepared to state, on the part of the Government, what was its intention with reference to an alteration in the parochial assessments, in relation to the commutation of tithes?
 Sir Robert Peel:  The motion of the hon. Baronet, if agreed to, would involve a great expenditure for the construction of a suitable harbour in Ireland. The idea of a safety harbour in the Channel was suggested by others, as a great and necessary improvement. He did not, however, repudiate the proposition of the hon. Baronet as to the superior advantages of a packet station in Ireland; but he could not sanction the hon. Baronet's motion, as it was objectionable in point of form. It was a motion for a committee of the whole House, to which he could not accede; and he hoped the hon. Baronet would not press it to a division.
 Sir Robert Peel  would not be seduced by the sweet words of the hon. Baronet into a pledge to support a motion for a Select Committee; but he would strongly recommend the hon. Baronet to adopt that course, and to take his chance for the consequences.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished very briefly to advert to a statement which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Knaresborough. That hon. Gentleman had referred to a former debate, in the
 1244 "No attempt has been made to impugn the general accuracy, nor, with one or two trifling and immaterial exceptions, any of the details of Sir John Walsham's report." "At Keighley frequently, at Bingley only once, and then with the full consent of the other occupants of the room, dead bodies of paupers have been left till burial in the beds which they occupied whilst living, and in the room where the other paupers, who had been their companions during life, still continued to sleep: but sheets were suspended round the bed in which the corpse lay; and the expression, that the 'corpse companioned the living,' was not intended to convey that the same bed was at the same time occupied by the dead and the living." 1245 "Your committee is of opinion, that his report is borne out in all its most important allegations, by the evidence of the witnesses who came forward to impugn it; though undoubtedly it contains some expressions which are too general and unqualified."
 Sir Robert Peel  said the question was whether Sir John Walsham's report was or was not generally correct. That was the question. He found that the committee affirmed that report, and he could not help thinking that it was substantially correct.
 Sir R. Peel:  The hon. and gallant Officer says it is a misapprehension to suppose that the present law is founded on the act of 'Elizabeth, and challenges us to enter into a comparison of one act with the other. Now, Sir, I will accept the challenge of the hon. and gallant Officer, and I will endeavour to show to him, as I think, successfully, that the present law is not as he appears to think at variance with the law of Elizabeth; and if I shall succeed in proving this, I think I shall render it somewhat difficult for the hon, and gallant Gentleman to vote ox the resolutions of the hon. Member for Nottingham, which he calls upon the House to support as being in consonance as well with the law of Elizabeth as with true Christian principles. By the terms "the ancient constitution of the realm," I think I understood the hon. Member rightly to mean not our form of political Government but the rights confided and guaranteed to the poor of this country by the act of Elizabeth. Now, I beg to call the attention of the House to what were the
 1207 Johnson 1208 1209 1210 1211 "Applicable alike to every class of the poor, and enjoining the indiscriminate reduction of their physical comforts to the lowest endurable point, are shown, by the subsequent orders and practice of the Poor-law Commissioners, to form the real, though unavowed basis of the present system of Poor-law relief." l .l l 1212 Aglionby "The suffering already caused by the partial enforcement (of the principles), and the amount of out-door relief, in spite of them, still administered, show their provisions to have been at once cruel and impracticable." "It is expedient to demand such a reconstruction of the existing system as shall make it conformable to Christianity, sound policy, and the ancient constitution of this realm." 1213 1214 1215 "True it is I cannot give you gigs to drive about in, or champagne to drink; but what amiserable law it is which prevents me giving you, not champagne, but the ancient, constitutional drink of the country—ale?" 1216
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that his hon. Friend had misunderstood him, when he supposed that he had stated that the workhouse test was no test in the present law. What he had said was, that the workhouse test was not introduced by the present law for the first time as the test of poverty, for it had been the test adopted 150 years ago, when the 9th of George I. made the workhouse the test instead of the labour test.
 Sir V. Blake  would conform himself to the recommendation of the right hon. Baronet, and would give notice accordingly.
 Sir V. Blake  was desirous to conform himself to the wishes of the House. He begged to express his acknowledgments to the noble Lord, and would adopt his suggestion. He hoped, however, that the right hon. Baronet would render his further interference unnecessary, by intimating his disposition to consider the matter favourably, or at least, that he would encourage him to hope he would not object to the Select Committee, when moved for. He assured the right hon. Baronet, that there were several ports on the west coast of Ireland already prepared, and in a condition to receive the whole navy of England; but there was no trade, and this measure would create a trade there, without injury to the trade of Liverpool. He stated that the trade of Liverpool was too old and too gigantic to be transplanted to Ireland, and the effect of the redoubled intercourse with America would be to improve, and not to diminish that trade.
 Viscount Palmerston  could not but applaud his hon. Friend for the propriety and ability with which he brought forward his motion. The question deserved the most mature deliberation. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, the head of her Majesty's Government, that the form of the notice was objectionable, and he would suggest to his hon. Friend the propriety of withdrawing it, and giving a notice for another day for a Select Committee, to inquire and report as to the advantages to be derived from the establishment of a packet station on the west-coast of Ireland, and as to which particular port would be
 1269
  Lord J. Russell  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the subject of the petition he had presented previously from Bombay. He wished to ascertain the causes of the delay which had taken place in the payment of the indemnity for the opium surrendered to the Chinese. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that some inquiry was to be made this year as to the value of the opium. He begged to ask whether the inquiry had yet been made, or was now proceeding, or was intended?—at what time it was likely to be terminated, and whether there was any valid objection to the payment of the indemnity?
 Captain Fitzroy  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, whether it was the intention of Government to bring forward any measure respecting the examination of masters and mates in our merchant service.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that a committee was now employed in investigating this subject. It was not likely that committee would take any great length of time to bring its investigations to a close; upon its report would depend the course which the Government would take.
 Mr. Williams  expressed his decided disapprobation of the immense amount of the estimates prepared for the present year. He considered that the distressed state of the country, the deteriorated condition of the productive classes, the great amount of the expenditure above the revenue during the last seven years, and the great falling off in the trade of the country as shown by a return lately laid upon the table of the House, which proved that upon thirteen of the great articles of our export the falling off in the last year, as compared with the year preceding, amounted to 3,800,000; he considered that these were circumstances which imperatively called upon the House to look at the present position of the country, and to ponder seriously upon the difficulties in which it was involved. In the last six or seven years the calculations of the Finance Minister as to the productiveness of the revenue had been erroneous. In no one of these years had the anticipated amount of revenue been realised. In every one of these years the expenditure had exceeded the income. The gross expenditure of the country from the year 1837 up to the end of 1842, had exceeded the amount of the revenue by no less a sum than 10,000,000 l 1289 l l l l l l l 1290 l l l l l l l l l l l l 1291 l 1292
 Captain Gordon  observed, that the date of the letter which was written to Mr. Greetham, asking him whether he would accept the office of deputy judge-advocate, was sufficient to prove that the second letter must have been written in error. According to the act of Parliament, the Board of Admiralty had no power to appoint any other individual to officiate at a court-martial except the judge-advocate or his deputy. By a clause in the 22nd George 2nd, it was distinctly stated, that in the absence of the judge-advocate and his deputy, the court-martial should have full power to name any person they might think fit. Finding that inconvenience had arisen from there being no deputy judge-advocate, the admiralty thought it necessary that such an appointment should take place, and considering that Mr. Moses Greetham, the father of this gentleman,
 1314
 Captain Plumridge  begged to ask a question. He had heard it suggested, that Mr. Greetham had been appointed deputy judge-advocate, because such an officer might be wanted to go abroad. Was this the real cause of Mr. Greetham's appointment?
 Captain Plumridge  would venture to say, that in his experience of forty-three years he had never known of an instance of a judge-advocate being sent abroad.
 Captain Fitzroy  thought it was extremely proper in discussing these estimates that Gentlemen should cast their eyes abroad and be careful not to reduce our establishments so as to render them inefficient to meet any increase in the establishment of foreign powers. At present it was incumbent on us to extend our steam navigation, and make our steam vessels as efficient and complete as possible. It was not necessary for him to allude to the places where great exertions were making abroad, it was only necessary to mention the subject, and point out the caution it indicated. The hon. Member for Kildare had objected to the appointment of a deputy-accountant, but he thought the services of some such officer was necessary. The more the responsibility was increased, the greater would be the efficiency of the public service. At the present time the Admiralty had quite as much work to do as they could get through, and in time of war it would not be possible for the Lords of the Admiralty to execute all that was required of them. The hon. Member had objected to the Navy Board; but that board, or some equivalent officers, were able to bestow minute attention on details which could not be bestowed by the Lords of the Admiralty, and which was at the same time very useful. Far from objecting to our establishments, he wished to see preparations for building steam vessels at all our ports, and he thought that it was indispensable that the Government should have an establishment of its own for making steam machinery, instead of being dependent on private manufacturers. At present we had only one establishment to repair steam machinery. He hoped, too, that the Hydrographic Department would receive the attention of the Government. It should be remembered that this department had lately trained a number of officers, who had been of great use in China. That department, in fact, was now of greater service than ever it had been before. It should be remembered that steam vessels, from the rapidity of their motion, could not rely so much on the lead, or keep so good a look out as
 1334
 Captain Rous  said, that the ground of this motion was a suggestion that the present Government had been guilty of jobbing. How was it, he begged to ask, that when, some time ago, an officer was sent home from a foreign station, having just escaped a court-martial, because he happened to make a liberal speech at a dinner in favour of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) who was then standing for the county of Hants, he should be immediately appointed to a new command? There was no place in the United Kingdom, he believed, in which more jobbing had taken place than Portsmouth, especially during the last ten years. Every situation in the Customs and Excise had been filled by the supporters of the right hon. Gentleman, who had brought forward this motion. With regard to the present case, he maintained that the situation held by Mr. Hoskins had been in abeyance, and he believed that the appointment of Mr. Greetham had given the highest satisfaction to all the old officers of the navy.
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, that Mr. Greetham had been appointed, when it was found that there was no such officer as a deputy judge-advocate in existence if he should be required to go abroad.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for his offer to postpone the discussion, if it would be in any measure annoying to the gallant Admiral (Sir George Cockburn); but there was nothing that could be annoying to him. The simplest and best method for him to take, to put the House into possession of the motives of Admiralty, was to state the facts of the case in a short and clear manner. The House was probably aware, that by an act passed in the reign of George 2nd, the proceedings on courts-martial were regulated. By this act, in the absence of the deputy judge-advocate, it was the duty of the court-martial to proceed to elect some person  pro hac vice pro hac vice. 1306 1307 F. T. Baring 1308 1309
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  said that at that late hour he would compress into the shortest space the statement in elucidation of the estimates which had been laid on the Table. Last year he had to claim the indulgence of the committee in undertaking the task of moving the estimates for the first time; on the present occasion he had to ask the same indulgence on a different ground, namely, in consequence of the absence, from indisposition, of a gallant Friend of his, a member of the Board of Admiralty, whose high professional and personal character invested him with the highest authority on naval matters; and procured for his opinions a respect as creditable to those who paid it, as to him to whom they thus deferred. In the course of the preliminary discussion to going into committee of supply, the improved state of the relations of this country with respect to certain foreign nations had been so fully explained that it was not necessary for him to say a word more on the subject. That discussion showed in what manner the Government had been able to make a reduction of 4,000 men in the naval service of the country. This partly had arisen from the termination of the war with China, and partly in consequence of the state of our foreign relations in Europe being such as to enable us to make a reduction in the number of the fleet in the Mediterranean; but the force would be found quite sufficient for the exigencies of the service. The reduction of the number of 4,000
 1327 l l l 1328 Pechell: 1329 l l l l l l 1330 l l l
 Mr. S. Herbert  replied that the appointment to be General of Marines was an honorary distinction bestowed for distinguished naval services. It had been approved by the commission for inquiring into the army and navy.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  stated, that by the alteration that had been made, they had the signature of a person who really examined the accounts, whereas formerly there was the signature of an individual who did not inspect them.
 Mr. B. Escott  was surprised, knowing the cause of the present motion, that its advocates should have been soft enough to make the exhibition they had that night. The inference he drew from it was, that the preferment must be very valuable, and the jobs very rich, the loss of which was made so much noise about.
 Mr. Charles Wood  would not insinuate an opinion as to whether Mr. Hoskins was fitter than Mr. Greetham, or Mr. Greetham fitter than Mr. Hoskins to fill this office. There might, perhaps, be some slight advantage in re-establishing the office of deputy judge-advocate; but for the last eleven years the business had been conducted at Portsmouth, as far as he knew without complaint; it was at this moment conducted at Plymouth by a person officiating as deputy judge-advocate, and his right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham) had, doubtless, changed the system at Portsmouth, because for many years back the service at Plymouth had been so well conducted. It was always so conducted on foreign stations. Therefore, when his hon. Friend opposite said that it was necessary to re-establish the
 1310 1311 pro hac vice. pro hoc vice 1312
 Mr. C. Wood  expressed his satisfaction at the reductions made in the estimates.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had already apprised certain parties interested in the payment for the opium, that until the ratification of the treaty with China, it was impossible that Government could act on the stipulations therein contained. The ratification on our part had been sent out from this country; it would probably soon be exchanged with the Chinese government, and then her Majesty's Government would be enabled to take steps in fulfilment of the condition of the treaty.
 1277
 Mr. Labouchere  did not feel disposed to deny that, in the general distribution of the patronage at the disposal of the Government, the present Administration had acted fairly as regarded the diplomatic service; he did not think that it was too much to say, that they had only acted in conformity with the practice of the Government which went before them. He did not think that the charge could be brought against his noble Friend that, in the disposal of the patronage of his office, he had treated with harshness political opponents whom he found employed when he accepted office. He was sure that if the matter was strictly examined, that hon. Gentlemen opposite would not throw out such a charge. He was sure that the House could not have heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet without coming to the conclusion that this change would never have taken place in this office, if he had been consulted. He was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman's qualified defence of the change that had been made, but he should have blushed had it been otherwise. He was surprised to hear the hon. the Secretary of the Admiralty say, that in the letter of Sir John Barrow that officer did not express the opinions of the Board of Admiralty. It was long since that he was a Member of that Board, where he sat as a junior Lord, at the time that it was presided over by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Dorchester, and certainly he must say, that that department under the right hon. Baronet's control was admirably managed. Now he knew sufficiently of the constitution of the Board of Admiralty at that time to know, that a Secretary of the Admiralty would rather have cut off his hand than have sent such a letter without the sanction of the
 1323
 Mr. Labouchere  wished for some explanation of the appointment of deputy accountant-general. He asked for it upon
 1336
 Mr. Hume  thought, considering the state of the country, the reductions might have been still further carried out. l
 Mr. Hume  called attention to the number of yachts, and the expense they cost.
 Mr. Hume,  on the Order of the Day being read for going into a committee of supply on the Navy Estimates, said, that he was anxious to call the attention of the House, and of the Government, to the present state of the revenue and the expenditure as compared with former years, and to the condition of the industry of the country at this time. He had been anxious to state his opinions on that important subject on the late motion of Lord Howick, to consider that part of her Majesty's Speech, which stated,
 "That the diminished receipt of the ordinary sources of revenue must in part be attributed to the reduced consumption of many articles caused by the depression of the manufacturing industry of the country, which has so long prevailed, and which her Majesty has so deeply lamented." 1278 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1279 l l l
 Mr. Blewitt  said that he had given notice of his intention to call the attention of the Government to the state of the North Boundary question between this country and the United States; but probably it would be more convenient, if he postponed the subject to a future day.
 Mr. Blewitt  said, that he intended to ask a question, but he should feel it necessary to preface it with a few observations. He had heard with very great pleasure the right hon. Baronet, in the early part of the evening, express his confidence that the good sense of the French people would prevent any collision between this country and France. He hoped that a similar assurance might be made with regard to other parts of the world. From the speech of the President of the United States, and from the debates that had recently taken place in the senate of that country, he had some apprehensions, however, that we might be brought into collision with that country. The collision which he alluded to was likely to arise, in consequence of the debates that had taken place in the senate, respecting the north-eastern boundary. In 1818, an agreement took place between the two countries, respecting the boundary of the United States and our possessions in North America, extending from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific Ocean. In 1827, the arrangement was renewed for an indefinite time; and it was to continue, as to the disposal of this territory, until notice was given by either patty. One of the questions which
 1324 "A Bill to authorise the adoption of measures for the occupation and settlement of the territory of Oregon, and for extending certain portions of the laws of the United States over the same, and for other purposes." "Whereas the title of the United States to the territory of Oregon is certain, and will not be abandoned therefore." "That it was quite a matter of surprise, that Great Britain, in the face of evidence so strongly furnished by her own accredited officer, should ever think of preferring any claim to the territory drained by that river. He asserted that Great Britain never had a just claim that she did not enforce; and never put forward an unjust one that she did not endeavour to strengthen by postponement and diplomatic procrastination. If she had the same ground to stand upon in this instance that we have, she would not hesitate a moment to assert it, and to enforce it, if necessary. Why, then, should we weaken our own right, and strengthen her pretensions, by voluntarily deferring the assertion of our claim? Our right was indisputable from the forty-second to the forty-ninth degree of north latitude, and from the Pacific Ocean to our territory east of the Rocky Mountains. This comprised a fertile region, 700 miles wide at one extremity, and 500 at the other—running through seven degrees of latitude, and embracing nearly 200,000,000 acres of land—enough to form four or five new states. It was of vital interest to us to have the control of those Indian tribes which infest our western borders. The provisions of this bill would enable us to keep them in complete check. Hitherto it might have been thought that we had territory enough, and that for some generations we would not have use for more. But the late census, as well as that preceding, shows that we may calculate on our population being doubled every twenty-three or twenty-four years. By this ratio we may expect to have a population of 52,000,000 in 1880, and at the close of the present century, at least 92,000,000. We have to act for those who are to succeed us, and our neglect of their interests, at the critical moment that it is our duty to place
 1325
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  observed, that he was quite ready to admit that some economy was shown in the estimates now laid before the House, but that he was not at all satisfied that further reductions might not have been made, or that those now proposed were judiciously apportioned. He thought it was decidedly irregular to take the vote for the payment of the ships' companies now expected home from China, as it appeared that it was purposed to take it. When he was in office, he was told that if a vote was required for a particular service, it ought to be taken in a distinct form; but it now appeared, that the Government had one set of rules for proceedings when out of office, and another set for
 1331 1332
 Mr. W. Williams,  previous to the question being put, desired some information as to the cause of the increase of the pensioners in the civil department. He also wished to know what were the duties of a Major-general of Marines? There was a gallant Admiral, at present one of the Lords of the Admiralty, who filled one of these seemingly anomalous situations at the same time that he was receiving his admiral's half-pay and his salary as a naval lord.
 Mr. Williams  had not one word to say against building the vessel, but he was glad to hear the explanation, because an impression had gone abroad that the ship was to cost a sum far beyond the ordinary expense of a steam man-of-war.
 Sir Charles Napier  said, that it was extremely disagreeable, when two hon. Gentlemen were pitted against each other, if one had been, and the other was secretary to a department, for they were sure to let the cat out of the bag. He was sorry to find that it had fallen to the lot of his hon. Friend, the Secretary of the Admiralty, to defend the appointment, because his hon. Friend was too honest a man to defend it well, and a worse defence than his, when a notorious job had been done, he had never heard. His hon. Friend said, that Sir Edward Owen, sitting upon a court-martial on the trial of Captain Troup Nicholas, went up and asked Mr. Hoskins what he did there, although he might naturally have expected to see him in his usual place. Now, he would ask whether this was not a sort of a feeler put out by the Admiralty, to let Mr. Hoskins know that he might be turned out one of these fine days, when it might suit the Admiralty to appoint his successor. It was done in a very excellent manner—he had never known anything done better. His hon. Friend (Mr. C. Wood) had said rightly, that the officiating deputy judge-advocate was invariably recommended by the Commander-in-chief; and that, before a court-martial could take place, evidence must be summoned by the person who was to be afterwards appointed officiating deputy judge-advocate. Did they suppose that the members of courts-martial, who were always too happy to do as the admiralty wished, would have objected to Mr. Hoskins, who had been officiating deputy judge-advocate for eleven years before? He believed, that more courts-martial took place abroad than in this
 1313
 Sir C. Napier  thought, the Government were the best judges of the propriety of retaining or reducing our establishments, knowing, as they must, the position of our relations with foreign powers far better than could Members generally; but he could not help expressing a doubt whether the reductions in the number of seamen might not be found too great; as in times of public exigency the manning of our ships of war, not the fitting them out was the main difficulty experienced; and it had often occurred to him, that one very advisable way of meeting the difficulty would be that of displacing the marines in times of peace by seamen—the result of which regulation would be, that by dividing the crew of each of our guardships, and filling up the complement with boys, landsmen, &c, two ships of the line could be, at a few days' notice, fully manned and at no additional expense, instead of having to wait, as in some recent instances had been the case, for months. The great burthen of the naval charges consisted in the expenses of keeping up the necessary crews. Then, again, as to the way in which the business was managed at the Admiralty, he could not but think that a change might be beneficially effected. He had found that the business was really, though quite conventionally, and therefore irresponsibly, divided among the different members of the board, so that it was extremely difficult—civil as they were now a-days, and very different in this respect from what they used to be—it was very difficult for officers to find out to which member of the board they were, as to any particular department of the service, to apply. He had no hope now of seeing a naval man at the head of the Admiralty, but he thought the administration would be highly improved by rendering one individual responsible for each department. There should be one head of the dock yards, one of the victualling department,
 1335
 Mr. F. Baring  rose for the purpose of bringing before the House the case of Mr. Hoskins. He said, that this gentleman had been dismissed from his office, as he thought, in a manner harsh and unjustifiable; and, before he detailed the facts, he would say a word or two on the nature of the tenure of offices in the public service. There were very few who did not hold their offices at the pleasure of the Crown, and the Crown had a perfect right to dismiss any of its officers on due cause; that power he would be the last to dispute, but the pleasure of the Crown was one thing, and mere fancy, or political prejudice and feeling in the heads of departments, was another. The prerogative of dismissal had been placed in the hands of the Crown for the benefit of the public service, and, but for the sake of that service, the Crown was not supposed to exercise it; if a dismissal took place, it must be supposed to have proceeded on some grounds which would justify that course to the public and to the House of Commons. The higher offices of state were parliamentary offices, the retention of which depended upon the change of political parties. These were exceptions to the rule, but in general public servants in the employment of the Government, were not removable upon political grounds. Having said thus much, he would now proceed to a statement of the facts of this particular case. In July, 1831, by the death of a gentleman of the name of Greetham, two situations at Portsmouth became vacant: one of these was the office of agent to the Solicitor to the Admiralty, and to this place, the son of Mr. Greetham was appointed by Mr. Jones, the solicitor of the Admiralty, in whose appointment the situation was; the other situation was that of deputy Judge-advocate. The
 1301 1302 "Sir, I am commanded by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that they have appointed Mr. G. Lambert Greetham to succeed you in officiating as deputy Judge-advocate in trials by court-martial. I am, Sir, your obedient servant, 
 Mr. F. T. Baring  said, that he would withdraw the motion on the understanding that the papers were to be produced.
 Captain Pechell  declared, that a more monstrous job than the dismissal of Mr. Hoskins, and the appointment of Mr. Greetham, had never been perpetrated.
 Sir G. Staunton  seconded the motion. It was unnecessary for him, after the speech of the right hon. Mover, to address any lengthened observations to the House; he would content himself with expressing his entire concurrence in the view taken by the right hon. Gentleman. He could not sit down, however, without taking this opportunity of bearing his testimony to the high character, perfect integrity, and im-
 1305
 Sir Robert Peel  had listened with attention to the speeches of the hon. Gentlemen opposite, and he thought, that many points which they had discussed, would have been much better deferred, till the estimates were under consideration. If the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Williams) had postponed his observations with respect to the civil, the superannuation, and the naval and military pension lists, until the estimates were brought specifically before the House, a much better opportunity would have been given for affording explanations on the points to which he had referred. But the House must not take it for granted, although the hon. Gentleman stated, that he had bestowed much time on his calculations, and was convinced of their entire correctness, that the compliment which the hon. Gentleman had paid himself was entirely deserved. The hon. Gentleman said, "Look at the amount of the estimates for civil superannuations in 1818, and compare them with those of the present year; see what an increase has taken place;" but the hon. Gentlemen should know, that a very great proportion of that increase was caused by the reductions which had been made in the civil establishment. In 1830, the Duke of Wellington's Government made considerable redactions in the civil establishment; and, subsequently, similar reductions were effected by the Governments of Lord Grey and Lord Melbourne. But the hon. Gentleman must be aware, that it was impossible to effect such reductions without making provision for the parties who were thereby displaced. The hon. Gentleman must know, that it might be perfectly consistent with sound economy, and with practical permanent reduction, to exhibit an increase in the amount of civil superannuations. The hon. Gentleman said, "I have gone through these estimates; I have compared them with the estimates of former years, and I find an enormous increase in the amount of naval pensions." That was true; but when the hon. Mem-
 1293 l "It is not fair to levy contributions for supplying pensions for these widows and orphans upon the officers; we, therefore, recommend Parliament to abolish this system, and to undertake themselves to provide means for the payment." 1294 1295 1296 1297 Hume  1298 l 1299 l l l 1300
 Sir R. Peel  said that, not being a Hampshire man, he felt some apology was due for taking part in the debate after the length to which it had already extended.
 1320 C. Wood 1321 1322
 Sir Robert Peel  referred to her Majesty's late trip to Scotland, when she was obliged to hire a steam vessel. He was sure, that in the present state of steam navigation when steam-vessels were so much superior to sailing vessels, that the House could but desire that her Majesty should have a steam yacht for her own use, whenever her Majesty might require one. They must all be glad that her Majesty should be capable of using one, and all must be glad that her Majesty should visit every part of her dominions. It was only proper that if the Queen of England chose to do that, she should have a steam yacht of her own, and not be obliged to hire one of a steam company. The expense for fitting such a vessel for her Majesty's use had not exceeded by 2,000 l l
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he did not anticipate that the hon. Member wished to do more than ask a question, and he would suggest that he should at once proceed.
 Sir R. Peel  hoped, that the hon. Member would not infer the existence of an intention on the part of the American people to adopt a certain course in consequence of a bill having been introduced, and laid on the table of the senate of the United States, and having been followed by a violent speech of an individual Member. He hoped that the hon. Member would not endeavour to identify the whole of that nation with such a proceeding. He hoped also that the hon. Gentleman's speech would not be quoted across the Atlantic as a proof of the feeling of this country; but he would venture to say, that he was satisfied that even that speech
 1326
 Viscount Ebrington  addressed a few words to the House which were inaudible in the gallery.
 Viscount Palmerston  begged most sin-
 1315 1316 1317 1318 1319
 Mr. Redhead Yorke  inquired whether the amended Poor-law Bill, which it was the intention of the Government to propose this year, was to be precisely the same as that of last year, with the exception, of course, of those alterations which had been recognized at the close of the Session?
 Lord J. Russell  said, it would be very desirable to know what would be done in relation to the Poor-law for Ireland, and he wished to know if the Government intended to proceed with a bill, and, if so, whether the principle was to be maintained?
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  begged to detain the House for a few moments while he referred to a statement made the other evening by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), with respect to the treatment of certain prisoners in the Knutsford House of Correction. When
 1341 "For the amusement of several ladies and gentlemen, who were anxious to see the sport." "Sent to weave against his will, as he would be in the same building as thieves and vagabonds of the vilest description." "Now, you have been sent here to be punished, and I will take care you are punished; for, let your treatment be ever so lenient whilst you are here, I would not give much for your constitution when you go out." "I remember the day when the governor of the gaol sent for the rules, and read them to us, telling us that they were very severe, and that if we did not obey them, we should be severely punished, having our bread stopped, and thereby endangering our constitutions." 1342 "I never made any application to the governor for anything. The food is good, but the prisoners complain of the shortness of it."
 Mr. T. Egerton  could only say that the magistrates courted the fullest investigation, and that he believed the Knutsford House of Correction to be one of the best conducted gaols in the country.
 General Johnson  considered the motion an exceedingly reasonable one. Seeing that the wars in China and India had been brought to a satisfactory conclusion, and the troubles in Canada settled, it was but reasonable to expect that a considerable reduction should take place in the army list. It was desirable before moving the estimates, to see what the expenditure of the country was. The House had been engaged five nights in discussing the distress of the country, which was admitted on all hands, and nobody had adverted to what was the real cause of that distress-— namely, taxation. It was no use to shift the burden from agriculture to manufactures, and from manufactures again to agricultural produce; for without a large reduction of taxation no permanent relief
 1358
 Colonel Peel  merely wished to make one observation with respect to the complaint that had been made as to the defective state of the muskets in the British army, and as to the assertion that the British soldiers were worse armed than any other European army. The matter had excited a great deal of attention at the Board of Ordnance, and steps had been taken by which the soldiers of the British army would be gradually armed with percussion muskets.
 Lord A. Lennox  could not, as a soldier, allow this opportunity to pass without expressing his grateful thanks to the right hon. and gallant Member below him, for the great boon he had conferred upon the service by the warrant of the 19th of October 1842, regulating the passage al-
 1368 morale d s d. l l l 1369
 Lord Ashley  begged to take that opportunity of calling the attention of the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department to a subject of considerable importance. He had just received a letter from a very respectable gentleman, signed Thomas Barber, auditor of the Halifax Union, which was in these words:— "My Lord—Permit me most respectfully to direct your Lordships special attention to the last page of the  Halifax Guardian 1344 "To Lord Ashley, London." "It is this week our painful duty to record one of the most revolting cases of barbarous treatment that it ever fell to our lot to notice. The case affords another illustration of the cruelties practised upon children doomed to slave labour in a coal mine, and we beg distinctly to observe, that we have understated rather than overstated the treatment of the wretch whose name we shall shortly introduce. "James Whiteley, a poor orphan boy, about seventeen years of age, was apprenticed to Joseph Whiteley, collier, residing at Blackley, near Elland, about seven years ago, as a hurrier. He was then only about nine years of age. From the first day of his apprenticeship to his cruel master he has been the subject of the most severe and harsh treatment. The labour to which he was put in his mere infancy was the veriest drudgery, and when his limbs failed to do their duty a huge strap, or not unfrequently a thick piece of wood, was most inhumanly applied to his person. Six o'clock in the morning was the usual hour at which this poor boy was sent into the pit, and at the same hour in the evening—but not unfrequently eight o'clock or nine o'clock—he was again submerged, his only subsistence being a
 1345 "It appears that the severe flogging which Whiteley received caused him once or twice to run away from his master. A short time ago he was so beat with a hurrier's strap, and a heavy piece of wood (a piece of an old cradle) that he again resolved upon running away. He did so, but on Tuesday week he was brought before the Halifax magistrates by his master, charged with disobedience. Through the threats and menaces of the cruel tyrant who had treated him so barbarously, he was prevented stating the whole facts of the case to the bench. The lad had intended showing the various wounds inflicted upon his person: enough, however, was said to induce the magistrates to reprimand the master, and the boy was ordered to go back again, and the master warned not to ill treat him in future. This warning, however, was neglected. The same day he administered a most brutal castigation to his victim, which he repeated every day while the lad remained with him. Our readers may imagine that the harrowing details which are to follow are tinged with an air of fiction. They are facts. The poor lad when down in the pit was beat with a stick, and between each stroke the instrument was dipped in water. The lad's back became one mass of sores, and it was impossible for him to lie in bed. While subject to this inhuman treatment, he was allowed three meals per day of thin water-por-ridge only, and in consequence of his brutal treatment boils broke out in all parts of his body. Frequently was he sent into the pit without breakfast, and obliged to perform the whole of his drudgery. What made this the more painful was, the fact of his labouring under the effects of a severe wound inflicted upon his right knee some time since. On that occasion, while beating him with a hurrier's strap, the master took hold of the end opposite the buckle (which is generally a tolerably large one), thus causing a more severe punishment; in one of the strokes the buckle caught the poor lad on the right knee, and tore away a large piece of flesh. The lad, however, was still forced to work. "On Thursday night week this monster master ducked the lad's head three or four times in a bowl of water, wetting his shirt all over, and then forced him into the cellar, where he was locked up all night, without bed, chair, table, or even a morsel of straw! The same treatment was about to be practised on Friday night, but he begged so pitifully for mercy that he was allowed to go to bed. On Saturday night, however, he was again forced into the cellar, where he remained all night. On Sun-
 1346 "The lad was subsequently removed to the workhouse, where he was put under propre medical treatment, and the most assiduous attention has since been paid to him both by Mr. and Mrs. Dyer. We understand that Joseph Whiteley, the lad's master, will be brought up before the magistrates this day."
 Lord Eliot  said, that a bill was in a forward state of preparation.
 Lord John Russell  believed that some action had occurred during the recess, in regard to the Serjeant-at-Arms and his deputy, in which a sum of money had been paid to the plaintiff, by order of the Treasury. If that were so, although the proceeding might be quite right, he thought those papers also should be laid before the House.
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the House was about to proceed to the consideration of the army estimates, he wished to offer a remark with respect to the office of Commander-in-chief being now held by a Member of the Cabinet. Since the House had last had under its consideration the army estimates, the office of Commander-in-chief had been accepted by the Duke of Wellington. On military grounds no one could find any fault with such an appointment, because no man could compete with the Duke of Wellington in fitness for the office. But it was another question whether, after he had accepted the office of Commander in chief, the noble Duke should likewise hold an office in the Cabinet, and continue to fill a situation of considerable influence as the leader of those who were the advisers of her Majesty in the other House of Parliament. He believed it had very seldom been the case, that a Member of the Cabinet had been entrusted with the executive office of Commander in chief. It was true, that General Conway was for some time Commander in chief and a Member of the Cabinet but since his time, no instance of a similar kind had occurred. With respect to the Duke of York and the noble Lord, whose recent decease every Member of the House must unite with him in lamenting; although both of these persons had their political sentiments, yet the Duke of York, from his great impartiality and his love of the army, was above all political considerations; and Lord Hill, from his great zeal for the military service, and his general kindness to persons of all ranks, might be
 1348 "I have always been of opinion, that the Commander-in-chief ought not to be a Member of the Cabinet; my reason for thinking so is, that he ought not to be supposed to have any political influence or bias upon his mind, particularly upon the subject of the promotions in the army." 1349
 Sir A. L. Hay  could confirm the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary at War, as to the proceedings of the committee of 1834, and which came to the determination, after the most attentive examination of the matter, that no further reduction could be made in the force employed in the colonies, with any regard to the safety of those possessions. If the hon. Gentleman could prove that the force employed in the colonies was more than adequate for the public service, there would be some ground for the motion, but the hon. Gentleman had done nothing of the kind. The hon. Member said, that if there were only 2,000 soldiers kept in Canada, that it would be much easier to give them relief; but this was begging the question, for the hon. Gentleman must, in the first instance, show that the amount of force that he had stated was all that was necessary for the defence and preservation of that important colony. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to the reduction which had been made in the French army, but he should recollect that the colonial possessions of France could not be put on a parallel with those belonging to this country. After the clear and able statement of his right hon. and gallant Friend, the Secretary at War, he felt it unnecessary to trouble the House at greater length, but certainly must say that no case had been made out to justify the adoption of the amendment.
 Mr. Bickham Escott  begged to suggest to the right hon. Baronet, that he should insert a clause in the bill to enable the revising barristers to give costs to parties against whom frivolous objections might be brought.
  Captain Layard:  I trust the kind indulgence of the House will be granted to one who having been twenty years in her Majesty's service, has made it his pleasure, as well as his business, to inquire in what manner the comfort and happiness might be best consulted of those to whom, in my mind, the country is so much indebted—I speak of the private soldier; and I trust the House will give me credit for sincerity while pleading their cause, however I may be found wanting in ability. When the right hon. Baronet the Secretary at War last Session of Parliament brought forward the army estimates, I then stated my belief that considerable advantage would arise to the good discipline of the service by allowing men of good conduct a free discharge at the expiration of ten years. I believe that by such being the case, desertion would be much less frequent, a better description of men would enter the service, and that many a man now, who is a worthless character from the utter hopelessness he has of getting a release from a service for which, for many reasons, he may find himself totally unfitted, would, from having such a prospect before him become a valuable and efficient soldier. And I can truly say I was greatly delighted by finding this opinion was coincided with by that of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary at War. I, therefore, have every reason to hope that this beneficial measure will be carried into effect. The next circumstance to which I wish to call the attention of the House is the benefit that would be derived by allowing the wives and children of soldiers when suffering from sickness, to be received into wards of the regimental hospital, set apart for that purpose or, if that could not be done, that a separate hospital might be built at each military station for their accommodation. The women and children of the private soldier, when taken ill, are obliged to be sent out of barracks for fear of infection to the men. When suffering from disease they naturally conceal it as long as possible, well knowing the misery they will have to endure, when depending on the pittance, which is all they can expect, from the pay
 1370 l s d l s d l s d l s d s d d. 1371
 Mr. Speaker  acquainted the House, that the Serjeant-at-Arms attending this House had a communication to make to the House:—
 "Whereupon the Serjeant was called to the Bar, and informed the House, that he and William Bellamy, a Messenger of this House, had received writs of summons at the suit of Thomas Burton Howard, by his attorney Thomas Howard, in actions of trespass: as the nature of the trespass was not stated, he thought it right to enter an appearance. On Saturday last he was served with a declaration, which shews that the suit is in consequence of his having taken Thomas Burton Howard into custody; and that the suit against William Bellamy is for having taken Thomas Burton Howard to the prison of Newgate. As both these acts were done by order of this House, and under Mr. Speaker's warrant, he hoped they would have the protection of the House, and the directions of the House as to the course which they are to pursue."
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to proceeding with the bill so rapidly. He had not had time to read it, and he hoped the second reading would be postponed to a future day.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would not oppose the second reading, but wished to know when, the bill would be committed. He thought it should be postponed till after Easter.
 Captain Polhill  considered that the wars in which the country had been lately engaged, must necessarily have entailed a very considerable expense, and we could not attempt an immediate reduction in our establishments to any extent. The distress which existed in the country was mainly owing to the extent of our population, which from 1801 to 1841 had increased at the rate of 75 per cent, and at the same ratio would be doubled in the next nine years. The increase of machinery also had in a very great measure contributed to increase the distress by superseding human labour.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the hon. Gentlemen would not think him guilty of disrespect if he did not enter into the different matters of which they had treated. In committee, his right hon. Friend, the Secretary at War would be
 1357
 .Sir H. Hardinge  rose to move the Army estimates. The estimate proposed for the present year ending on the 31st of March, 1844, was 6,225,1032 l l l l 1360 l 1361 1362 l l l. l 1363 l l l l l l l l l l l 1364 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1365 l l l l l l l l l l l 1366 l l "That the number of land forces not exceeding 100,846 men, exclusive of the men employed in the territorial possessions of the East India Company, commissioned and non-commissioned officers, be maintained for the service of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, from the 1st day of April, 1843, to the 31st day of March, 1844,"
 Sir H. Hardinge  denied, that the bestowal of pensions on the widows of officers had anything whatever to do with the aristocratic connection of the parties. The hon. Member was altogether mistaken as to the principle on which the pensions were granted, and the regulations were of such a nature, that pensions could not be granted unless proofs were given of the service of the officer whose widow applied for it. There were some hardships at present as regarded the pensions to officers' widows. For instance, there was a regulation under which a widow forfeited her pension if she re-married. He had known several instances of great hardship arise out of this regulation, and it was one that was not framed by the Government, but the adoption of it was forced on the War office by the recommendation of a Finance Committee of that House. He recollected, that soon after the war, some such regulation was found to exist, and was considered to be a great hardship on officers' widows. The matter was brought under the notice of Parliament by Lord Littleton in that House,
 1373 1374 l l 1375
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that the country was entitled to reduction beyond that which had been announced by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary at War. He thought, that the colonies, and the Canadian colonies especially, were entitled to complain that they were subjected to the burthen of too large a body of troops. Canada was now in a state of perfect quiet. She wanted no troops at all; the colonists were quite capable of defending their own territory; or, at all events, a body of 1,500 men would be amply sufficient for her defences. For her internal government the presence of troops was no longer necessary. The new system of policy which had been introduced by the present Government, had done much to re-establish peace and contentment, and the colonists themselves were most thankful for the change. He called upon the right hon. Baronet to withdraw the troops from that colony; and he begged to point out that if this were done, the duties on cotton and wool might be repealed, and thus two most important branches of trade might be relieved. With regard to the Cape of Good Hope, he believed, that no increase of our military force was necessary there. He believed, that the grossest acts of injustice had been committed there, and that if this were not so, 3,000 men would not have been found to quit their homes and fly to the wilderness rather than remain the slaves of unjust power. Why were fresh forces being now sent out? It was to undertake fresh operations against these unfortunate men— to hunt them down and destroy them. He believed, that the present position of this colony was owing to the course of management which had been hitherto pursued towards these persons; and that neither contentment nor peace would be restored until
 1367
 Mr. Hume  said, that no man in the House would deny that it was their duty to effect the greatest, possible reductions in the estimates consistently with the public service; and the question now was, whether, previous to voting the supplies, the House should have information from the Ministers whether any new taxes were to be imposed, or whether any old ones were to be removed? Let it be remembered, that if the number of the army and navy had not been increased, the necessity for the Income-tax would not have arisen. The question was, did the House wish the Income-tax to be removed or not? If so, they must strike off part of the expenditure. During the five years of Lord Grey's administration, something had every year been taken off from the taxation. During the last five years, we had been getting into debt spending annually more than our income, and it was now high time to commence the work of reduction. He should regret if the House rejected a motion calculated to give so much satisfaction to the country, and for which he should certainly vote.
 Mr. Hume , in reply said, that he should have no difficulty in showing clearly that the committee of 1834 had arrived at erroneous conclusions as to awarding the number of troops to the several colonies.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  did not understand the statement, that had been made by the hon. Member for Cheshire. The hon. Gentleman stated, that the account he now gave of what took place in the gaol, came from the prisoner Wilde. The statement that he (Mr. Duncombe) gave the other evening also came from the prisoner Wilde, and he believed, that the statement so made by him was correct. With regard to any contradictions coming from prisoners of the statements made as to the improper management of the gaol, he thought such contradictions should be received with great caution inasmuch as those prisoners were, to a certain extent, under the control of the magistrate and the gaoler. James Allinson, the released prisoner, whose testimony he (Mr. Duncombe) had quoted the other evening, and who had been confined on the same side of the prison with Lees and Wilde was prepared to come forward and to confirm everything that he had stated, as to what had taken place in the House of Correction at Knutsford. It was singular that, although the statement which he made the other evening had appeared in the newspapers some time ago, the magistrates had never come forward with any contradiction of it until the circumstances were mentioned in Parliament. When he saw the newspaper account of the manner in which the prisoners were treated, he wrote to a gentleman in the neighbourhood to ascertain whether such an account could possibly be correct. That gentleman immediately sent over to Knutsford gaol, and had an interview with Wilde,
 1343
 Mr. Ewart  asked the right hon. Baronet whether the attention of the Government had been attracted to the manner in which the export duties at Ceylon were collected, especially with respect to the duty on the article cinnamon?
 Mr. Ewart  begged to inquire whether the Government had received any intelligence concerning Mr. Gordon's treatment in Paraguay.
 Mr. S. Crawford  must entreat the attention of the Government to the propositions contained in the resolution of which he had given notice, and which it would now become his duty to submit to the House. At such a period as the present, when most severe and extensive distress prevailed throughout the country, it was, he thought, the duty of the House to endeavour to alleviate that distress by lightening the burden of taxation. This, he conceived, could not be effectually done, unless they took into consideration the whole public expenditure of the country, and the means by which it was to be defrayed; and in his opinion, before they assented to votes of the public money, they ought to know what amount of revenue could be drawn from the country without unnecessarily oppressing the people. It had been said, that the necessary expenditure of the country must be defrayed; but he thought that those who had the control of the revenue of the country ought, imitating the example of prudent individuals, first to look to their resources, and then to regulate their expenditure according to their means. He did not object particularly to the course pursued by the present Government, but he objected to the system which had been going on for a number of years, under all Governments, of voting the supplies before they were acquainted with the means to which it might be necessary to have recourse for making good the votes. He objected generally to the extravagant nature of the present civil and military establishments; and he thought this extravagance had arisen from no regard being had to the resources of the country at the time when those establishments were formed. The Government might think that his doctrine was tainted with the principles of Radical reform, which he was aware were not very popular in that House; but he would not hesitate to assert those principles, for he thought that no man ought to maintain opinions out of doors which he had not courage to support
 1352 l l l s d l l l l l 1353 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1354 "That at the present period of extended distress, it is the duty of the House to consider the means of lightening the pressure of taxation on the people, by reducing to the greatest practicable extent the expenses" of the military, as well as of the civil establishments of the country; that therefore it is expedient, that the voting of any supplies should be postponed till the estimates of the whole expenditure and the means to meet that expenditure be first furnished to the House."
 Mr. W. Williams  remarked on the little attention paid by the House to the duty of voting the public money. 6,000,000 l 1355 1356 l l l l
  Mr. W. Williams  observed, that in 1822, which was like the present year in one respeet, namely, the prevalence of distress, but which was hot, as now, amongst the working and manufacturing classes; it was amongst the rich agriculturists; the Government were compelled to make a great reduction in the army. This was just at the time when the Currency Bill began to produce such direful effects, and the right hon. Baronet the present Secretary for the Home Department was most active in his exertions to cut down the expenditure of the country. In 1822 the army was 91,700, in 1823 it was 92,000.
 1372
 Mr. Williams  said, that he was so strongly opposed to this most unconstitutional force, that he would divide the committee against the grant.
 Sir H. Douglas  said, that having lately returned from service in an important possession connected with this country, he felt called upon to say a few words before the committee came to a decision on the
 1376
 Sir James Graham  said, that as he believed there would be no objection to the second reading of the bill, he should propose that the bill be now read a second time, and that the discussion be taken on going into the committee.
  Sir James Graham  explained, that the bill was very nearly the same as the bill he had introduced on the same subject last Session, with a view of calling the attention of the House to the subject early this Session. He hoped the hon. and gallant Member would not oppose the motion, and he would take care that the convenience of the House, and of the hon. and gallant Member should be consulted as to the time of going into committee.
 Sir J. Graham  could assure his noble Friend, that although this case was entirely unknown to him till his noble Friend commenced his address to the House, he most warmly sympathized with him in the feeling of disgust which such a statement must create in the breast of every Gentleman who heard it; at the same time, all would agree with him in hoping that there
 1347
 Sir J. Graham : The hon. Member for Finsbury stated, that Allinson was a perfectly credible witness. The statement of Allinson was certainly very much at variance with the statement of his hon. Friend the Member for Cheshire. If it were true that Allinson was a credible witness, then he must say, that he thought the conversations which were alleged to have taken place between the gaoler and the prisoners, when they were first brought to the gaol, were very much to be regretted. It appeared to him, too, that there were other parts of Allinson's statement well worthy of investigation, and which called for a prompt and immediate inquiry. If, therefore, the hon. Gentleman would favour him with a copy of Allinson's statement, he would, undertake, on the part of the Government, that an inspector should proceed to Knutsford gaol to inquire into all the circumstances of the case. The report of that inspector would be made to the Home-office, and he would engage to lay it before the House.
 Sir J. Graham  replied, that the principle of the bill was identically the same. In some details there was a variation, especially with respect to the clauses relating to apprenticeship. Some clauses also would be added.
 Sir Robert Peel : The Government had not yet received any official information from Mr. Gordon, whom they had sent out to Paraguay to prosecute certain inquiries in that country. A rumour, however, had reached England that the mission with which Mr. Gordon was entrusted had terminated unfavourably; and since this subject was mentioned in the House a few evenings ago, he had received a copy of a letter addressed to a most respectable house in Liverpool, by a gentleman named Bartley, the companion of Mr. Gordon, in which it was stated, that in consequence of some interference on the part of Mr. Gordon in the medical practice of the country, by an attempt to introduce vaccination, the government of Paraguay had taken the alarm, and ordered Mr. Gordon to quit the country. As this information came from a most respectable source, he could not but fear, that the rumour was correct. But, as he had already stated, the Government had as yet received no official information upon the subject, and, until such information were received, it would, of course, be quite impossible for him to state what course the Government would be likely to take.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the subject had been under the consideration of the Government, and he thought that the duty gene-
 1340 valorem s s s d
 Sir Robert Peel  replied, that whatever information the Government were in possession of should be laid before the House.
 Sir R. Peel  apprehended that there was no constitutional rule against the tenure of a seat in the cabinet by the Commander-in-chief. There were instances in which the Commander-in-chief had formed part of the Cabinet, and of these, the case of Marshal Conway, to which the noble Lord had referred, was one. It was true that in recent times there had not been a Commander-in-chief in the Cabinet. Sir David Dundas and Lord Hill were not political characters, and it was not remarkable that they, considering their occupation, should not have had a seat in the Cabinet. In the case of the Duke of York, it was not probable that a prince of the blood, holding the relation that he did to the throne, should have a seat in the Cabinet. As far as constitutional analogy was concerned, he did not see any reason why the Commander-in-chief, in the same way as the Master-general of the Ordnance, should not be allowed to hold a seat in the Cabinet. The Duke of Wellington, whilst he was Master-general of the Ordnance, had always held a seat in the Cabinet. He presided over the whole of the concerns of that uepartment of the army, and no one thought that the tenure of that office was a reason why he should not hold a seat in the Cabinet. Take, again, the instance of the Admiralty. The authority which presided over the whole of the naval service, and superintended the whole of the promotions in the navy, the First Lord of the Admiralty, was not excluded from a seat in the Cabinet; nor were the lords of the Admiralty disqualified from sitting in the House of Commons. Lord Hill, to the great regret of the Government, had on account of
 1350 1351
 The Solicitor General  said, he was not about to make any motion on the subject of the communication that had been just made. The more satisfactory course would be to have the papers just presented printed with the votes, and he gave notice that he should to-morrow submit a motion upon the subject to the consideration of the House.
 Mr. V. Smith  thought the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln was the only person who acted consistently in opposing this bill, inasmuch as he opposed all railways. What the Birmingham Railway Company said was this, that there was sufficient traffic to pay them, but there was not sufficient for a new company. As to the objection of there being some other line, he saw no reason why the two lines should not be both allowe but he
 16
 General Johnson  objected to the principle of the bill.
 Mr. V. Smith  moved the second reading of the Northampton and Peterborough Railway Bill.
 Mr. Campbell  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) respecting the Church of Scotland. If he understood the right hon. Baronet, he stated upon a former occasion that it was not the intention of the Government to propose any measure for the reconciliation of those differences in the Church of Scotland which pressed upon the attention of every person connected with that country. The explanation of the right hon. Baronet, however, was not quite clear, and he (Mr. Campbell) now wished to ask what were the fixed intentions of the Government on the subject?
 Mr. Rutherford  regretted that his right hon. Friend the Member for Perth was not in his place to answer for himself. For his own part, he confessed, that he felt very much inclined, according to the custom of his country, to answer the right hon. Gentleman's question by putting another, and asking whether there would be any objection on the part of the Government to go into a committee of the whole House upon this subject, which was one of the very highest importance as regarded the tranquillity and well-being of Scotland. Perhaps the answer of his right hon. Friend the Member for Perth to the question now put by the right hon. Baronet, would be considerably influenced by knowing what were the intentions of the Government. With respect to the rest of the question, he (Mr. Rutherford) could only state that his right hon. Friend the Member for Perth would move the House to go into committee on Tuesday next; and if that motion were agreed to, he would then be prepared to state fully and distinctly what course he proposed to recommend. He could give no further explanation; could make no further answer upon the matter except this, that whatever practical course his right hon. Friend might recommend, or whatever resolutions he might move, he (Mr. Rutherford) believed he was authorised to say, that they certainly would not be founded upon, and certainly would not be in accordance with, the principles of the letter
 21
 Sir T. Wylde  said, he could not concur in the motion. He apprehended that the House had never been placed in a situation in which more caution was necessary than at present. In his opinion, what was proposed by his hon. and learned Friend would be little better than a surrender of the independence and privileges of the House. It had been urged that the House might depend upon it that its privileges would be safe in the hands of a court of law. He had been a little surprised to hear his hon. and learned Friend make that statement, because he should have thought that all that had lately occurred, and to which his hon. and learned Friend had alluded, would have led him to the very opposite conclusion. The Court of Queen's Bench entertained not the slightest doubt that it was not necessary to the public interests that the House should have the power of publishing its proceedings on such matters as were interesting to the public. Scarcely had that decision been pronounced, when the Legislature came to a determination in direct opposition to the opinion of the court. He should have thought, therefore, that his hon. and learned Friend would have arrived at a conclusion, that the privileges of the House could not be safely entrusted to courts of law. Every judge had expressed a most decided opinion that the claim of the House, on behalf of the public, to make known such matters as were deemed interesting, was not well founded. On the other hand, the Legislature had declared that no obstruction or impediment ought to exist to the publication of the proceedings of the House. Thus the Court of Queen's Bench had recently shewn its incompetence to protect the public interest, by taking into its hands the question of Parliamentary privilege. He regretted that longer notice had not been given of the motion in the hands of
 31 32 "The Attorney-general did not wish to detract anything from the power and jurisdiction of the courts of law; but still when he considered the many cases in which the ablest judges of the courts of law allowed that the privileges of Parliament were above their jurisdiction, he could not believe that so many able and learned judges were all mistaken about their jurisdiction; and he therefore thought that the privileges of that House had been firmly recognised as the law of the land." "As to the opinions which had been delivered by Sir F. Pemberton and Sir T. Jones in the case which had been so often alluded to, he understood their opinions to be entirely as to the form or the plea." 33 "Did not deny that the matter of the plea would be a complete defence; but they conceived that the plea had not been put in as the form of the law required. He could not agree with his hon. and learned Friend (Sir S. Romilly) that the courts of law could ever take into their consideration and judgment the existence of the privileges claimed by the House. They were the only judges of their own privileges, and their decision upon them was binding in a court of law." 34 35 in formâ pauperis, 36 37 habeas corpus obiter dicta 38 l l 39 40 v. v. v. v. 41 primâ facie 42 v. Dickens, "A motion was made in the February following by the plaintiffs, 'That all proceedings in a certain action at law, brought by the defendant John Hook against the said E. Wilkins (the next friend,) and the plaintiffs Betsey and Hannah May, in his Majesty's Court of King's Bench, for an assault and imprisonment, may be stayed, in the presence of Mr. Attorney-general, of counsel with the defendant Hook. Whereupon, and upon hearing the said order of the 26th of June last, and what was alleged by the counsel for the said parties, and the plaintiffs submitting to make the defendant Hook such satisfaction for his imprisonment on the attachment as shall be approved of by one of the masters of this court, his lordship doth order that it be referred to Mr. Eames, one, &c, to consider what will be reasonable satisfaction to the defendant in respect thereof; and it is further ordered that the plaintiffs do pay the same to the defendant Hook, together with the costs directed by the said former order.'" v. Jacob Walker, "In this case an attachment, under, which
 43 brevi manu, v. v. Vern. v. MS., v. 3 Burr. 44 v. Salk. v. Journals, l l v. 45
 Lord J. Russell  asked whether the right hon. Gentleman would propose to adjourn the debate for some day certain, or to give notice in some way, so that hon. Members might have time to consider the subject and make up their minds upon it? It was a question on which they ought not to be obliged to come to a decision which might have the effect of causing them to encounter those difficulties which had been described by his hon. and learned Friend, without having time for mature consideration.
 Mr. Rayner , the superintendent of police, deposes that,—
 "Lads from twelve to fourteen years of age constantly frequent beer-houses, and have, even at that age, their girls with them, who often incite them to commit petty thefts … vices of every description at a very early age … great number of vagrant children prowling about the streets … these corrupt the working children … The habits of the adults confirm the children in their vices." "There are many beer-shops which are frequented by boys only … as early as thirteen years of age. The girls are many of them loose in their conduct, and accompany the boys… I remember the Chartist attack on Sheffield last winter. I am certain that a great number of young lads were among them—some as young as fifteen. The generally act as men." "There is most vice and levity and mischief in the class who are between sixteen and nineteen. You see more lads between seventeen
 55
 Mr. James  Hall and others of the working people say, the—
 "Morals of the children are tenfold worse than formerly… There are beer-shops frequented by boys from nine to fifteen years old, to play for money and liquor." "I think morals are getting much worse, which I attribute in a great measure to the beer-shops… There were no such girls in my time as there are now. When I was four or five and twenty, my mother would have knocked me down if I had spoken improperly to her… Many have children at fifteen. I think bastard almost as common now as a woman being in the family-way by her husband… Now it's nothing thought about." The evidence (says the sub-commissioner) with very few exceptions, attests a melancholy amount of immorality, among the children of the working classes in Sheffield, and especially among young persons. Within a year of the time of my visit," he continues, "the town was preserved from an organised scheme to fire and plunder it, merely by the information of one man, and the consequent readiness of the troops. A large body of men and boys marched on it in the dead of the night; and a very large quantity of crowsfeet to lame horses, pikes, and combustibles were found on them, at their houses, and left on the road. Several were pledged to fire their own houses. I name this, as a further illustration of the perilous ignorance and vice prevailing among that young class between boys and full grown men, who were known to be among the chief actors in these scenes."
 Mr. Symons  —and I shall the more effectively quote his opinions, because he is most strongly opposed to the political views which I venture to hold—further says, and it is right that I should state it in justice to so excellent a body of men:
 "If vice increases in Sheffield, the blame assuredly rests not on the clergy; few towns are blessed with so pious or active a ministry. It is not for want of exertion on their parts, if the churches and chapels are unfilled, and the schools scantily attended; and this remark applies also to part of the Wesleyan and some other religious denominations." 56 "Among all the children and young persons I examined, I found, with very few exceptions, that their minds were as stunted as their bodies; their moral feelings stagnant. … The children and young persons possess but little sense of moral duty towards their parents and have little affection for them. … One child believed that Pontius Pilate and Goliath were apostles; another, fourteen or fifteen years of age, did not know how many two and two made. In my evidence taken in this town alone, as many as five children and young persons had never heard even the name of Jesus Christ… You will find boys who have never heard of such a place as London, and of Willenhall, (only three miles distant,) who have never heard of the name of the Queen, or of such names as Wellington, Nelson, Buonaparte, or King George. But, (adds the commissioner) while of Scripture names I could not, in general obtain any rational account, many of the most sacred names never having even been heard, there was a general knowledge of the lives of Dick Turpin and Jack Sheppard, not to mention the preposterous epidemic of a hybrid negro song." "The master of the British School deposes, ' I have resided, as a teacher, for the last six years, during which I have observed that the character and habits of the numerous labouring poor are of the lowest order.' The master of the National School says, ' besotted to the last degree." "A lower condition of morals cannot, I think, be found—they sink some degrees, (if that be possible) below the worst classes of children and young persons in Wolverhampton; they do not display the remotest sign of comprehension as to what is meant by the term of morals." "Much addicted to drinking; many besotted in the extreme; poor dejected men; with hardly a rag to their backs, are often seen drunk two or three days in the week, and even when they have large families." 57 "That there are as many as 100 men in Darlaston who do not know their own names, only their nicknames." "Moral condition of children and young persons on the whole was very superior to that in Wolverhampton." "The bank-girls, and those who work at the screw manufactories." "'Great numbers of bastards;' the bank-girls drive coal-carts, ride astride upon horses, drink, swear, fight, smoke, whistle, sing, and care for nobody." "To the great exertions of the Rev. Mr. Fletcher, and the Rev. Mr. Owen, in the church; and Mr. Robert Bew (chemist), and Mr. Dimmock (iron merchant), among the Dissenters." "Children and young persons, (says the rector), grow up in irreligion, immorality, and ignorance. The number of girls at nailing considerably exceeds that of the boys; it may be termed the district of female blacksmiths; constantly associating with depraved adults, and young persons of the opposite sex, they naturally fall into all their ways; and drink, smoke, swear, &c. &c., and become as bad as men. The men and boys are usually naked, except a pair of trowsers; the women and girls have only a thin ragged petticoat, and an open shirt without sleeves." "My conviction is—and it is founded on the observation of some years—that the general condition of the children employed in labour in this town is alarmingly degraded, both religiously, morally, and intellectually." "Children in pin-works, (he said), are
 58 "I almost tremble, however, when I contemplate the fearful deficiency of knowledge existing throughout the district, and the consequences likely to result to this increased and increasing population. … It will appear, (he adds), by the evidence from Cobridge and Burslem, that more than three-fourths of the persons therein named can neither read nor write. … It is not from my own knowledge, (he continues), that I proclaim their utter, their absolute ignorance. I would respectfully refer you to the evidence of their own pastors and masters, and it will appear that, as one man, they acknowledge and lament their low and degraded condition."
 Mr. Lowndes , clerk to the Board of Guardians of the Burslem Union, says—
 "It is with pain that I have witnessed the demoralizing effects of the system, as it has hitherto existed It appears to me fraught with incalculable evils, both physical and moral." "All parties, clergy, police, manufacturers, workpeople, and parents, agree that the present system is a most fertile source of immorality … The natural results … have contributed in no slight degree, to the immorality, which, according to the opinion universally expressed, prevails to a most awful extent in Nottingham. Much of the existing evil is to be traced to the vicious habits of parents, many of whom are utterly indifferent to the moral and physical welfare of their off-spring. Education of the girls more neglected even than that of boys. … Vast majority of females utterly ignorant. … Impossible to overstate evils which result from this deplorable ignorance. … The medical practitioners of Birmingham forcibly point out the ' misery which ensues; improvidence, absence of all comfort, neglect of children, and alienation of all affection in families, and drunkenness on the part of the husband.'" 59 "I have seen, (he says), the entire ruin of many families from the waste of money and bad conduct of fathers and sons seeking amusement and pastime in an alehouse. From no other single cause alone does half so much demoralization and misery proceed." "From my own experience," "My own experience tells me that the instruction of the females in the work of a house, in teaching them to produce cheerfulness and comfort at the fireside, would prevent a great amount of misery and crime. There would be fewer drunken husbands and disobedient children. … As a working man, within my observation, female education is disgracefully neglected. I attach more importance to it than to anything else." "The present existence of a highly demoralised middle-aged and rising generation, worse and more debased than, I believe, any previous generation for the last three hundred years." 60 "The moral condition of the people is as bad as it is possible to be. Vice is unrebuked, unabashed; moral character of no avail. A spirit of disaffection prevails almost universally—magistrates, masters, pastors, and all superiors, are regarded as enemies and oppressors." "I took down myself the following words, as they fell from the lips of a Chartist orator—'The prevalence of intemperence and other vicious habits was the fault of the aristocracy and the mill-owners, who had neglected to provide the people with sufficient means of moral improvement, and would form an item of that great account which they would one day be called upon to render to a people indignant at the discovery of their own debasement." "A working man's hall is opened on Sundays; and in this, 300 poor children are initiated into infidel and seditious principles." "A wild and satanic spirit is infused into the hearers." "What are the consequences to be apprehended if the present state of things be suffered to continue?'' replies—'Unless a speedy alteration be made in the manufacturing districts, a fresh and more extensive outbreak will again occur, threatening loss to the whole nation.'" "The condition of the lower classes is daily becoming worse in regard to education; and it is telling every day upon the moral and economic condition of the adult population." 61 "The country will be inevitably ruined, un less some steps are taken by the Legislature to secure education to the children of the working classes." "Not one collier-boy in ten can read, so as to comprehend what he reads." "Many are almost in a state of barbarism. Religious and moral training is out of the question. I should certainly be within bounds by saying that not one grown male or female in fifty can read." "A large portion of the colliery and ironwork hands are living in an utterly depraved state, a moral degradation, which is entailing misery and disease on themselves, and disorder on the community." "I never heard of France; I never heard of Scotland or Ireland; I do not know what America is." "Has never heard of Jesus Christ; has never heard of God, but has heard the men in the pit say 'God damn them;' never heard of London." "I never heard of Christ at all." "I never go to church or chapel; (again), I don't know who God is." "You have expressed surprise, says an employer, at Thomas Mitchell not having heard of God; I judge there are very few colliers here about that have." 62 "That it is, in fact, to a much larger extent." "How much of the crime that brings prisoners to the gaol can you trace to habits of intoxication? "In order to arrive at a just conclusion, I devoted several nights to a careful examination of the entries in my journals for a series of years, and although I had been impressed previously with a very strong conviction, derived from my own personal experience in attendance on the sick poor, that the practice of drinking was the great moral pestilence of the kingdom, I was certainly not prepared for the frightful extent to which I find it chargeable with the production of crime; I am within the mark in saying that three-fourths of the crime committed is the result of intemperance." 63 "Having been for a number of years a missionary among the poor in Edinburgh, and having for two years had the charge of the house of refuge for the destitute, I have had, perhaps, the best opportunities of observing how far drunkenness produced ignorance, destitution, and crime; and the result of my experience is a firm conviction that, but for the effects of intemperance, directly and indirectly, instead of having 500 prisoners, in this prison at this time, there would not have been 50." "Drunkenness is most injurious to the interests of the weavers as a body; drunkards are always on the brink of destitution. There can be no doubt that whatever depresses the moral worth of any body of workmen, likewise depresses their wages; and whatever elevates that worth, enables them to obtain and procure higher wages." l 64 "I am led (he says) to believe that intemperance is the exciting cause of insanity in about one-third of the cases of this institution." "The proportion at Glasgow is about 26 per cent,, and at Aberdeen 18 per cent." "The applications for the introduction of individuals who have lost reason from excessive drinking continue to be very numerous." "Amongst the causes of insanity, intemperance predominates." "Twenty-four per cent, of insane cases from intemperance." "The medical writers of all countries reckon intemperance among the most influential exciting causes of insanity. Esquirol, who has been most celebrated on the continent for his researches into the statistics of madness, and who is well known to have extended his inquiries into all countries, was of opinion that 'this cause gives rise to one-half of the cases of insanity that occur in Great Britain." "This fact, although startling, is confirmed by many instances. It was found, that in an asylum at Liverpool, to which 495 patients had been admitted, not less than 257 had become insane from intemperance." 65 "In his opinion, one-half of the cases of insanity which came under the care of medical men in that couutry arose more or less from the use of strong drink." post mortem "The contractor for the management of the poor in Lambeth, and other parishes, stated to me that he once investigated the cause of pauperism in the cases of paupers then under his charge. The inquiry, he says, was conducted for some months, as I investigated every new case, and I found in nine cases out of ten the main cause was the ungovernable inclination for fermented liquors." "The people will cost us much, whether we will or not; if we will not suffer ourselves to be taxed for their religious instruction, we must suffer to be taxed for the punishment and repression of crime." l l l l l l l l 66 l l l l s l l l l l 67 "The truck system encourages improvidence, by preventing the chance of a habit of saving, for nobody can save food. It prevents a family from obtaining a sufficient supply of clothes, and more comfortable furniture, in proportion to the possession of which it is always found that the working-man becomes more
 68 "The poor working man never sees the colour of a coin, all his wages are consumed in food, and of the very worst quality; and to prevent the chance of his having a single penny in his possession, the reckonings were postponed from week to week, until sometimes two or three months had elapsed. " "One final remark should, however, be made on the particular evil of the system, which principally relates to the moral condition of the children and young persons, nothing can be worse than the example set by the truck system—an example which is constantly before the eyes of the children, and in which they grow up, familiarised with the grossest frauds, the subtlest tricks, and the most dishonest evasions, habitually practised by their masters, parents, and other adults, in the very face of law and justice, and with perfect impunity." "Are made in a public-house (for the convenience, they pretend, of change), where
 69 "In the very center of the city there is an accumulated mass of squalid wretchedness, which is probably unequalled in any other town in the British dominions. There is concentrated everything that is wretched, dissolute, loathsome and pestilential. These places are filled by a population of many thousands of miserable creatures. The houses in which they live are unfit even for sties; and every apartment is filled with a promiscuous crowd of men, women, and children; all in the most revolting state of filth and squalor. In many of the houses there is scarcely any ventilation; dunghills lie in the vicinity of the dwellings; and from the extremely defective sewerages, filth of every kind constantly accumulates. In these horrid dens the most abandoned characters of the city are collected; from whence they nightly issue to disseminate diseases, and to pour upon the town every species of crime and abomination." 70 "That the formation of all habits of cleanliness is obstructed by defective supplies of water; that the annual loss of life from filth and bad ventilation is greater than the loss from death or wounds in any wars in which the country has been engaged in modem times; that of the 43,000 cases of widowhood, and 112,000 cases of destitute orphanage, relieved from the poor's-rate in England alone, it appears that the greatest proportions of deaths of the heads of families occurred from the above specified and other removable causes; that their ages were under forty-five years—that is to say thirteen years below the natural probabilities of life, as shewn by the experience of the whole population of Sweden, that the younger population, bred up under noxious physical agencies, is inferior in physical organization and general health to a population preserved from the presence of such agencies; that the population, so exposed, is less susceptible of moral influences, and the effects of education are more transient, than with a healthy population; that these adverse circumstances tend to produce an adult population short-lived, improvident, reckless, and intemperate, and with habitual avidity for sensual gratification; that these habits lead to the abandonment of all the conveniences and the decencies of life, and especially lead to the over-crowding of their homes, which is destructive to the morality as well as to the health of large classes of both sexes; that defective town-cleansing fosters habits of the most abject degradation, lending to the demo, ralization of large numbers of human beings, who subsist by means of what they find amidst the various filth accumulated in neglected streets and by-places." 71 72 "They are becoming similar to the female followers of an army, wearing the garb of women, but actuated by the worst passions of men; in every riot or outbreak in the manufacturing districts the women are the leaders and exciters of the young men to violence. The language they indulge in is of the most horrid description—in short, while they are demoralised themselves, they demoralise all that come within their reach." 73 74 Oh Patria! oh Divûm domus!" 75 * "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into her instant and serious consideration the best means of diffusing the benefits and blessings of a moral and religious education among the working classes of her people."
 Mr. Chadwick , has been employed in framing the outline of a measure on the subject. I have thought it desirable that this measure accompanied by Mr. Chad-wick's report, should be referred to a commission about to be appointed by her Majesty; and the whole subject, including regulations necessary for the drainage of large cities, and for the better construction hereafter of the dwellings of the poor, will be referred to that commission. I trust, that some well digested and practical measure will emanate from their labours. I will now pass from these topics to the one which is the immediate subject of debate, or, more correctly speaking, which is immediately before the House. The word debate I used inadvertently, for this is not a question which is to be treated in that tone of discussion which is understood by the term debate. The noble Lord's resolution runs thus:—
 "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into her instant and serious consideration the best means of diffusing the benefits and blessings of a moral and religious education among the working classes of her people." 78 79 l l 80 l l l l l l l l l l 81 82 83 "In the borough of Ashton, with a population of 25,000, there is no National school, no school of the British and Foreign School Society, nor any other public day-school for the children of the working classes. The same is the case in Staleybridge and in Dukinfield, with the slight exception I shall now make;" and "In a report on the state of elementary education in several towns of Lancashire, in 1840 by the Hon. and Rev. Baptist W. Noel, it is stated that Ashton had not one public infant or day-school; and but 1-19th part of the population are found in the dame and common schools only. A writer in the  Manchester Sunday School Magazine "Unless the case of this neglected district be taken up by the Government, and a large sum be expended in the establishment and support of schools, it must continue to be, what it is at present in this respect, a reproach to the nation. The working people themselves cannot supply the means. It cannot be reasonably expected that they will be raised by voluntary subscriptions among those who are above the working classes; nor could an adequate sum be assessed in the district with any justice, seeing that the proportion of those in easy circumstances is so small;" and "Setting aside all other considerations, and placing the necessity of adequate means of education being provided on no higher ground than as a question of public policy, it is obvious that something effective ought to be done without loss of time; and in the circumstances of the district, the most advisable thing appears to be, to establish National schools, and those conducted on the system of the British and Foreign School Society; and I have no doubt that excellent local committees could be formed for the management of both. Such institutions for the benefit of their children would be evidence to the humbler classes of friendly dispositions and kind sympathy in those above them; feelings of alienation between the employer and employed would be checked, and the just influence of property and education would be strengthened." "Taking the population of the Ashton dis-
 84 85 86 87 d. d. 88 ex officio. ex officio "And be it enacted, that every master of a school to be provided for the education of children as aforesaid, shall be required to teach the Holy Scriptures, in the version appointed by law to be used in churches, to such scholars
 89 "And be it enacted, that the Catechism of the Church of England, as by law established, together with such portions of the Liturgy thereof as such clerical trustee may appoint, shall be taught at such periods, not exceeding one hour at the same day for each scholar, and at such times as the clerical trustee may select. Provided, however, that if such scholars be not instructed in a room apart from the scholars whose parents desire that they should not be present at such instruction, the whole period to be appropriated to such religious instruction shall not exceed one hour during the morning school, and one hour during the afternoon school, on days in each week: and such clerical trustee may direct the said master to teach such Catechism and portions of the Liturgy as aforesaid, at such times and during such periods, not exceeding three hours in the whole, as the said trustee may appoint, on every Sunday; and during all such periods as aforesaid the said master shall give such other religious instruction to the said scholars as such clerical trustee shall direct, the mode in which such religious instruction shall be given being determined, and, the selection of the books for that purpose being made, by the clerical trustee alone; and it shall be lawful for such clerical trustee, or for such other per. son as he may appoint, at such periods, to instruct, catechise and examine such children as he may deem advisable, except as hereinafter provided in the principles of their religion." "And be it enacted, that if any parent shall notify to the master or trustees, that he desires that such scholar, on the ground of religious objection, may not be present at the periods when such catechism or portions of the Liturgy are taught as aforesaid, it shall not be lawful for any person to compel such child to be present at such periods, nor to punish or otherwise molest such child for not being present; and it shall not be lawful for the trustees or master of the said school, or any other person to give or permit to be given in the said school
 90 veto ex officio, 91
 Sir R. Peel  had no objection to the production and publication of all papers that were necessary to show the exact state of the case without compromising individuals. At the same time, the correspondence required by the hon. and gallant Officer extended over a great period. [Sir  C. Napier
 Sir C. Napier  would be contented with such papers as could be produced without danger to the public service or the safety of individuals. His object was not to embarrass the Government, but to show to the inhabitants of the Lebanon that we had not neglected the promises that had been made to them. We did not really Stand so well in that country as we ought.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the whole of the papers would make an immense volume. He could not be responsible for the conduct of the Turkish government.
 Sir C. Napier  was satisfied the Government had done all in their power to do justice to the people of the Lebanon; but it would be advantageous to show that fact; and perhaps the right hon. Baronet would select a sufficient portion of the correspondence for that purpose.
 Sir R. Peel  said, if the gallant Officer would leave it to him, he would produce enough of the correspondence to show the extent of our engagements, and which would enable the gallant Officer to take the course he might deem best, and which would, at the same time, show that the Government had been unceasing in their endeavours for a settlement.
 Mr. Acland  hoped that general principles would not be carried too far in their application to particular cases. Where individuals connected with the Church were willing to set up schools, he thought the great object would be to encourage them, and if the schools were well conducted, they might rest assured they would be well attended. He owned that schools set up by Baptists and Methodists were often more likely to be good schools than combined schools. He was astonished to hear the right hon. Gentleman (Sir James Graham) say that the simultaneous system of instruction was the best. He could not credit any man who would get up and say that any one system was better than another; for no one had been as yet sufficiently tested. So far as the influence of the Government could be exerted through the Privy Council committee of education, he hoped they would see that the country was not sickened by pushing forward any particular system. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) put this proposal on its proper footing, as a means of stimulating individual efforts, and in this way the Government would effect more than any Government which had preceded it. He knew from a particular friend, who lived in the neighbourhood of the right hon. Baronet, that the right hon. Baronet did not preach without practising, for he was a most zealous promoter of the education of the poor in his own neighbourhood. He warned the Government against converting the grammar schools into something else. There was the greatest zeal manifested by those connected with those schools. He knew one hundred or more masters who received instruction in Latin from a clergyman, who came every week from a distance to London for that laudable purpose. He trusted, that, by not encroaching on the principles
 114
 Mr. Stafford O'Brien  complimented Lord Ashley on the great ability and truly benevolent spirit which his speech manifested. He feared, however, that the proposal of the Government would be looked on with great distrust by the dissenters, who were not apparently entitled to nominate a schoolmaster though paying their share of the rates. With respect to the Roman Catholics, he thought a most invidious distinction was set up; and this was a proceeding which could not be defended, when they were said to number in England two millions. That might be an exaggeration—at any rate, they far exceeded the quarter of a million at which they had been reckoned that night. He thought that a periodical statement ought to be made in that House of the state of education. Meantime, he viewed with much pleasure the movement that had been made to-night towards making up the long arrear that had been incurred with the country.
 Lord Ashley  said, it had been his good fortune to bring forward two motions during the present Session, which had met with such attention from the House—however undeserved so far as he himself was concerned—that he felt it unnecessary to say a word on the present occasion in reply. He could only express his thanks to the House for the attention they had awarded to him. He assured his right hon. Friend that he would make every possible concession which could increase the possibility of carrying out the object he had in view; and it appeared to him that the unanimity which had prevailed that night was the beginning of a new order of things, which would conduce to the happiness, honour, and prosperity of their common country.
 Lord Ashley  spoke as follows: * * 48 "I think I may say," observes the famous John Locke, "that, of all the men we meet with, nine parts in ten are what they are, good or evil, useful or not, by their education. It is that which makes the great difference in mankind." "Train up a child," said Solomon, "in the way he should go; and when he is old he will not depart from it." 49 50 51 "What chance," says he, "have these children of becoming good members of society? These unfortunates gradually acquire vagrant habits, become beggars, vagrants, criminals. It does not appear unfair to calculate that in the borough of Manchester 1,500 children are added to 'les classes dangereuses' annually. "Besides," he adds, "the moral evil produced by these 1,500, let a calculation be made how much money per annum this criminal class costs the state." 52 d. 53 "The first and most prominent suggestion is, the better education of the females in the arts of domestic economy. To the extreme ignorance of domestic management, on the part of the wives of the mechanics, is much of the misery and want of comfort to be traced. Numerous instances have occurred to us of the confirmed drunkard who attributes his habits of dissipation to a wretched home-" "It appears that the early periods of life furnish the greatest portion of criminals. Children of seven, eight, and nine years of age are not unfreqnently brought before magistrates; a very large portion under fourteen years. The parents are, it is to be feared in many instances, the direct causes of their crime." "The spirit of lawless insubordination (says Mr. Symons, the sub-commissioner) which prevails at Leeds among the children is very manifest: it is matter for painful apprehension." "A great deal of drunkenness, especially among the young people. I have seen children very little higher than the table at these shops. There are some beer-shops where there are rooms up stairs, and the boys and girls, old people, and married of both sexes, go up two by two, as they can agree, to have connection. … I am sure that sexual connection begins between boys and girls at fourteen or fifteen years old." "We have (he says) a deal of girls on the town under fifteen, and boys who live by thieving. There are half a dozen beer shops where none but young ones go at all. They support these houses." "Moral condition of children … in numerous instances most deplorable. … On Sunday afternoons it is impossible to pass along the highways, &c. beyond the police boundaries, without encountering numerous
 54 "There are beer houses attended by youths exclusively, for the men will not have them in the same houses with themselves." "A great proportion of the working classes are ignorant and profligate… the morals of their children exceedingly depraved and corrupt… given, at a very early age to petty theft, swearing, and lying; during minority to drunkenness, debauchery, idleness, profanation of the Sabbath; dog and prizefighting."
 Lord John Manners  begged to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, with respect to the unjust detention of Don Carlos at Bourges. It had been stated, that the refusal of the French government to allow Don Carlos to quit France, was owing to the interference of the Government of this country. He, therefore, wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether it were true that the English Government had expressed itself unfavourably to the release of that unfortunate, persecuted, and illustrious prince.
 Lord John Russell  wished to know, as this very important question was about to come before the House, whether the House were in possession of any official correspondence upon the subject between the Secretary of State and the General Assembly. If there were any such correspondence in existence, he thought it most desirable that the House should be in possession of it.
 Lord John Russell  thought the House would express without any hesitation its satisfaction at the motion which his noble Friend had brought before the House. He heartily wished he could say, that the statements made by his noble Friend had less truth in them than he believed they had. He wished that the melancholy statements of the noble Lord were a fiction, or that the noble Lord had only brought them forward to show how dark were the shades in some parts of a bright picture; but he was afraid that they were not selected with such a view, that they were only specimens of the general condition of the people, and not fictions which examination would disprove. The two reports of the commissioners referred to by his noble Friend, the reports of the inspection of gaols, collieries, and mines, the numerous statistical records which his noble Friend had quoted, to which he would not refer, all showed that the same kind of facts which his noble Friend mentioned were general, and they proved that the most
 92 "That her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into her instant and serious consideration the best means of diffusing the benefits and blessings of a moral and religious education among the working classes of her people." l l l 93 94 "Of the state of ignorance of the colliery children in the West Riding of Yorkshire, Mr. Symons gives, among many others, the following examples:—'Three girls (all employed in the pits), of the ages of sixteen, fifteen, and eleven, were examined, not one of whom could read easy words without constant spelling, and two of whom knew their letters imperfectly. I found two of these girls perfectly ignorant. They had no knowledge even of the existence of a Saviour, and assured both the curate and myself that they had not heard about Christ at all.'" "I never learnt nought. I never go to church or chapel. I have never heard that a good man came into the world, who was God's Son, to save sinners. I never heard of Christ at all. Nobody has ever told me about him, nor have my father and mother taught me to pray. I know no prayer; I never pray. I have been taught nothing about such things. The Lord sent Adam and Eve on earth to save sinners. I don't know who made the world; I never heard about God. Jesus Christ was a shepherd; he came a hundred years ago to receive sin. I don't know who the Apostles were. Jesus Christ was born in heaven, but I don't know what happened to him; he came on earth to commit sin; yes, to commit sin. Scotland is a country, but I don't know where it is. I never heard of France. I don't know who Jesus Christ was; I never saw him, but I've seen Foster, who prays about him. I have been three years at a Sunday-school. I don't know who the Apostles were. Jesus Christ died for his son to be saved," 95 'I don't know who God is. I have heard of God and Jesus Christ, but I cannot tell who that was. If I died a good girl I should go to heaven, &c. They told me that at the school yesterday. I did not know it before.' 'I don't know if he (the man for whom he hurried, who was his uncle) is related to me; I don't know what you mean by uncle or cousin. I never went to day-school or Sunday-school, I cannot read or write. I never heard of Jesus Christ. I don't know what you mean by God. I never heard of Adam, or know what you mean by Scriptures. I have heard of a bible, but don't know what 'tis all about. I do not know what would become of me hereafter if I am wicked; 1 have never been told. If I tell a falsehood or lie, I tell a lie; it may be good or bad, but I don't know the difference.' " 96 97 98 99
 Mr. Hawes  thought much gratitude was due to the noble Lord (Lord Ashley), for the manner in which he had brought the subject before the House, He must say, however, that he objected to the great principle of the proposal of the Government—the constitution of the trust. Unless parties submitted to this trust, and came under the provisions which regulated it, they could derive none of the benefits resulting from the trust. The right hon. Gentleman expected that the Protestant Dissenters would cordially avail themselves of that provision. He was afraid they would not. He looked upon it as of an exclusive tendency, and, at all events, requiring much more sifting before it was sanctioned by Parliament. The trust consisted of the clergyman and churchwardens  ex officio, 113
 Mr. C. Buller  begged to congratulate the hon. Baronet, the Member for Shoreham (Sir C. Burrell), at the improved condition of the poorer classes of the southern districts. The time had not long passed when, he must say, that the most lamentable ignorance had been displayed in those districts, and he alluded more especially to the transactions which occurred in the county of Kent. He begged to express his entire concurrence in the views of the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of the Home Department; but he felt some difficulty in understanding what was the exact extent of the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, whether it extended to towns only, or to country districts. [Sir  James Graham: 103 l l l l l l l 104 s d. l l
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he would oppose this, as all other railways—public frauds and private robberies. He believed they would eventually be bankruptized. He found, that so soon as there was any slackening in the business of these greedy speculators, they unhesitatingly reduced the number of their servants; and he believed, that the displacement of traffic, disturbance of business, and destruction of employment, which they had produced, had materially increased the distress of the country.
 Mr. Shaw  expressed his deep regret that in the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire, and in that of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of Slate for the Home Department, no allusion had been made to the present condition of Ireland. He was sure that as regarded that country, the deepest regret would universally prevail at this apparent neglect of the right hon. Baronet. He did not wish to introduce into this debate any discussion upon the particular question to which he had referred; but he could not help expressing his anxious desire that the principles which had been enunciated by the right hon. Baronet, with respect to England, would be eventually extended to Ireland, and he alluded, in making this remark, more particularly to that part of the right hon. Baronet's speech where he conceded that where
 102
 Mr. Thesiger  said it occurred to him, that perhaps this summons might not be successful.
 Mr. H. Fitzroy  said, he had been desired, and felt it his duty to oppose the bill. The line of railway it was proposed to construct, would pass through a country which stood in no need of it, and which would not afford traffic enough to support it; a country, also, presenting great natural difficulties, requiring no less than eleven bridges over one river, and having a main turnpike road which would have to be perpetually crossed on a level by the railway. Moreover, the landowners in thirty-five out of forty miles along the proposed line were against it. Nor was there any necessity for incurring the
 14
 Dr. Bowring , in pursuance of the notice he had given, begged to ask the right hon. Baronet, at the head of the Government, whether the building of the English Protestant Church at Jerusalem had been interfered with by the Turkish authorities; and, also, whether he had received a firman from the Porte to authorise the establishment of a Protestant bishopric at Jerusalem?
 Dr. Bowring  gave notice, that he should take an early opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the circumstances to which the right hon. Gentleman had just referred.
 Mr. J. E. Denison  was opposed to the bill, because no one could deny the North Eastern line was the best.
 Mr. Christopher  said, if there were any prospect of the North Eastern line being carried on to the eastern part of the country, he would prefer it, as being calculated to afford the most valuable advantages to those districts; but, believing there was no such prospect, he was inclined to adopt the line now offered, which by presenting great facilities for the transmission of agricultural produce would tend to destroy as great a monopoly as that of the Birmingham Railway—he meant that of Smithfield market. Nor would the
 15
 Mr. Astell  seconded the amendment, expressing himself favourable to railways in general, but convinced that for all the public interests concerned, especially for the eastern portion of the country, the line projected by the Northern and Eastern Company, was by far preferable to that now proposed.
 Mr. Ewart  was led to hope that the measure proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department would lead to the happiest results. It could not be doubted, from the reports which had been laid before the House, that great ignorance prevailed among the lower classes in this country, and this, too, although there were ample funds, which if devoted to the purposes of education, would go far in removing it. This was established by the reports of the charity commissioners. He agreed that it was most important to elevate the character and condition of the schoolmasters, and of that fact all who had read the letter of M. Guizot to the schoolmasters of France must be convinced. He thought it desirable that all parties should combine
 101
 Mr. Ewart , who had a motion on the paper to the effect that "every year a statement should be made to the House by a responsible minister, on the state and prospects of the education of the people," said, that he had been most anxious to bring this subject before the House, but after the debate that
 116
 Sir C, Burrell  said, that in the agricultural districts of the south of England the clergy were making the most strenuous exertions for the education of the children of the poor, and in their efforts the clergy were greatly assisted by the gentry, their wives, and daughters, as well as by the wives and daughters of the yeomen. This was he knew the case in his own part of the country, and he should be ungrateful if he had not mentioned it to the House. There was but one opinion as to the utility of imparting useful knowledge to the poor, and he sincerely hoped that from the present proposal on the part of the Government the children of the humbler classes would obtain good moral and religious instruction.
 Sir G. Clerk  opposed the second reading of this bill. He believed, that in a very short time measures would be taken to extend the Northern and Eastern Counties Railway to Cambridge and Peterborough. The proposed line, therefore, would be unnecessary; and would, if agreed to, intercept the traffic on the Cambridge line. If, in fact, it so interfered with the latter as to prevent its completion, it would give to the Birmingham and London Railway the monopoly of communication between the metropolis and the north of England. He would say nothing in disparagement of the London and Birmingham Railway Company, but he would caution the House against confirming such a monopoly. It would also cut almost every line of communication between the metropolis and the north; and it would cut them on a level, contrary to one of the Standing Orders of the House. The petition he had presented, had been agreed to at a very full meeting. Under these circumstances he trusted the House would not give its sanction to a bill so faulty in principle and construction.
 Sir George Grey  expressed his satisfaction that the subject before the House had been taken up by the Government, and that, a plan had been proposed which he could cordially support. He sincerely agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, that this great subject should be withdrawn from the circle of party warfare—that they should all of them co-operate cordially in discharging that which had been so well proved by the documents upon the Table to be an imperative duty, and in attempting to abate an evil which was destroying the morality of the country. He might add the expression of his satisfaction at the spirit in which the subject had been taken up by the Government. He was sure that for his own part he could promise them his cordial assistance in carrying out any measures constructed on liberal and comprehensive, but not latitudinarian principles, for the improvement of the condition of the people of this country. The evidence laid on the Table of the House he had read so far as time had permitted, and though it contained nothing very new, yet it furnished ample corroborative evidence of the truth of previous reports, setting forth the great destitution with respect to the means of providing sound education, unfortunately existing. There was a great numerical deficiency in schools for the education of the poor, and he agreed with his noble Friend in thinking that it had been sufficiently proved that where schools did exist they were frequently of the most inefficient description owing to, the very defective education of schoolmasters—a class of persons of the greatest importance to society, and who should be looked upon in a very different light from that in which they were usually considered. Hitherto little or nothing had been done for them. True, normal schools had been erected, but nothing had been done to raise the character of teachers by increasing the emoluments of de serving masters and thus maintaining them in that condition which should appertain to a profession the highest in its moral end which any profession could aim at, but which had been overlooked and unencouraged, owing to the small temporal
 107
 Captain Pechell  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department. There had been that morning delivered to Members a document purporting to be a scheme for the promulgation of the statutes. Now, in that document, all the old boroughs excluded by the Reform Act were included, while the new ones created by that act were unnoticed. He wished to know, whether the right hon. Baronet's attention had been called to that partiality of distribution, and whether justices of petty sessions would be supplied with a copy upon application.
 Sir G. Strickland  concurred in the opposition, reminding the House of the apprehensions originally entertained as to the establishment of railway monopolies, and declaring that these apprehensions had in no case been more strikingly verified than on the Birmingham line, the effect of which was to injure the pubic interests most seriously; as an instance of which he mentioned his having recently, while travelling on the North Midland, found the engines, &c., very much out of order, by reason of a great reduction in the number of the servants engaged on the line; he declared his conviction that nothing but opposition would protect the public interests—opposition which it was just the object of this bill to prevent, by swamping the North Eastern in a most important point.
 Mr. Ward  said, that with respect to the Cambridge line, it must be observed, that there was less capital locked up in such undertakings at the present time than had been the case for the last six years. The Cambridge Railway had already been constructed to the distance of thirty miles from London. There was a measure now before the House to extend it further, and he had no doubt the line would be completed in a short time.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that since he had held the office he then filled, no alteration had been made by him with respect to the distribution. He was not aware, that the new boroughs had been excluded, but if he found that such were the case, he would take care that an alteration should be made.
 Sir James Graham  thought, that his former explanation upon the subject had been sufficiently clear. In replying to the present question, he hoped he might be permitted to recal to the memory of the
 19 quoad sacra 20
 Sir James Graham  said, that he had himself moved for the production of some papers connected with this subject, in addition to those which had been moved for by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Perth. The noble Lord might be assured that the Government would place the House in possession of all the information they could command upon the matter.
 Sir James Graham : Sir, my noble Friend has on this occasion spoken with that glowing fervour, with that elevated generosity of sentiment, with that fervent piety, which so eminently distinguish his character. For myself, I have been rebuked as seldom rising above the low level of party strife; it has been asserted that political hostility is the feeling which predominates in my mind, and which actuates my entire conduct. If the rebuke were a just one, I could only say that my example is one which it behoves all other men to avoid; but, without staying to vindicate myself from the charge, as applicable to other subjects, this let me say, most honestly and sincerely, that upon this occasion, and this subject, all party, all political considerations are utterly absent from my thoughts. The sole question here is a duty—an immense, an awful duty—which we owe to the mass of the people of this country. This is no question of party, nor
 * 
 
 In a small district immediately contiguous to Holborn Hill, found, families 103 
 Consisting of, persons 391 
 From six years and upwards, could not read 280 
 Of these, above twenty years of age 119 
 
 In five courts and alleys in the Cow-cross district:— 
 Heads of families 158 
 Cannot read 102 
 Young persons, between seven and twenty-two  106 
 Cannot read 77 "Can we be surprised," says the report, "at the number of public criminals? Neighbourhoods such as these chiefly supply our gaols with inmates. So late as October last there were in the House of Correction alone, 973 prisoners, exclusive of children, and out of these 717 had no education at all." 76
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that although he had the misfortune to miss the greater part of the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, yet that naturally and almost necessarily he felt such an interest in the subject before the House, that he trusted for the indulgence of the House while he stated his view—no, he could not say his general view, upon the plan proposed by Government; but while he intimated his dissent from much of the little which he had heard. He should he sorry to disturb, by any remarks of his, the general unanimity which had prevailed during the discussion, but there was something of more value and importance than even unanimity—there was truth—and he could not sacrifice his convictions of the one for the sake of the other. His right hon. Friend, at the conclusion of his speech, had stated that all attempts to proselytise would be, by the Government plan, rigidly guarded against. Now, to proselytise, as he understood the word, was to endeavour, as a Christian, to bring his neighbour to those views which he sincerely believed to be founded on truth; and he
 105 Buller Buller: l 106
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that it was of the utmost importance that all possible publicity should be given to the melancholy details contained in these reports, and to the opinions given on the authority of the gentlemen who had col-
 108 109 l l 110 l l l l s 111 l 112
 Sir R. Peel : Can the hon. and learned Gentleman inform us what time is likely to be granted?
 Sir R. Peel  said, that as it would be desirable the House should have an oppor-
 47
  Sir R. Peel  said, the House would probably recollect that some four or five years since, Don Carlos sought an asylum within the French territory, and that that asylum was granted to him, there being no formal agreement upon the subject, but a friendly understanding between the French government, and the government of this country, which were then united by what was called the Quadruple alliance with reference to Spain. In June, 1841, there was a report that it was intended by the French government to liberate Don Carlos. He did not recollect, that there had been any formal application to the French government upon the subject; but when the report to which he had just referred reached England, the noble Lord, the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), at that time Secretary of State for
 22
 Sir R. Peel  stated, that with regard to the first question of the hon. Gentleman
 18
 Sir Robert Peel  did not rise to enter into the discussion upon that occasion, but to make a communication of which the House ought to be apprised. The hon. and learned Gentleman had regretted that more ample notice had not been given of the discussion, but the fact was, that notice of the declaration was only served on the Sergeant-at-Arms on Saturday last. The Sergeant-at-Arms had taken the earliest opportunity of bringing the matter to the notice of the House, and the Solicitor-general had thought it his duty to draw to it the attention of the House at the earliest moment. He had just received a communication to the following effect: that the period for pleading expired tomorrow morning, and that if it were the intention to take out a summons to ask for further time to plead, it was necessary that the summons should be served before nine o'clock that night. The Sergeant-at-Arms was most unwilling to take any steps without the- assent of the House; but, in consequence of the notice having been served on Saturday, the four days would expire to-morrow, and the Sergeant must at once determine whether he would plead or not, or he must ask for time to plead.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he thought it had better be understood that the Sergeant-at-Arms should apply for further time to plead, as such a course compromised nothing.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he thought that serving the summons for further time might, in some sort, operate as a recognition by the House of the power of the courts of law.
 Sir T. Wilde  did not think that such a proceeding would be a recognition of the power of the courts. The summons and declaration had been served on Saturday, and four days being given to plead, as the House did not sit on Saturday, and Sunday intervened, it was not very difficult to see what was meant. But he did not conceive that applying for time to plead would be a recognition. The only condition, as his hon. and learned Friends knew, that was ever annexed to a grant of further time was, that the party should plead issuably and take a shorter notice of trial than he would otherwise have been entitled to.
 Sir T. Wilde : He may take out a summons for time to plead.
 Sir T. Wilde  said, that as the cause was a Middlesex one, it was impossible that the party could go to trial till after Easter term. The judge at chambers might, therefore, give a week or a fortnight, or even a month, as it would in reality be no delay to the party.
 Sir T. Wilde  said, that time was always given on the first application.
 The Solicitor General  said, that it was probable neither he nor his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general would be in town on that day.
 The Solicitor-General , in rising to call the attention of the House to the communication made on the day previous by the Sergeant-at-Arms, should not feel it necessary to enter into a discussion of any of those questions of privilege which had excited so much debate and so much warmth of feeling, as well within the walls of that House as out of doors, a few years ago; it was his intention to propose to the House to adopt a course which had repeatedly received its sanction upon previous occasions of a similar nature, the precedents for which all ran one way, and which at no very distant period had been adopted by the House at the instance of his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General to the late Government. In order to render the case clear, he would state to the House the course he proposed to adopt. The officers of the House had made a communication to the House that they had been served with certain legal proceedings. The legal proceeding was a declaration in trespass. Upon the face of that declaration nothing of course appeared at all affecting the privileges of the House; but the officers communicated to the House that the action of trespass was brought against them in consequence of their having executed a certain warrant issued by the Speaker in furtherance of a resolution passed by that House. This report having been made to the House, it now became the duty of the House to decide the course that its officers should take. There was but one of two courses that could be adopted. Either the House must say to its officers, "You are not to plead to this action, you are not to defend it, you are not to take any notice of the process of law that has been served upon you—you are to suffer judgment to go by default," or the officers must be permitted to plead to the tion. If the House gave directions to its officers not to plead, of course there would be no defence. The judges of the court in which the case was entered for trial would not know the grounds upon which the officers of the louse had taken the plaintiff into custody—there would be no justification, no defence, and judgment would go by default. The next step would be, that a sheriff's jury would be impanelled to assess the damages. Here again in the Sheriffs' Court, there would be no defence, no explanation. The consequence of course would be, that the jury, in assessing the damages, would in all probability give a
 24 25 "And it appears, that in the several in stances of actions commenced in breach of the
 26 27 28 habeas corpus, habeas corpus, 29 l 30 "That Sir William Gosset, knight, the Serjeant-at-Arms attending this House, have leave to appear and defend the action brought against him by Thomas Burton Howard, for trespass."
 The Solicitor General  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir T. Wilde) that applying for time gave up nothing, it was a mere matter of course.
 Viscount Sandon  had taken a deep interest in the discussion. He thought there were indications of feelings, on both sides of the House, which would tend to remove this great question from the field of political and theological discussion, to a position in which it might be satisfactorily settled. He hoped the plan proposed would remove apprehension on all sides, since, without doing violence to the principles of one class, it insured the offer of education in the tenets of the established Church, all who would take it. It was impossible for him to give an opinion on the details of this plan on hearing them for the first time, but so far as he could judge at the moment, it appeared to him that there was nothing in them to which a member of the Church of England had any right to object. He agreed heartily in the observation of the noble Lord who spoke last, that when a fearful mass of ignorance existed in the country among our very mixed population, it did not behove men on either side of the House to stick too closely to their peculiar opinions. They were about to embark in a new and a great undertaking. They ought not to take any step without caution; and his right hon. Friend, therefore, had acted wisely in seizing upon those two great branches of education which would point out the line which should be taken with a view to the adoption of a general system of national education. With respect to the formation of union or district schools, he was inclined to think that such schools would be too large, and that it would be better, in the first instance at least, to confine the schools to those children whom they were bound to educate, and for whom it would ultimately be incumbent on the unions to provide. The plan propounded by his right hon. Friend would seem to leave no ground for jealousy on the part of either churchmen or dissenters; but in the case of Roman Catholic children there was some difficulty to be overcome. The number of Roman Catholic children
 100 l l
 Mr. Hume  wished to know why in this case the usual course should be departed from.
 Mr. H. Lambton  explained, that the reason was that he had complained that the shipping interest of the counties of Durham and Northumberland had not been properly represented in the committee as it was first formed. The same complaint had been made by hon. Members connected with Scotland, Cornwall, and the south of England. He thought, that generally speaking, the number of those composing a committee should be regulated rather by the importance of the subject than by any particular rule—at this moment we had sitting the Paisley and standing order's committees; it was quite clear it was not so necessary to have a larger number of Members upon those committees, as in this case of the shipwreck's committee, which was a subject of such vast importance, and had to inquire besides into the bill of the hon. Member
 117
 Sir G.  Grey said, if the number of the -committee were to be increased, so as adequately to represent all towns connected with the shipping interest, the number might be enlarged  ad infinitum.
 The Speaker  said, as no committee could consist of more than fifteen Members, unless by a special order of the House, the proposed committee, if the motion were to be rejected, would necessarily consist of that number.
 Mr. Hawes  thought, the explanation given by the Speaker was an additional reason for postponing the motion, at least from this day; otherwise, in the event of the motion for increasing the number being lost, the first fifteen names must necessarily form the committee.
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, according to the noble Lord, there seemed to be a vague idea, on the part of the late Government, that something was to happen—that something fearful existed which could not be proved to exist, and that, in consequence of this fever of fear, it became necessary to march a large army into distant parts of Asia. Apply the same reasoning to a neighbouring state. Had we not denounced, over and over again, the war fever in France? From all that had been offered in explanation of the late invasion of Affghanistan, it appeared to him that no better reason existed for it than could be offered by France if she should choose to cross the Rhine, because she entertained some vague idea that all Europe was coalescing against her. The noble Lord had been obliged to admit that war had been undertaken from the fear and jealousy we entertained towards a great European power. The hon. and learned Member for Bath, in anticipation of the admission which had been made by the late Government, followed that course in his reasoning which was most legitimate and just, but which he was bound to say had been greatly perverted by the noble Lord, If the late
 170 171 172 173
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  said, as the hon. Baronet has, as I understood, alluded to me as not having been present when the charge was made, and when the answer was given, I beg to tell him that I was present throughout the debate. [Sir  R. Inglis
 Lord J. Manners : I do not mean to allude to this dispute; but as a humble Member of this House, I must express my sense of the debt which this House and the country owe to the hon. and learned Member for Bath, for the fitness and propriety of this motion, and thus giving us an opportunity of expressing our contrition for, and our disapprobation of, the injustice of the Affghan war, and of (as far as it is now possible), washing away the stain which, in my conscience, I believe that act of injustice attached to this country.
 Lord John Russell  said, after a short pause, I delayed rising to address the House immediately on the question being put, because I thought that it was probable that some hon. Member would be disposed to follow the hon. and learned Member for Bath, in his accusations of the late Government. As no one has done so, I will venture to make some observations on the course which has been taken, and also on the motion which has been made; and first of all, as to the time which the hon. and learned Member has chosen to discuss this question. This is, as the hon. and learned Member says, an accusation against the late Government—against all the Members composing that Government—against every person, concerned in the Government of this country, on account of a war announced in 1838, undertaken in 1839, and which had been repeatedly brought under the notice of this House. In the year 1839 the subject was mentioned in general terms in the Queen's Speech; papers were soon afterwards produced, and a right hon. Gentleman on the opposition benches, now a member of the Cabinet (Sir James Graham) gave a notice of a motion upon the question. That was afterwards withdrawn, and the question
 147 148 149 "These libellers impute to us (he said) exactly that sort of motive by which, if they were placed in the situations in which we stand, they would be themselves actuated." 150 151 "Dated 11th March, 1830.—For my own part, I firmly believe that we have little to dread from the machinations of Russia, until such time as the dissolution of the existing government, by the death of the present king, may enable her, in upholding the pretensions of the Abbas Mirza, or any other competitor for the throne, it matters not whom, to acquire a permanent influence in the councils of Persia, when by skilfully applying the resources of that kingdom to the promotion of her own views, she might gradually and imperceptibly approach us without any avowed demonstration of hostility. The new king placed on the throne, and supported there through her means, eager to reduce the rebels of Khorassan, might yield a cheerful acquiescence to any proposition tending to facilitate the fulfilment of an object anxiously desired. Under the mantle of his authority, therefore, and in conjunction with his troops, led and disciplined by Russian officers, district after district, and town after town could be gradually subdued, until, by a systematic progressive organization of their conquests, they were at length
 152 "To proceed now to the consideration of our future policy, and the different results which may attend an attack on Herat, I would first remark, that since the transmission of my despatches to the secret committee, in which I stated that it was not then my intention to offer opposition to the hostile advance of the Persians on Candahar and Cabul, circumstances have occurred which may materially alter my views. The Russian agents have put themselves forward in favouring the designs of Persia, and we cannot allow this to be done without some opposition on our part." 153 154 "The siege of Herat has much occupied the minds of the public in India, and our shrewdest and calmest observers, Skinner, Cubben, and Sutherland in Hansi, Mysore, and Gwalior, have concurred in describing the fever of restlessness as beyond everything which, for many years, they had witnessed." "It is well known that for some time previously to the commencement of that great enterprise which has been crowned by the capture of Ghuznee, and the occupation of Cabul,
 155 "In case a formidable contest should ensue, the whole of the British force in India would amount to 50,000 souls, with a reinforcement of 60,000 from England, and 72 pieces of artillery. These might be serviceable in a pitched battle, but if enemies are to start from all sides and begin to attack every point, the story of the English will be short,
 156 157 158 159 "For these desirable ends no person appears so well adapted as Shah Soojah. He has already twice reigned, in his misfortunes has preserved the good will of his former subjects, and his wise omission of putting out the eyes of Shah Mahommed, the father of Kamram, when in his power, has left no serious breach between him and the latter ruler. In aiding the restoration of Shah Soojah, the British Government would consult the feelings of the Affghan natives, among whom his popularity is great, and who even wonder that the Government has not before done it. If he avowedly advanced under British auspices, his success would be prompt and certain; little or no blood would be shed; he would be joined by all who are discontented with the Barukzye rule—and who is there that is not discontented?" "Whatever is to be said on our past policy in Affghanistan, it is now clear that we are in the right way to rectify the evil which a reverse of thirty years has brought upon us; and confident of success, I feel perfectly satisfied that your Lordship's administration will become distinguished in Indian history as one in which our relations in the west were based on a secure footing." "As for Shah Soojah-ool-Moolk, the British Government have only to send him to Peshawur with an agent, and two of his own regiments as an honorary escort, and an avowal to the Affghans that we have taken up his cause, to ensure his being fixed for ever on his throne." 160 "I have never met a sentiment which may more properly be termed national and universal, than the desire of the Affghans for the return of Shah Soojah. They can seldom converse with an Englishman for five minutes without alluding to it." "Dost Mahommed Khan is decidedly unpopular as an Affghan chief, and the people of Cabul would hail with delight the restoration of Shah Soojah. The notorious predilections of the Ameer for Persia, and his heavy and arbitrary impositions upon all classes of his people, have lost him the confidence and good will of nearly every Affghan in the country." 161 "Our prospects are, I think, most cheering, both as regards internal and external affairs. Between Cabul and Peshawur (the only portion of his territory to which the Shah has had leisure to pay much attention) perfect tranquillity prevails, and I believe, general content, civilization, and commerce, are both perceptibly and considerably increasing, and I do not entertain a doubt that the same results will speedily be manifested in the other parts of his Majesty's dominions." "The repose of the public mind in India,
 162 "It was the Governor-General's notification of the 1st of October, 1838, followed by the passage of the Indus, which first restored public confidence in the strength of the Government, and the memorable events which have since ensued, have completed the transition from a state of great excitement and agitation into one of general composure." "The feeling of the people towards us never could have been better, and from twenty years' experience, I can safely say, that it never was so good. I am more than ever satisfied, from all that I have seen in the last three years, that our operations beyond the Indus did more to give the people an impression of our power and resources than anything we could have done within it. The tranquillizing effects of that measure were at once felt throughout the length and breadth of this vast country, and all the misfortunes which have since overtaken us there, have had wonderfully little effect in disturbing that impression. With these exceptions, internal India never enjoyed greater repose, which, next to the sense which the people entertain of the benefits of our rule, may, I am persuaded, still be attributed to the impression made of our power by our advance to meet the supposed danger beyond the Indus, which we all know was at the time spreading a belief throughout the land, that a power greater than ours was coming to assail us. These opinions, which I now give to you privately, I believe that I have before in some shape or other written officially." 163 164 165 166 167 168 169
 Mr. Escott  commenced by assuring the noble Lord the Member for London, that in giving a somewhat loud expression to his feelings, he had not the slightest intention to offer any disrespect to one who had been so long the able leader of the Opposite party, and whose talents rendered him an ornament to that House. He asked the House to allow him to give a full and plain expression of his opinions upon the present subject. He implored them to allow him to call their attention to the real question; and he trusted, that the result of the debate would not show the present Government on the side of those who would screen foul public delinquency from Parliamentary inquiry. The question was not merely whether a war, upon which they had been told by the noble Lord opposite an extraordinary degree of ignorance existed on his (Mr. Escott's) Side of the House, and on which throughout the country an almost uniformity of opinion existed that it was unjustifiable
 174 175 176 "Unless the course that had been taken could be subsequently explained, no man could say that it was not as rash and impolitic as it was ill-considered, oppressive and unjust." Laughter. "In the expediency of the policy pursued by the Governor-general there was no justice—it was a complete dereliction of every ordinary rule of reason." "They might assume from the evidence produced that the conduct of the Governor-general of India were a folly; it remained for the evidence to be produced to determine whether it were a crime." 177 178 "He deprecated the course pursued by her Majesty's Government in regard to the papers in question, a course which had left the country and Europe under an erroneous impression as to the interference of the Russian agent and the explanation of the Court of St. Petersburgh. The noble Viscount (Viscount Melbourne) had intimated that the explanations in question were satisfactory to her Majesty's Government. Surely the noble Viscount would at once acknowledge that it would have been much fairer to have laid the explanations of the Russian government before their Lordships as early as possible at the same time with the
 179 180 181 182
 Mr. Protheroe  rose in consequence of what he believed to be a direct attack upon him by the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford. He laboured under the disadvantage of being near-sighted, but he believed the hon. Baronet meant him when he said he saw an hon. Member endeavouring to put him down. Now, he was the last man to be guilty of such a proceeding, but he admitted, that he did make a very loud exclamation when he heard the hon. Baronet say that not many Members on that side of the House had heard the language of the hon. and learned Member for Bath—language which he (Mr. Protheroe) thought extremely vituperative. He also thought the hon. Baronet bore rather harshly upon the two noble Lords who had attempted to listen to the attack made on the policy of the late Government by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and that had certainly led him to make rather a loud ex-
 206
 Mr. Roebuck  in reply, said: Sir I congratulate the Members of the late Government on the support they have this night received from the right hon. Baronet; and if he and they will permit me, I shall venture a prophecy on the occasion. It is this; that the time will come when it may be suggested in one of our party debates, "Oh, recollect the painful motion with respect to which we treated you with candour and generosity; and, as we gracefully rowed off in that favourite bark for slurring over a difficulty, that the time had passed for inquiry, you should never forget that we used all our influence, as a government, to prop your policy." But before I address myself to the arguments in answer to my statement, let me, for a moment, apply myself to the language used respecting it. One hon. Gentlemen says, I made a vindictive speech. I suppose that is Parliamentary though it implies a bad motive. I saw you passed it by, Sir; and therefore it must be Parliamentary. The noble Lord, again, says that I was guilty of a "libel." [Lord  Palmerston 207 208 "Lord Porchester moved for a select committee to inquiry into the policy and conduct of the late expedition to the Scheldt." Cheers 209 "It seems that the chief is not bent upon possessing Peshawur, or on gratifying his personal enmities, but that he is simply securing himself from injury." 210 Member 211 Expressions of dissent. 212
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, for the appointment of "a select committee to inquire into the circumstances which led to the late hostilities in Affghanistan, to report the evidence and their observations thereon." The hon. and learned Gentleman said, I have too often experienced the kindness of this House myself and seen it extended to others, to doubt on the present occasion of its being continued to me, when, indeed, my need of indulgence is so great. I fear, Sir, that I shall be compelled to occupy a large portion of the time of this House—more, perhaps, than I, from any claims or qualities of my own, have a right to consume, though not more than the great subject which it is now my duty to submit to your consideration imperiously demands. This subject includes many questions of the gravest import; the interests involved are those of numerous nations of immense population—the time over which the events to be considered extend is considerable—the events themselves are exceedingly various, complex, and intricate—the evidence relating to them has to be collected from many separate sources, its often conflicting, doubtful, and insufficient, requiring much patience to gather it together—much care and caution duly to sift, and accurately to ascertain its value. I cannot hope to win the assent of this House to the conclusions I desire to establish unless the attention of its Members be sustained so as to follow the statement which I am compelled to lay before them, and for this attention, should I be so fortunate as to gain and preserve it, I must, I know he indebted rather to the interest of the case to be investigated, the kindness and the good-will of those who hear me, than to any merits of my own, either in the narrative into which I must enter, or the arguments by which I shall endeavour to establish the conclusions it will be my duly to propound. Making, then, an earnest and anxious appeal to the kindness of the House, hoping that they will extenuate my inefficiency, bear with and supply my omissions, I proceed at once with such confidence as I can command, to the great argument before me. I have,
 120 primâ facie primâ facie 121 primâ facie 122 123 124 125 126 127 protegé 128 129 130 de facto de facto "We cannot do it—our policy is neutrality. We must not mix ourselves up with the internal concerns of the nations of Asia; we take the  de facto "Be very careful to impress upon every body, as a rule never to be deviated from, that we must keep ourselves clear from all connection with political parties." "I deem it my duty to tell you distinctly that the British Government religiously abstains from intermeddling with the affairs of its neighbours whenever it can be avoided. You are, of course, master of your own actions; but to afford you assistance would not be consistent with the neutrality adopted by the British Government." 131 "A strictly neutral part is maintained with regard to the Shah and his proceedings, and this Government has indirectly refused to afford him the assistance which he has repeatedly solicited." "We approve highly of your having declined entering into the proposed engagements, but observe with satisfaction the tone of friendship and confidence that prevails with respect to the west of the Indus, with whom they should have no political connection and should take no part in their quarrel. They should maintain a friendly connection with them and transmit the most correct information concerning them." 132 "Defend Herat for us, and bid your friend Runjeet Singh to restore Peshawur to the Affghan people, and we will prove the firmest of your friends. Refuse me this and what can I do? You force me to have recourse to Persia or to see myself destroyed. I make no secret of my conditions. I tell you all I am doing; I explain to you the high value I place upon your alliance and aid. I do not even complain when you refuse me all I ask. I feel no enmity towards you, though I lament my own ill fortune." 133 "I should be glad to have you for my friend? what am I to do? I shall be overwhelmed. God has so ordained it (he added, with his Mussulman notions), and I do not blame you, but I am obliged to have recourse to Persia, or I shall be overwhelmed." 134 "To one view taken by the Marquess Wellesley, of the question of restoring the Mahratta sovereign, philosophy will not withhold unqualified praise. 'The stipulations of treaty (says he, in his instructions, dated 2d of February, 1803, to the Governor of Fort St. George) on which I founded my intention to facilitate the restoration of the Peshwa's authority, originated in a supposition that the majority of the Mahratta jaghiredars, and the body of the Peshwa's subjects, entertain a desire of co-operating in that measure. Justice and wisdom would forbid any attempt to impose, upon the Mahrattas, a ruler, whose restoration to authority was adverse to every class of his subjects. The recent engagements with the Peshwa involve no obligation of such an extent. Whatever might be the success of our arms, the ultimate objects of these engagements could not be attained, by a course of policy so violent and extreme. If, therefore, it should appear, that a decided opposition to the restoration of the Peshwa is to be expected from the majority of the Mahratta jaghiredars, and from the body of the Peshwa's subjects, I shall instantly relinquish every attempt to restore the Peshwa to the musnud of Poona.' This virtuous example, till such a time as the majority of the people in every civilized country have become sufficiently enlightened to see the depravity of the case in its own essence, will help to stamp with infamy the most flagitious perhaps of all the crimes which can be committed against human nature, the imposing upon a nation, by force of foreign armies, and for the pleasure or interest of foreign rulers, a government, composed of men, and involving principles, which the people for whom it is destined have either rejected from experience of their badness, or repel from the experience or expectation of better. Even where the disparity of civilization and knowledge were very great; and where it was beyond dispute that a civilized country was about to bestow upon a barbarous one the greatest of all possible benefits, a good and beneficent government; even there,
 135 "The justice of the chief," said Alexander Burnes, "affords a constant theme of praise to all classes: the peasant rejoices at the absence of tyranny; the citizen at the safety of his home and the strict municipal regulations regarding weights and measures; the merchant at the equity of the decisions and the protection of his property, and the soldiers at the regular manner in which their arrears are dis
 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 "The English have committed all the atrocities in their power, they have burnt your cities and killed your men, take us as your avengers and we will protect you." 143 "Who can now doubt that the case of Russian intrigue is made out? The case of ejecting Dost Mabommed may not be so clear. Strange to say, all my implorations for the Government to act in Cabul are so put forth as if that I wished them to do as they have done. Now, I totally disapprove of the Punjaub policy and Runjeet's death, without our getting a slice of it (the Punjaub?) shows why I did so." "All my implorations to the Government to
 144 "Sir, I have now the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the 25th of November and 2d of December last, which reached me about the same time, conveyed the views of the right hon. the Governor-general regarding the overtures made by Dost Mahommed Khan for adjusting the differences with the Sheiks." "Sir, regarding the overtures made by Dost Mahommed Khan for adjusting his differences;" 145 146
 Mr. Hume  rose to second the motion, because he thought that what had just been stated should be proved, and the matter made clear; because it was in the power of the House to claim that all the documents should be laid before it, to show the real grounds of the war, and also because when information was asked by the House, although he was willing to give a discretion to public officers as to what could not be produced without detriment to the public service, yet he did not believe that this discretion ought to go to the suppression of all the arguments on one side of a question, and the publication of all those on the other side. He would second this motion, if on no other ground, because when the documents were formerly laid before the House, they were so garbled, that out of twenty-one paragraphs in a single despatch, only three were given. The whole of the documents could now be furnished, and he trusted that the House would afford an opportunity for their production.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that if the doctrine laid down by his right hon. Friend were good for anything, it must stop inquiry into any questions of a similar character to the subject of this motion. He was not
 204 veniam petimusque damusque. 205
 Sir R. Inglis : Though I incur much hazard by the avowal, I assure the hon. Gentleman he was not the Member I allude to. I am sure I betrayed no intemperance of manner. I certainly thought I indulged in no remarks which might not with fairness be applied to a somewhat younger Member.
 Sir R. Peel  said, Sir, there are two questions—amidst some that are not immediately connected with the main point at issue—there are two more immediately connected with it which have been brought under the consideration of the House in the course of the present discussion—the one, whether or no the expedition undertaken by the Governor-general of India was consistent with sound policy; and the other, whether it is fitting for the House of Commons to appoint a select committee for the purpose of inquiring into the policy of that expedition. These two questions I consider to be not necessarily connected with each other. I en-
 183 184 185 186 Hume. Hume. cries of "I am of opinion that the result of the expedition will go far to strengthen the British power in India." Hume. "Having seen the lamentable results of inefficient arrangements, I think the greatest credit is due to the British authorities.?" "I think the conduct of Lord Auckland is marked by the greatest wisdom." "I believe that it is an expedition more likely to be beneficial to India than any which has previously taken place." Hume. 187 Hume: 188 189 190 191
 Viscount Palmerston  said, having been much concerned in the transactions, and much engaged in the negotiations to which the hon. and learned Gentleman has adverted; and having been the object of so many of the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman in the course of that speech with which he introduced his motion, I must naturally be anxious to state to the House the grounds on which I intend to oppose his motion. But before I come to that, I wish, in the first place, to dispose shortly of that portion of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman which relates personally to myself, and to the Members of that Government to which I had the honour to belong. The hon. and learned Gentleman did not intend, I am sure, to have done that which I think he has done, that is, to speak in a complimentary manner of myself as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He stated a fact, and he coupled that fact with an epithet. In doing this he certainly did not mean to be complimentary; but I throw the epithet aside, and look only to the statement of the fact, which I consider to be complimentary to any one in the situation which I had the honour to hold. The hon. and learned Gentleman accused me of a "mischievous and restless activity" in the discharge of my official duties. Now, with regard to the
 192 193 194 195 Times "The stale paper of the Governor-general of India, published in the  Delhi Gazette 196 197 198 199 200 201 202 203 Cries of from the Ministerial Benches.
 Lord Stanley  had no difficulty in answering the question—the only difficulty was to imagine how the misapprehension to which the right hon. Gentleman had adverted could ever have arisen. The existing law made no distinction between flour manufactured from wheat, the produce of the United States, and flour manufactured from wheat the produce of Canada. As long as the flour was manufactured in Canada, it had always been imported into this country as Canadian produce; and there was no intention on the part of her Majesty's Government to make any alteration in that provision of the law. There was no intention of drawing any distinction not now drawn with regard to flour coming from Canada, whether it were the growth of the United States or of the Canadas.
 Lord Stanley  said, that he would endeavour to make a selection of the correspondence, and lay it on the Table of the House. He could not, however, conceive of what use it could be to the hon. Member.
 Mr. Bernal  begged to bring under the consideration of the House a case of great interest to the army in general, and especially to that gallant part of it the Foot Guards. The case to which he referred was that of General Sir John Woodford, who had always been attached to that part of the service. Sir John Woodford entered the Grenadier Guards in the year 1800. In 1813 he was enabled to purchase his company, giving for it the regulation price, amounting to about 4,800 l. l. l. l. l. 258 l. l. l. l.
 Sir C. Napier begged  to call the attention of the House to the statement he had made the other evening, anxious as he was to sustain a character for justice, fairness, and impartiality. In making a comparison between the manner in which two Boards of Admiralty had rewarded different officers, he had stated the case of a captain (Maunsell), who, although distinguishing himself in command at an important action, had not been made C. B., while another Board of Admiralty had
 260 A laugh 261
 Captain Gordon  had been surprised to hear any dissatisfaction expressed with regard to the honour her Majesty had been pleased to confer upon a gallant officer for services performed against an enemy. For his own part, he thought few persons could be found who would suppose that the honour conferred upon Captain Grey was misplaced. It was, he conceived, unnecessary for him to enter into any explanation of the reasons which had induced the Crown to award this distinction to Captain Grey; but he must say, that, having observed in the despatches of Major-general Schoede, that after superintending the landing of the brigade Captain Grey accompanied the troops — having seen that the general commanding the brigade spoke in the highest terms of the services rendered to him by Captain Grey, he could not imagine on what ground objection was taken to the favour which his Sovereign had seen fit to confer upon that gallant officer.
 Mr. Bernal  wished to call the attention of the committee to two subjects. First of all he wished to know whether the marines were to be furnished with percusssion muskets. Everyone, whether professional or amateur, knew the inefficiency of the old musket, which missed fire five times out of seven. In this age of improvement, when such rapid progress had been made in every branch of art and manufactures, fire-arms used for warfare were in their infancy. The other subject to which he wished to direct attention, was the propriety of employing steam to a greater extent in our navy. It had been said, that a steam fleet could easily be formed in the event of a war out of our commercial steam-vessels. He doubted this, from the circumstance that these vessels had not been built with a view to enable them to withstand the shock of artillery.
 Captain Gordon  said, he had listened with great attention to all that had taken place, but would not now enter upon the points touched upon, as they would regularly come before the committee when the votes to which they respectively related were proposed. He would merely say a word on one or two topics which had been urged, and to which no vote applied. As to the assistant-surgeons, he begged to state that the recommendation of the naval and military commission had been carried out with the exception of that as to rank.
 274
 Captain Corry  defended the appointment. The deputy-accountant being required to enter in to a bond for a considerable sum, really provided a greater security for the public money than under the present system. He Would relieve the junior Lord from some of
 279
 Captain Gordon  admitted the great expense of keeping ships in ordinary; but that expense was necessary in order to have a sufficient number of vessels ready
 288
 Captain Gordon  was understood to say that the intention of the Admiralty was, before adopting any improvements in shipbuilding, to test their efficiency.
 Captain Rous  objected to the great expense of the ships kept in ordinary; at the same time he said that much praise was due to the right hon. Baronet near him for having so readily adopted the new system of building. He ridiculed the idea of converting the Penelope into a steam frigate. The experiment he felt convinced would never succeed. With reference to the construction of steamers he could not help expressing his surprise that the engines of Mr. Napier, or those of Messrs. Maudaley and Field, were not patronized in preference to those of Messrs. Seward, because the former never failed, while the great friction of the latter was much complained of. After what had been said to-night he hoped the troops of her Majesty would always be conveyed abroad in ships of war.
 Captain Rous  did not wish the men who liked grog to give it up; all he desired was to give a premium to temperance, and this would be his answer to the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Member for Aberdeen. He wanted to see old officers properly rewarded, and that they should have something comfortable to look to in their old age. He was quite satisfied, in reference to what had been said about the number of men required in ships, that it was very injurious to have ships not properly complemented.
 Captain Rous  approved of the reduction of 4,000 men in the navy, as we were now at peace with all the world. He thought that this reduction would in no way impair the efficiency of the navy. He would, however, recommend that the different captains now on service should have liberty to select from their crews and discharge all men of bad character. If this were done, the navy would be weeded of a thousand inefficient men, and the service much improved. With reference to the manning of the ships, he thought one Government had not allowed sufficient complements, but that the succeeding Government had gone to the other extreme. The present crews were too numerous. If they wanted to make good officers they should have short crews; the real merits of the officers would then appear. There was a point relating to the victualling which he wished to press. It was, of course, of the utmost importance that the men on board ship should be orderly and sober. Twenty-nine out of thirty of the offences that occurred arose from drunkenness. He should recommend, therefore, the American system, which, he believed, had been found to succeed, of giving increased wages to the men who did not drink. It was clearly
 268
 Mr. S. Herbert  was surprised to hear the expense of sending out the reinforcements to the Cape estimated at so large a sum as 41,000 l. 269
 Mr. S. Herbert  , replied that many of the chaplains discharged the duties of schoolmaster, having an additional allowance.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  did not see how it could be made out that the responsibility of the Lords of the Admiralty, for any department under their charge, was in any degree lessened by the present clause. In common with the hon. Gentleman who last spoke, he, too, should be peculiarly jealous of any thing which could tend to trench upon the new and beneficial system introduced by his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham), or appear any thing like a return to the old system; but, so far from regarding the additional appointment now in question as an approach to a vicious system, he considered that it would operate as a more efficient check to the many payments in this most important branch of the public service, The responsibility on the Board of Admiralty would be in no degree less than before, for the signature of two Lords would still be necessary in all contracts, &c.—the only difference being this advantageous one, that instead of a third Lord of the Admiralty, the accounts would be signed by an officer specially appointed for this purpose, whose
 277
 Mr. S. Herbert  would briefly reply to the several points which had been referred to. It had been asked, what course the Government would pursue in reference to the screw of Mr. Smith? He stated the other night that the late Board of Admiralty had taken up the question, and arrived at the decision that Mr. Brunei should co-operate with Mr. Smith for the purpose of ascertaining the particular mode of screw best adapted for ships. In the course of the year Mr. Brunell had been called to Italy, and Mr. Smith, without his co-operation, proceeded with his experiments, and invented a screw called "Smith's screw." Different modifications of this had since been made, which went by the names of those who made them, and it was in that view only he had spoken the other night of Brunell's screw. Experiments were being now made at Portsmouth in order to test their relative merits, and every attention would be paid to the subject by the Admiralty. With regard to the complements of men for different ships, the present complements, not with-
 272 vice versa.
 Lord John Russell  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question with respect to the opium which had been surrendered at Canton. It was understood by some parties that the right hon. Gentleman stated, on a former evening, that the only difficulty in the way of the settlement of the claims of the opium merchants existed in the fact, that the ratification of the treaty with China had not yet been received. As there seemed to be some misapprehension upon the subject, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would repeat the statement he had made on the former evening.
 Mr. A. Smith  said, that he had received from India several communications upon this subject, principally with reference to the amount it was intended to distribute among those who had suffered losses by the seizure of this opium.
 Mr. B. Escott  wished to make a remark with reference to an observation which had fallen from the hon. and gallant officer opposite. The hon. Member had stated, that it was highly desirable, for the interests of the country, that captains and naval officers in command should always be particular in making reports of those under their command who had performed meritorious services. He (Mr. Escott) had himself known instances of great hardship, in which officers had lost their promotion merely from the negligence of their superior officers in not making proper reports.
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to ask a question respecting the mode adopted by the Government for the transport of troops. It appeared that two regiments had recently been ordered to the Cape of Good Hope. The Admiralty had, in the first instance, advertised for ships, but, instead of accepting any tender, they had sent out the troops in two of her Majesty's ships, the Thunderer, and the Rodney, the expense of which proceeding he had heard estimated at 41.000 l. l. l.
 The Speaker : The hon. and gallant Gentleman must confine himself to ex planation.
 The Speaker : The hon. and gallant Member must confine his observations strictly to explanation.
 Mr. C. Wood  expressed his surprise that the hon. and gallant Member had again adverted to this subject. When the hon. and gallant Gentleman alluded to this matter before, the main ground on which he found fault with the conduct of the Admiralty was, that Captain Grey could only be a volunteer, because his ship was not present. The hon. and gallant Member ought not to make assertions calculated to prejudice the characters and to wound the feelings of public men without due inquiry; and, by a reference to the  Gazette Napier: "No, no." Napier "I must also beg to express my best thanks to Captain Grey, commanding her Majesty's ship Endymion, who superintended the disembarkation of the brigade, and who volunteered." 262 "To accompany me throughout the day, for his able assistance and prompt and kind attention to every request I made him regarding the landing of the brigade."
 Mr. C. Wood  expressed his concurrence in the observations of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, and believed that the Board of Admiralty would find that a vast number of officers entertained the same opinion as that expressed by the hon. and gallant Member. He differed entirely from the hon. Member for Montrose as to the further reduction in the number of men, for he (Mr. C. Wood) thought (and it was due to hon. Gentle men opposite that he should state it) that the reduction for the present year went as far as was prudent. He, however, hoped in a future year, a further reduction would take place.
 Mr. C. Wood ,in reply, remarked that the clause referred to by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), showed that it was the intention that the bills should be signed by a Lord of the Admiralty. In order to have an expression of the opinion of the House, be intended to move that the estimates be reduced by 100 l. l.
 Mr. Charles Wood  begged to ask the hon. gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty whether any effectual steps had been taken with a view towards improveing the state of the registry, an derasing fictitious and double entries? for unless something of this sort could be done, the value of the registry would be extremely small. A number of persons who had been entered upon the registry were dead, and their names, he understood, had not been erased.
 Mr. G. Wood  said, this vote gave him an opportunity to refer to a matter which he had alluded to on a former occasion. It was the new item which appeared in the vote, and which comprehended the creation of a new officer, that of deputy accountant-general. There was a first class clerk to be reduced, so that the expense of this new office would, therefore, only be the difference between the sum to be paid to the new officer and the salary of a first-class clerk; but, though the additional amount would be small, his objection was not so much to the amount as to the principle. He could see no adequate reason for the creation of this new office. It was, in his opinion, the first step to wards a return to that objectionable state of things which existed some years ago. The new officer was to act as deputy to the civil lord of the Admiralty. Upon principle he always objected to the appointment of deputies, except in those cases where they were indispensable. In particular, when bills required to be signed, or money was to be paid away, he thought it was an unsound practice to have these offices discharged by deputy. The only reason for the appointment of a deputy accountant-general that he could see was to relieve the civil lord of the Admiralty from the trouble of writing a certain number of signatures. He was of opinion, that it was advisable that nothing should be so arranged as to free the civil lord of the Admiralty from the necessity of personal daily attendance at Somerset-house. It was important that a civil lord should be at the office to attend to the duties personally; and when the office was first established the civil lord had a house
 276
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he did not understand that the state of the case was as it was represented by the hon. Gentleman. The only payment on account of opium that was made was at Canton, upon the production of certain receipts from Captain Elliot. If those receipts were forwarded to this country, as had been stated, he thought that it would be calculated to embarrass the Government with respect to a settlement of those claims. It was very necessary to avoid making double payments of this sort in China and in England; and therefore it was essentially necessary that before questions of this sort could be satisfactorily answered, every consideration should be given to the facts of the case, so as to know precisely in what situation the receipts on behalf of which these payments were to be made, are. After the statements which had been made by the hon. Gentleman, he thought it would be most inconvenient, if not absurd, to send out any final instructions with respect to this subject until he gave full consideration to the facts now brought under his notice. Under these circumstances, nothing could be said upon the matter until time is afforded for ample consideration.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Government had received the fullest information respecting the value of this opium and the time it was surrendered to the Government. The whole of those papers would be laid before Parliament,
 266
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that her Majesty's Government would be guided in the course they would pursue in respect to this subject by the fullest information that could be procured. The result of this inquiry had not as yet been perfected; but he hoped he should be soon able to lay the fullest and the clearest information with reference to the subject upon the Table of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that what he had stated to the noble Lord the former occasion was precisely this: that until the ratifications of the treaty with China were exchanged, it would not be consistent with usage and practice to deal with the question as settled; that the Government could not act upon the provisions of the treaty until it was signed and ratified by the governments of the two countries; that the information necessary to guide the Government as to the value
 251
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that the case of Sir John Woodford came before his predecessor in office, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay), and the late Lord Hill, then Commander-in-Chief, and both the Commander-in-Chief and Secretary-at-War were of opinion that it was not a case which they could entertain. When he came into office, Sir John Woodford had not sold his commission, and his case was referred to him. Being a personal friend of that gallant officer, having served in the same regiment with him about thirty years ago, he of course took an especial interest in the case, and he looked into it with an inclination, if possible, to come to a decision favourable to Sir John Wood ford; but after fully considering the cir cumstances, he thought it impossible to entertain the complaint. Sir John Wood ford's argument was, that he had a positive and vested right to receive from the public that which he had actually expended in the purchase of his commissions. Now he denied that position altogether. But first of all he must observe that Sir John Woodford had not spent so much
 259 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Labouchere  begged to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies upon a subject of considerable importance, and with respect to which there existed a good deal of misapprehension. The noble Lord, a short time since, stated to the House that it was the intention of the Government, in the course of the present Session, to permit the admission of Canadian flour into this country at a nominal duty, provided the legislature of Canada passed measures satisfactory to the Government, with a view to the prevention of fraud. The noble Lord stated, at the same time, that the legislature of Canada had passed a bill, levying a duty of 3 s. 250
 Mr. Labouchere  must say that, for his part, he did expect the right hon. Baronet opposite would speak as to a measure, which was a large step towards the entire subversion of the improved system which the right hon. Baronet had introduced into the Admiralty. On a former night he had understood the right hon. Baronet to say across the Table that he had not been consulted on this change before it was actually carried into effect. If so, and if the right hon. Baronet considered, as surely he could not fail to do, that this change would counteract to a very great extent the improvements which he himself had taken so much pains to introduce, he was quite sure that the right hon. Baronet would not hesitate to express his opinion on the subject; and if that opinion were unfavourable to the change, to exert his influence to have that change superseded. As had been pointed out by his hon. Friend, the life and soul of the improved system was, that each Lord of the Admiralty should have under his superintendence one particular department, for the management of which he was responsible to the first Lord. The Accountant-general's department was a most important one. No less than six millions were paid every year in that department: was it consistent with the practice in other public departments that so immense a sum as this should be paid on the signature of subordinate persons, however efficient and respectable? It was argued that the junior Lord of the Admiralty had so much other wise to do that he ought to be relieved from the investigation of these multifarious accounts; but surely the business of the junior Lord was neither so extensive nor so complicated as that of the Accountant-general. It appeared to him to be of the
 278
 Mr. Roebuck  said: It is clear to me, from the defence made by the noble Lord, that he and I entertain very different feelings respecting the obligations of truth upon the governors of mankind. Truth, invincible in its naked simplicity, needs no diplomatic defence; and I shall be able to show the noble Lord himself that if he has kept "the word of promise'' even "to the ear," he cannot have satisfied the understanding of the House nor his own. The noble Lord read but a part of the passage to which I alluded in the proclamation of the 1st October, 1838. I will read the whole. It runs thus:—
 "His Majesty Shah Soojah-ool-Moolk will enter Affghanistan surrounded by his own troops, and will be supported against foreign interference and factious opposition by a British army. The Governor-general confidently hopes that the Shah will be speedily replaced on his throne by his own subjects and adherents; and when once he shall be secured in power, and the independence and integrity of Affghanistan established, the British army will be withdrawn." 255 "Shikarpore, 9th of March, 1839.—My dear Sir—I have endeavoured, to the best of my ability, to give every effect to the commander-in-chief's instructions. I will not disguise that it has been a painful duty, but I trust not the less conscientiously and zealously performed. I cannot but lament, in common, I have no doubt, with his excellency and the members of his whole force, that two regular and disciplined armies brought together from so great a distance, and at so much difficulty and cost, should, at the very moment of united action, be thus maimed and dismembered, merely for the purpose of keeping together a mass of raw levies, like the Shah's contingent, whose carriage and supplies would suffice for the Bengal or Bombay divisions, and who would again be much better employed if left here for formation and instruction; whereas, in their present state, they must prove worse than worthless in advance. Can this be done in the vain hope of giving plausibility to the fiction of the ' Shah entering his dominions surrounded by his own troops?' when the fact is too notorious to escape detection and exposure, that he has not a single subject or Affghan amongst them! his army being composed of camp followers from the company's military stations." 256
 Mr. J. A. Smith  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. On a former evening the right hon. Gentleman stated, in reply
 265
 Mr. Hume  said, that the other night several votes of public money were brought forward after midnight; and, although he objected to some of those votes, yet he, with several of his hon. Friends, abstained from advancing those objections, on the understanding that, in committee, they would be allowed an opportunity of discussing them, although that course might be somewhat irregular. He hoped hon. Gentlemen opposite would keep good faith in this matter.
 Mr. Hume  , remarked that he observed that a grant was taken out for only twenty-three schoolmasters. How was that?
 Mr. Hume  , observed that no one had done more for the improvement of arms than Lord Vivian. He had spared no exertion to obtain the best information on the subject, and when the first vote for new arms was submitted to the House, it was admitted by all that anything short of the very best description of musket would be but a false economy. He therefore hoped that every British soldier, whether in the army or navy, would have such put into his hands without delay. He objected to the number of line of battle-ships which it was proposed to keep up, particularly after the testimony of several gallant officers, that they would be kept lying useless in harbour for months. Keeping up twenty-eight sail of the line at a time of perfect peace seemed to him to incur a shameful waste of public money at a time of financial distress, and to inflict a serious injury on the service by lessening the efficiency of the force when it came to be required. The best way, in his opinion, would be to keep up a squadron of frigates, which were notoriously the best class of ships for the discipline of seamen, and for making good officers. He agreed with what had just fallen from the hon. and gallant officer respecting steam-vessels. No country could compete with us in the excellence of our machinery and the cleverness of our engineers; and no expense should be spared in making improvements, and in
 271 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to have it in order to know why a civil war was carrying on in that country.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies would have any objection to lay on the Table of the House the correspondence that had taken place between the Cape of Good Hope and this country, relative to what had taken place with respect to the boers of Port Natal.
 Mr. Hume  said, this was the first attempt which had been made to break into the improved system. The appointment of this new officer was to relieve the Civil Lord; it impaired the principle of responsibility which was the foundation of that system, by destroying the responsibility of the junior Lord. The new check which was created by that responsibility would be destroyed, and by and by all responsibility would be done away. Now, instead of one individual at Somerset-house being controlled by a Lord of the Admiralty, two individuals, both at Somerset-house, would have the whole business in their own hands. It would cause great public inconvenience. He had objected to a similar appointment when the Exchequer-office bill was before the House, and then be had predicted that the appointment of a deputy to which he had objected would lead to the principal neglecting his duty. He had then said, that the chief would be absent three days out of four, and it appeared from a return, that out of 455 days the comptroller had been absent 350 days. He censured the appointment because it tended to weaken responsibility and destroy the present system.
 Mr. Hume  thought much unnecessary expense was incurred in the building of large ships, which were of no service but were allowed to rot in harbour. He thought the remarks of the hon. and gallant Officer who had alluded to this subject were well deserving the attention of the Government. The hon. and gallant Member opposite had alluded to the state of the transports, and had said that they were frequently commanded by officers who were not competent to discharge their duties. He thought that some proof of the truth of this statement was afforded by the experience of the last few years, but he yet believed that the number of ships of war lost exceeded that of the transports. As a large sum of money was voted annually for defraying the expense of transports it was, he conceived, the duty of the Government to ascertain that the ships employed in this service were safe and efficient.
 Captain Jones  said, the condition of the assistant-surgeon, which had been mooted by the hon. Member for Montrose, was of considerable importance. The question why these were permitted to mess in the ward-room or gun-room had not yet been answered. He agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose in thinking that such a concession, which would be satisfactory to the medical officers, would be of great advantage to the service.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that as alterations were contemplated by the Government in several acts relating to criminal offences, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet opposite to the fact, that a clause in a recent act of Parliament, which was, he believed, inserted in the other House, affixed to the crime of burglary the punishment of trans portation for life. He thought it desirable that some alteration should be made in this enactment, as it left no discretionary power with the judge.
 Mr. Ewart  begged to ask whether it was intended by her Majesty's Government to continue in that anomalous course of permitting the further growth of opium in India? He must say, that any government which encouraged the growth of opium was committing a serious crime. He also wished to ask whether it was the intention of the Government to open the trade of Patna opium, which was at present a monopoly?
 Sir C. Napier :Then, Sir, I have no thing further to say.
 Sir C. Napier  could not agree in any proposal to take away the men's grog. A dram at sea under some circumstances was
 275 l. l.
 Sir C. Napier  differed from the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Captain Rous) as to the manning of our ships, and could see no reasonable objection to their present complements. We did not discover in the late war that our ships were undermanned until we saw them, one after another walking into the American ports. He recommended that the crews should be more frequently at sea and less time in port, where they wasted their time in a series of useless
 270
 Sir C. Napier.  Well, Sir, I will explain then. The rules and customs of the service—["Order, order."] Well, if I am not allowed to mention them, I will again refer to the despatch of a general officer. [ Again cries of
 Sir C. Napier  said, be was surprised that the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. C. Wood) had laid so much stress on the mistake lie had committed with regard to Admiral Parker's despatches. He read the despatches, but, on finding that the
 263
 Sir C. Napier  considered it impolitic to build many large vessels. In his opinion they ought only to have such a number of ships as could be manned with facility. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the Admiralty to try the Albion before proceeding to build other vessels of similar construction?
 Sir C. Napier  said, that before the question of his hon. Friend was answered,
 287
 Sir Charles Napier  observed, that the House was in a very awkward predicament. Here was an ex-junior lord of the Admiralty, and an ex-secretary of the Admiralty, objecting to an alteration that had recently been made as injurious to the public service, while on the other side, there was the Secretary of the Admiralty, and junior Lord of the Admiralty, with with the ex-first Lord of the Admiralty, maintaining that the change so far from being injurious was calculated to be of benefit to the public service. This be said, left the House in a very awkward predicament, and he did not know how they were to get out of it. But then the junior Lord who had not sufficient time to sign letters, was engaged in looking after the ships and docks. In the name of God! what had the Civil Lord who 'ought to be looking after the accounts, to do with the ships and docks of the navy? Ha believed that was a part of the duty
 284 l. l. l.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had referred to the subdivision of the labours of the Board as the principle of his bill, and the right hon. Gentle man had admitted that it was for the consideration of Parliament whether the Board was efficient or not. But this alteration had been made without any reference to Parliament. The principle of re sponsibility was violated by the transfer of the superintendence of the civil Lord to two subordinate officers. The right hon. Baronet had made him doubt, by his de fence of the plan, whether it were likely to turn out well. The right hon. Gentle man had admitted that it was important that the bills should be signed by a Lord of the Admiralty, and no ground had been stated why that plan should be given up. The justification was, the increase of bills; but though there might be a considerable increase since 1833, there was no great in crease within a year or two. Did his noble Eriend Lord Dalmeny, find any difficulty in executing the duties of his office? Did he ask for assitance? No; yet the business was then as extensive as at present. At what period, too, was it proposed to make this alteration? He had heard of an increase of duties at the Admiralty in case of war, but what measures were the Administration now taking? Why, at this moment, they were reducing the estimates, and they promised to reduce them more; and just now, at the time when they were reducing the navy, they were creating this new office. A great deal was said about 42,000 bills; but, divided by the number of official days in the year, they would not amount to more than 140 bills a-day, and it would be no great labour to sign them. He thought a Lord of the Admiralty could easily do that and attend to his other duties. He saw no ground, therefore, for the proposed altera-
 283
 Sir F. Trench  had heard that some of the bayonets used in the late Affghan war were of such wretched manufacture as to be found utterly unserviceable in charging the enemy. These, however, he understood, were furnished by contract to the East-India Company. Nothing was more injudicious than parsimony in such matters as these. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was, however, mistaken in supposing that any apathy existed on this subject at the Ordnance office; on the contrary, it occupied much of their attention, and 36,658 percussion muskets had been already furnished to the troops.
 Captain Pechell  was rejoiced to find that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty had erred when he attributed to Mr. Brunell the merit of the Archimedean screw, invented by Mr. Smith, and he was glad he had elicited that explanation. He wished, however, to know whether Mr. Smith was now superintending the erection of the machinery under his plan on board the Rattler, at Sheerness? It was said that the various improvements suggested had not been at tended to, because the Admiralty had been too much occupied with other matters. That was true, but how had they been occupied? Why, by going back to the old system of the Navy Board, of which the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham) had when First Lord of the Admiralty got rid. They had given up the duties of the dock-yards to the civil power, while the right, hon. Baronet had placed those discharging those duties under the operation of martial law. He must
 273 l.
 Captain Pechell  complained of the consequences of this arrangement. It seemed that because a chaplain acted as a school master, the captain was to deduct three percent from his additional income. So much for education and church extension people. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer went further than this, he even deducted the three per cent. from the additional pay which was received by engineers of steam-vessels whilst in a tropical climate. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had instructed captains of ships to get hold of this pittance, which these poor fellows received for sweating under a tropical climate.
 Captain Pechell  regretted that this discussion had been revived. The hon. and gallant Member evidently felt, with other hon. Members and with Officers not in that House, that Captain Mansell had not been well treated. He maintained that sufficient and adequate honours were never conferred upon naval officers. [An hon.  Member: 264
 Captain Pechell  availed himself of that opportunity to complain of the delay on the part of the Admiralty authorities in taking advantage of the various suggestions and improvements which had been made in our steam navigation. As far back as 1839 a vessel worked by Smith's
 267
 Captain Pechell  remarked upon the inefficiency of the office. The system did not seem to have worked well; there were not above half of our merchant seamen registered in the office.
 Captain Pechell  disapproved of converting thirty six-gun frigates into steamers, but thought the Admiralty of late years entitled to great credit for the improvements introduced in the building of ships of war. The superior class of ships now employed had contributed more than anything else to the suppression of the slave-trade on the coast of Africa.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that although the establishment was one opposed by merchants and shipowners, yet that it was calculated to be of essential service to the navy. On the whole its effects had approximated towards success. It was of course capable of many improvements, and he knew that the gallant Commodore opposite had interested himself in their successful execution. If the hon. and gallant Gentleman would direct his attention practically to the point he could assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman that he would not be wanting to second his endeavours; and he hoped that, for the sake of making a slight reduction in the estimates, the House would not throw any impediment in the way of the progress of an object of such national importance.
 Sir James Graham  explained that the alteration was proposed by Mr. Briggs, the Accountant-general, to whose zeal and assiduity the right hon. Gentleman had borne his testimony. That Gentleman was, perhaps, one of the first accountants of the country, and his exertions, he thought, could not be surpassed. Now, Mr. Briggs had written a letter to the Admiralty, dated July 29, 1842, in which he stated that the business of his office weighed heavily on the persons employed. In particular he complained of the number of bills to be examined and signed, which was much greater than before. In this letter it was also remarked, that the documents were becoming so numerous, in consequence of the extension of public business, that a great portion of the time of the superintendent at Somerset-house must be engaged in the mere signature of them; and there was no additional security afforded by it, as the mass of papers to be submitted was so voluminous that it was impossible for him to satisfy himself as to their accuracy, or make himself acquainted with their contents, even in the most superficial manner. It was on this document that the change mainly rested, and, for himself, he must say, that he attached the greatest importance to the authority of Mr. Briggs.
 Sir J. Graham  admitted that his right hon. Friend the Member for Taunton (Mr. Labouchere) had a right to call on him to give his opinion on this question, and he would do so. He would first disembarrass the question of some unnecessary details; and must at the outset state that no principle was involved in the appointment. If there were any principle involved in it, and if it went to infringe on the principle he had established, no Member would look on the matter with greater jealousy than he should. It was impossible for any person to state with greater clearness than had been stated by the hon. Member for Halifax the principle of the
 280 281 282
 Sir J. Graham  said, the circumstance to which the hon. Gentleman referred had not escaped his attention; but he could not now state the precise course the Government might adopt.
 Sir R. Peel  had only to say, what he had said on a former occasion, namely, that it was necessary to have the opinion of the person who had been sent out to China on this important subject. He thought, that looking to the peculiar character of our relations with China, and the immense importance which attached to the matter to which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ewart) had referred, it was essential that what ever was done should be done by the person who had local opportunities to form a judgment. He thought it would be better to postpone the question, as it was connected with our future relations with China.
 Sir R. Peel  thought that the noble Lord, in fairness to himself, would like to have the correspondence brought up to the time he left office. He was not aware that any inference against the noble Lord could be drawn from it. He would have no objection to produce the whole of the correspondence; but to produce the confidential communications between the foreign and the British representatives, was contrary to all precedent. He was willing to produce all that could give the House a clear conception of the proceedings, and enable the noble Lord to found a motion if he thought proper.
 Sir R. Peel , in the absence of the Solicitor-general, and of the hon. and learned Member for Worcester (Sir T. Wilde), deferred the adjourned debate on the question of Printed Papers until Tuesday next. If upon Monday it should appear that those hon. and learned Gentlemen would be unable to be present in the House on Tuesday, in consequence of their engagements on the circuit, he (Sir R. Peel would then on Monday) state what course he should propose to pursue.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was anxious to explain the course he intended to take in regard to the motion of the noble Lord. It would, he thought, be unfortunate that a question of so much importance should turn merely on the production of papers. With respect to the correspondence between Lord Ashburton and Mr. Webster, it would be impossible for him to assign any grounds of public inconvenience against their production. Still, if the conduct of the Government and of Lord Ashburton were to be the question for discussion, it would be better that some distinct motion should at once be made, than a proposal for the production of papers. He was perfectly prepared to lay on the Table the papers he had mentioned, but confidential communications—communications of the greatest importance—between the American Secretary of State and the British Minister, it would be quite
 248
 Viscount Palmerston  said, his object undoubtedly was to bring under discussion in that House the negotiation and the treaty. He, of course, had anticipated that the right hon. Baronet could not object to the production of that part of the correspondence for which be had moved, which passed between Lord Ashburton and Mr. Webster, because the right hon. Baronet had he remembered, moved for the production of similar papers on similar grounds. He had thought it possible the right hon. Baronet might make some objection to the latter part of the motion, although he (Viscount Palmerston) had so worded his motion, by making use of the word "extracts," as to give the Government the opportunity of selecting such of the papers as might be produced without inconvenience. If the right hon. Baronet thought there would be no objection to laying on the Table the correspondence down to the latest period, it would be convenient to him to have them, but that would be a further ground for urging the production of the correspondence between the Foreign Secretary of State and Lord Ashburton. He thought, however, the notice he had given would answer his purpose—that of bringing the matter under discussion.
 Viscount Palmerston , in reference to the motion of which he had given notice for Thursday, and which had dropped in consequence of there having been no House, said he was anxious to fix it for some day on which it could have precedence. It might stand for the 16th.
 Lord Palmerston :As the hon. and learned Member has put a question to me, perhaps the House will allow me to answer it. The hon. and learned Member asks whether the native troops, which accompanied Shah Soojah into Affghanistan, were not officered by British officers, and paid by the East India Company? Officered by British officers, undoubtedly they were; else Shah Soojah could not, in so short a space of time, have brought them into a state of discipline. They were paid by Shah Soojah. [Mr.  Roebuck. 257
 Lord Palmerston  said, I wish to ask House to do that is irregular, but as to say relates to a matter of personal feeling and personal character, I persuade myself that the House, with its usual indulgence, will permit me to offer a very few observations. 1 see the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck) in his place. What I am about to state is in the way of explanation connected with circumstances to which that hon. and learned Member adverted at the close of his reply on Wednesday evening. The hon. and learned Member has been made aware of my intention to make this statement. The hon. and learned Member, in his reply the other evening, charged, no doubt, from misapprehension, the late Governor-general of India with having made, in his proclamation dated from Simla, 1st October, 1838, a false statement. That false statement I understood him to say was to be found in the assertion that Shah Soojah had entered the Affghan territories surrounded by his own troops; and the hon. and learned Member rested his denial of the accuracy of that assumed statement upon the ground of a letter which he quoted from Colonel Dennie, written at a much later period, in which the colonel said that the troops under his command, as Shah Soojah's guard, were not Affghans, but troops raised in Hindostan. Now, in the first place, the hon. and learned Member mistook the passage which he quoted from the proclamation dated at Simla, the 1st October, 1838. The passage was not an assertion as to anything that had
 252 "His Majesty Shah Soojah-ool-Moolk will enter Affghanistan, surrounded by his own troops, and will be supported against foreign interference and factious opposition by a British army." 253 "His Excellency shares in the satisfaction, which the troops must feel, at knowing the enthusiasm with which the population of Candahar have received and welcomed the return of their lawful sovereign, Shah Soojah-ool-Moolk to the throne of his ancestors in Affghanistan." "It appears that a great part of his army," that is, of Dost Mahomed's army,"which was hourly becoming disorganized refused to stand by him in position to receive our attack, and soon became in a state of dissolution. The great bulk immediately came over to Shah Soojah, tendering their allegiance; and I believe his Majesty will take most of them into his pay." 254
 The Earl of Leicester  regretted that the first time he had (he honour of addressing the House, it should be on an occasion on which he felt himself called on to defend his character from certain observations which had been made by a noble and learned Lord, and late a Lord Chancellor of this country [" Order."]
 The Earl of Leicester  was anxious to observe the rules of the House; he would therefore say, that he had found it stated in one of the public journals of the country that a noble and learned Lord had observed, that
 "The present Lord Townshend was seventy years of age — he was in feeble health — and if he died without his marriage being dissolved, the consequence would be, that the son of Mr. John Margetts, the brewer of Huntingdon, who, first as Mr. John Margetts, jun., then as Lord John Townshend, and now as the Earl of Leicester, would be the root and stirps of a family imposed with an audacity wholly unparalleled in the history of fraud and deceit." 300 ex parte pro con ex parte
 Colonel Wyndham  would certainly support the motion of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, as he conceived that Mr. Clements had much overstepped his duty in bringing forward a motion to censure the hon. Member.
 Lord Stanley  said that trustees—of whom he had the honour to be one—had been appointed to superintend the payment of certain annuities, and to see that the buildings at Claremont were maintain ed in tenantable repair. After the payment of the annuities, and of the expenses of repairs, the balance of the sum voted to His Majesty the King of the Belgians was paid over to the public treasury—the amount so paid varying from 32,000 l. l.. l.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, the hon. Member for Montrose had stated, on the authority of the newspaper, that the cost of the buildings in course of erection at Claremont would amount to 30,000 l.. l. l..
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that no intention was entertained of building stables at the public cost. The trustees who had been appointed to superintend the property were about to build new stables in the place of the old ones, but the expense of
 306
 Mr. Bernal  regarded the barracks to be necessary and he should support the vote for building them.
 Mr. Bernal  thought 234,868 l.
 Captain Gordon  observed, that Captain Waldegrave, besides having commanded one of the ships at Acre, had served actively during the whole of the time he had been afloat, and than that gallant officer
 312
 Captain Gordon  said, that, as to the objection of expense, it did not apply to the cases mentioned, or generally to ships-of-war in commission, where the expense, of course, had already been incurred. He had no particular objection to the transport ships themselves, he believed that the generality of them which had been taken up of late were very commodious and comfortable vessels; but it appeared to him that when ships of war were lying with their men in, the taking out their lower deck guns, and sending them to perform this sort of service, instead of lying idle and doing nothing, was rather a saving of expense than otherwise. With reference to the general question, it was well known that there was a class of ships called troop ships, the employment of which was, no doubt, much better than the employing men-of-war for this service; a great number of these vessels were now in China, and when they returned home, he believed it would be found that Government had a sufficient number of them to do all the work in this department of the public service, without employing either ships of war or transports.
 Captain Gordon  explained that the reason why the Rodney had not sailed was, that the cavalry regiment which it was to convey was not ready.
 Captain Gordon  had said nothing aganist the merchant ships; on the contrary, he was quite ready to give his testimony as to their efficiency, as far as he had observed. As to the ships of war, it was clear that in time of peace, a period which he trusted would be of long continuance, there was
 318 l.
 Captain Gordon  was not prepared to say what particular precaution could be taken to prevent a ship driving from her anchor in a tempest, nor was he aware that any convict ship had foundered at sea for many years past. As to ships going to pieces, when they struck upon a rock or upon a shoal, it was impossible to prevent this, build them ever so strongly. He must say, however, that the convict-ship which ran ashore at the Cape was found to have been in a very bad condition.
 Mr. Williams  thought that most of the reductions mentioned by the hon. Member were temporary, and there was nothing to assure him that the votes might not be increased quite as much next year as they were reduced this year. One great reduction was in stores, but next year they might be called on to make up a deficiency of stores. Since 1826 not less than 2,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. Williams  observed that in Cork and fifteen other places the offices of storekeeper and barrack-master were filled by the same persons. He wished to know why this was not done in all cases; in Guernsey, for instance, where there were-at present a storekeeper and a clerk, as well as a barrack-master, with five barrack sergeants.
 Mr. Williams  complained of the expense of 10,000 l.
 The Chairman  reported progress and obtained leave to sit again.
 Captain Boldero  said, that a contract had been entered into for the supply of arms, but on its completion, the arms were found to be very defective. They were, therefore, returned, and the Ordnance obtained arms of a better quality. With respect to percussion locks, he might state that the 98th regiment on going to India, and the 2nd battalion of guards, serving in Canada, had been supplied with muskets having such locks, in order that the effect of extreme heat and extreme cold upon that quality of arms might be tested and in each instance the arms had been found most efficient. Colonel Lascelles, the officer commanding the 2nd battalion in Canada, had written to the adjutant-general expressing his testimony of the great superiority of percussion caps over flints; and similar testimony had been received from Colonel Campbell of the 98th regiment. The latter officer stated, that on their passage out they placed 25 of the caps in an open port-hole for one week, where there was a strong draught, but the sea air had not had the least injurious effect upon those caps for not one missed fire.
 Captain Boldero  said, arrangements had been, to a great extent, attempted, for the purposejof appropriating a piece of ground for ball practice; but it had been found necessary to postpone it till next Session. owing to the numerous obstacles encountered.
 Captain Boldero  denied that there was any truth in the report — alleging the facts to be, that on the trial of two barrack-sergeants for giving false receipts as to supplies, one of them declared, that contractors were in the habit of paying them for so doing; and accused the contractor in question particularly. The court, however, were of opinion, that they were not warranted in pursuing the inquiry thus started on such discreditable authority as that of a convicted felon, and when the charge was renewed against the contractor in question, the Ordnance gave him, of course, an opportunity for exculpation, suspending, meanwhile, their assent to his offer, though it was the lowest tendered. The gentleman alluded to had declared his readiness to take the only means open to him of disproving the charge; offering to pledge his oath, that he had never seen or communicated with the man who had accused him, and appealing to his character and long standing in business, as to the probability of his having so disgracefully committed himself.
 Captain Boldero  said the receipts from tolls were at present 13,000 l. l.
 Captain Boldero  said there were very important stores at Guernsey, which required a storekeeper, who should be a respectable man. In all cases where it was possible to combine the two offices it was the desire of the master-general to do so.
 Captain Boldero  stated that they had made the commencement of the formation of a geological collection in Whitehall-yard; and next year he hoped that they would be able to continue the geological survey in Ireland. l.
 Captain Boldero  stated that the survey of forty-six English counties had been completed, and the triangulation in Scotland.
 Captain Boldero  said, that in rising to bring these estimates under consideration he should not detain the House for any length of time. The estimates for the present year had been framed with a strict regard to economy, and he was happy to state that they presented a great diminution upon those of last year. That diminution indeed, amounted to not less than 258,129 l. l. 322 Layard:  323 l. l. l. 324 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 325 l. l.
 Mr. Liddell  said, it had been stated by the
 305
 Captain Rous  observed, that although the ships of the line would be proud to convey her Majesty's troops, there would naturally be some little delicacy felt in the navy with regard to a certain class of persons called convicts. l.
 Captain Rous  repeated, for the information of the hon. Member, that the ships must be kept in commission, therefore he was mistaken upon the subject of expense. But was there a single Gentleman in the House who ever understood a subject as the hon. Member did?
 Captain Rous  thought the hon. Member for Montrose had been an advocate for economy; but if on another occasion
 316 l. d.
 Captain Rous  said the additional expense of 40,000 l. 317
 Mr. S. Herbert  was fully aware that a great many complaints had been made about the West India mails; but it must be taken into consideration that the scheme was most gigantic and complicated, and that there was no possibility except by experience of judging how the routes would answer. The company certainly had met with very serious losses, and that because the scheme of routes was so very extensive; unless some reduction was made in the amount of work to be performed, it would be impossible for the company to go on with the first contract. A larger payment was therefore contemplated, and a different line of routes had been proposed, and at the expiration of the present contract, at the end of this month, a new scheme would be adopted, by which he hoped that the company would be put on a better footing, and the communications be made more regularly.
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, it was the intention of the Government to carry out the provision of the treaty to which the hon. Gentleman referred. l.
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, that a classification of spars and yards was at present always adopted in the dockyards. He doubted whether the establishment of a naval museum would be of benefit to the public.
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, there was one iron vessel afloat, and another iron steamer had been ordered by the Admiralty. l..
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, that the slips were the continuation of works that had been determined to be necessary last year, and the adoption of the method of slips for ship-building had led to a great saving to the public. With respect to Chatham, owing to so many ships being paid off, the marines wanted accommodation, and it was thought better to have them in barracks than quartered in public-houses as heretofore.
 Lord Arthur Lennox  had on two occasions sailed in the command of troops on board men-of-war, and he could state most distinctly that the discipline of the soldiers had not, in either instance, suffered in the slightest degree from their being, and for a considerable time, in company with the seamen. As to transport vessels, they were regarded by the troops with perfect horror, and, as far as his experience went, he must say with considerable justice. He remembered, for instance, that on one voyage he went with troops, on board the India Trader transport, the men were engaged on fatigue parties, hard at work at the pumps, the whole way to Quebec.
 Lord A. Lennox  called the attention of the hon. Gentleman to the circumstance that officers in barracks were allowed fuel, while those who lived out of barracks were not allowed fuel. This fell very heavy on married officers, and he hoped it would be taken into consideration. He was glad to hear that attention had been paid to provide the army with percussion muskets, and he hoped that the fifty-one regiments which were not yet provided with them would soon receive them,
 Mr. A. Chapman  was understood to suggest that a regular establishment of ships, attached to the service, to be employed in rotation, should be kept ready for the transport of troops and convicts. The plan would give employment to junior post-captains, who were always anxious to be afloat.
 Mr. Hawes  thought 80,000 l.
 Captain Layard  said, as respected the building of marine barracks, he was aware of the advantage of having the marines well housed and lodged, but the proposed sum was a very large one, and he hoped greater attention would be paid to economy in these matters than was formerly the practice.
 Captain Layard  believed there was no soldier but would prefer the chance of being shot at in preference to going a voyage in a transport ship. The troops apprehended far more danger from transports than from the enemy.
 Captain Layard  said, that the hon. and gallant officer the Member for Scarborough had stated in the House the other
 329 330 l. 331
 Mr. C. Buller  had on a former evening shortly referred to the step which, it appeared, had been taken by the Board of Admiralty, of sending out troops in line-of-battle ships instead of in transports, and he would now beg to say a few words more on this subject. As he had been informed, the Government had taken the course of sending out troops by two line-of-battle ships (the Rodney and the Thunderer), although this mode of conveyance was far more expensive than that of employing merchant vessels, and far less convenient, inasmuch as merchant vessels were always ready for the service; whereas, as in the case of the Rodney, men of war had to be sent for, perhaps from distant places, and had, further, to be got ready for the particular service by taking out the lower deck guns, and so on. It did not appear that any objection was made by the Government to the employment of merchant vessels, on the score that they were not fit for the service, while to the principle of employing men-of-war in their stead, it seemed to him that there were several objections. In the first place, he did not see any possible advantage in it; while they were employed in this service they could not be used as men-of-war, the lower deck guns were taken out and so on, and they could not be considered as any additions to the naval force of the country. The mere circumstance that a certain additional number of officers might thus, perhaps, be actively employed, did not counterbalance the many disadvantages. As to the expense, it was enormously increased by the substitution of men-of-war
 314 l. l. l.. l.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had a very convincing way of expressing himself. He understood that his defence of the Government was, that there was no additional expense to the country, and that because these ships were doing nothing, they were to be employed as proposed. It seemed to him that the common sense view of the case was this—if there were ships of war of no use, if they were doing nothing they should be laid up. But the opinion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman were wider than the imaginations of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, for he saw that a thrill of terror ran through the Treasury bench when the hon. and gallant Gentleman hinted that the ships of the line ought to be employed hereafter only in transporting troops. [" No, no."] He thought hon. Gentlemen had been rather hard upon the transport service, in the sweeping charges they had brought against it, and certainly they might produce very serious effects. No one could doubt that it was a system liable to abuse, and that the Government should guard against abuse; but he would tell hon. Gentlemen that the charges told not against the mercantile marine, but against the official heads of the public departments, who ought to exercise a proper vigilance in the matter.
 The Speaker  acquainted the House, that he had received from Commodore Sir Gordon Bremer, the following letter, in return to the thanks of this House communicated to him by Mr. Speaker, in obedience to
 333 " The Priory Compton, Plymouth, March "SIR,— I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 28th February conveying to me the Resolutions of the House of Commons of the 14th respecting the late naval and military operations on the coast of China. "I have to request you will be pleased to state to the House of Commons, that it is with sentiments of the deepest gratitude and respect that I receive this highly valued and honourable testimony of the approbation of the House. "With pride and gratification I shall obey the commands of the House of Commons, by transmitting the Resolutions, together with your letter, to the officers who served under me. "Permit me, Sir, to say, that the terms you have been pleased to employ in conveying to me this high honour, demand my most sincere and grateful acknowledgments, and, with sentiments of the highest respect, "I have the honour to subscribe myself, Sir, Your most obedient and humble servant, J. GORDON BREMER, " Late Commodore and Commander in Chief of H. M. Ships in China. "To the Right Honourable Charles Shaw Lefevre, &c. &c."
 The Speaker:  The hon. Member must confine himself strictly to explanation.
 The Speaker:  It is against the rules of the House for any hon. Member to allude directly to the debates which have taken place in the House of Lords.
 The Speaker  suggested, that being an amendment on an original motion, the hon. Member should withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Ross,  having the honour of knowing Mr. Clements, felt called upon to say a few words, in reply to the observations made by the hon. Member for Knaresborough. From his (Mr. Ross's) know ledge of the high character of Mr. Clements, he felt confident that that gentleman was entirely incapable of the misconduct which had been imputed to him. On Mr. Clements reading a report of what had been said in the House of Commons respecting his proceedings at Halifax, he wrote a letter to a quarter from which he (Mr. Ross) had learned it, stating that everything which had been alleged by the hon. Member was founded on a statement made by a local newspaper, of a most false and audacious character, and that in con sequence of his calling the attention of the board of guardians of the union of Halifax to it, that board came to a determination, that reporters who could report such false statements should no longer be admitted. If the hon. Member for Nottingham had not seconded the present motion, he (Mr. Ross) should have felt it his duty to have done so, on the part of Mr. Clements himself, because that gentleman was exceedingly desirous that everything should be known by the House with regard to his conduct and character.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that 10,0002 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was perfectly true that a proposition had been submitted to the Government, having for its object to establish a communication from Malta, Constantinople, and with Syria. That proposition was under consideration, and, in a short time, he had no doubt, but that he should be enabled to inform the hon. Member what was the decision at which they had arrived.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the question put by the hon. Member was not one which he could at that moment satisfactorily answer.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that undoubtedly the introduction of steam had caused a great addition to the expenses of communication, but that the public gained in time what they lost in money.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said there was in the army estimates a credit islands for 24,000 l.
 Dr. Bowring  denied that the inhabitants of Bolton wished for troops. He could take it on himself to make that statement, and leave the House to judge betwixt him and his hon. Colleague.
 Dr. Bowring  inquired whether the expense of the establishments for the Ionian
 328
 Dr. Bowring  wished that the cost of making arms at the Government establishments might be detailed, that the House might know how the large sum voted for this purpose was expended. Two millions were expended on these matters, and the House ought to know how it was applied. The country was broken down by the enormous expenditure of the Government, when there was no trade; and he thought at the present time they should think more of the people and less of our establishments.
 Dr. Bowring  had understood that the Swedish Government had made an offer to facilitate the communication between this country and Sweden, and further that they had proposed to take on themselves a considerable proportion of the expense of such communication. He should be glad to know whether the Government had any intention of increasing the facilities of intercourse with that country?
 Dr. Bowring  said, there was another point in connexion with these Post-office communications that was not undeserving: attention. Our communications with the Levant were less perfect than those of our neighbours. France sent three steamers to the Levant monthly, whilst we had only one. It was desirable, too, that we should extend our steam communication with the northern parts of Syria. With Beyrout there was already a com-
 320
 Dr. Bowring  said, that there were many items in these charges which appeared to him to be objectionable. There was the sum of 240,000 l. 319
 Mr. J. A. Smith  begged to remind the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) that on Friday last the Chancellor of the Exchequer promised to furnish additional information respecting the opium compensation question.
 Mr. Walter  did not wish to press for more than could be furnished; he should therefore move for the return, contenting himself with so much as could be given.
 Mr. Walter  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Walter  rose to move for the production of a return of which he had given notice. He observed, that having on a recent occasion come down to the House in order to discharge a duty and engagement, when from the state of indisposition under which he laboured, and was, indeed, still labouring, he almost sank under the task, he felt, nevertheless, bound to take one more opportunity of pressing upon the attention of the House some remarks in corroboration of what was the undoubted fact—that the dark document which he first laid before it was the foundation of the subsequent Poor-law, and of all the miseries with which the population of England had been since afflicted. He said, there were various degrees of certainty in the human mind—one kind being called moral certainty—another, mathematical certainty—and so on. He did not know, however, that he ever read of a variable certainty; yet, it was possible, and an instance might be adduced, in which he, for example, might be told by an hon. Member, that he did not know whether a certain document for which he asked now existed. Then, that hon. Member might have a faint recollection of it. Then, this faint recollection might expand into certainty. At last, he might know all about it — that it had been given in a confidential way to a gentleman with whom he once was connected, but who was now dead; and that therefore, he was guilty of a breach of confidence in bringing it before the House. He would, however, take this statement, only
 293 "After this has been accomplished (says the secret report,) orders may be sent forth directing that after such a date all out-door relief should be given partly in kind; after another period it should be wholly in kind; after another such period it should be gradually diminished in quantity, until that mode of relief was extinguished. From the first the relief should be altered in quality, coarse brown bread being substituted for fine white; and, concurrently with these measures, as to the out-door-poor, a gradual reduction should be made in the diet of the in-door poor." "The power of the commissioners should be to reduce allowances, and not to enlarge them." "The commissioners should be empowered
 294 "The Board of Control shall have power, by an order, with such exceptions as shall be thought necessary, to disallow the continuance of relief to the indigent, the aged and the impotent, and in any other mode than in a work house." "It has been supposed that it was to the 43rd of Elizabeth, and to the superintendence which it forced the richer to exercise over the poorer, that we owed the industry, the orderly habits, and the adequation of their numbers to the demand for labour, which within the memory of man distinguished the English labourers; and that the idleness, profligacy, and improvidence which now debase the character and increase the numbers of the population of many of the south-eastern districts, are owing to the changes, partly by statute and partly by practice, to which that law has been subjected. On the other hand, it has been maintained that it is the natural tendency of public relief, however purely and wisely administered, to become a substitute, and a very bad substitute, for private charity on the part of the rich, and
 295 "If the conclusions drawn in the House of Commons' report of 1817 be correct,— if it be true, that ' unless an efficacious check he interposed, the amount of assessment will continue, as it has done, to increase, until, at a period move or less remote, according to the progress the evil has already made in different places, it shall have absorbed the profits of the property on which the rate may have been assessed, producing thereby the neglect and ruin of the land, and the waste or removal of other property, to the utter subversion of that happy order of society so long upheld in these kingdoms; '— if the progress of the evil, even during the short period that has elapsed since that report was made, may be traced in the diminished cultivation of the land; the diminution of industry, forethought, and natural affection among the labourers; the conversion of wages from a matter of contract into a matter of right, and of charity itself into a source of discord, and even of hostility; in the accelerated increase of form of profligacy; in fires, riots, and organized and almost treasonable robbery and devastation,—if such be the re presentation which the commissioners have to make to his Majesty, they cannot append to it a suggestion of mere palliative amendments. " "Poor Laws.—A check to industry, a re ward for improvident marriages, a stimulant. to population, and a blind to its effects on wages. "Have become a national institution for discountenancing the industrious and honest, and for protecting the idle, the improvident, and the vicious. "Have become a system for preventing the accumulation of capital, for destroying that which exists, and for reducing the rate-payer to pauperism. "Paupers.— Generally worthless and profligate, mostly made so by improvidence and vice. The chief receivers of donations from charitable institutions and charitable ladies, on whom they impose. "Much better off than soldiers. "Generally made so by vicious habits, and not by unavoidable causes. "Made by lying-in hospitals, soup kitchens, blanket societies, and permanent charities. "Disimprove rapidly both in skill and morals. Know accurately the allowance of food in each workhouse and each prison within their district, and try to enter where the largest and best is given. 296 "In workhouses fare luxuriously compared with the labourers of Ireland or Scotland." 297 "He had no confidence in them; that it was impossible to compose a Ministry of worse materials; that their whole lives had been devoted to oppose good Government and to uphold bad."
 Mr. Hume  considered, as a matter of form, that it was necessary to lay on the Table of the House the grounds of complaint against the individual who was to be called to the Bar of the House. He did not understand why any individual should be called to the Bar of the House without some reason being assigned.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that the pre sent estimate ought to be withdrawn, and an amended one made. He saw in it 25,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, there was a species of extravagance in voting 80,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said he understood, that by the recent treaty, this country had agreed to reduce its naval establishments on the American lakes. He wished to know whether or not it was intended to carry that agreement into effect?
 Mr. Hume  on looking at the distress which prevailed through the country, could not consent to such lavish expendi-
 310 l..
 Mr. Hume  said, though it was invidious to object to any name that appeared in this vote, yet he could not avoid adverting to one — that of the hon. Captain Walde-grave. It appeared he entered the navy in 1801, was made lieutenant in 1806 (which was before his turn), commander in 1809, and captain in 1811; so that in all he had been but nine years in the service. On what grounds could this officer be entitled?
 Mr. Hume  said, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), when at the Admiralty, had greatly reduced the amount of stores kept on hand. That plan had been acted on for a number of years; but he feared they were now about to resume the old and bad practice of buying articles to lie and rot in the yards. He wished to know, if it were possible to have a comparative statement of the amount of stores after the right hon. Baronet had made his reductions and the present time. He objected to going on increasing the stores on hand.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the charge in this vote was too great, unless it was intended to continue building ships of a large class. He wished to see iron ships of war used.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether any plan had been adopted for preventing difficulty or mistake in forwarding the yards and spars required for the outfit or repair of ships of different classes. He
 308
 Mr. Hume  understood that the sum surrendered by the King of the Belgians, when he quitted this country, was paid into the public treasury. He wished to know whether or not that was the case?
 Mr. Hume  had observed in some of the public prints, a statement that it was the intention of the Government to erect new stables at Claremont, at an expenditure of 30,000 l. l..
 Mr. Hume  was not disposed to find fault with the reductions announced by the hon. Member, but he thought they ought to have been greater. We were now returning from a state of war—for we had been at war—to a state of peace, and he, therefore, saw no reason for keeping up such large establishments. He saw by the votes that they still kept up the establishments at Pall-mall and the Tower, and they would save a great deal if they would place all the stores in the Tower, and have only one office. He objected also to the ordnance being a department of itself, and thought that it should be regulated here as in all other countries. In Russia, in France, in Belgium, the military branch of the ordnance was placed under the commander-in-chief, and formed part of the army. So it ought to be here. Our ordnance establishment should be divided: the military branch of it should be placed under the commander-in-chief, the civil branch should be a mere store department; and, if that plan were adopted, he was sure they might save one-third of the present expense. He was of opinion also, that in general the Government should contract for stores, instead of buying them. He did not object to the establishment at Enfield, because the Government, it was said, could not get good muskets, unless it made them—could not get them elsewhere; but there were no other stores, he believed, but what might be purchased cheaper than they could be made. He objected also to the immense sums expended in our colonies, which ought to provide for their own defence. Within a few years full 15,000,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  thought that the increased facilities of our communication with India would alone almost warrant the additional expenditure. We could now communicate with Bomby in less than thirty days; and certainly in the present, and what was likely to be the future state of India, it was highly important that that communication should be maintained.
 Mr. Hume  wished to call the attention of the Government to the accidents which had happened to several convict ships. He was not satisfied that great blame did not attach to the surveyors or examiners of those ships.
 Mr. Hume  understood that there was no employment for those two ships; if so, they ought to be disposed of, instead of having more money spent upon them to make them serve as transports.
 Mr. Hume  thought that it was hardly consistent for a Minister of the Crown to say, that even landed property was more secure than the securities which were sustained by the public credit. He still advocated the sale of these estates and the investment of the money. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he observed in this vote an item of 212,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said that the gallant Officer put forward as the defence of the Government in this matter, that there were a
 315 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to have a proper building. He had much rather give twenty or fifty thousand pounds to finish the Museum, than in having the money frittered away in alterations and salaries, that might be saved, and ultimately for no use. What he objected to was extravagance, and never to money being devoted to a useful purpose.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the organic remains being left in Whitehall court; they ought to be removed to the British Museum.
 Mr. Hume  contended that men-of-war were not so convenient and wholesome for the troops as the transports, because many of them, and frequently all, were put under water, that was to say under the water line. If there were abuses in the transport service that was the fault of the Government, and not of the system, which was a good one if properly carried out. It was impossible that 1,000 persons could be healthy when kept in the close hold of a line-of-battle-ship while crossing the line. He protested against the increased expense of 40,000 l.
 Mr. Ainsworth  saw that 1,500 l.
 Mr. Wallace  protested most energetically against the secresy which had been thrown around the name of this contractor.
 Mr. Ferrand  rose to explain: When he should have been a public character as long as the right hon. Baronet had [ cries of 
 Mr. Ferrand  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department; but, before doing so, he would, in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, take that opportunity of stating, that he had himself delivered at half-past 12 o'clock, the note he had addressed to the right hon. Baronet, intimating his intention of putting a question as to the erection of a treadmill in the workhouse at Halifax. The letter was, therefore, delivered three hours and a half before the right hon. Baronet came down to the House. The House was aware that a cotton-spinner in Yorkshire had been convicted of monstrous cruelty to his workpeople; and about three weeks ago he moved for some documents, for the purpose of showing that the board of guardians of Skipton had entered into an arrangement with this cotton-spinner to supply him with hands from the union workhouse. The right hon. Baronet then
 307
 Mr. Ferrand  wished, in explanation, to say that the hon. Member for Belfast had misunderstood him, if he thought that he (Mr. Ferrand) meant to make any attack upon, or misrepresentation of, the character of Mr. Clements. He had but referred to the public conduct of an officer of the Government
 303
 Mr. Ferrand:  The right hon. Baronet stated that, without placing too much confidence in what I had stated, he should resist the present amendment [" Order."] I have risen only to explain. The right hon. Gentleman misunderstood what I stated [" Order]. The board of guardians at Halifax was not convened specially for the purpose of passing the resolution condemnatory of what I stated in this House; but this resolution was brought forward by a Member of that Board without any notice being given to any of the other Members, and what I complain of is, that Mr. Clements, as an assistant Poor-law Commissioner sat at that Board, and assisted at the passing a resolution respecting words used by me as a Member of this House, and reflecting upon my character.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, before the House I went into committee of supply, he wished
 301 302 "That Mr. Clements be called to the Bar of the House to explain his conduct."
 Mr. W. Williams  contended that the navy promotions, as well as those of the army, should be published in the  Gazette, l.
 Mr. W. Williams  was aware of that; but the  Navy List
 Mr. W. Williams  asked why every pro-
 311 Gazette,
 Mr. W. Williams  objected that the vote was greater than last year by 40,000 l.. l. 309
 Mr. Williams  thought the best way to accommodate the marines was to discharge them. He thought no reason had been given for the vote of this money for barracks.
 Mr. Williams  made an observation which was nearly inaudible as to the great increase in the vote for Post-office purposes.
 Mr. F. Baring  declared himself satisfied with the explanation given, so far as the Board of Ordnance was concerned. He believed, however, that a different opinion was entertained as to the complicity of the party alluded to by the late Master-general of the Ordnance and the law officer of the department.
 Mr. F. Baring  said he wished for explanation as to the circumstance be had heard reported, of a contractor having been permitted to take a share in the Ordnance supplies, after having been under the late Government exposed for connivance in dishonest practices?
 Sir H. Douglas  said the contributions from the islands had fallen much in arrear from a series of unfavourable seasons. With respect to the Rideau Canal, of which the hon. Member for Coventry doubted the utility, the hon. Member should recollect that it was intended to secure a military connection with Upper Canada, and that for that purpose it was absolutely essential.
 Sir H. Douglas  had experienced the comforts and discomforts to be enjoyed on board transports and men-of-war, and he knew that the troops preferred the latter to the former. After being kept at sea several days, between the Land's-end and Newfoundland, he was shipwrecked with troops under his command, and one-third of the detachment, the women and children, and one-third of the crew, were lost. A good feeling had existed between the two services, but the manner in which the soldiers were treated on board transport-ships was calculated to destroy it.
 Sir James Graham  thought that the hon. Member, in making these observations upon the present vote, was misled by the introduction into it of a vote of money, for the purposes of the out-pensioners of Greenwich Hospital. These were persons who, in fact, had no claim upon the hospital now, but who were in the same position as military pensioners of the same grade. Their pensions having been once, payable through Greenwich Hospital accounted for the name of that establishment being used. He would, however, answer the observations of the hon. Member. The hon. Gentleman had reflected upon the management of the property of Greenwich Hospital. He believed that the gentleman to whom that management was entrusted had been appointed by him during the Government of Lord Grey; that his name was Grey, and that he was a person commanding, on all agricultural subjects, the greatest degree of public confidence. He had had the greatest possible experience, and was peculiarly conversant with the question to which his attention was directed; and his impression was, that there was no part of the north of England in which farming land was better managed. Any information which he had received was altogether opposed to that of the hon. Gentleman; for he was told that the estates were admirably managed, with the greatest economy and skill, and that the land was as profitable as any land in the part of the country where it was situated. With regard to the proposition of the hon. Member for the sale of the whole estate, he would observe that he had some time ago brought before the House, and carried a proposition for the sale of some detached parts of the estate, and this measure had
 313
 Sir James Graham , without wishing to interpose between the rival Members for Bolton, could assure the House that he was on the point of recommending the withdrawal of the troops from Bolton, when he received a letter signed by men of property of all parties—he did not say by the populace—requesting that the troops might be allowed to remain, and offering to provide them with accommodation. On that representation the troops were allowed to remain, and instead of temporary accommodation, a permanent barrack was to be provided for them.
 Sir J. Graham  agreed with the hon. Member that constant publicity was the real check to the power of promotion, and he supposed the hon. Member's object was to obtain that publicity. Now, it was given to a considerable extent in the  Gazette. Navy List,
 Sir J. Graham  observed that the  Gazette
 Sir J. Graham  said, that in consequence of the report to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, and in consequence of a return as to a conviction made in conformity with the motion of another hon. Member, he had suggested to the Poor-law Commissioners the propriety of instituting an inquiry on the subject, and that inquiry was not yet concluded.
 Sir J. Graham,  said, about an hour before he came down to the House, he received a notification from the hon. Member for Knaresborough of his intention to ask whether it was intended that a treadmill should be erected in the work house at Halifax. He (Sir J. Graham) had barely had time to communicate with the Poor-law Commissioners on the subject. He had, however, immediately despatched a messenger to the commissioners, and he had received from them an assurance that the hon. Member for Knares borough had been misinformed, and that no intention existed of erecting a treadmill in the workhouse. He (Sir J. Graham) was informed that the guardians intended to erect a hand mill — a mill for the grinding of corn, worked by hand, and he understood that mills of this description were not unfrequently adopted in workhouses. He conceived that the erection of a treadmill in a workhouse would be a most unjustifiable measure, and he was convinced that in this particular in stance no such intention existed.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that it must be remembered that a certain class of naval stores could not be supplied in a short time. It was necessary to have on hand a stock of these stores. He had never consented to lay on the Table a comparative statement of the kind asked for by the hon. Gentleman, as the hon. Gentle man seemed to think. He did not consider it would be expedient to do so. l..
 Sir James Graham  said, on a former occasion the hon. Member for Belfast (Mr. Ross) had declared that he knew Mr. Clements, and that he believed him to be incapable of the conduct imputed to him. He (Sir J. Graham) certainly did, on a former occasion, express his regret that such imputations should have been made. He stated, at the time, that it did appear to be a great stretch of the privilege of the House, that any hon. Member, speaking of a Gentleman in his absence, should use an expression so strong, and as he believed so unjustifiable, as that which fell from the hon. Member for Knaresborough. He knew nothing but what he had heard from the hon. Member respecting this case; but, as he understood it, the hon. Member for Sussex (Colonel Wyndham) had misunderstood what had fallen from the hon. Member for Knaresborough. Mr. Clements made no motion whatever respecting the conduct of the hon. Member for Knares-borough. In the discharge of his duty, Mr. Clements had the opportunity of at tending the board of guardians, when the topic now before the House was discussed by them; and taking their own view of the matter, they thought that the expression of the hon. Member was not justified by the demeanour or the conduct of Mr. Clements. Though technically it might be a breach of privilege to notice what took place in the House of Commons, yet those guardians having known Mr. Clements, which the hon. Gentleman had not—they having seen him in the execution of his duty, which the hon. Gentleman had not — they knowing perfectly well his conduct, which the hon. Gentleman knew only by hearsay—came to a resolution directly negativing the assertion of the hon. Gentleman, namely, that the conduct of Mr. Clements was insolent and unjustifiable. The brunt of Mr. Clements' offence, as it appeared to him was, that when the resolution was put he did not withdraw. He could not conceive that Mr. Clements offence could be carried further. Now, he
 304
 Sir James Graham  said, that the hon. Gentleman at the commencement of his speech complained of his being disqualified by indisposition to address the House; he (Sir James Graham) might, at all events, say, that he was disqualified to answer the hon. Gentleman, and that for the best of all reasons, he had not been able to hear the greater part of the observations which the hon. Gentleman had addressed to the House. Perhaps, however, the circumstance of his not hearing the hon. Gentleman might not be without its advantages, as he had no doubt he should have the opportunity of reading a very accurate re port of what the hon. Gentleman had said, and, if he were to be disposed at a future day to follow the example of the hon. Gentleman by bringing forward the question another time, he should, no doubt, be able to reply to what the hon. Gentleman had now stated. The hon. Gentleman, with great simplicity, had asked the House, "'What was confidence?" And he then proceeded to give a definition of it, which, if, in its philological sense, it did not appear to be very intelligible, in its prac-
 298
 Sir R. Peel  begged to state, in answer to the hon. Gentleman, that her Majesty's Government could have no other object excepting that of reconciling these two purposes — to do justice to individuals, and at the same time to protect the public purse. It was quite clear that it was the duty of the Government to protect the public purse. They had therefore no objection to lay on the Table of the House the information which they had received from India I with respect to the cost price of this opium
 299
 Sir R. Peel  remarked that here there was no money frittered away. 200 l.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to know if the hon Gentleman desired them to postpone the formation of the collection until they got a large grant of public money for a building. When the collection was formed, it might be a question whether they should not be removed to the British Museum.
  Mr. R. Yorke  expressed his regret that the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Dr. Nicholl) should persevere in bringing forward the bill on Friday next. He felt it to be his duty to his constituents to submit to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether, considering the importance of the bill, the interests that it involved, and the complication and difficulty of those interests, there ought not a longer time to elapse before the bill was read a second time. He trusted the right hon. Baronet would postpone the second reading for a fortnight at least.
 Mr.Gladstone  said, that the Govern-
 353
 Mr. Rutherford  was understood to say, that it was with reluctance he trespassed upon the House, and nothing but a strong sense of duty should induce him to address it. He was deeply impressed with a sense of the difficulty of the question,
 395 396 397 398 399 400 "The special commission still more deeply regret that her Majesty's Government should have characterised the claims of the Church, in regard to her spiritual jurisdiction, as pretensions founded on the assumption that the courts of law 'have no power to determine whether matters brought before them are within the scope of their authority, if, in the opinion of the Church, these matters involve any spiritual considerations; that neither sentences of courts, nor decrees of the House of Lords, nor even acts of Parliament, shall be effectual, if they interfere with the rights and privileges of the Church, of which interference, and of which spiritual considerations, the Church itself is to be the exclusive judge.' The Church has been exposed to this erroneous representation of the nature of her claims from quarters whence it is no matter of surprise that such misconstruction should have proceeded. She scarcely could have expected it at the hands of her Majesty's Government. The special commission most confidently assert that the Church has never put forward such pretensions; on the contrary, she has uniformly disclaimed any such power of absolute and exclusive determination so as to bind other courts, or fetter them in any way in the regulation of their own conduct, according to their own conscientious conviction, in regard to the matters which they may have to decide. She has always maintained, and she has rested much of her case upon the plea, that all the several supreme courts of the kingdom to which respectively belong the adjudication of matters civil, of matters criminal, of matters fiscal, and of matters ecclesiastical, do each of them possess, as of right, and must of necessity exercise, the powers of determining for themselves respectively, and for the guidance of their own conduct, whether the matters brought before them, and the proceedings to be adopted thereon, be within the scope of their peculiar jurisdiction; but on the other hand, that no one of these courts can authoritatively impose its opinions on the others; deprive them of the free, unfettered exercise of their judicial judgment, for the regulation of their conduct in matters coming before them; or coerce them in a course of procedure in such matters not in accordance with their own conscientious convictions, but in accordance with the views of that particular court which seeks authoratatively to impose its interpretation of the law upon the others.… … The Church, has indeed, protested against all sentences of courts and Acts of the Parliament of Britain,' in alteration of, or derogation to,' her rights and privileges, as settled at the Revolution, and secured by the treaty of Union. The ground of her protest is plain. When Scotland entered into a legislative union with England,—a nation whose voice in the united Parliament would be so overwhelming, and among whom a form of church government
 401 "We have an independent jurisdiction, supreme in itself, not under the control of any other jurisdiction, but subject only to the control of Parliament; and that jurisdiction extends to and embraces all things spiritual. The Court of Session of Scotland is also a supreme tribunal, independent, not to be controlled within its own province, responsible only to the State; that jurisdiction extends only to things civil. There is another tribunal the Court of Justiciary, independent, and responsible to no other authority but the State; and the jurisdiction of that court is over matters criminal. We claim for ourselves that we shall retain this separate and independent right over things spiritual, subject to no control but that of the State." 402 "The Church court alone can create the pastoral relation between the presentee and his parish; or dissolve it when it has been created." 403 "The Kingis grace, with auise of my Lord Regent, and thre estates of this present Parliament, hes declarit and grantit jurisdictioun to the said Kirk, quhilk consistis and standis in preicheing of the trew word of Jesus Christ, correctioun of manneris, and administratioun of holy sacramentis; and declaris that there is na other face of kirk, nor other face of religion, than is presentlie by the favour of God establishcheit within this realme; and that thair be no other jurisdictioun eclesiasticall acknawledgeit within this realme, other than the quhilk is and sal be within the same kirk, or that quhilk flows thairfrae concerning the premisses." "To seirche furth mair specialle, and to consider quhat other speciall points or clauses suld appertaine to the jurisdiction, privilege, and authoritie of the said kirk; and to declare their mindis thairanentis to my Lord Regent and the estates of this realm at the nixt Parliament." 404 "And specially the 1st Act of the Parliament halden at Edinburgh the 24th day of October, 1,500 four score and ane years, with the haill and particular acts therein mentioned, quhilk shall be as sufficient as gif the same were here exprest," "Against the liberty of the true Kirk jurisdiction and discipline thereof, as the samin is used and established within the realm;" and it declares, "that the Act 1584, c. 129, shall nowise be prejudicial nor derogate any thing to the privilege which God has given to the spiritual office-bearers in the Kirk, concerning heads of religion, matters of heresie, excommunication, collation, or deprivation of ministers, or ony siklike essential censures, speciallie grounded and having warrand in the word of God." "His Majesty, considering how necessary it is that all doubts and scruples which, from former acts or practices may occur to any concerning this sacred order, be cleared and
 405 "An act asserting his Majesty's supremacy over all persons, and in all causes ecclesiastical, is inconsistent with the Church government now desired, and ought to be abrogat; therefore their Majesties, with the advice and consent of the estates of Parliament, do hereby abrogat, rescind, and annull the foresaid act, in its whole heads, articles, and clauses." 406 407 408 409 Member: 410 411
 The Earl of Jermyn   appeared at the bar of the House, and said: I have the honour to inform the House that their address to her Majesty, on Tuesday last, praying, that her Majesty would be gracioualy pleased to take into her instant and serious consideration the best means of diffusing the benefits and blessings of a moral and religious education among the working classes of her people, has been presented to her Majesty, and that her Majesty was pleased to receive the same very graciously, and to give the following answer: — "I have received your loyal and dutiful address. "The attention of my Government had been previously directed to the important object of increasing the means of moral and religious education among the working classes of my people "The assurance of your cordial co-operation in measures which I consider so necessary, confirms my hope that this blessing will be secured by legislative provisions."
 The hon. Member  not finding a seconder, the motion dropped.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said that, in rising to bring under the consideration of the House the question of which he had given notice, he felt so deeply the general interest which that question excited in the country to which he belonged, and he felt so much the responsibility which he undertook in bringing it before the House, that although it was at all times necessary he should appeal to them for their indulgence, he did most earnestly upon the present occasion, not for his own sake alone, but on account of the subject itself, request their patient attention whilst he brought the principles upon which this great question turned, probably for the first time, fully and fairly before that House. He had had the honour a short time since of presenting to the House a petition from a commission of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, a petition which, though it emanated from that body which was
 355 356 "Imagined themselves suffering for conscience sake, and not only that in all causes spiritual they were the sole judges, but that they alone were competent to determine what was spiritual and what was civil." 357 status. 358 jus devolutum, "That if the superintendent refuse to receive a qualified presentee, the patron may appeal to the superintendent and ministers of that province where the benefice lies, and if they refuse, then to the General Assembly of this haill realm, he whom, the cause being decided, sail take end as they decern and declare." "To this our kirk be granted, and by this present Parliament confirmed, such privileges, jurisdictions, and authority as justly appertains to the true kirk, and that no jurisdiction ecclesiastical be acknowledged within this realm other than that which is or shall be, in this kirk, or flow from the same." "And that there be no other jurisdiction ecclesiastical acknowledged within this realm other than that which is, or shall be, within the said kirk, or that which flows therefrom concerning the premises," 359 "That the ordering and disposal of the external government of the church doth properly belong unto his Majesty, as an inherent right of the crown, by virtue of royal prerogative and supremacy." "His Majesty, considering how necessary it is that all doubts and scruples which from former acts or practices, may occur to any concerning the same be clearly removed, doeth therefore, of certain knowledge, and with the advice aforesaid, rescind and annul all Acts of Parliament by which the sole and only power and jurisdiction within the church doeth stand in the church, and in the General Assemblies of the church, and all Acts of Parliament which may be interpreted to have given any church powers, jurisdiction, or government, other than that which belongeth to dependence upon and subordination to the sovereign power of the realm." 360 361 "At the union much was to be done; the existence of the Presbyterian church was to be provided for, so that it might remain in all future time unaltered from its then state. This was to be done by means of a treaty with a country in which a different church, at least a church under a different hierarchy, was established; but this could not be left to be settled by a Parliament in which Scotland was not represented. Our ancestors at that time looked on the church of England as not a true church— in fact, they looked on it as worse than the church of Rome. He himself thought that there was so little variance between the Scotch and English churches that he would communicate with either; but our ancestors thought differently, and they decided that the Parliament of Great Britain should have no power to repeal the settlement, and he was of opinion that an attempt to do so would be a dissolution of the union, and that resistance on the part of the people of Scotland in such case could hardly be termed rebellion." 362 "That he had learnt in his earliest studies of the law of this country, and he believed it to be no subject of doubt or controversy, that the Presbyterian church was originally constituted in its early history, and finally established, unalterably, by the statutes of the Revolution, and of the union with England, in the possession of courts of General Assembly, &c, which had power and jurisdiction, both judicial and legislative, on all matters spiritual or ecclesiastical, absolutely, independently, and exclusively, which no civil courts, created by statute for other ends, could touch or controul. He believed this to have been so settled, or at least to have been fundamentally secured, and an unalterable principle in the constitution of the state. This had been accomplished by a series of statutes more stringent and more unambiguous than the laws which had created or defined any other jurisdiction." "He spoke at present only of the general principle, that there was in the constitution of these realms such an exclusive and independent jurisdiction, both judicial and legislative, on all matters ecclesiastical vested in the courts of the Presbyterian Church. Although he was well aware that the claim to this independent position had at various times been vehemently opposed as very distasteful to some, yet he must be allowed to say, that until the discussion of the present day arose he had never heard it denied as a matter of fact that such was the law." "In the face of the letter and spirit of the statutes, as he read them, there was now found to be no separate jurisdiction; he would only express his most decided and deliberate opinion against that principle, which, accord-
 363 "He could not discover a single clause which gave, or even indicated, the existence of a power in any civil tribunal to control the ecclesiastical acts of the Church: the reverse seemed to him the key-stone of the ecclesiastical structure, not as described by ambitious churchmen, but as fixed by the Legislature. If the principle contended for were well founded, the Court of Session could always enter the church courts and control their acts, and it seemed to him an inevitable conclusion that the Church possessed no independence whatever." "Whether a particular matter in dispute is so entirely spiritual as to fall exclusively within the jurisdiction of the church courts, or whether it involves so much of civil right as to bring it to a certain extent, within the jurisdiction of the civil courts, may often be a difficult question." "It is a question of law, and questions of law are decided in courts of law, and questions of jurisdiction are also decided there." 364 "It is implied in the office of the Lords of Session, that they should interpret all acts of Parliament, without which they must be incapable to determine all civil causes; which interpretations, however, have no other effect but in relation to the said causes, without prejudice to other judicatories to interpret the same as they are convinced." 365 "It would seem (said this letter) that this attack on vested rights secured by statutes, is of modern date, and that the civil authorities were not the aggressors." Second Book of Discipline, 366 367 368 "I consider that the members of the church of Scotland have by the original constitution of that church, a direct voice and control in the election of their ministers." "Why not leave the whole subject to be dealt with by that venerable body from whom had proceeded all regulations respecting the church of Scotland since the days of John Knox." "He asserted the perfect independence of the church of Scotland from all control," "It would, in my apprehension, be a most indecent proceeding in this House, when we know that there is a church Parliament in Scotland, to proceed to legislate upon that subject without previously ascertaining the sentiments of that body. I apprehend, therefore, that the only course which my right hon. Friend could possibly take would be to leave the question to the decision of the General Assembly." "The hon. Member for Aberdeenshire says, that the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland is in ecclesiastical matters sovereign, and consequently that it could not be bound by the decisions of this House, which would have no force in our church courts till sanctioned by the General Assemby." 369 propria persona 370 "My Lords, I hold in my hand a great number of petitions, from a most respectable portion of his Majesty's subjects in the northern part of this island, all referring to one subject—I mean church patronage in Scotland—which has greatly and powerfully interested the people of Scotland for many months past, and respecting the expediency of some change in which there is hardly any difference of opinion among them. The late proceedings in the General Assembly (in passing the veto law) have done more to facilitate the adoption of measures which shall set that important question at rest, upon a footing advantageous to the community, and that shall be safe and beneficial to the Establishment, and in every respect desirable, than any other course that could have been taken; for it would have been premature if the Legislature had adopted any measure without the acquiescence of that important body, as no good could have resulted from it. I am glad that the wisdom of the General Assembly has been directed to this subject, and that the result of its deliberations has been those important resolutions (viz. the veto law) which were passed at the last meeting." "I rejoice to think that not many hours since a law has gone forth from the General Assembly which may have, under the blessing of Providence, the effect of reforming the Church of Scotland, and bringing it back to the standard of its former purity, and removing from it every objection and every complaint. By a majority of forty-six, last night, Lord Moncrieff's motion was carried, by which every parish will henceforth have an opportunity of inquiring into the qualifications and the character of its clergyman. The abuse of patronage will now be effectually remedied, and all cause of complaint be removed, both within and without the Church of Scotland." …"By the glorious struggle that has been made to restore the Church to its former purity, this triumphant victory has been gained." 371 "What great events arise from little things, From now small beginnings vast events may flow." 372 "The Assembly submitted the question at issue to the judgment of the Court of Session. They were dissatisfied with the decision. They had their legal remedy. They used it. They carried the judgment by appeal to the bar of the House of Lords; and in the last resort the judgment of the Scotch court was confirmed, and the Veto Act was pronounced to be illegal. This solemn decision fixed the principle of law; which rules all the minor cases which have since arisen. The judgment in the second Auchterarder case, which found the patron and presentee entitled to redress in the form of pecuniary compensation for a civil wrong, was a legal sequence of the former judgment, and here, again, the Assembly was content to plead before the civil tribunal; and again, the Assembly refuses to submit to the compulsion of an adverse decision." "In refusing to submit to these decisions they are prepared to thimble-rig us." 373 374 375 "To expect from a people resolute as the Scotch, who have proved their resolution throughout a series of political events of no small importance, that they will abandon their ancient faith, is to forget the recollection of the past, and to substitute the vision of a disordered fancy, for the sober conclusion of the judgment." l l 376 377 378 "That this House will immediately resolve itself into a Committee, to take into consideration the petition of the Commission of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, and the matters therein contained."
 Lord Ashley  concurred in the proposed arrangements regarding education. He regretted that further limitations had not been introduced with regard to the hours of labour, and, as that, did not seem to enter into the plan of his right hon. Friend, he (Lord Ashley) should himself propose it in committee.
 Mr. B. Escott  wished to put a question to his right hon. Friend the Judge-advocate (Dr. Nicholl) of which he had given notice yesterday. He hoped, from their long acquaintance, his right hon. Friend would not believe that he would presume to offer any obstacle to any proceedings under the care of his right hon. Friend unless he (Mr. Escott) thought that the public interest imperatively required it. He wished to know whether his right hon. Friend intended to persevere in moving the second reading of the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill, on Friday next? After what had transpired in the country upon the subject of the bill, and after the general feeling excited against some of its principal enactments, he wished to know whether his right hon. Friend would not feel induced to defer the second reading till after Easter, when not only the Members of the House of Commons, but the country at large would have had an opportunity of considering its provisions more fully?
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that he should upon that ground try every way possible to get the second reading of the bill put off again.
 Mr. C. Buller  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, as he had put off the second reading of the bill to a period when all the legal Members of both sides of the House would be out of town, it were his intention to bring it on when there would be nobody present to discuss it?
 Mr. Hindley  wished that the hours of labour should be left an open question.
 Dr. Bowring  would take an early opportunity of moving for returns connected with the subject, in order to call the attention of the House to it again.
 Dr. Bowring  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade, whether any inquiry had been instituted by the Government, with reference to the propriety of continuing to levy duties upon British manufactures imported into the Isle of Man? He believed that the levying of those duties had excited much disatisfaction.
 Mr. Colquhoun  trusted that before entering into the argument he might be permitted to make one remark applicable to the able and temperate speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. The question now was not which party had been the aggressor in this contest. All should now endeavour to forget whatever of intemperance might have been exhibited on either side of the question. If, by entering into the committee now asked for, anything could be done to stay the progress of that schism which all must deplore, he thought he might answer for both sides of the House that the motion would at once be acceded to. He feared that the main point of the controversy was not exactly as the right hon. and learned Gentleman had stated it. He wished it were, and that the Assembly had had the right hon. and learned Gentleman for their adviser. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, in discussing the question of non-intrusion, had alluded to the bill of Lord Aberdeen. Would the House permit him to state what was the doctrine of the Church on the question of non-intrusion? It was, that let the qualification of a presentee be what it might, if the will of the congregation were expressed against him, it would be an absolute bar to his appointment, and the Church courts would consider it a sin and a crime to intrude such presentee. Now, unless the House were prepared to recognize that conclusion, it was plain that the committee would be of little use. He asked the House were they prepared to adopt that doctrine. He had always thought it inconsistent with the principles of the Church of Scotland, and he asked the House whether they would take the fluctuating and temporary opinions of the day, or the recorded and stereotyped opinion of the constitution of the country. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had said that if the congregation objected it was a bar to the presentee. What said the Book of Disci-
 412 413 414
 Dr. Nicholl  said, he did not know whether he were bound to answer a question which conveyed so many inuendos— and unfair inuendos—as the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He
 352
 Dr. Nicholl  said, that before he replied to the question of his hon. and learned Friend he begged leave to state that the bill to which his hon. and learned Friend had referred had been introduced on public grounds only. There was, therefore, no reason why his hon. and learned Friend should, out of any personal regard or affection to himself abstain from any opposition to the bill, which, as a public measure, he should feel it his public duty to offer. As to the question of his hon. and learned Friend, he begged to say, it was his fixed determination to bring the bill on for a second reading on Friday evening next.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  said, that the vast importance of the question before the House must be his apology for venturing to address it at this late hour. He sympathised deeply in the accumulated trials of the Church of Scotland. Bishop Leighton, he believed it was, had said, "that he would scarcely have planted Christianity itself at the cost of the sad sufferings of the Presbyterian Church," and these trials were not yet over. But there was one trial characteristic of the present crisis, which was among the sharpest to endure —he meant that of her past friends and supporters being now, in this dark hour of need, her fiercest opponents. If there was one man in this House more than another whom he (Mr. Stewart) could have expected to appear as her zealons and able advocate, it was the hon. Member who had just sat down (Mr. Colquhoun); but who, from being one of her warmest friends had now taken up the position of her greatest foes. Comparing the sentiments published by that hon. Gentleman at the last election, with those he had avowed to-night, he could scarcely believe in the identity of the candidate for Kilmarnock in 1841 and the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-lyme in 1843. What said the hon. Gentleman in his published address?—
 "I have felt it my duty (said he) to maintain the great institutions of my country, those especially which secure to us our religious rights, the best foundation of civil liberty. Of those institutions one of primary importance is the established Church of Scotland, which long required extension, and has been recently exposed to danger. I have felt it right to demand her extension, and maintain her integrity. I will support her at this crisis in her just and reasonable claims to the independent jurisdiction and the rights possessed by her people in the appointment of her ministers, which I find
 415 "It had been widely whispered at Kilmarnock, that he would not stand by the Established Church. He would say that to both the Established Churches of the United Kingdom he was warmly attached. In regard to that of Scotland, he would be a party to no compromise of principle, and would oppose any measure calculated to interfere with her independence in spiritual matters. From whatever quarter she might be assailed he would be her defender. He had written a pamphlet, pointing out the injurious consequences that would result from the passing of such a measure as that proposed by Lord Aberdeen. Of the Duke of Argyll's bill he highly approved, and should give it, or any measure of the same kind, his warmest support." "In vain you ask me for an opinion on your letter on the Scottish Church question: I vow to God I cannot understand it, with its veto-ism, its Presbyteries, its elders, its General Assemblies, its Commissions, its lay patronage, and I cannot pronounce upon them. I have no memory for them, nor does any one with whom I hold intercourse know or care a single straw about the matter—but for its being so managed or mismanaged as to have caused a loss to the Conservatives of half a score of seats at the last election—and much do I grieve to hear your own is one. The whole question addles my brain." 416 417 "It appertaineth to the people and to every congregation to elect its own minister, and no minister shall be intruded contrary to their will." "As to the manner of electing ministers, a person not known was never received, nor could a bishop even ordain those of whom the people did not approve." Gibbon says, "The freedom of election existed long after the establishment of Christianity, and the people of Rome enjoyed in the Church the privilege which they had lost in the Republic of choosing the magistrates whom they were bound to deny. It was every where admitted as a fundamental maxim of religious policy, that no bishop could be imposed on an orthodox Church without the consent of its members." And Adam Smith says, "In the ancient constitution of the Christian Church, the bishop of each diocese was elected by the joint votes of the clergy, and of the people of the episcopal city." 418 419 "The restoration of lay patronage in Queen Anne's time was designed to separate the ministers of the Kirk from the people, and to render them more dependent on the nobility and gentry, amongst whom, much more than the common people, the sentiments of Jacobitism predominated;" "After that an act was brought in for restoring patronage. It was set up by Presbyterians from the first, as a principle, that parishes had a right to choose their ministers, so that they had always looked on patronage as an invasion. It was urged that by act of Union, Presbytery, with all its rights and privileges, was ' unalterably ' secured. Yet the bill passed through both Houses. By these steps the Presbyterians were alarmed when they saw in the success of every motion that was made, a design to weaken, and undermine their Establishment." 420 Regium Donum l l 421 422
 Mr Mackinnon  seeing the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, begged leave to put a question to him, of which he gave notice yesterday. He begged to observe that the question put him in some difficulty, as chairman of a bench of magistrates. While acting in his district, It might happen, as it had often happened— supposing a man should be brought before him. He merely wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether it was his intention or not to bring in a bill to alter and amend the law now existing in reference to capital offences committed by parties only occasionally subject to delusions of the mind. He wished to know whether a more stringent law would be bronght forward, so as to prevent individuals from taking advantage of the delusions of former times in pleading to crimes which they had committed.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he was sure the House would feel that it was of the utmost consequence, that caution and deliberation should be used in dealing with the subject to which his hon. Friend had alluded. It was impossible that the attention of Government, as well as that of the public at large, should not have been directed to this matter. But he was sure the House would feel, that it would be highly inexpedient upon his part to pledge the Government to the introduction of any measure for altering the present state of the law upon a subject of such paramount importance—a subject
 354
 Sir James Graham  said, after what had taken place the other evening, he thought it would be best that, he should introduce the bill of which he had given notice, for regulating the employment of children and young persons in factories, and for the better education of children in factory districts. The measure he proposed rested mainly on the report of the committee which sat in 1840 for the investigation of this subject. The report stated the defects and omissions of the existing law; and his object was to supply the defects and omissions in the law which the report detailed. The age of children employed in factories was, at present, limited from nine to thirteen; and the hours of labour were limited to eight per day. He proposed to reduce the number of hours from eight to six and a-half; and he also proposed that the six and a-half hours' labour must take place either in the forenoon or in the afternoon, and not partly in the one and partly in the other. He was disposed to believe that the lowest age at which children might begin to work could be safely reduced from nine to eight, so that a child from eight to thirteen might work from six hours and a-half to eight hours, either in the forenoon or in the afternoon wholly, and not in both. The committee had recommended that the maximum age for females should be altered from eighteen to twenty-one. Young persons were not now permitted to work more than twelve hours a-day. He proposed to alter the age at which females should be permitted to labour: in the case of males coming under the denomination of "young persons," he did not propose to make any alteration. There were several minute provisions with respect to meal times. The regulations respecting dinner contemplated at the least a space of one hour. With respect to Saturday, he proposed that the hours of work should be limited to nine, so that young persons would he worked twelve hours on other days, and nine hours on Saturdays. From
 423 d 424
 Sir J. Graham:  Sir, I am quite sure that the House, as well as the right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, will acquit me of being actuated, in the slightest degree, by anything approaching to a controversial spirit. I will endeavour to imitate the calm and dispassionate manner in which the right hon. Gentleman has discussed this great question; and I can assure the right hon. Gentleman, and the House, that I participate with him in feeling all the importance of this question in its intimate connection with the happiness and peace of Scotland at this juncture. I have not the same advantage of an intimate acquaintance — a long and hereditary acquaintance with the people of that country— enjoyed by the right hon. Gentleman, but J do know the character of that people; I have studied their history, and I admire their virtues; and I entirely concur in the language of a work by the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyne, which has been quoted by the hon. Gentleman who preceded me, and which I think does justice to the character of that gallant and independent nation. I am perfectly aware that there are no questions which excite their feelings in the same degree as those which are connected with their national Church. It is the honour and boast of the nation that in coming to the settlement by which
 379 "That the claim common to all her Ma-jetty's subjects, to have an application for redress of grievances, and an answer accorded to it, appears to your memorialists to be, at all events, not less strong where the body complaining is of such a character and constitutional standing as the Church of Scotland, and where her claims are vested on the funda-
 380 381 382 383 "That the General Assembly, in the said claim further represented and solemnly declared their conviction,' that the government and discipline of Christ's Church cannot be carried on, according to his laws and the constitution of his Church, subject to the exercise by any secular tribunal of such power as has been assumed by the said Court of Session;' and in their address above-mentioned, solemnly assured her Majesty, that they could not, in accordance with the dictates of their conscience, and their views of the word of God, submit to the coercion attempted over them in the exercise of their spiritual functions by the said court, and must refuse to do so, even at the hazard of the loss of the temporal advantages they at present enjoy." "By all which acts, the said Court of Session, apparently not adverting to the oath taken by the Sovereign from whom they hold their commissions, have exercised powers not conferred upon them by the Constitution, but by it excluded from the province of any secular tribunal, have invaded the jurisdiction of the courts of the Church, have subverted its government, have illegally attempted to coerce Church courts in the exercise of their purely spiritual functions, have usurped the ' power of the keys,' have wrongfully acclaimed, as the subjects of their civil jurisdiction, to be regulated by their decrees, ordination of laymen to the office of the holy ministry, admission to the cure of souls, church censures', the preaching of the word, and the administration of the
 384 "And they protest, that all and whatsoever acts of the Parliament of Great Britain, passed without the consent of this Church and nation, in alteration of, or derogation to the aforesaid government, discipline, right, and privileges of this Church (which were not allowed to be treated of by the commissioners for settling the terms of the union between the two kingdoms, but were secured by antecedent stipulation, provided to be inserted, and inserted in the treaty of union, as an unalterable and fundamental condition thereof, and so reserved from the cognizance and power of the federal Legislature created by the said treaty)—as also all and whatsoever sentences of courts in contravention of the same government, discipline, right, and privileges, are and shall be, in themselves, void and null, and of no legal force or effect." 385 386 387 388 "The reasoning is this: The general assembly can legislate in matters Ecclesiastical. Any thing which has been the subject of a resolution in the General Assembly is or becomes a matter Ecclesiastical. Therefore the General Assembly can legislate in that matter. They do not, indeed, say that their resolutions can convert a civil matter into an Ecclesiastical one; but they do say, that a fundamental law of the Church may be established by resolutions of the Assembly, and that this being done, the Assembly thence and therefore, acquires, or possesses, a power to make any law necessary for carrying into effect such a principle." 389 "From the Reformation to the date of the Veto Act in 1834, I can discover no trace of authority for the doctrine that the dissent of the congregation or of any part without reason assigned, of which the Presbytery could judge, was sufficient for the rejection of a presentee, whatever might be his qualifications; and I consider this Veto Act an unwarrantable innovation. It is true that the congregation is always to be consulted, and nobody is to be intruded upon them, provided their objection is founded upon good reasons." 390 391 392 393 394
 Sir James Graham  said, that both he and his right hon. Friend the Judge-advocate were anxious to consult the wishes and convenience of the House to the utmost extent. But this measure had been under the notice of Parliament for many successive Sessions; and he must say that he thought the time had arrived when the House was competent to decide upon the principle of the measure. When the principle should have been adopted there would be the greatest desire on the part of his right hon. Friend to give full time for the consideration of the details in committee. Under all the circumstances, he saw no reason for postponing the measure beyond Friday.
 Sir V. Blake  rose, pursuant to notice to move for leave to bring in a bill to abolish the plea of insanity in cases of murder, or attempts to murder, except where it can be proved that the person accused was publicly known and reputed to be a maniac, and not afflicted by partial insanity only; and to ask the House to suspend the standing orders, in order to accelerate the progress of the bill. He wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman opposite if her Majesty's Government intended to propose anything of that sort. It was of course quite right to be cautious: but it should at the same time be remembered that delays were dangerous.
 Mr. Gladstone  replied, that within the last week there had been imported into the Thames, 1,750 quarters of foreign wheat, upon 150 quarters of which the duty of 20 s
 Mr. Hutt  said: In moving the Second Reading of the Naturalization Bill, I trust I may ask for a few moments the indulgence of the House. There are some misconceptions abroad respecting the nature of this bill, which, I think, a short statement, if I may be favoured with the attention of the House while 1 make it, must have a tendency to remove. The advantage of inducing foreigners to establish themselves in this country, though it is a subject new to this House, is by no means new to the Government of this country. Some legislation in its favour may be observed at a very early period of history. There are traces of it in Magna Charta, and the
 428 Constitutional History "The experience of William's partiality to Bentinck and Keppel, led to a strong measure of precaution against the probable influence of foreigners under the new dynasty; the exclusion of all persons not born within the dominions of the British Crown from every office of civil and military trust, and from both Houses of Parliament. No other country, as far as I can recollect, has adopted so sweeping a disqualification; and it must, I think, be admitted, that it goes a greater length than liberal policy can warrant." 429 s 430 Penitus toto divisosorbe Britannos, l l 431 432 433 434 435
 Sir James Graham  said, that, perceiving the auxious impatience of the House, which, considering the important subject that was coming on for discussion was most natural, he should trespass upon their indulgence for a very short time. He begged to assure the hon. Gentleman, that it was not from any want of respect for the elaborate observations which he had addressed to the House, if he failed to follow him upon all the topics he had touched upon. It was enough for him shortly to state to the House the reasons why, upon full consideration, it appeared to him and his colleagues that it was not expedient to give their assent to the further progress of this bill. He really must be excused for stating, that he was clearly of opinion the hon. Gentleman had failed to demonstrate any practical inconvenience arising from the law as it now stood. Every facility was given to aliens coming to this country to obtain from the Crown, by letters of denization, the enjoyment of most important rights. By that means, an alien was enabled to hold real and piersonal property, and to enjoy every rght, as regarded property, possessed by British subjects, except that of being able to take property by inheritance. If an alien sought to enlarge those rights, and obtain the right of inheritance, it then became necessary for him to get the consent of Parliament. Now, with regard to the difficulty of obtaining an ac of naturalization, he was really not quite certain as to the accuracy of that which he was about to state, but he believed that the process unde this bill would be as tsrdy, or at least as expensive as the process of obtaining from Parliament a bill of naturalization. He was of opinion that the course proposed by the hon. Gentleman would neither be more speedy nor less expensive than the course of proceeding by bill. In the first place, he must decidedly object to referring the question to
 436 437 "—toto divisos orbe Britannos." "Tu regere imperio populos, Romane, memento; Hæ tibi erunt artes."
 Dr. Stock  said, he had seconded the motion from a knowledge of the beneficial effects which had been produced by a similar system in Ireland. He doubted the accuracy of the right hon. Baronet's opinion as to the difficulty of obtaining naturalization by means of the authority of the Privy Council being as great or as expensive as by an Act of Parliament. But these were matters which could be better considered in committee.
 Mr. Aglionby  feared that the effect of the bill might be to sow discomfort in many families, and to unsettle the titles to many estates. He hoped, therefore, that it would not be pressed to a division. He entertained many objections to the bill; but after the opposition which had been offered by the right hon. Baronet, he would not state them to the House. Under the present system an Act of Parliament might be obtained, giving to aliens many of the advantages proposed by this bill, and giving them full protection. He greatly objected to any measure which would interfere with the contingent and vested rights of British-born subjects; and this bill would certainly have that effect, unless very stringent clauses were introduced to guard against it. He would not consent to an alteration of the law which would give to foreigners more extended rights than they had at present, but he would go as far as possible with the hon. Member
 438
 Captain Pechell  did not agree with his hon. Friend in his praise of the right hon. Baronet, who he thought had treated the hon. Member for Gateshead uncourteously, by stopping the bill in the present stage. Neither could he agree with that right hon. Gentleman, that the bill of the Member for Gateshead was for petty purposes. One of its objects was to get rid of the excessive amount of fees paid to the Attorney-general, the Solicitor-general, and other officers, which were a monstrous grievance. The lowest amount of these fees was 98 l
 Mr. Labouchere  would support the second reading by his vote, if the hon. Mover carried the question to a division. His experience taught him, that there were many particulars in which the law pressed upon foreigners with unnecessary severity. As Government was determined to do nothing, he would vote for the second reading of the bill; not that he approved of all its details, but because he thought that it might in the Committee be reduced to a shape which would be unobjectionable. There was a broad distinction between admitting foreigners to seats in Parliament, and in the Privy Council, and allowing them the rights of property belonging to British subjects, and of which they were now deprived. Seats in the two Houses and in the Privy Council, he admitted, ought to be reserved to British subjects; but still much might be done to lessen the expense of naturalization, so that not only rich foreigners, but comparatively poor shopkeepers, should enjoy the advantage.
 Mr. Smythe  supported the motion. The right hon. Baronet had that night shifted his ground of opposition to it. On a former occasion the right hon. Baronet had opposed the measure, because he thought it would transfer a power from the Parliament to the Crown, which Parliament ought to retain. He now gave up that ground of opposition, and opposed the Bill because, he said, he wished to carry out the spirit of the Act of Settlement. The right hon. Baronet had appealed to prejudices which he was glad were almost if not quite obsolete. It was a proof of the enlightened and advancing spirit of the age that indifference to the subject had taken the place of that previous hostility which had been manifested against foreigners in bygone times.  Hostis apud majores invocabatur, quem nunc peregrinum vocamus.
 Mr. Ewart  said: Amidst the interruptions which the dinner-hour always produced in the House, he was only induced to rise for two reasons. First, he wished to confirm the statement of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Smythe) who had preceded him, on the good results which might be expected from this measure; and that from a sufficiently-faithful authority—their own records — the "Parliamentary History" itself, which he would read, It was there Stated, on the introduction of the bill in the year 1709, that
 440 "Other countries had vastly increased in riches by the French refugees settling there, but principally Great Britain, where, by the industry of the said refugees, several new manufactures had been set up, and others improved, to the great advancement of trade, and the total turning the balance thereof to the prejudice of France and benefit of this nation." "Had greatly contributed towards the support of the Revolution settlement, by their contribution to the public funds, having subscribed nearly 500,000 l l
 Mr. Hutt  was about to reply, when
 The Speaker  stopped the hon. Member. An amendment was, he believed, to be moved.
 Mr. Hutt  in reply, observed that he had never conversed with any man who did not think the present state of the law was unjust to foreigners, and unworthy of the country, and of the liberality of the age. He read a passage from a petition, in answer to his (Sir J. Graham's) assertion that nobody had complained of the present state of the law. He thought that the right hon. Baronet had made a sneering speech, full of misstatements, though unintentional.
 Mr. Campbell  stated that he should be sorry that anything that fell from him could be calculated to disturb the harmony of the debate,' but on referring to the speech of the hon. Member for Bridport, he could not but say that it was unworthy of notice. As to what the hon. Member said of the church which he praised so much in its origin, it was to be regretted that a child of so much promise in the beginning, should have grown up to be an arrogant and contemptible hypocrite as the hon. Member said. He must refer to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme.—During his short sitting in Parliament he had observed that nothing was so valuable to members, but, nothing so difficult to maintain, as consistency. The hon. Member last night made it a charge against the church that they should claim to have the will of the congregation set up as a barrier against a presentee, and in his pamphlet, entitled  "Hints on the Church Question" 479 "And what did this monstrous anomaly, (alluding to an epithet applied to his conduct), and what did this monstrous anomaly do? Why, he supported Sir G. Sinclair's motion for the abolition of patronage, even at a time when the people of Scotland did not wish it." 480 Second Book of Discipline "An essential principle of the church that no minister shall be intruded on any congregation either by prince or any other person contrary to the will of the people." 481
 Mr. Campbell  spoke as follows in explanation:—Sir, as I understand that a part of my speech has been misunderstood by the hon. Member for Bridport, I am happy to explain what I did say. The hon. Member for Bridport, in his speech this evening, said, "that the Church of Scotland was a child and creature of the State, he admired the beauty of some of its doctrines, but he preferred the arrogance of the Church of Rome to the hypocrisy of the Kirk, and then finished his speech by calling it contemptible;" and I said, all I have to say in regard to the hon. Member's remarks upon the Church of Scotland is, that I am Sure the House will agree with me in lamenting that a child of such "beauty" and promise should have grown up into so "arrogant" and "contemptible" a "creature."
 Mr. Fox Maule,  in rising to reply, said that, considering the position in which he stood, and the responsibility that had devolved upon him of replying to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and to those right hon. and hon. Members who had spoken against the motion, he had offered to the House, he trusted he should be allowed a few moments, and that he should not be interrupted by hon. Members who were in the habit of crying "Divide, divide.'' In allusion to what had been said by the right hon. Baronet, that he trusted he (Mr. Fox Maule), would absolve hon. Members from voting for the committee upon narrow grounds, he had simply to say, in reply, that, in bringing this motion before the House, he sought not to bind any man to a particular vote. He did not presume to dictate to Members of that House the course they ought to adopt. He brought the question before the House from a deep sense of its great importance. He had brought forward the question in order that the claims of the church of Scotland, which had been misunderstood, or rather, perhaps, little understood, in that House, should be fully and fairly discussed. It appeared clearly upon the case what the claims of that body were. He left every Member of the House to judge for himself, and all he wished was to ascertain the decided opinion of the House, as to the nature and principles of the claims themselves. He had heard with deep regret the determination expressed by her Majesty's Government with respect to those claims—he said their determination, because he knew that theirs was the power to lead that House to any conclusion they might think was for the benefit of the country. He regretted to think that no dawn of hope was to rise upon the minds of the Church and of the people, that those claims which they considered essential to their co-existence with the State as an establishment would be recognised by the House of Commons. The first claim they had made had been generally alluded to in terms of respect, but expressions had some-
 507 "Let not the statute law be frittered away by a court which has only co-ordinate jurisdiction with ourselves." 508 509 510
 Captain Rous  having stated on a former evening, in reply to a charge of jobbing in the Admiralty, that he also knew of a job where an officer, having changed his politics, received promotion, notwithstanding the fact that he had been threatened with a court-martial on a foreign station, begged now to state that he had since received a letter from a very distinguished officer who served upon the same station, informing him that his statement was incorrect, and that the officer alluded to had not been threatened with a court-martial. Thus corrected upon the point, and sensible of the injustice of allowing a misstatement of this nature to remain unexplained, he thought it right to make this public declaration of his error, and to apologise for having fallen into it.
 Mr. James S. Wortley  said that, knowing the intense interest that was taken in this subject in Scotland, he felt called upon to state the grounds upon which he refused to assent to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. If entertaining, as he
 455 456 dicta 457 458 459 460 461
 Mr. C. Bruce  expressed his concurrence in the statement that this was no party question, the interests involved were of a higher and more enduring character; and he believed, that the object of the hon. Mover, and those who supported him, was to restore peace and harmony to the Church of Scotland. If he thought that the measure would have the effect anticipated, he would not allow the mere circumstance of his sitting on the Ministerial side of the House, to interfere with the attainment of an object so beneficial. It was because he was convinced, that to carry the motion, would rather aggravate than allay religious dissension, that he opposed it. The present state of affairs was making the Church of Scotland a great evil, instead of its being a blessing, as it had continued for 150 years. He complained that one important party had been left out of view in the discussion— he meant such of the clergy as held moderate and constitutional opinions, as to the extent of the spiritual rights of the Church of Scotland. Reference had been made to a speech he had made in 1834; he could not answer for the correctness of the report of that speech, but the question in its present shape had not then arisen. The claims of the Church now were not only for its spiritual jurisdiction, but that they alone should be the interpreters of what was within their jurisdiction. Dr. Candlish stated on the 4th of February last, that no mere non-intrusion or antipatronage measure would put the Church
 442 443 444 445 446
 Lord John Russell  said: I agree with my right hon. Friend who introduced the motion, and with every other Gentleman who has spoken on it, as to the great importance and great difficulties of the subject, and I should have hardly thought it necessary to declare the pain and sorrow I feel at knowing that a great number of intelligent members of the Church of Scotland, thinking their rights to be infringed, come to this House, and ask it to agree to the terms they propose, declaring, if these terms be not acceded to, that they must cease to be members of the Church, thereby occasioning a most serious calamity. I should hardly have thought it necessary to express on this occasion my concern and
 467 468 469 470 471 472 473 "Let the Church of Scotland place itself right before the country. Let the ministers of that church, if they wish for an alteration in the law, consider the matter sought to be changed, and the manner to seek for it; but let them not attempt, by their own force, to carry into effect that which is against the law;
 474 jus devolutum 475 476 477 478
 Mr. A. B. Cochrane  said, that however much hon. Members on either side of this question might differ as to one point, there was still one other point on which they all appeared to agree, viz.—the necessity for legislation upon the subject. They all too, appeared to agree as to its great importance; and it was, indeed, a sad picture to witness that body, which was the child of the law, set itself up against the law—to see that body, which was the creature of the State, place itself in hostility to it. If the question, as submitted to the House, depended on the memorial which had been transmitted to all its Members, he thought no Gentleman could have any difficulty in forming an opinion upon it. Every man must have been struck, on the one hand, with the usurpation of that party calling itself the Church-party in Scotland, and, on the other hand, with the lucid perspicuity of the reply to that memorial by the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State. He trusted it was not presumptuous on his (Mr. Cochrane's) part to state, that it was his opinion that that paper was as comprehensive a document as could possibly have been issued upon the subject, and that it completely met the question. There was, however, one point to which he was anxious to refer. The first consideration was as to what was the present state of patronage in Scotland; and no party, he would maintain, could possibly require a more popular form of church government than that which now prevailed in that country. It consisted of the kirk-sessions, and of presbyteries, composed of elders of the Church, the election of which elders the congregations had the option of opposing. And here it was a point worthy of notice, that it was necessary at the same time that the grounds of any objection to their election should be stated. Now a Presbytery was composed of a number of different parishes; and every patron in Scotland must, in presenting a person to any parish, present one who had undergone examination, and the Presbytery must say whether, having undergone such examination, he was qualified or not. Now, that Presbytery being composed of elders of the Church, he would maintain that it was impossible to have a more popular form of imposing a minister over a parish. Now, what were the claims of the Church? This system to which he
 463 "That if qualified ministers, presented, either by her Majesty or the lay patrons, were not admitted, the lay patrons should have a right to claim the whole fruits of the benefice." 464 "All the different kinds of liberty are connected. The philosophers and Protestants tend towards republicanism as well as the Jansenists, the Protestants strike at the root, while the others lop the branches, and their efforts, without being connected, will one day lay the tree low." "At an unfortunate moment Presbyterianism established in Scotland a kind of republic, the coldness and savageness of which is even more intolerable than that of the climate." "The Dutch put on the yoke of dissent when they threw off that of Spain and Geneva became republican when she became Calvinist." "The people were Protestants, and of that kind which is the most adverse to all implicit submission of mind and opinion. The dissenting interests have sprung up in direct opposition to all the ordinary powers of the world. All Protestantism, even the most cold and formal, is a kind of dissent; but this is the dissidence of dissent, the Protestantism of the Protestant religion." 465 "Altogether it is to be avoided that any man be violently intruded upon the congregation, but violent intrusion we call not when the Council of the Church, in the fear of God, offereth unto them a sufficient man to instruct them." 466
 Sir A. L. Hay  considered, that on every principle of sound policy, as well as of justice, the House should agree to the motion of his right hon. Friend. The inquiry must, at all events, suggest some means of averting the threatened calamities. If it were only the secession of the great body of the clergy of Scotland that were to be apprehended—much as he respected them—deeply as he appreciated the benefits they had conferred on the people of Scotland—-were their secession to be the only consequence of the step which they were now meditating, he should, perhaps, think more lightly of this question, and advocate it with less zeal than now animated him; but when 1 they knew that the great portion of the population of that country, whether right or wrong, were determined to follow their ministers, and to secede from the Church of their fathers, the matter then appeared to him to assume a character which put forth imperative claims for full examination. He did not say that the ministers of the Church were right; he only said that the country was not in a good condition. There had been considerable agitation, and with some effect It was said that the people cared less for the subject than formerly, but this was not the case. He lived in the midst of the agitation, and he could say that it was not decreasing, but that the people were becoming more determined to secede than ever, if their claims were refused. He agreed, cordially and entirely, in the views of non-intrusion which were announced by the right hon. Member for Devonport (Sir G. Grey.) He was not now a non-intrusionist for the first time. He had been a non-intrusionist, with some qualifications, since 1827. He then thought, and he still thought, that the people should have a voice in the election of their pastor; and that the system of Calls should be made efficient. The Government said it would not take any part in this dispute, because it could not see its way because the parties did not agree; but whenever such disputes did arise, how was it possible for the people to agree? He called on the Government and the House to legislate; he called on them also to make haste, or, by their negligence, more mischief would
 462
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied that the money had not yet been distributed, as there existed some difficulty with respect to the share to be assigned to the different parties.
 Mr. Hume  inquired of the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the money some time since voted by the House as prize money to the
 426
  Mr. Blackstone  pursuant to notice, asked the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, whether any wheat had been imported from Wolgast at 20 s New Farmer's Journal "A letter from Mr. Thomas Gee, President of the Boston Agricultural Association, dated the 20th ultimo, and published in a provincial contemporary, states the important fact, that some cargoes of the finest quality of wheat, weighing sixty-five pounds per bushel, have lately been imported into Plymouth for consumption, having cost 31s. per quarter free on board at Rostock, with 3 s s s s s
 Mr. Ferrand  seeing the Home Secretary in his place begged again to refer to the conduct of the board of guardians of the Halifax Union. On a previous evening he had stated to the House that the guardians of the union, with the consent of Mr. Clements, the assistant Poor-law Commissioner, had entered into preliminary arrangements for the erection of a tread-wheel in the workhouse. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) upon that occasion declared that what he (Mr. Ferrand) stated was not true, and that the machinery which the guardians proposed to erect was not a tread-wheel but a hand-mill. Since then he had received from an unquestionable source the following statement:—
 "That the board of guardians of the Halifax Union, on the 1st of March, with the consent and sanction of Mr. Clements, the assistant Poor-law Commissioner, resolved that arrangements should be made for the erection of a tread-wheel, exactly the same in principle as the one at the Wakefield, or any other house of correction. The power is to be applied to a rag machine, and the estimate for the wheel is to be to hold from four to forty men."
 Sir George Grey  would state to the House as briefly as possible, the grounds on which he proposed to support the motion of his right hon. Friend. That motion invited the House to the consideration of the petition addressed to it by the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, stating the difficulties under which the church laboured; and he was sure that he spoke, not only his own sentiments, but those of the House, notwithstanding some few observations which had fallen from the hon. Member who last addressed it, when he said that, whether with regard to the character of the petitioners, or to the important interests to which their petition related, it deserved and would receive
 447 448 449 450 451 452 453 454
 Sir James Graham  said, that previous to the reply which he gave to the hon. Gentleman upon this subject a few years ago, he had received from the Poor-law Commissioners an assurance that they had reason to believe that the statement that the board of guardians of the Halifax Union had entered upon arrangements for the erection of a tread-wheel, was inaccurate. He had seen one of the Poor-law Commissioners again that morning, and had again inquired of him whether he had any reason to doubt that the statement which he (Sir James Graham) had made in the House, upon the authority of the Commissioners, was incorrect. The Commissioner again assured him that he believed the statement was quite correct, that the machinery in question was
 427
 Sir R. Peel:  The general opinions I entertain on this most important subject have been so fully explained by my right hon. Friend and my learned Friend, and, I must say, by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London also, that it will not be necessary for me to trespass at any length on the patience of the House. At the same time, I could not permit a discussion of so much importance to close, and give a silent vote on it. In the course of the debate, warnings, in the most friendly spirit I admit, have been given her Majesty's Government not to underrate the real character of the crisis which is approaching, or to credit reports that the danger apprehended is of little importance. I rise to address the House under no such impression, I believe the Crisis to be most important. I believe the danger to the church and to the true interests of
 492 493 F. Maule 494 495 496 "One thing is certain, that patronage has existed consistently with the constitution of the Presbytery in the Church of Scotland for the long period of which we have been speaking, and consistently with the constitution of the Church in any other respect." "The views of the Church," (says Lord Meadowbank) "were fully developed in the answer of the General Assembly to a message from the Queen in the year 1565, read by the Lord Justice-Clerk; but to which, as the foundation of the statute of 1567, I beg again to direct the attention of your Lordships:— ' Our mind is not that her Majesty, or any other patron, should be deprived of their just patronages, but we mean, when so ever her Majesty, or any other patron, do present any person into a benefice, that the person presented should be tried and examined by the judgment of learned men of the Church, such as are the present superintendants, and as the presentation unto the benefice appertains unto the patrons, so the collation by law and reason belongs unto the Church; and the Church should not be defrauded of the collation no more than the patrons of their presentation; for otherwise, if it be lawful to the patrons to present whom they pleased, without trial or examination, what can abide in the Church of God but mere ignorance?'" 497 498 499 500 501 502 "They claim independent and exclusive jurisdiction within their own sphere." 503 504 505 506
 The Solicitor-general  said, that he entirely concurred in the view which had been taken of this important question by the noble Lord the Member for the city of London. His object in rising was to make some observations with reference to the remarks of several hon. Members, and especially, with respect to the statements which had been made last night by the right hon. Member for Perth. He could not consider the resolution proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, without some reference to the circumstances and the transactions which had led to the present unfortunate and unhappy state of things in Scotland. It was impossible to regard abstractedly the principle which had been put forward by the right hon. Gentleman, and by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Leith. He could not consider this question, how far it was politic to pass a declaratory or legislative law as to the jurisdiction of the spiritual and civil courts of Scotland, without referring to the circumstances which had rendered necessary an appeal for the interference of the House. What, then, were these circumstances? He asked the indulgence of the House while he gave a brief outline of the transactions which had led to the present state of things; and he hoped that, in any observations he might make, it would not for a moment be supposed that he intended to utter one disrespectful word with regard either to the church or to the ministers of Scotland. He entirely agreed with the observations of an hon. Friend of his on the opposite side as to the learning, the piety, and the usefulness of the ministers of the Church of Scotland; and he had most sincerely hoped, that the ruling party in the Assembly of that church would have listened to and acted upon the advice or the opinion of so sincere a friend to their interests as his hon. Friend the Member for Leith. If they had followed the advice of that hon. Gentleman, the present state of things in the Church of Scotland would never have existed,—they would not have witnessed this contest between the church and the courts of civil jurisdiction,—they would not have heard of those claims and pretensions which had been put forth on the part of the ruling party in the church, and which in his humble judgment the House could not sanction, without abandoning the supremacy of the law and of the Acts of the Imperial Parliament over all individuals and bodies, ecclesiastical and civil. It was his thorough conviction, that
 483 "Provided that the said presbytery be bound and astricted to receive and admit whatsoever qualified minister may be presented by his Majesty or by his patron." 484 "We will look into the motives which led to the adoption of this act, and then we will say whether or not we will obey it?" "This act was passed by a Tory Government—it was passed by Lord Bolingbroke— and therefore we will not obey it?" "Is Scotland to be governed by the Act of Union, or by the statute of Queen Anne?" 485 486 487 "Protest that all and whatsoever acts of the Parliament of Great Britain made without the consent of this church and nation, in alteration of, or derogation to, the aforesaid government, discipline, rights, and privileges of this Church, and also all and whatsoever sentences of courts in contravention of the same government, discipline, rights and privileges are and shall be in themselves void and null, and of no legal force or effect." 488 "The object of the claim of right (it was said) was to seek protection from the encroachments of the civil courts on the spiritual jurisdiction of the Church, particularly with reference to the power of defending her congregations from the intrusion of presentees in opposition to their will; and this, while it was perfectly consistent with the continued co-existence of patronage, was represented as absolutely essential, to enable the Church to carry on the government of Christ's House in accordance with what we believed to be his laws; and it was clearly indicated, that a refusal to give the protection and redress desired, would compel the Church to an abandonment of the benefits and privileges of the establishment." "We have an exclusive jurisdiction in matters spiritual;"— "We are the exclusive judges of what are ecclesiastical matters; we do not deny that there is a concurrent jurisdiction in the courts of law; we allow them the right of determining what are civil matters; but we claim exclusive authority in all ecclesiastical matters." 489 490 491
 Viscount Palmerston  thanked the gallant Officer for the frank and handsome manner in which he admitted his mistake. It could not fail to be highly gratifying to the officer to whom the previous remarks had applied.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. He was perfectly aware of the difficulty that always existed in the way of attracting the attention of the House to any subject concerning our dominion in India. All that passed in that distant region seemed to be beyond the sphere of the House—seldom became the subject of its discussions, and hardly ever rivetted its attention. If upon a previous occasion he had trespassed upon the indulgence of the House, and had secured its kind attention when adverting to the subject which he was now about to bring more fully under its notice, he hoped he
 582 583 584 "You will recollect (said the Governor-general), that what you have to make is a successful march; that that march must not be delayed by any hazardous operations against Ghuznee or Cabul." "If you should be enabled by a  coup-de-main 585 "You will bring away from the tomb of Mahmoud of Ghuznee, his club which hangs over it; and you will bring away the gates of his tomb, which are the gates of the Temple of Somnauth. These will be the just trophies of your successful march." 586 "If Lord Ellenborough was not a religious man, so neither was Sultan Mahmoud." 587 588 589 590 591 592 "ߞߞlaughs too, no doubt; "The only difference is, I dare laugh out." 593 594 595 596 Member:  597 "Cum nullo hoste congressus est quem non vicerat, nullam gentem adiit quam non calcaverat," 598 "That this House, having regard to the high and important functions of the Governor-general of India, the mixed character of the native population, and the recent measures of the Court of Directors for discontinuing any seeming sanction to idolatry in India, is of opinion, that the conduct of Lord Ellenborough, in issuing the general orders of the 16th November, 1842, and in addressing the letter of the same date to all the chiefs, princes, and people of India, respecting the restoration of the gates of a temple to Somnauth, is unwise, indecorous, and reprehensible."
 Lord Stanley  said, his motive for rising was, that he believed he saw a man who deserved well of his country, and who had performed great services by having converted a vast disaster into a mighty triumph, about to have a trifling charge made against him, founded upon an isolated act, and a single document; a man who merited the approbation was brought before them to receive the censure of the House, which had indeed recently bestowed its approbation on him for his great deeds; a man who had been subjected to every animadversion which all possible combinations and varieties of opinion collected together could bring to bear against him in order to make a political and partisan attack upon him, believing that he saw a combination of those who usually differ, to assail who was not there to defend himself; he could neither reconcile it to his private feelings of justice towards an absent man, nor to his political duty as a Minister of the Crown, to abstain from standing up in his place, and expressing the confident hope which he entertained that the House would not inflict upon itself the stigma of censuring the conduct of one to whom the country owed so much. There was no man who was more deeply sensible than he was of the firm religious belief and entire religious sincerity of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; and if upon this occasion he said there were mustered a variety of opinions all verging into one point, and calling into question a single act of the Governor-general, he did not mean to cast upon the right hon. Gentleman the slightest imputation as to the sincerity and firm conviction of his mind that for the liberation of his own con-
 669 670 671 672 673 674 675 676
 Lord J. Russell:  That I should refrain altogether from taking any part in this debate, after the line which the right hon. Baronet has taken, is, I think, impossible; Had there been no other question remaining than the proclamation, respecting which a motion has been brought before the House by my right hon. Friend, I should have considered it entirely superfluous to add one word to the demonstration made by those who have spoken
 694 695 696 697 698 "Nothing has occurred to induce me to change my first opinion, that the measure commanded by "considerations of political and military prudence, is to bring back the armies now in Afghanistan at the earliest period at which their retirement can be effected, consistently with the health and efficiency of the troops, into positions wherein they may have easy and certain communication with India, and to this extent the instructions you have received remained unaltered. But the improved position of your army, with sufficient means of carriage for as large a force as it is necessary to move in Affghanistan, induces me now to leave to your option the line by which you shall withdraw your troops from that country. I must desire, however, that, in forming your decision upon this important question, you will attend to the following considerations. In the directions of Quetta and Sukkur there is no enemy to oppose you; at each place, occupied by detachments, you will find provisions; and, probably, as you descend the passes, you will have increased means of carriage. The operation is one admitting of no doubt as to its success." "If you determine upon moving upon Ghuznee, Cabul, and Jellalabad, you will re-
 699 700 "For myself, identified with you in interest and feeling, I regard with all your own enthusiasm the high achievements of that heroic army, reflecting alike immortal honour upon my nation and upon my adopted country. To preserve and improve the happy union of our two countries, necessary as it is to the welfare of both, is the constant object of my thoughts." 701 "May that good Providence, which has hitherto so manifestly protected me, still extend to roe its favour, that I may so use the power now entrusted to my hands, so as to advance your prosperity and secure your happiness, by placing the union of our two countries upon foundations which may render it eternal." 702
 Mr. B. Escott  said, he agreed with the hon. Gentlemen who had stated that this was a question on which they ought to throw aside all party prejudices, and ought to look to the interests of the Indian empire and to the interests of this country. The Governor-general was the servant of the East India Company, and the representative of the Majesty of this great nation in its East Indian dominions, and he did not understand how it could be for the interest of India and of this country to endeavour to cry down Lord Ellen-borough in this manner. Why had not right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite, if they really entertained the opinion of that noble Lord which they expressed, come forward with a direct vote of censure, and a motion for his recall? Who was it that right hon. and hon. Gentlemen were thus calumniating? The representative of our Queen, the representative of the East India Company, the representative of the Majesty of this great country in our Indian dominions. Against this distinguished functionary, though they dared not say that he had done anything for which he ought to be recalled, yet they dared to throw out imputations against his religious character, imputations founded on mere verbal criticisms on his proclamation; in the hope of casting a stigma on a man who had been their political opponent at home, and whom they now regarded as a rival who had supremely triumphed over them in India, by the glories which he had acquired there. What was the history of this motion? The
 645 646 647 648 649 "Is it fair to turn round on this Governor-general and obliterate the memory of all else that he has done, because he has penned one indiscreet proclamation 
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, and moved that the right hon. Gentleman be allowed to speak sitting.
 Mr. E. Tennent  said, that without venturing to address himself to the calumnies which had been brought to bear upon the character of the Governor-general of India, and without attempting to avert the threatened displeasure of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he would endeavour to address the few observations he felt it his duty to make on this occasion to the specific points presented by the Speech of the right hon. Gentleman. So far as he could collect from the Speech and the motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. Vernon Smith), the charges which had been brought against the Governor-general of India, in reference to this proclamation, and the restoration of these trophies to India, were these. It has been imputed to him that he had invested with undue importance the restoration to India of the gates of Somnauth, the very existence of which was unknown to the great mass of the population; that he had, in bringing them back within the Indus, ministered rather to the religious prejudices than to the national sympathies of the people; that he had announced his intentions and objects in a proclamation, the style and diction of which were inconsistent with the sobriety of the English character, and unbecoming the dignity of his own exalted position; and the allusions in which were
 599 "It is worthy of remark, that the ruler of the Punjaub, in a negotiation which he lately carried on with the ex-King of Cabul, Soojah-ool-Moolk stipulated, as one of the conditions of his restoration to the throne of his ancestors, that he should deliver up the sandal-wood
 600 "The portals of Sandal, which have been carried away to Ghuznee from Juggernaut, should be delivered up to the Moharajah." 601 "It is impossible," he says, "to reconcile the religion and usages of the Sikhs with the belief of the Hindoos; it proceeds at once to subvert the foundation of the whole system; wherever it prevails the institutions of Bramah must fall. The admission of proselytes—the abolitions of the distinctions of caste—the eating of all kinds of flesh, except cows—the forms of religious worship—and the indiscriminate devotion of Sikhs to arms—are ordinances altogether irreconcileable with the Hindoo mythology, and have rendered the religion of the Sikhs as obnoxious to the Brahmins and higher tribes of the Hindoos as it is popular with the lower orders of that numerous class of mankind."— Sir J. Malcolm's Sikhs. 602 "If," he says, "you should be enabled by a  coup-de-main "And you will bring away the gates of his tomb, which were the gates of the temple of Somnauth." "These," said Lord Ellenborough, "these will be the just trophies of your successful marches." 603 604 605 AMEER DOST MAHOMED KHAN TO LORD AUCKLAND. Cabul, May (After compliments)—"As I have been long attached to the British Government by the ties of friendship and affection, the late intelligence of your Lordship's arrival, enlightening with your presence the seat of government, and diffusing over Hindostan the brightness of your countenance, has afforded me extreme gratification. And the field of my hopes (which had before been chilled by the cold blast of the times) has by the happy tidings of your Lordship's arrival become the envy of the garden of Paradise. I hope your Lordship will regard me and my country as your own. Whatever directions your Lordship may be pleased to issue for the government of this country, I will act accordingly." 606 "At a happy moment, when the balmy zephyrs of spring were blowing from the garden of friendship, and wafting to my senses the grateful perfume of its flowers, your Excellency's epistle, every letter of which is a new blown rose on the branch of regard, and every word a blooming fruit on the tree of esteem, was delivered to me by Mr. Burnes and Mr. John Leckie, who were appointed to convey to me some horses of superior quality, of singular beauty, of Alpine form, and elephantine stature, admirable even in their own country, which has been sent as a present to me by his Majesty the King of Great Britain, together with a large and elegant carriage. These presents, owing to the care of the above gentlemen, have arrived by way of the river Scinde, in perfect safety, and have been delivered to me, together with your Excellency's letter, which breathes the spirit of friendship, by that nightingale of the garden of eloquence, that bird of the winged words of sweet discourse, Mr. Burnes, and the receipt of them has caused a thousand emotions of pleasure and delight to arise in my breast. By the favour of Sri Akal Poorukh Jeeg, there are in my stables valuable and high-bred horses from the different districts of Hindoostan from Turkistan, and Persia; but none of them will bear comparison with those presented to me by the king through your excellency: for these animals, in beauty, stature, and disposition, surpass the horses of every city and every country in the world. On beholding their shoes, the new moon turned pale with envy, and nearly disappeared from the sky. Such horses the eye of the sun has never before beheld in his course through the universe. Unable to bestow upon them in writing the praises that they merit, I am compelled to throw the reins on the neck of the steed of description and relinquish the pursuit." 607 608 609 "He could not conceive a fouler dishonour, an act that would dye the cheek of every Englishman with a deeper blush, or strike a more fatal blow at our empire in India," 610 611 612
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he had given his hearty concurrence to the vote of thanks which was recently passed by that House to the Governor-general of India; but he considered that, in the issue of the proclamation to which such frequent reference had been made, Lord Ellenborough had been guilty, to use the mildest term, of an indiscretion. It might have been an inconsiderate act; and though he hoped that the noble Lord might long live to benefit the country by the great talents which he possessed, yet he hoped that he would take a lesson from what had passed to-night, and exhibit more caution in future. He was at a loss to determine whether this motion were brought forward as a mere party question, or from religious considerations. Certainly the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the subject, had not on any former occasion manifested his zeal on behalf of Christianity and against idolatry, though many opportunities had been afforded him of so doing. It was said that this could not be considered as a religious question, but he differed entirely from hon. Members who made that assertion. What were the facts of the case? The gates of an idol temple, which had been carried off by a hostile nation, were restored by the Governor-general of India, and the restoration was accompanied by circumstances of unusual parade and display. The attention of the people of India and of England had been directed to the fact; and several petitions had been presented to the House on the subject from various religious bodies. It had been said over and over again, that the progress of Christianity in India had been retarded by the conduct of the Christians themselves in that quarter of the
 663
 Mr. Hume  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down, had given a history of the motion, with a view of leading the House to believe that he understood the question; but it would have been much better if the hon. Member had answered the arguments which had been brought forward. The hon. Member had not
 650 651 652 l  "The cream of princes, high in dignity, Privy Councillor to (her) Gracious Majesty the Sovereign of England, whose court resembles the planet Saturn—most noble of the Emirs, Edward Lord Ellenborough, Governor-general and Bahadur, Supreme Administrator of the well-guarded provinces belonging to the English company connected with the country of India. The year of Jesus, 1842." 653 Asiatic Journal "You will yourselves, with all honour, transmit the gates of Sandalwood through your respective territories to the restored temple of Somnauth." 654 "9,  Bland ford-place, Feb. "Dear Sir—It appears to me that the restoration of the gates of the temple of Somnauth to India could have no reference to the support, or degradation of any religious creed. The appropriation of those gates to a Hindoo temple, or to advance, in any way, the Hindoo faith, is rendered utterly impracticable, by the tenets of the Hindoo religion; which clearly prescribes and declares, that whatever material that may have been placed over, or may have been in contact with a dead (human) body, whether a tomb, or even a garment, is thereby polluted and contaminated, so as to be unfit for any purpose whatever, except that of being destroyed. I am, therefore, of opinion that the Governor-general (doubtlessly, with many intelligent advisers, in his suite) never con-
 655 "In conclusion, I cannot but encourage the hope that the kind determination expressed by Lord Ellenborough, to cultivate the goodwill of the princes and chiefs of India, in his late proclamation, will also extend to his inquiry into the grievances of my unfortunate master (of high and ancient lineage), whose only crime or culpability has been fearlessly sustaining the truth, by avowing his innocence of alleged guilt, emanating from a foul conspiracy of his own subjects, and for which he has been unheard and unheeded, consigned to exile from the government of his people, and the throne of his ancestors. "I have the honour to be, with great esteem, and respect, dear Sir, your obedient servant, "RUNGOO BAPOJEE, "Vakeel to his highness the dethroned Raja of Sattara. "To Joseph Hume, Esq. M.P." 656 657 658
 Mr. Mangles  said, that he would not be deterred by the insinuation of the hon. Member as to the motives of those who supported this motion, and who, he stated, took part in it for the purposes of party and faction. He should not be deterred by such imputations from doing what he considered to be his duty, both to India and to this country, and he would add, on this point, that with his good-will India never should be made the tool in that House for party discussion. The Indian empire was not a mere question of Conservatism, of Whig or of Radical politics, but it was the trophy of the British empire, and what he complained of was—one of the grave faults of the noble Lord at the head of the government of India—that in the proclamation of the 1st of October, that noble Lord made the mat-
 635 636 Times gravamen 637 ipse dixit, Sketches of the Relations subsisting between the British Government in India and the different Native States. "The Indian Mahometan, whether in our ranks, in cities, or in villages under our government, or the villages of foreign states, will everywhere be found nearly the same. He belongs to a great family, having a united religion and united interests. He will everywhere be ready to support with his services or with his purse, his national cause against all others. Religion and government with Mahometans are never separated, and it is never forgotten, that the supremacy of the Mahometans in India has been finally overthrown by us. The eyes of the whole Mahometan population of India will be turned towards him who shall successfully proclaim a crusade against infidel government and infidel people. He in the most remote village of the Deccan, will turn towards such a prospect with the same anxious attention as he of Calcutta or Delhi." 638 "The Hindoos, of whom the great majority of our army consists, have no national cause of their own to support, nor is there any period in their history to which they can revert as furnishing them with anything national." "In 1832, the trooper who shot his commanding officer, Major Wallace, was tried, convicted, and hanged in chains on a hill near the regimental lines, and about six miles from the city of Hyderabad. Presently it was given out that those who visited the body were cured of disease, with other stories, which the fakirs and priests know so well how to propagate for their own benefit. Thousands of Mahometans poured from the city of Hyderabad and all parts of the country to the spot to touch the body, and to catch the drippings that fell from it in its progress towards decay. It was the corpse of a Mahometan, who had suffered by the hands of infidels in a cause which, it is to be feared, too many of that sect would consider meritorious. A guard was placed over the body to prevent the crowd from approaching, but persons lingered near the spot, principally during the night, and at last it was thought right to remove the body." "The mutineers were charged by a squadron of cavalry, their own comrades, which had been drawn up near the spot, and most of them, with their ringleader, were killed." "And at last, during the Mohurrum, lights
 639 640 "I must not omit the expression of my regret for the fate of Hyder Ali, the native commandant of the Jezailchees, a most gallant and enterprising soldier, who was killed while attempting to seize one of the enemy's standards." "The whole of the troops under my command behaved most gallantly; and I received the greatest assistance from Lieutenants Mayne and Plowden, and Subadar Seikh Myhhan, of the 2nd troop 5th Light Cavalry." 641 "It is to me most painful that, notwithstanding, all my hopes about the state of the men, I am sorry to say there have been several desertions of late, and there is a feeling among many of the Hindoos of four regiments of Brigadier Wild's force, which is most lamentable." "I have the honour to state, for the information of Major-general Pollock, C. B., commanding, that all those Hindoo sepoys of the 53rd regiment Native Infantry, who had a few days ago, allowed themselves, in an unguarded moment, to evince feelings so immediately opposed to those of soldiers, have now unanimously expressed their contrition, and have given the most satisfactory assurances, through their respective commanding officers, that I shall never again have occasion to be displeased with them, and that they will strive in future to deserve the favourable opinion of the major-general." 642 643  "That the remaining part of the march of the Bengal detachment, after it passed the Nerbudda, was unobstructed, may, in some degree be ascribed to the line taken by the Patans of Bhopal, whose conduct on this memorable occasion, established a claim upon the British Government, that merited all the notice which it has since received. In an official abstract, made from the correspondence of General Goddard, it is stated that every effort was made to render the Nabob of Bhopal hostile to the English, but in vain; he remained true to his first promise of friendship, though many of his fields and villages were, in consequence of his fidelity to his engagement, plundered by the Mahrattas." "They are, however, deserving both of that solicitude and favour which they have hitherto received, for Bhopal is at this moment, and will continue while well managed, an essential point of strength in Central India." 644
 Mr. Macaulay : If, Sir, the practice of the hon. Member had agreed with his precepts—if he had confined his observations in this House to the particular subject under discussion—I should have strictly followed his example, conceiving that there is abundance, indeed, to be said both as to the matter and the manner of this proclamation; nor, Sir, will I suffer myself, by the peroration he has made, to be led away to any great distance, or for any long time, from the important question which is now before us. Yet I cannot regret that the hon. Gentleman, who has this night exhibited, as he has done on former occasions, proofs of no small stock of ability and acuteness, should have complained that this charge was brought against his right hon. Friend, the Governor-general in his absence. Is this House, Sir, interdicted from considering the conduct of a Governor-general who is absent? Why, Sir, how are we to attempt to criticise his conduct, if we may not do it in his absence. For my own part, I may-say for myself, and I may truly say for my right hon. Friend near me, that we both would have wished with our whole souls that we could have discussed this question in the presence of the Governor-general. And permit me to say, that if there be any public man—if there be any Governor-general, who has no right to complain of any remarks in his absence, it is that Governor-general, the first Governor-general who has borne that high station, who has employed his power to place a stigma upon the character, and to bring a charge against his predecessor in his absence; that Governor-general who has been the first to forget all official decency—who was the first to forget that rule of unity in the state which should have prevented him from placing a stigma upon the conduct of that Governor-general, of whom I will say this—and this only, that whatever may have been his faults in other respects, he was faultless with respect to Lord Ellen-borough. I am sure, Sir, that no hon. Gentleman will rise on the other side of the House and will deny my assertion that no Governor-general ever exerted himself
 613 614 615 "How can you expect our goddess to protect us, if you thus spare the life of the traveller you have taken? " 616 617 618 Cheers. Renewed cheers. 619 620 621 622 623 624 "Not she in British Courts that takes her stand, The dawdling balance dangling in her hand, Adjusting punishments to Fraud and Vice, With scrupulous quirks, and disquisition nice; But firm, erect, with keen reverted glance, The avenging Angel of regenerate France— Who visits ancient sins on modern times, And punishes the Pope for Caesar's crimes." 625 626 627 628
 Sir George Grey;  After the admirable speech of his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macau-lay), which had been left wholly unanswered, after the exposure of this proclamation, and the severe condemnation contained in that speech of the conduct of Lord Ellenborough in issuing such a proclamation, and after the total abandonment of that unfortunate document which had been exhibited in the speech of every hon. Gentleman who had spoken from the Ministerial side of the House, he should have felt it unnecessary to present himself at all to the attention of the House, if he had not been entrusted with various petitions from persons actuated by no party or political feeling, by persons professing various political opinions, and who entirely concurred in the sentiments just expressed with the sincerity which marked the whole Parliamentary conduct of his hon. Friend (Mr. Plumptre) who had just sat down, and who were unable, by any process of reason, to discover why this question could be considered as one destitute of religious interest and importance, and one that could not in any way affect the religious feeling of the people of this country. These petitioners had long endeavoured to impart the blessings of Christianity to their fellow-subjects in that important part of the British empire. They concurred in the principles laid down by the right hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh as to the course which it was the duty of the Government to take in respect to the diffusion of Christianity in India. They asked for no direct aid from the Govern-
 664 665 666 667 668
 Captain Pechell  begged to call the attention of the Home Secretary to a communication
 581
 Sir James Graham  observed, that as the gallant officer had not been so obliging as to give him notice of his intention to ask a question upon this subject, he was not prepared to give him a direct answer. He was not in any way informed of the particular facts to which the gallant officer referred. He might state, however, that he had given general instructions to the Poor-law commissioners to make inquiries into the conduct of the Gilbert unions. He knew nothing of the particular case to which the gallant officer alluded; but since his attention had been called to it, he would cause an inquiry to be made, with the view of ascertaining what the facts really were.
 Mr. Hogg  begged to assure the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that melancholy experience induced him to coincide in the sentiment with which he had concluded his speech. He entirely agreed with him in opinion, that a Governor-general ought to have the salutary advice and controlling influence of his counsel before he undertook any large enterprize, or determined upon any important measure. He remembered too well that the calamitous proclamation which had been issued by Lord Auckland from Simla, was issued by his uncontrolled authority, without the presence of a single councillor. The result of that proclamation, was the invasion of Affghanistan, which under his guidance, occasioned a loss of life, a waste of treasure, and a mass of disasters that had never before marked our career in India. He would venture to tell the right hon. Gentleman, that they would not carry with them the votes of the House, or the feeling of the country in this reiterated attempt to hunt down an absent and distinguished public servant, and that they had in vain exhausted their pious zeal and virtuous indignation. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, in his attack upon the proclamation issued by Lord Ellenborough from Simla, had used words and expressions more offensive than those which had been so severely commented upon some evenings ago, when used by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, and the right hon. Gentleman had stated (and had appeared personally to him Mr. Hogg to corroborate the statement) that Lord Ellenborough did not know of the safety of the prisoners, on the 1st October; and that the proclamation, in that respect was false—[Mr.  Macaulay 629 630 631 632 633 634
 Sir Robert Peel:  The terms of the re solution and the character of this debate must have convinced the House that the insinuations indulged in by some hon. Gentlemen the other night, when I opposed the motion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, that there was some com promise between the Government and Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, are entirely unfounded. I should consider I had acted most basely and dis-honourably if I had been a party to any such compromise. I gave my vote against that motion, because, after having had the opportunity for four years of challenging the conduct of the late Government when it was a Government, I thought it would be contrary to all precedent that I should bring the influence of a new Government to bear upon those who no longer held office. I thought also that disclosures might take place which would not be for the public benefit, and on that ground too I opposed the motion. But I will not claim from any one Mem-
 683 "Dispose of this motion, and then we will come forward and challenge inquiry into the general conduct and policy of Lord Ellen-borough." 684 685 "These accounts exhibit a most unfavourable state of affairs at Cabul, but they do not lead us to alter the views and intentions which were stated in our yesterday's despatch." "That it would be vain to speculate upon the issue of the contest at Cabul; but in the extreme event of the military possession of that city, and the surrounding territory, having been entirely lost, it is not our intention to direct new and extensive operations for the re-establishment of our supremacy throughout Affghanistan." "We can scarcely contemplate in such case, that there will be any circumstances or political objects of sufficient weight to induce us to desire to retain possession of the remainder of that country, and, unless such shall be obvious as arising from the course of events, we should wish our military and political officers so to shape their proceedings as will best promote the end of retiring with the least possible discredit. Of course it will be desirable that this retirement shall be deliberate, and the result of arrangements that will leave some political influence in the country." 686 "Quos opimus Fallere et effugere est triumphus." "Since we have heard of the misfortunes in the Khyber Pass, and have become convinced that with the difficulties at present opposed to us, and in the actual state of our preparations, we could not expect, at least in this year, to maintain a position in the Jellalabad districts for any effective purpose, we have made our directions in regard to withdrawal from Jellalabad clear and positive, and we shall rejoice to learn that Major-general Pollock will have anticipated these more express orders by confining his efforts to the same object." 687 "When the time comes, I shall be prepared—not, indeed, to say that the terms or words of the ordinances passed by the Earl of Durham are altogether to be justified'—but I shall be prepared to say, that looking at the conduct of the Earl of Durham as a whole—that, believing him to be animated by the deepest zeal for the welfare of his country—believing this, I shall be ready to take part with him—I shall be ready to bear my share of any responsibility which is to be incurred in these difficult circumstances. "I do think that no invective—that no sophistry—that no accumulation of circumstances—that no bitterness of sarcasm, accompanied by professions of friendship, and thereby attempting to disguise, but not, in fact, disguising, the petty and personal feelings which are at the bottom of all these attacks, will in the least degree affect the noble Lord against whom they have been levelled, but that he will have deserved well of his country, well of his Sovereign, and well of posterity." * 688 "It must, no doubt, appear to you and Sale most extraordinary that, with the force I have here, I do not at once move on; God knows it has been my anxious wish to do so, but I have been helpless. I came on a-head to Peshawur, to arrange for an advance, but was saluted with a report of 1,900 sick, and a bad feeling among the sepoys. I visited the hospitals, and endeavoured to encourage by talking to them; but they had no heart. I hoped that when the time came they would go. On the 1st instant the feeling on the part of the sepoys broke out, and I had the mortification of knowing that the Hindoos, of four out of five native corps, refused to advance. I immediately took measures to sift the evil, and gradually a reaction has taken place, in the belief that I will wait for reinforcements; this has caused me the utmost anxiety on your account—your situation is never out of my thoughts; but having told you what I have, you and Sale will see at once that necessity has kept me here. I have sent five expresses to hurry on the first division of the next brigade; it consists of the third dragoons, a troop of horse artillery, first light cavalry, the 33rd native infantry, and two companies of 6th native infantry, all fresh and
 689 690 691 692 "This cannot be considered as being done in deference to our religious ceremonies, but will be felt by the natives of British India as a great compliment, removing from their minds the impression of their ancient disgrace by the Affghan power." 693
 Mr. Williams Wynn  attempted with great difficulty to gain his feet. The Members who sat next him assisted him in the effort; but he was unable to accomplish it. There was a general cry of "Sit, sit," in the midst of which,
 Mr. Williams Wynn,  speaking from his seat, expressed his sense of the kindness of the House in allowing him to address it in that manner. He had now sat a great many years in Parliament, and if, during that time, be had learnt one lesson more than another it was not to look at the exact words and terms of a motion, but to the object of it, and to the result likely to flow from it. The object of the present
 659 660 661 662
 Viscount Palmerston:  Sir, The noble Lord, in the course of his speech found it necessary to express something borderingon apprehension at the muster on this side of the House. But if any feelings of apprehension or doubt have crossed his mind, I suspect they have arisen not so much from what the noble Lord has seen on this side, as from what he has reason to think is going on on the benches behind him. It is not so much, I suspect, our
 "Fervida dicta"  "DH, et Jupiter hostis." 677 678 679 680 reductio ad ab surdum. 681 682
 Mr. R. Yorke  must denounce both the bill and the conduct of the Government in reference to it. It was impossible that it could be properly discussed during the absence of the members of the legal profession. He insisted, therefore, upon the necessity of postponing it until after Easter. The Gentlemen now upon the Ministerial Bench used to charge the late Government with preventing a House for the purpose of getting rid of unpleasant questions. He now charged the present Government with the same practice. How else was it possible to account for the circumstance of there being no House on the previous evening?
 Mr. Escott , being strongly opposed to the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill could only rejoice at any circumstance that had the effect of postponing its progress. So far, therefore from finding any fault with the Government for not making a House on the previous evening, he thought that that circumstance should be regarded by
all the opponents of the measure as a matter of congratulation. He begged to join with the hon. and learned Members for Chester and Liskeard in urging upon the Government the propriety of deferring the second reading of this very objection able bill until after Easter.
 Mr. C. Buller  did not wish to lay too much stress upon the importance of the attendance of Members of the legal profession in that House; but there was a class of bills in respect to which it was most desirable that the House should have the assistance of the Members of the bar; and he thought, that neither the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill, nor such a bill as that for the registration of voters, should be discussed in their absence upon circuit. By discussing such measures in their absence, the House deprived itself of a large store of very valuable experience. He could not but observe, that the Government had frequently fallen into this practice, and had brought in bills connected with legal matters at the time that the circuits were going on. They allowed, last Session, three important bills to lie for months upon the Table, and then
 709
 Mr. C Buller  begged to thank the right hon. Baronet for the very handsome manner in which he had acceded to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Chester.
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to know whether the words "opprobrious, unfounded, and false," which the right hon. Baronet had employed were intended to apply to anything that had fallen from him.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had also remained in town on Monday, at great inconvenience, to oppose both the bills—the Registration of Voters Bill, as well as the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill. He had, much as he hated railroads, left town at railroad speed, in order to attend the assizes in Lincolnshire, and had returned again by railroad, at the risk of his neck, to attend in his place yesterday to oppose both these bills. The Members of the present Government used constantly to be finding fault with the late Government for postponing measures; he should, therefore, like to know why the Members of the present Government had not been in their places yesterday? The House and the country had a right to know where they were, in order to ascertain whether they had not been passing their time in places where it was improper for such Gentlemen to be. They received the country's money, and the country had a right to ascertain whether that money was spent in an improper manner. He believed, that with regard to the Doctors Commons job, it had been the intention to take the country entirely by surprise. Let the House have a fair, honourable, and undisguised declaration from the right hon. Baronet, as to when he would bring this measure forward. He had found, that all parties in the city of Lincoln were as strongly opposed as he was to this greedy, dirty. Doctors' Commons job.
 Dr, Nicholl  was not disposed to bandy hard words; neither would he be betrayed
 710
 Mr. Ferrand  considering the objection able nature of the bill must protest against so early a day as Friday next being appointed for the second reading, as no time would be afforded to the country to petition against it.
 Sir James Graham  assured the gallant Member that he had no intention of applying those words to anything that had fallen from him. They applied solely to what he had seen and read of the motives of his right hon. and learned Friend (Dr. Nicholl) in introducing the bill.
 Sir James Graham , in fixing the Dropped Order for the committee on the Registration of Voters Bill for Monday next, felt that some explanation was due to the hon. and learned Member for Chester, with regard to the not making a House on the previous evening, as that hon. and learned Member had, as he (Sir J. Graham) understood, at considerable inconvenience to himself, come up from the circuit, for the purpose of taking part in the discussion on the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill, which had been fixed for the preceding evening. It would be recollected, that the House had been engaged to a late hour on Tuesday and Wednesday, in the discussion of the Scotch Church question, and on Thursday, also, the House had sat very late; under these circumstances, he believed, that there was a general feeling among hon. Members on all sides, that there should be no House on Friday night. ["No, no !"] He could not fix the second reading of the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill for Monday, because the hon. Member for Oxford University, who was opposed to the measure, and was very desirous of taking a part in that discussion, would not be able to be in his place on that Day. He would, therefore, fix the Registration of Voters Bill as the first general order for Monday.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the objection of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), if carried to the extent to which he seemed anxious to urge it, would have the effect of excluding all discussions upon questions in which changes of the law were involved, except upon occasions when it suited the convenience of the Members of the legal profession to be present. In that case, the period for the discussion of such measures would be extremely limited, seeing how much of the six or seven
 711
 Mr. Jervis  hoped the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill would be postponed until after the circuits were over, as it was desirable Members of the legal profession should be present during the discussion. He had remained in town until Monday last, at great inconvenience; he had then been informed by the right hon. and learned Member for Cardiff (Mr. Nicholl) that the second reading of the bill was positively fixed for Friday, and he had accordingly posted up from Montgomeryshire, in order to be present. There were, last evening, upwards of thirty Members in the library, and many more were in the lobby, he was, therefore, much surprised to find that there was no House, and that at four o'clock there was only one Member of the Government present. Had the right hon. Baronet been in the House yesterday afternoon, and had he explained to those Gentlemen who usually supported the Government the nature of the agreement entered into with him (Mr. Jervis), he had no doubt but that they would at once have
 708
 Mr. Jervis  having left Montgomery for the special purpose of being present at the discussion of the bill on the previous evening, when the Government, if they pleased, might easily have made a House, and having to return to the assizes, it was impossible that he could be present on Friday next. He should move, therefore, that the second reading of the bill be deferred till Friday the 7th of April.
 Lord Stanley  said, that in answer to the question put to him by the hon. Gentleman, he begged to say that on Thursday last the Government for the first time received information, and that not in a detailed manner, of the dreadful visitation which had come upon the West India colonies. It appeared that the event took place on the 8th of February, and the last accounts which had been received from the West Indies were dated the 10th and 13th of the same month; it must be, therefore quite clear to the House, that the accounts as yet received must be very imperfect as to the extent of the distress and loss occasioned by this calamity. At the same time, he had no reason to believe that the account which his hon. Friend (Mr. Mackinnon) had received of the event was at all exaggerated. By the interpo-
 746
 Lord Stanley  was understood to say,
 748
 Lord Stanley ; According to the last accounts he understood, that a great difference of opinion existed upon the subject.
 The Attorney-general  said, as the hon. Member opposite had expressed surprise that a witness for the prosecution should have been accepted by one of the defendants in the place of the right hon. Gentleman, it might be satisfactory for him to state to the House the circumstances under which the arrangement was made. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) was subpoenaed by one of the defendants to attend at Lancaster, and he accordingly proceeded there, although his absence from town was attended with great incon-
 753 754
 Mr. R. Yorke  did not find that there had been any positive contradiction given to what the hon. Member for Knaresbo rough had asserted. It seemed there had been a meeting—a packed meeting as he called it, from not having been regularly summoned, of the board of guardians, at which was passed the resolution in question, which the hon. Member said had been brought ready cut and dried from his own house by one of the  ex officio 761
 Mr. John S. Worthy  objected to the motion. If the House wished to obtain information respecting the machinery used for the purposes of labour in the Halifax Union, the proper mode would be to move for any communications on the subject between the Poor-law Commissioners and the board of guardians of Halifax. If such a motion were made, he was sure the right hon. Baronet, at the head of the Home Department, would not object to it.
 Mr. Ferrand's  only object was to let the House and the country know what had taken place. He found, that there was a treadwheel ordered for the Halifax Union, which was to hold from four to forty persons. He did not know what had since occurred, and he would take no steps to bring Mr. Clements to the Bar of the House, if the papers were produced.
 Lord J. Russell  did not understand the question in the way in which it appeared to be understsod by the hon. Member for Finsbury, and he would therefore vote the other way. After what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, he understood that there was no objection to furnish every information respecting the nature of the work done, or the manner of employment in the Halifax Union work house. He could not infer from the course adopted by Government any intention of withholding information either as to that or any other workhouse; but the hon. Member for Knaresborough, amongst other grievances, complained of a breach of privilege on the part of Mr. Clements, an assistant Poor-law commissioner, and grounded the complaint on a resolution adopted by the board of guardians at Halifax. The House did not shut out the reporters from the press, and when it was stated in the papers in the report of a speech that certain things were done by the Poor-law guardians, they came to some resolution to the contrary. He objected then, to that part of the resolution which would bring the House into a contest with the guardians for honestly denying what had been attributed to them. He could not see the use of such contests; but as regarded the other part—namely, the manner in which the union was conducted and the work performed, he thought that every information should be given.
 Mr. Gally Knight  said, he had an account of the matter yesterday from Mr. Clements's own lips, and that Gentleman assured him that he had used no influence with the board of guardians to induce them to pass the resolution, nor had he any hand whatsoever in it. Mr. Clements was present when it passed, but he did not wish it to pass, nor had it his concurrence. Mr. Clements also told him that there was neither a treadmill nor a tread wheel in the union, but there was a hand mill, which had not then been introduced for the first time, but had been
 765
 The Attorney-General  said, that the serving of notices by post, on the most important matters, was considered sufficient in courts of law, and he thought it
 770
 Mr. Fitzroy  thought, that the period of twelve calendar months for which a man was required to have paid all his rales was too long. It involved a virtual disfranchisement for fifteen months, as the rates were never immediately paid.
 Mr. Liddell  asked the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, if he were prepared to give any public assurance, that some provision would be introduced into this bill against the personation of voters? The further consideration of his (Mr. Liddell's) bill stood for Wednesday next; and in the event of the right hon. Baronet being so prepared, he would postpone that bill  sine die.
 Mr. Escott  did not find it his duty to defend the principles of the Reform Bill, but he must remind the House that to insist on the payment of rates was not an innovation introduced by the measure. Under the old franchise the scot and lot voters were obliged to pay the rates. It had, however, been slated by the right hon. Baronet, that a higher rate of qualification would have been selected had the payment of rates not been adopted. If therefore, they were to abolish the rate-paying clauses, they must raise the qualification. He wished to see both sides keep to their bargain.
 Mr. Escott  said, after what had fallen from the hon. and learned the Solicitor-general, he should not vote for the amendment.
 Mr. B. Escott  thought the hon. Member for Knaresborough could answer himself, and overturn his own argument, for as related to the use of the treadwheel, the motion of the hon. Gentleman could not be sustained upon any substantial ground. As to the exclusion of reporters, the board of guardians were authorised to adopt that course by the powers vested in them by Parliament. He could not, therefore, vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, after the substantial ground of the motion was taken away.
 Mr. B. Escott  wished to know whether the hon. Member for Manchester was in order in thus introducing a question arising upon a trial which took place in a distant part of the country?
 Mr. Hindley  asked whether it were true, that the Portuguese government had offered to allow the introduction of our cotton manufactures at a certain  ad valorem ad valorem
 The Speaker : The hon. Member for Manchester is in order, there being now a question before the House.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member must be aware that he could not again address the House on the subject on which he had before spoken.
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought that, instead of no costs being permitted, much larger sums should be awarded as such. He would move, as an amendment, that the utmost amount of costs to be allowed should be 10 l s
 Colonel Sibthorp  also withdrew his motion, but hoped that the Government would consider its principle.
 Mr. Charles Wood  stated that he was principally opposed to costs being awarded against claimants. He would move that the words "claim or," in the clause be omitted, with the view of limiting the power of revising barristers in granting costs in cases of objection.
 Mr. Charles Wood  withdrew his motion.
 Mr. C. Wood  wished to say, that he considered the hon. Member for Knaresborough was mistaken as to the resolution.
 Mr. C. Wood  rose only to state, that Mr. James Holston was one of the guardians of the Halifax union, upon whose opinion and testimony the utmost reliance could be placed. The board of guardians were unanimously of opinion, that the conduct of Mr. Clements was in no way whatever liable to the imputations made against him. They were the only persons competent to judge of his conduct, and this was their opinion.
 Mr. Charles Wood  thought it of too much importance to allow it to pass without remark. In its general principle he agreed. It was as objectionable that bad votes should be retained on the register, as that good votes should be struck off; but Gentlemen practically versed with the subject had led him to believe that the practice of revising barristers being allowed to award costs, would throw very serious difficulties in the way of making up correct registers. It was to the probable practical effects, not the principle of the clause, that he was opposed. He thought that if those who lodged an objection should be compelled to deposit some such sum as 5 s.
 Mr. Ross  had stated the other night, that Mr. Clements attended the board in consequence of some sort of complaint; he was in error, as there had not been a complaint against him. It was his duty to attend the board, and when there the resolution was moved, but he was no party to it. When the hon. Member for Knaresborough had first brought forward this matter, he had stated he was convinced, that Mr. Clements would be anxious for every inquiry. He spoke this in his zeal to preserve Mr. Clements' character; but after the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) had spoken, he had felt he was in error, and had sacrificed his consistency to his sense of propriety by voting against the motion for inquiry, and he regretted that he had misled some hon. Members into being caught voting with the hon. Member for Knaresborough. Mr. Clements was now in town, and he would only offer to the hon. Member to be the medium of introducing him, and then let them settle the matter.
 Mr. Turner  would divide the Commit tee against the proposition with respect to costs. He thought that a greater sum than 20 s
 Mr. Tufnell  objected to that part of the clause which made it sufficient for notices of objection to be sent by post, and moved, as an amendment, that in every case where an objection was made, the overseers should be bound to see that the notice was actually served upon the party objected to.
 Dr. Bowring  had understood his hon. Colleague to say, that he was authorised to express to the Government the concurrence of the borough in the erection of the barracks. He had received a communication from the town clerk, in which he
 750
 Dr. Bowring  said, before the motion was put for going into committee of supply, he desired, for his own justification, to set himself right with the House and the public generally, with respect to some statement which he made during the debate on the Ordnance estimates. In the discussion on the Bolton Barracks it was stated, that the measure had received the approbation of all parties, and that the Government had, in fact, been requested to station troops and erect barracks in that locality. When the question was entertained, in November, 1841, the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, wrote to the mayor of Bolton a most temperate and appropriate letter upon the subject. The magistrates of Bolton, however, on receiving this communication, called together the principal rate-payers of the town, and resolutions were adopted, which showed that they were decidedly opposed to the erection of barracks. The hot. Member then read the resolutions. The resolutions stated, that the conduct of the inhabitants, under their unexampled privations, had been such as to show, that no military force was necessary; that the rate-payers viewed in the movement an alarming indication of the intention of Government to bring the country under a system of military despotism, having for its object the maintenance of an abuse; and that they were of opinion, that it was not desirable to assist in any arrangements having for their object the making Bolton a military station. He would not intrude any longer upon the House, as he thought he had said enough to show that he was justified in stating what he had done, that public opinion in Bolton was unfriendly to the erection of the barracks.
 Mr. Brotherton  would support the hon. Member for Lewes, because the rate-paying clauses narrowed the franchise and promoted bribery. It was generally understood, when the Reform Bill was passed, that it was intended to enfranchise all the owners and occupiers of premises of 10 l l l
 Mr. Brotherton  thought that 20 s
 Mr. Henley  suggested that the latter part of the clause, which enacted that notices sent by post should be sufficient, should be omitted altogether, and the matter be left to be settled in the interpretation clause.
 Mr. Hume  objected, when the Reform Bill was under discussion, to the rate-paying clauses. He had then stated, from the experience of Westminster, that those clauses would cause a great deal of bribery, and what he had foretold had come to pass. The payment of rates had led to a great deal of bribery. They had tended also to narrow the franchise, as he had objected to them when the bill was under discussion. At present there was not 1,000,000 of voters, though there were 5,000,000 of full grown males who ought to have the franchise. At present five out of six of the full grown males, who bore all the burdens of the state—who paid the taxes, and were called on to perform all the duties of subjects to the crown—were denied the franchise. He thought every male of twenty-one years of age should have a vote; but those who were not prepared to go so far as he went, should at least be ready to remove this restriction. If they withdrew the tax-paying clauses they would both lessen bribery and practically
 773
 Mr. Hume  had never agreed to rate-paying clauses, and, therefore, he was no party to any bargain.
 Mr. Hume  would support the motion of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, on the ground, that when there were any complaints as to abuses, with respect to the labour done in workhouses, no attempt at secrecy should be made by excluding the press. Under such circumstances, inquiry became incumbent, and, therefore, the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) ought not to object to the production of the papers asked for by the hon. Member for Knaresborough.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the amendments which had been made in the bill only tended to increase and complicate its machinery. They never could have an adequate number of voters, so long as men were liable to be punished for the conscientious exercise of the franchise. This bill would leave the system open to all the complaints which were now urged against it, and which, in his opinion, must continue to be urged against it, until the system of vote by ballot were substituted.
 Mr. Ainsworth  wished to make a few remarks in reference to what had fallen from his hon. Friend and Colleague. The meeting to which his hon. Colleague alluded had certainly taken place, but there were only nineteen individuals present, and many of these held extreme opinions. From what took place immediately after the meeting, the House would judge how far it was the opinion of the inhabitants of Bolton that the military should be withdrawn. The mayor of Bolton wrote a letter to Colonel Wells, transmitting him a copy of the resolutions agreed to at the meeting, but stating that he (the mayor), and his brother magistrates, were of opinion, that there was a necessity for the military to remain in Bolton. The mayor and those magistrates were not Tories, but had been appointed by the late Government, and held, many of them, Liberal opinions. The hon. Gentleman read a letter of similar import, addressed to the Secretary of State and Captain Woodward, stating that the shambles had been hired for the use of the military. There was also a subscription among the inhabitants of the borough to provide the expense of that temporary accommodation to the military; and he could acquaint his hon. Colleague, that men of all parties in the borough contributed their mite, and that a sum of 128 l
 Mr. Ainsworth  said he had also received a communication from the town clerk on the same subject, so that that Gentleman must have forgotten the circumstance. The facts were, that an application was made to the Home Secretary, to allow new bar racks to be built, instead of repairing the old ones. This he refused; but in consequence of the feeling in the borough about retaining the troops, he had no objection to their remaining, provided the authorities would appropriate some money to the repairs of the old barracks.
 Mr. Christopher  would divide the Committee upon his proposition of substituting 5 l s
 Mr. Christopher  believed, from communications which he had had with the revising barristers, that if they had a power of awarding costs, many frivolous cases would never have been entered into. He would move, as an amendment, that 5 l s
 Mr. Wallace  considered it a matter of great importance, that there should be no concealment in matters relating to the manner in which the poor were treated in the union workhouses. If, as it was calculated, 1,500,000 persons were subjected to the regulations by which the union workhouses were regulated, it was the imperative duty of English Gentlemen to look to the regulations to which they were subjected. He was sorry that the question of privilege should be in any way mixed up with the present motion, and he would, therefore, not address himself to that point, but with respect to the use of a mill—whether the motion was upward or downward, or backward or forward, it did not signify—if labour in that shape was imposed, the matter ought to be inquired into. If it were a mill for grinding rags, or for making what the hon. Member for Knaresborough called last year "the devil's dust," to be used as manure, or for other purposes, nothing could be
 762
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought it right to state that he had received several communications with reference to the trials to which allusion had been made, and he was bound to say that the conduct of the Attorney-general had given universal satisfaction to men of all parties
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that he thought there was a material point in which this clause was defective. He thought that the overseers should append to the name of every person objected to the cause of such objection. He believed that, in many cases, objections were raised for party purposes merely, and upon no real or sufficient grounds, and that, if such a proposition as that which he made were agreed to, much vexation and expense would be spared.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  felt that the last observation of the right hon. Baronet would apply to persons making objections merely for the purpose of harassing the voters. The overseers, however, could hardly be supposed to be persons who would make frivolous or vexatious objections. There was no reason, therefore, why they, at all events, should not state the grounds of their objection. The same rule should be adopted in cases of objections by the agents of the parties, for the purpose of bringing them more clearly within the 45th clause.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  understood the motion to be, that if the House were put in possession of certain official papers the hon. Member for Knaresborough would exculpate Mr. Clements from any charge of breach of privilege. As the House was about to alter the New Poor-law, it was desirable that it should be put in possession of the character and working of one of the union workhouses, which was looked upon as a pattern one. The hon. Member for Knaresborough only asked for the proceedings and minutes relating to a particular day, and those minutes were refused, on the ground that the motion was mixed up with a question of privilege. These papers had nothing to do with privilege, and it was proper that the House should know what was done by Mr. Clements or by the board under his influence. Why, he should like to
 764
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, he would propose that in the eleventh line, after the word "objected," the words "and with the  bona fide
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham) with respect to certain proceedings which had taken place at the recent Chartist trials at Lancaster. Any one who had read the evidence adduced on those trials must have perceived that numerous attempts were made to drag in the names of parties who had taken an active part in opposition to the Corn-laws, and who had supported the Anti-Corn-law League. Endeavours were made to excite an impression, that these parties were the originators of those disturbances which took place a few months since in the manufacturing districts; but the attempts failed most completely and signally. The attempts to which he referred were of such a remarkable character, that they elicited an observation from the learned judge, who said—
 "I have not been able to understand what the introduction, which has been made several times, of the names of parties connected with the Anti-Corn-law League, and of other parties, can have to do with the present question." 751
 Mr. M. Gibson  had not imputed to the hon. and learned Attorney-general, as the prosecutor in the cases to which he had alluded, any desire to inculpate absent parties. Having read the evidence throughout he was willing to admit that the hon and learned Member did, on many occasions, prevent witnesses from making statements which would have tended to criminate persons who were not present; but he adhered to his former statement, that in the course of the trial attempts were made of so marked a character [ cries of  renewed shouts of
 Mr. Milner Gibson  continued:—The Attorney-general called as a witness for the prosecution a person named James Wilcox, who stated as it appeared to him from a perusal of the trial, some very unimportant facts, but in the cross-examination of this witness by Mr. Feargus O'Connor, an attempt was made to draw from him statements calculated to inculpate the Anti-Corn-law League. This witness stated in the course of his examination, that previously to the trial he had been in correspondence with the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and he (Mr. Gibson), wished to ask that right hon. Gentleman whether he would object to lay on the Table of the House any letlers or correspondence which had passed between himself and Mr. James Wilcox. Although he had no doubt, that all the proceedings connected with the recent trials had been perfectly regular, he must confess he regarded it as extraordinary, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham), who was subpoenaed by Mr. Feargus O'Connor as a witness for the defence, should have been allowed to leave Lancaster on condition that Mr. James Wilcox, a witness for the prosecution, should be called in his stead. He thought it strange that one of the defendants should substitute a witness for the prosecution for a person whom he had subpoenaed in his own defence. He had derived the information which he possessed on this subject from reading the reports of the trial in the newspapers, and if he had misstated any fact he hoped that some hon. Member would correct him. He had no doubt the proceedings had been quite regular; but he wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet would object to the production of the whole correspondence on the subject?
 Mr. Christie  suggested, that there should be more frequent registrations, in order to prevent the necessity of persons, who had become qualified waiting such a length of time before they could obtain the franchise. If, for instance, a man became qualified on the 1st of August, he could not, under this bill, be put upon the register until the end of October, in the ensuing year, a period of about fifteen months. He thought there ought to be appointed a certain number of registration judges, who would confine themselves to the business of registration; or, in the event of the County Courts Bill being introduced, that the judges under that bill, who would go round the country five or six times a-year, and hold courts in different parts of the country, should be required to add to their county court duties those of registration.
 Mr. Cripps  as a revising barrister of ten years' experience, could bear testimony to the carefulness of overseers in avoiding frivolous objections. He believed that to impose upon them this additional duty would be to throw them into great difficulties.
 Mr. Ewart  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies. It had been the custom of some of the colonial governments to issue bounty orders for the encouragement of emigration. These orders had been recently suspended, and he wished to ask whether it was intended, that these orders should be renewed or permanently discontinued?
 Mr. Ewart  said, the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. Elphinstone) had shown that these clauses narrowed the franchise and promoted bribery. Those two objections, pointing out the moral evils caused by these clauses, had been left entirely unanswered. Was it worth while to retain such clauses, on the supposition that they insured the respectability of the voters? He thought it was not, and he should support the hon. Member for Lewes.
 Mr. Ewart  had understood that some modification of the system was to be introduced.
 Mr. Ferrand  rose to move, as an amendment, for
 "A list of the guardians of the Halifax Union who assembled at the Board on Wednesday, the 1st day of March instant, specifying the  ex officio ex officio 755 756 ex officio 757 Times
 Mr. Mackinnon,  seeing the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies in his place, wished to ask him a question which deeply affected the West Indian interests, and more especially the inhabitants of the island of Antigua. At a large meeting which took place on Saturday last, he was requested to put a question to the noble Lord, in consequence of the very awful calamity which had recently befallen those islands. The question he wished to ask the noble Lord was, whether or not it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to make an advance on a loan to the proprietors of the island of Antigua who had suffered so severely by the late earthquake, and also whether it were the intention of the Government to advance, not as a loan, but as a grant, a sum of money for the purpose of rebuilding the cathedral and all the public buildings of Antigua, which had been levelled to the dust by the late severe visitation?
 Mr. S. Crawford  felt himself bound to vote for the motion, with a view to obtain information as respected the manner in which the poor were treated in the workhouse; but, in voting for the motion, it was not the wish to go into the privilege question.
 Mr. Elphinstone  objected to the rate-paying clauses altogether, of which this was a part. They caused a great deal of expense to the candidates, and were a great source of bribery. In the city of Westminster the expense, he believed, of paying the rates of persons unable to pay them, was not less than 600 l
 Mr. Elphinstone  thought it would be more convenient that the precepts should be issued in the first instance to the clerks of the unions than to the overseers of the poor.
 Sir J. Graham  could not agree with the hon. Gentleman. The clerks of the unions did not possess the requisite knowledge for discharging the duty consequent upon the service of the precepts, while overseers, from their great parochial knowledge, could at once secure the most
 767
 Sir J. Graham  thought it would be better not to discuss points before they arrived at them in the bill. It had been his desire, in the framing of this bill to depart as little as possible from the provisions of the Reform Act, and only to do so where experience had shown that such departure was indispensable and certain to effect some public good. But he totally differed from those Gentlemen who imagined, that registrations more frequent than annual, would effect any public good. He, on the contrary, felt convinced, that a constant recurrence of the turmoil which attended registrations would be the cause of much public evil and inconvenience, and ought to be avoided. It was proposed by the bill brought in by the late Government, that certain officers should be constantly employed throughout the year making circuits in various parts of the kingdom for the purposes of registration; but if this were to be the case, the turmoil would never subside.
 Sir J. Graham  while he concurred in the object of the hon. Member, thought that every means had been taken in this bill against the bringing forward of frivolous objections. He thought, too, that the hon. Member had raised this objection rather prematurely, because it could hardly be said, he thought, that the practices of which the hon. Members complained prevailed with overseers. Their objections were, in the great majority of cases, valid and tenable objections. As the hon. gentleman, however, had raised this point generally with respect to party objections, he begged to refer him to the 45th clause of the bill, whereby power was given to the revising barristers to give costs in the case of frivolous claims or objections. There was also this inconvenience in requiring the specific statement of the ground of every objection—that every possible objection whcih the utmost legal ingenuity could raise would be brought forward.
 Sir J. Graham  would admit, that if abuses were alleged to exist in the prac-
 763
 Sir J. Graham  said, that since the question was last under discussion, he had given his attention to the subject, and had framed some clauses to prevent the personation of voters. These had been seen by his hon. Friend, who had deemed them satisfactory, and well adapted to effect the purpose which his hon. Friend and the House were desirous of securing. They would be ready for publication to-morrow, and he would move their insertion into the bill on the bringing up of the report.
 Sir J. Graham  said, it was intended that a personal notice should be served on the tenant in every practical case.
 Sir J. Graham  thought that no practical difficulty arose upon that part of the clause to which the hon. Baronet alluded.
 Sir James Graham  explained, that the words "twelve calendar months," in the clause, had been introduced in order to settle a doubt which had been raised by the revising barristers. Some of them had required proofs that the rates had been all paid up for a longer period than twelve months, for all the time, in fact, that a man had been liable for the rates, and this part of the clause was, in fact, a relaxation of what they had interpreted the law to be. With respect to the observation of the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. Elphinstone), he must observe, that the house-tax having been abolished, a considerable relaxation of the principle of the Reform Bill had already taken place, and this clause, as he had explained, was a still further relaxation of the law, as interpreted by the revising barristers. He must remind the House, as he had before stated, that when the Reform Bill was
 772 l l
 Sir J. Graham  hoped the House would
 758 The Times Ferrand: 759 760
 Sir J. Graham  would endeavour to an- swer the question of the hon. Member as far as the circumstances to which he had referred came within his own knowledge. He had been informed just before he came
 752
 Sir James Graham  said, that with reference to the expediency of such an inquiry, he certainly should have no objection to the appointment of a committee, to be limited to a certain extent. He was not prepared to submit to a Select Committee the constitutional question whether or not it would be expedient to repeal so much of the Act of Settlement as precluded the right of aliens sitting in Parliament or in the Privy Council. Under that limitation he had no objection to submit to a committee the question whether it was expedient to grant the rights of naturalization, by act of Parliament or by letters patent, to be granted by her Majesty, under the responsibility of her Majesty's Privy Council.
 Sir James Graham  said, that he was in favour of granting costs against both frivolous claimants and objectors. The registration commissioners had come to the
 776
 Sir James Graham  said, with respect to the matter before the House, that when a bill of this nature was first brought in by the late Government, costs were proposed to be allowed to the extent of 10 l s l s
 Sir R. Peel  replied, that communications had passed between this Government and the Spanish and Portuguese governments, with the view of promoting the in crease of commercial intercourse; but, those communications not having been brought finally to a close, it was not at all consistent with his duty to state the effect of any of the proposals that had been made.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the motion of the hon. Member for Knaresborough pointed to no distinct object. He understood it as a renewal of the question of privilege, and that it was the intention of the hon. Gentleman to enforce the charge against Mr. Clements. Into that question the House, in his opinion, had better not enter. No person had more at heart the privileges of the House than he, but it was because of his regard for them that he would not wish to enforce a debate on them in the present instance. It was very natural if a man's personal character was injured by an erroneous imputation in that House, that he should endeavour to free himself from it, and it would be very hard if he were not at liberty to do so. The House did not enforce its privileges with respect to the publication of the debates, and it was natural if a man were injured by those publications, that he should try and set himself right.
 Sir E. T. Colebrooke  begged to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to an objection which presented itself on this clause. He alluded to the necessity which was imposed upon voters who changed their residence, even though they retained the same qualification, to re-establish their claim to vote. He asked whether this might not be altered.
 The Solicitor-General  observed, that it often happened that the overseer was an illiterate man, and they would involve him in all kinds of difficulty by calling upon him to specify the grounds of objection.
 Mr.
 747  asked the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he should have any objection to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the state of the law affecting aliens residing in this country?
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  thought the wishes of the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) ad been already in some degree complied with; for there existed an act of Parliament by which no inclosure could take place without a portion of land being set apart for the use of the people.
 Lord Stanley  said, that no information had been received by the Government of these circumstances, or of anything like them. In consequence of what the gallant officer had stated last night he had made inquiry whether there was any official report; but, as he had told the gallant officer last night, if the gallant officer would give him his authority for the statement, he would take care that no time should be lost in ascertaining the facts.
 Mr. Prynne  said, that the excise would make all householders tenants  in capite s. s. 892 s. bonâ fide l. l. l. l. s. s. l. l. l. l. 893 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. 894 "That it is expedient, as a remedy for a state of anxiety embarrassing and unfair to the agriculturists, and injurious to commerce, that the attention of this House be directed to the continued existence of associations, which, in matters affecting agriculture and commerce, pretend to influence the deliberations of the Legislature, and which, by their combination and by their proceedings, are at once dangerous to the public peace, and inconsistent with the spirit of the Constitution." 895 "That a select committee be appointed to inquire whether there are any peculiar burthens specially affecting the landed interest of this country, or any peculiar exemptions enjoyed by that interest, and to ascertain their nature and extent."
 Mr. Williams  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Williams  said, that the two hon. Members who had spoken on the other side, whose speeches he had attentively listened to, had not answered a single point of the arguments which had been brought before the House in support of the motion. His hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, had stated the case so clearly and so fully, that he had left but little for any one else to say. If his arguments were capable of being answered, the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, and the hon. Member for Newport (Mr. W. Martin) would have answered them, but they had completely failed to show that the landed interest were subject to any peculiar burthens. The hon. Member for Newport had indeed started a new doctrine, and attempted to make it out that the landowners paid their share of the high prices caused by their own monopoly. [Mr.  W. Martin 925 Member l. l. l l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. 926 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. l. l. 927 l.
 An hon. Member  on the Ministerial side of the House rose and exclaimed, "I rise to state that that circumstance is not true."
 Mr. Bankes's  amendment was negatived without a division.
 Lord Granville Somerset  having received notice of the intention of the hon. Member to ask the question, had communicated with the authorities at the Custom-house, and he could assure the House that there was not the slightest degree of truth in the first allegation alluded to. Several prosecutions had been instituted against persons supposed to be implicated in defrauding the Customs, and he could state that no proposal for a compromise had been made, or if made would be accepted. As to the sum of 80,000 l.
 Lord Granville Somerset  hoped that in
 872
 Lord Henniker  said, the hon. Member
 960
 Lord John Manners  thanked the hon. Member (Mr. Stanton) for bringing this subject before the House. If the Legislature devoted their attention rather more frequently to such questions as this, they would do more real benefit to the country than by debating matters of a merely party character. He had received a communication from Mr. Wills, the founder of the Labourers' Friend Society, in which he represented the allotment system as having been adopted with very great advantage to the agricultural population. He was convinced that by enabling the labouring poor to employ themselves in the cultivation of the land, and to resort to healthy recreations and manly
 873 "Since the inclosure acts had become so frequent, he thought some places should be provided for the exercise and recreation of the working classes, and especially for their children. In his own parish the labourers had their cricket matches, their quoit playing, and their revels; the poor had been accused of ingratitude, but he had found them the most grateful people alive."
 Mr. Cochrane  said he thought the House was much indebted to the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, for directing its attention to the conduct of the Anti Corn-law Association, and its influence upon the peace and interests of the country, was a question well worthy the attention of Parliament. The precedents of 1826 and 1829 might be cited, at which period two separate acts were passed to put down the Roman Catholic Association, and he could not bring himself to imagine that legislation was less necessary now than it was at that time, or that the proceedings of this Association were less violent than theirs. Putting out of view for a moment the immorality of such combinations, the pernicious doctrines promulgated, the treasonable speeches uttered, it behoved the House to remember that, in a military point of view, the results were much to be apprehended. There could not be a doubt that the machinery of such an association might be applied to insurrectionary purposes. The Irish rebellion was prepared through the medium of the Association of United Irishmen, for it contained within itself all the elements and discipline of war. Still he was not one of those who considered that all expressions of popular feeling were to be despised, and that all combinations and associations for the promotion of political objects were to be
 929 "He once had that reputation for boldness which many men preserve so long as they are personally safe by violence in their councils and their language—if he feared danger, at least he never feared shame, which much more frequently restrains the powerful." 930 "What was it broke the alliance between Alexander and Napoleon? Was it the force of British arms? No, it was the power of her manufactures; and who then can say that she would become dependent upon others by stretching the mighty arms of her commerce from pole to pole!" 931 "It is a perilous thing to try experiments upon the farmer. The farmer's capital, except in a very few instances, is far more feeble than commonly is imagined, and the trade is a very poor trade, it is subject to great risks and losses. The capital, such as his, is turned but once a year—in some branches it requires three years before the money is paid. It is very seldom that a farmer makes twelve or fifteen per cent, on his capital, and now I am speaking of the prosperous. I have seldom known any who died worth more than paid his debts, leaving his posterity to continue the same equal conflict between industry and want in which his last predecessor and a long line of predecessors before him lived and died." 932 "It is by a due regard to vested interests we have at last obtained a constitution, in theory the most beautifal of any, in practice
 933
 The Speaker  put the question that the debate be adjourned.
 Mr. C. Villiers  said, that as the hon. Member for Manchester had appealed to him to vouch for the accuracy of certain statements which he had made with reference to the proceedings at a public meeting in the county of Suffolk, he would do so. Complaints were made of some misrepresentations on the part of a person named John Brown, but he thought he could shew that John Brown had not been very well used by some hon. Gentlemen, and especially by the hon. Members for Suffolk, who repudiated his connection and opinions. He had, as his hon. Friend, the Member for Manchester, had said, informed him of certain things which had occurred at a time when the price of wheat was low, and when agriculturists were angry in the county of Suffolk; and if he had time, he might acquaint the House with what had been said and done by certain other agricultural Gentlemen, Members of the Conservative party, who now attacked the Anti-Corn-law League. But he would reserve that for a future occasion. He would only inform the House of certain projects entertained under the circumstances to which he referred by the East Suffolk Agricultural Association to improve their property. [Several hon.  Members s. 961 Member "That the agriculturists had petitioned Parliament so often, and received so little attention, that they began to entertain but one feeling—that petitioning alone would not do." "That they must effect a change in the present system of acquiring wealth, a system abounding in fraud. The productive classes must be compensated for the capital which the currency measure of 1819 had been the means of unjustly abstracting from them: they would no longer consent to contribute to the supplies of the Stock Exchange; they would not uphold a system which had preyed on the vitals of the country for twenty years, and made the industry of the country the means of impoverishing itself, while it had enriched the speculator." 962
 Mr. Wykeham Martin : Sir, I am anxious, before the time arrives at which those who are more in the habit of addressing the House are accustomed to rise, to make a few observations on some points in the Speech of the hon. Member for Sheffield, which has reference to a subject which has accidentally come very prominently under my notice. I mean the Poor-rates. The hon. Member seems to think that when he has shewn that the land bears a certain proportion of that burthen, and the house property another proportion, he has fully stated the whole case between the landed and the commercial portions of the community. But I think I shall be able to shew, even to the hon. Member himself, that the case is widely different. It appears to be his idea, and that of many other persons, that there are two great interests in the country—the landed and the commercial—and that justice will be done if each of these bears the half of whatever burthens may be imposed in the way of taxation. But it will, I think,
 920 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. 921 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. from Mr. Williams. 922 923 "We your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects the Commons assembled in Parliament, having seriously considered the great occasions which engage your Majesties to many extraordinary expenses for the necessary defence of your realms, and the prosecution of a vigorous war against France, have cheerfully and unanimously given and granted unto your Majesties the rates and assessments hereafter mentioned." s. l. s. s. s. 924 s. l.
 Mr. D. Maclean , referring to the report of Mr. Chadwick, relative to the sanitary condition of the labouring poor begged to ask his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether, in consequence of that report, her Majesty's Government contemplated introducing, during the present Session, any measure to carry out its recommendation, or to proceed with the bill which had been introduced in a former session.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that as the hon. Member for Sheffield had referred so particularly to him, he begged to offer a few words by way of reply. As he should vote against the motion, he would say that he was perfectly ready to meet the imputation of shrinking from inquiry. His opinion was, that the appointment of a committee of inquiry could lead to no good, and would only be made an arena for theoretical discussion without any practical result. He would say also, that whenever the hon. Member or any of his Friends should bring forward a motion for the repeal of the Corn-laws, he (Mr. Wodehouse) would meet it, as he always had met such motions, on the ground that if those laws were not defensible on general principles, they were not defensible at all. With respect to the burdens on land, if the calculations of Mr. Row-
 928 l. d.
 Mr. G. Bankes  rose to move an amendment. He would endeavour to imitate the candour and temper displayed by the hon. Member for Sheffield, for all must agree that the claim he had put in on this score was well founded. If he had not been prepared to meet the motion with a decided negative, he should not have taken the opportunity of bringing before the House another subject, to him, individually, more interesting. He resisted the motion, not merely with respect to times, but circumstances; because, although he agreed in the general proposition that inquiry ought to precede legislation, he was most unwilling, at this moment of anxiety to the landed interest, to promote a proceeding which would tend to countenance the belief that further legislation was contemplated. He was quite certain that no Member would be found to assert that any addition to the prevailing alarm must not be detrimental; for however people might differ as to the cause, nobody would dispute that uneasiness, anxiety, and panic, did prevail. Inquiry would not only be injurious to the landed but to the commercial and trading interests, which sympathised with the prosperity or distress of the landed interest. Were the House to consent to
 896 "I find that our views are not rightly understood by many landowners, who imagine that what we contend for is the abolition of the Corn-laws alone, instead of our advocating that as being the first step to the abolition of all duties imposed for the purpose of protection." 897 "The landowner is tethered fast to this country; he cannot carry his acres abroad with him; the law of England gives the poor of England the right of subsistence on its soil; and that is the first mortgage upon the landlord's estate." "But the landowner is not only pledged to the poor, but to the national creditor also." "The acres of the landowners are always there, and the Government, if hardly pressed for an increase of the public income, must take from the estates of the landlords ten shillings in the pound." 898 899 s. "Carters 8 s. l. s. s. s. s. d. "That the labourers were in a more comfortable condition than they had been in for years past, particularly as they could get employment if they were disposed to work, and that in 1830 and 1831 there were twenty-five to thirty labourers out of employment (where the writer resided) at the present season, and that now there were not more than ten out of work, and they were not men of industrious habits." 900 "Sir—In reply to your request I beg to state:—Six regular labourers as thrashers and mowers earn about 10 s. d. s. s. s. s. l. s. s. s. d. s. s. "I received a letter from Mr. Robson wishing me to inform you the earnings of my labourers. My carters have 8 s. l. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. "That in the adjoining parish, the workpeople were not so well paid." 901 s. s. s. s. s. 902 s. s. s. s. l. Cobden 903 s. s. 904 905 l. l. 906 907 "The ' tasteless' column pointing to the skies, Like a tall bully lifts its head and lies." 908 l. l. l. "The House would bear in mind that this association, though a public body, differed from most public meetings in this point—that they were all of one mind. There was no competition of opinion; no opposing voice was heard. Every speech was previously arranged, and every decision was unanimous. Indeed, if any unhappy adversary had the hardihood to present himself, he would most probably get a reception which Would prevent any repetition. Formed as such a body was, there was a danger in the indefinite qualities of its constituency, and in its indefinite duration. Under different circumstances, the fickleness of the multitude might operate as a
 909 Now, he thought that no man who understood the constitution of the country, could contemplate the levying of money upon his Majesty's subjects by an irresponsible body, to be applied to objects not previously defined, but at the discretion of the self-constituted authority by which such money was called for, with any other feeling than that of unequivocal disapprobation." "He would first notice an argument that had been made use of, in the course of this discussion, by an hon. Member, the effect of which, if it were well founded, would be to take away from Government, or from Parliament rather, all right of interference in the case of associations that might be deemed illegal. The hon. Gentleman had expressly said, ' he would not vindicate the acts of the Catholic Association; he thought them to be, in many respects, indefensible, and he could not stand forward as their advocate.' But still that hon. Gentleman conceived, that the hands of the House were tied up—that these people laboured under such a grievance, as took from the House all right of interference with their proceedings; those proceedings being admitted, by the hon. Gentleman himself, to be indefensible. Why, if this were so, there was an end of all their deliberations in that House, on this or any other subject. If that doctrine was to prevail, it must follow that the subjects of this country, if they should imagine themselves to be suffering under a grievance of this or any other kind, might resort to unconstitutional measures for their redress; which measures, however, Parliament Could not interpose to check, until those grievances should have been first removed. Now, he maintained, that from the moment Parliament recognised such a doctrine as this, they
 910 Cries of Cheers 911 "Resolved—That this association do meet on Friday next, the 12th of July, to consider the most prudent and respectful manner of attending their petition, which is to be presented on that day to the House of Commons." 912 913 "That it is expedient, as a remedy for a state of anxiety, embarrassing and unfair to the agriculturists, and injurious to commerce, that the attention of this House be directed to the continued existence of associations, which, in matters affecting agriculture and commerce, pretend to influence the deliberations of the Legislature, and which, by their combination and by their proceedings, are at once dangerous to the public peace, and inconsistent with the spirit of the constitution."
 Mr. Darby  thought it would be a very bad plan indeed to assign any portion of land to the exclusive control of the overseers, to be allotted to the poor; for the inevitable result would be, that instead of the industrious man having the land it would be given to the worst men in the parish. As far as his experience went, he was satisfied that the best system to pursue would be, to let the land to the industrious labourer, in order that he might add something to his wages. He highly approved of apportioning spots of land for the exercise and recreation of the people; but as for the allotment system, that required the most careful supervision and strict regulation.
 Mr. Darby  amidst cries of "Divide!" begged to confirm what the hon. Member for Lewes had said, expressed himself to the same effect.
 Mr. H. Fitzroy  said, that John Brown never was connected with the Agricultural Society as secretary, or in any other capacity; he never attended any meetings of that society, and the society would utterly repudiate any such sentiments as those ascribed to him.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that as several hon. Members were desirous of addressing the House on this subject, he begged to move the adjournment of the debate.
 Mr. Hume  said, that after the discussion which had taken place, and after the speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite, it would be a waste of time to adjourn the debate. During three parts of the evening the benches had been comparatively empty, and hon. Members who wished to take part in the discussion ought to have been there earlier. Although the subject had not been discussed in the manner he had expected, he thought the debate ought not to be adjourned.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the hon. Member was anxious to forward the object contemplated by the resolution of 1837, he would recommend him to look at the returns called for three years ago, and see how that resolution had been acted on. He would find that although in some cases one acre, two acres, three acres, or four acres had been set aside, yet very inadequate provision had been made for the poor. He recommended the hon. Member to withdraw the motion, and move for a committee to see how the order had been acted on.
 Mr. Cobden  was very sorry that for a single moment, he should divert the attention of the House from a question of paramount importance to one which bore much of a personal character. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had totally misunderstood him, if he thought for one moment, that he (Mr. Cobden) was so bad a tactician, even were he not restrained by a sense of justice, as to make this great national question a mere vehicle for personal altercation. He had told the hon. Member for Dorsetshire what the labourers in his county—what the labourers, indeed, on the hon. Gentleman's own estates there—were paid; but he had not charged him with giving them less wages than other people did. Did the hon. Gentleman suppose, that they who employed labourers could give what wages they pleased? He had heard such a doctrine at agricultural dinners from those who were occupying the chair, but in the part of the country from which he came, such a doctrine would not be listened to for an instant; it was not there imagined, that
 914 915 s. s. s. s. s. 916 s. 917 918 l. 919
 Colonel Rushbrooke  was understood to say that a person of the name of Brown had been employed as secretary to the Agricultural Protection Society, but he was the most refractory secretary they ever had.
 Mr. Wallace  held in his hand a provincial newspaper, which stated that 180,000 l. l. 876
 Mr. Wallace  wished to ask a question as to the progress of the commercial treaty with Portugal, as great anxiety was manifested to know whether there was to be a treaty or no treaty?
 Mr. Gibson  said, I quite concur in what fell from an hon. Member below me, that the amendment of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire is extremely inappropriate at the present time, and that it ought not to have been moved with the view of interfering with such a definite and legitimate proposition as that which the hon. Member for Sheffield has submitted to the House. That proposition has nothing to do with associations, or agitation, or with anything of that kind. It is a simple request that the House will appoint a select committee to inquire into certain alleged burdens pressing peculiarly on the landed interest. But although I think the amendment extremely inappropriate, yet, as it has been submitted and supported by a lengthened speech, containing grave attacks on the Anti-Corn-law Association, and calling on the Government to take steps to put down that association, I think the House is bound to express an opinion upon it and I hope it will be disposed of by a distinct vote before we come to the motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield. Why has not the hon. Member for Dorsetshire suggested what he wishes to have done? He calls on Parliament to take into consideration what the hon. Member calls a dangerous association, which he says threatens the public peace and the security of life and property. Why has he not mentioned the course to be taken, if his proposition is acceded to? Does he wish for a suspension
 934 Annual Register "The beginning of the present year was marked chiefly by the clamours of farmers and landowners. Numerous meetings were held in the agricultural counties and districts for the purpose of deploring the distress of this part of the community, and voting addresses to the Legislature, calling upon it to apply a remedy. The usual nostrums were lauded. Foreign corn was to be excluded, and that exclusion was to work miracles; for these politicians were ignorant that, if there is any truth in official documents, it was long since anything but the produce of our own soil had been sold in our markets." "The abolition of tithes, and a forcible reduction of the interest of the national debt. The last of these was spoken of with a complacency, and listened to with a toleration, which a few years ago would have been incredible. Country gentlemen, of moderate politics and of consequence in their own districts, were not ashamed to allude to this wild and wicked dream of rapine as a measure which might soon turn out to be most necessary and most prudent, and to hear with ap-
 935 read. "Permit me (says Mr. Brown) to take this opportunity of bringing under the consideration of the Anti-Corn-law League, and the Corn-law repealing party in general, the better policy of aiding this society in its endeavour to obtain the repeal of those laws which make money dear and Corn-laws necessary." 936
 Mr. M. Gibson  proceeded to read the names of several other noblemen who were vice-presidents of the society, among whom were the Earl of Darlington, the Earl of Winchelsea, the Earl of Tankerville, the Earl of Airlie, the Earl of Hardwicke, the Earl of Delawarr, the Earl of Tyrconnel, and the Earl of Mountcashel; there were also the names of many Members of Parliament; but I do not (said Mr. Gibson) see the name of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, though I do see the names of the two hon. Members for the county of Suffolk, one of whom I recollect did once say something bearing pretty closely upon a scheme for robbing the public creditor. Now, I am prepared to say, that if the Anti-Corn-law League should ever use improper means for effecting its object, that, however good I consider that object to be, I would not be the man to support it. Let the best end fail, if it cannot be supported by proper and just means. Therefore, I am no party to support any association, whether having a public or a private object to promote, if it propose to take means which I do not think are consistent with justice and propriety. But, I contend, that the Anti-Corn-law society have done nothing more than attempt to instruct the great body of the people to spread throughout the country information upon commercial subjects, and to teach those very principles which the right hon. Baronet himself expounded in this House. The worst that you can possibly say against the Anti-Corn-law League is, that it has applied hard words to the landed proprie-
 937 "They were astonished, they were mortified, to witness the vast majority of the landowners of this country giving the Minister their support, and so virtually becoming every one of them members of the Anti-Com-law League. Entrapped into the admission that the protection they received was immoderate, and, therefore, unjust and indefensible, what have they to complain of in the conduct of the Acklands, the Smiths, and other travelling demagogues who go about the country preaching against them, except the use of a few hard names, which for the most part they deserve, if they are sincere in their vote upon the vital subject of the law of protection? If they believe that the interest of the country and the common good do not require the protection they have enjoyed, how can they deny the justice of all the absurd abuse which has been made against them?" 938 "TO THE HONOURABLE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS IN PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED, "Showeth—that your petitioners are agriculturists, and belong to that class called ' occupying tenantry.' "That your petitioners have observed, that a motion is about to be submitted to your honourable House, with the view of inducing Parliament to impede the operations of a certain society, called the 'Anti-Corn-law League,' in order, as is alleged, to confer a benefit on the agricultural classes. "That your petitioners believe, that the proposal embodied in the above motion, emanates from, and will be supported exclusively, by persons styling themselves 'farmers' friends.' "That your petitioners being themselves farmers, cannot consider those parties as 'farmers' friends,' who seek to put down the Anti-Corn-law League, inasmuch as the object of that League is to abolish a system of legislation which has frequently deceived the occupying tenantry, and been the means of involving great numbers of industrious and enterprising agriculturists in the loss of their capital, and in utter ruin. "That your petitioners pray your honourable House to receive the statements of the parties calling themselves 'farmers' friends 'with great caution; for your petitioners have reason to believe that those persons, being themselves landowners, are actuated rather by a desire to keep up the rental of land than to confer any benefit on the occupying tenantry, or to promote the welfare of the community at large.—And your petitioners will ever pray." l. l. "If you really are sincere in wishing for free-trade, if you really desire to abolish the
 939 940 941 942
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, the hon Member for Warrington had risen to contradict and rebut what he had said as to the Society for the Protection of British Agriculture. He scarcely thought the word "contradict" could be properly applied to what had fallen from the hon. Member. He adhered strictly to his original statement, which, even on the showing of the hon. Member himself, was perfectly accurate. What he said was, that a letter had been received by the Anti-Corn-law League, signed by Robert Brown, the secretary of the Society for the Protection of British Agriculture, in which letter it was proposed that the Anti-Corn-law League should join the Agricultural Society in a joint crusade against the fund-holders. The hon. Member himself admitted that Brown had, as he stated it, intruded himself into the society. Now, did any man ever hear of such a thing as a person intruding himself on a society as their secretary? He believed that the letter had been put forth as a sort of feeler.
 Mr. Blackstone  rose for the purpose of rebutting an assertion made by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson). The hon. Member said he had received a letter, purporting to come from a Mr. Brown, secretary to the Society for the Protection of British Agriculture, in which he invited the Anti-Corn-law League to join the society in a joint crusade against the public creditor, the letter being dated Wigmore-street. Now, he had been a member of the society from its first formation, and a member of its committee, and he solemnly assured the House that the Mr. Brown referred to never was in any way connected with the society, either as a member or as its secretary. He believed, however, that he could state to the House that on the formation of the society a few years back, Mr. Brown did intrude himself on the society, and did, for one day, put himself forward as acting secretary of the society. That, however, was an intrusion—he was told that he was not wanted, and not appointed, and that he had better retire from the room. It was very likely that that gentleman might, after his expulsion from the society, have gone to Wigmore-street, and might have written that letter; but the rooms of the society were in Regent-street, and they never had any connection with Wigmore-street. Whatever letter, therefore, Mr. Brown might have written from Wigmore-street, was on his own authority and not by order of the society. He was glad the right hon. Baronet had taken occasion to-night to tell the House, as far as he could understand what had fallen from the tight hon. Baronet, that it was his determination to maintain the present Corn-laws. He (Mr. Blackstone) had had some experience out of doors, and he felt assured, that that declaration of the right hon. Baronet would be most satisfactory to most of the agricultural interest. He trusted, too, after that declaration, that there would be no more tampering with the law this year, and that that slight threat which had been
 959
 Mr. Ferrand  tendered his sincere thanks to the hon. Gentleman for bringing this question forward. If Parliament would enclose the waste lands in the north, lands which merely wanted breaking up to make
 874
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  would give his most ardent support to the principle of the proposition. A system had long prevailed of depriving the poor of their rights to a share of the common and unenclosed lands. It was plain to him that there was no other mode of decreasing the demands of the poor rates, and of increasing the comforts of the labouring population, than by giving them a portion of land to cultivate.
 Mr. Stanton , in rising to move a resolution on the subject of setting apart portions of the common lands, when inclosed, to be let out in allotments to the labouring population, observed that the subject had already been so favourably entertained by the House, that he did not consider it necessary to occupy any great portion of their time in recommending his motion in substitution for the present standing order, No. 89, upon the same subject. It must be the wish of every one to afford the means of employment to the increasing working population of this country. The system of inclosing common lands, without apportioning a part of them not merely for the exercise and recreation of the poor, but for the profitable employment of the labouring population, was one which he had long regretted. Nothing was more desirable than to furnish the half-employed labourer with a resource of healthful occupation, by which he would be enabled to bear up against the calamities that otherwise pressed upon him. For this reason he very much wished to assign to the parish-officers certain portions of the land, not for the purpose of giving it to the poor, but of letting it out to them in allotments. It was far from his wish to interfere in any way with vested rights, but he was fully convinced that the improved condition of the people, which must follow the adoption of the system he now suggested, would amply repay the land-owners for any sacrifice of property they might make on their behalf. He wished the Government of the country would pass some general measure for inclosing land, at the same time enabling the officers of the parish in which the land was situate to set apart certain portions of it to the purposes be had mentioned, without the necessity and expense of an act of Parliament. It would be the means of very considerably reducing the poor-rates. In the borough he had the honour to represent there were 800 acres of land unenclosed, and left in a state that produced no advantage whatever to the landed proprietor. If this were enclosed
 871 s. s. "That in every bill for inclosing lands, provision be made for reserving a portion of the land to be inclosed to be let in allotments, not exceeding a quarter of an acre each, to the labouring population of the district, and for leaving an open space in the most appropriate situation, sufficient for purposes of exercise and recreation of the neighbouring population; and that the committee on the bill have before them the number of acres proposed to be in. closed, as also of the population in the parishes or places in which the land to be inclosed is situate; and that they then fix the quantity to be reserved; and also do see that provision is made for the efficient fencing and draining of the allotments, for the investment of the same in the churchwardens and overseers of the parish in which such allotments and open spaces are reserved, who shall be empowered to let the allotments so reserved, at rents not exceeding the average rent at which the adjoining lands are let, and to receive the rents for the purpose of applying the same in aid of the parish rates, and for the efficient making and permanent maintenance of the fences in such parish; and that in any case where the information hereby required is not given, and the required provisions are not made in the bill, the committee on the same do report specially to the House the reasons for not complying with such order.
 Mr. Stanton  would adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose, and withdraw his motion, trusting that some more experienced Member than himself would take it up; otherwise he must leave it in the hands of her Majesty's Government, whom he believed to be desirous of doing all in their power to promote the public welfare. His only object was to benefit the poor, and he trusted that this object would be attained.
 Sir Charles Napier  rose, to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary of the Colonies on a subject which he had mentioned to the noble Lord last evening, and which he would repeat. About two months ago one of the mail packets to the West Indies had delivered its mail at St. Kitt's, and had gone about five miles from Basse-terre, when a gentleman went up to the captain and asked where they were going, and on being told to St. Thomas's, stated that he was the Governor of St. Kitt's, and that it was impossible for him to go on, and that he must be landed at Basse-terre. The captain said, that it was impossible that he could go to Basse-terre, but that the gentleman could be landed at the point. Accordingly, a boat, with a midshipman and four or five men, was launched, and was pulling towards the point, when the governor insisted upon being landed at Basse-terre. The midshipman told him that he had orders to the contrary, and could only go to the point. An altercation took place, and the governor told the midshipman that if he did not go to Basse-terre he would fling him overboard, suiting the action to the word. The boy swam round, laid hold of the rudder, and was hauled into the boat. The governor again insisted on being landed at Basse-
 877
 Sir Charless Napier  had told the noble Lord that if, when the vessel came home, a regular report was laid before the Directors, and if the noble Lord would send for the managing Directors of the Company, he would learn all about it.
 Mr. Ward  rose to bring, for the second time, under the consideration of the House, a motion, which, whether he looked to its intrinsic importance, or to the indisputable justice of what he asked, must, he was convinced, have met with a very different reception on the part of the House, from that which it experienced last year, but for the disadvantageous circumstances under which it was introduced. These words implied a censure upon himself; for, as the originator of the motion, it was his duty so to have framed it both as to form, and time, as to ensure to it the largest possible amount of support. He meant to do so; but, upon calmer reflection, he was willing to admit that however just and reasonable
 878 "It might or might not be proper to appoint a committee to inquire into the peculiar burthens on land, but it was most improper to do so, if the consequence were to be that Parliament must leave the landowners, the tenantry, all who derive their income from the production or the sale of corn, in a state of utter uncertainty as to its intention, until the termination of an inquiry which might be protracted for two or three years." 879 per se "You are entitled to place such a duty on foreign corn as is equivalent to the special burthens which you impose on agriculture; and any additional protection to agriculture can be vindicated only on the ground that it is for the interest of the country in general." "To buy in the cheapest market, and to sell in the dearest, is the interest of the country." 880 Foreign and Colonial Quarterly Review. "That the industry of this country has nothing to fear from the steady and gradual increase of the importation of all commodities from abroad, which can be produced there at a less cost of human labour and capital than amongst ourselves; but that it has everything to fear from the cessation or decline of that mighty course of operations whereby benefits—benefits only of this world, it is true, but yet in their proper place and nature real, if inferior benefits—are exchanged between the several families of the human race." "There may be good and valid reasons for the maintenance of protections; but they are not to be defended by any such caricature of the general principles of trade, as the notion that, by purchasing from foreigners that which they can produce more economically than ourselves, we are diminishing our own means of purchasing from one another that which we can produce more economically than foreigners. The home trade and the foreign trade are likely, on the whole, to flourish conjunctively, not disjunctively. One and the same principle of beneficial exchange—exchange beneficial to both parties—is the foundation of commercial dealings, whether they be carried on between an Englishman and a Frenchman, or between an Englishman and an Englishman. And laws obstructing, or restraining such exchange, are to be justified in all cases where they are justifiable, by reasons drawn from other sources, not by reference to the rules which common sense and experience supply for our conduct in the mere augmentation of wealth." 881 l. l. 882 s. l. "Who paid the dividends which the stockholders received? Beyond a doubt the landowners. So let those gentlemen look to it, who were disposed to sacrifice the interest of the landowner, and with it their own, to save a paltry penny in the price of the quartern loaf." "The principle of the bill was this: The landowners claimed from the House and the country, compensation for the capital which they had employed in the improvement of their own estates. Surely, by the same rule, the manufacturers would have the right of claiming compensation for new machinery, and for all the costly improvements in their trade. But no body of men, however respectable, ought to expect a compensation for the capital they expended for their own benefit, or for the taxes they paid in common with other bodies of men, according to their several circumstances in life." 883 "Now, all he asked of the House was protection, amounting to prohibition, for a certain term of years. He considered such a protection indispensable. At what precise price it might be provided, he left the House to determine; but he defined his demand by supposing that it should be a protecting duty amounting to a prohibition, continued, say for two years, during which interval the Government might repeal taxes at present bearing upon the agricultural interest to such an amount as would enable them to raise their corn at a much less expensive rate, so as to give them some chance of competing with the foreign grower." "Had not his Majesty's Ministers been steadily employed since 1821 in reducing the taxes? And what had been the result? Twelve millions of taxes had been repealed since that period. Whatever difficulties, therefore, the farmer suffered from the effect of the taxes, those difficulties were now by so much less." "To hear hon. Gentlemen talk of the Corn-law of 1815, which they hugged to their bosom with all the fatuity of misplaced affection, one would think that in this law were locked up all the good things that farmers could desire; yet prices had fluctuated under it from 112 s. s. 884 First, let me congratulate you that the country has refused to be cajoled by the latest fabrication from the workshop of Whig trickery and delusion. The cry of cheap bread is scouted from one end of England to the other. Even the towns and boroughs have scorned to be caught by this party claptrap—this fugitive humbug of a dying political faction. They see that the agriculturist is burthened with taxes, from which all other classes are wholly, or nearly exempt. Does he not chiefly bear the burthen of poor-rate, church-rate, highway-rates, and tithes. ( Great Cheering confession de foi, "That it was necessary to keep up prices and rents, for the sake of the farmers, the landlords, but, above all, the humbler classes, who would be the first and greatest sufferers, if the gentlemen of England were compelled to reduce their establishments—to curtail their pleasure-grounds—to limit the number of their gardeners, or to turn off one or two grooms, which the Corn-laws enabled them to keep." [ Marks of Dissent from Lord Stanley. "It is for the labouring classes of this country to consider, whether that which diminishes the income of the landlord, and the profit of the farmer, is likely to be productive of advantage to society or to them." 885 "The general policy of this country required that agriculture should be protected, and though protection might have a tendency to raise the price of corn above its natural level, it prevented those extraordinary fluctuations which were common in other countries," s. s. s. s. 886 "The proposition of buying corn in the cheapest market is certainly a tempting theory; but before you determine that it is just, you must ascertain the amount of burthens to which land in other countries is subjected, and compare them with the burthen imposed on land in this country." l. l. s. 887 l. l. l. l. l. 888 l. l. l. l. s. s. l. l. 889 l s. l. l. l. l. l. l. 890 "The Dissenters have no right to complain of the payment of Church-rates, because they have purchased their property with a full knowledge that it was subject to such an imposition." "From the united considerations of religion and constitutional policy, this country has incorporated and identified the estate of the Church with the mass of private property, of which the state is not the proprietor, either for use or for dominion, but the guardian only and the regulator." "These last endowments he placed upon the altar of the King of kings. Touch them if you dare; and may God not visit upon you his curse for the sacrilege." 891 "If this bill were carried, every man who earns his bread by the sweat of his brow must pay excise, and excuse the court of wards, which would be a greater grievance on all, than the court of wards was to a few."
 Mr. Ward  was of opinion that the hon. Member fcr Warrington thought of nothing but protection The right hon. Baronet said a committee was not necessary, and that the object could be accomplished by official returns; he differed from the right hon. Baronet, and preferred a committee. He wanted to obtain such information as would hasten the conviction of the right hon. Baronet that the laws must be altered, so that he might fulfil his pledge that no false consistency should prevent him from acting upon that conviction.
 Sir James Graham  had already stated to the House, and he would then repeat, that with reference to that report, it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to introduce a bill for the regulation of building within the metropolis, and his noble Friend the Commissioner of the Woods and Forests would soon introduce
 875
 Sir Robert Peel  replied, that he was sorry he was not able at that moment to give any information as to a final arrangement. He would, however, tell the hon. Member the state in which the negotiations stood. Some time since it was intimated that the negotiations should be brought to a close, and they informed the government of Portugal of their views as to the mode in which there could be increased commercial relations between the two countries; they stated also that to the propositions then made they must adhere substantially. They had received a reply making considerable advances, but they were not deemed satisfactory. By the last mail they had intimated to the government of Portugal, that they adhered to their former terms, and he apprehended that by the next mail he should be able to give a definite answer to the hon. Gentleman's question.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the last few words of the hon. Gentleman made him very anxious to guard himself against misapprehension. With regard to the Canadian duties on American wheat, his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies had stated what the intention of the Government was with regard to the Canadian duties on American corn, in case the answers to certain queries which had been put to the Canadian Legislature should be satisfactory. Of course, in what he stated regarding his determination to maintain the existing Corn-law, unless proof were afforded of a necessity for its alteration, he had said so with a full reservation of the intention of the Government with regard to Canada, as expressed by his noble Friend.
 Sir R. Peel , in explanation, said, s an hon. Member opposite had referred to an
 958 "On the subject of these peculiar taxes, such as tithes, poor-rates, and perhaps one or two other taxes, all of which tend to raise the price of corn and equally of other raw produce, in the degree in which those taxes press upon the production of corn here, ought to be the tax on its importation."
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to take the opportunity, before the debate closed to state to the House the course which he meant to pursue, both with respect to the original motion of the hon. Gentleman, and with respect to the amendment upon that motion, moved by the hon. Member for Dorsetshire. He so far concurred with the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, that he thought the hon. Gentleman who had made the original proposition had a fair right to expect that the House should decide affirmatively or negatively upon that motion. It was not in his power to give his assent to the proposal of his hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire. He could not be called upon by the forms of the House to give a direct negative to that amendment. The manner in which the question would be put from the Chair he apprehended would be this, whether the motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield should stand part of the question. The vote which he (Sir R. Peel) would give would be that it should stand part of the
 943 944 945 Hume 946 l. l. 947 948 "There has been a commutation of tithes of late years, which alters the whole question, because formerly the amount of tithe was uncertain, and varying from year to year according to the quantity produced, whereas it is now comparatively fixed and certain; therefore, whatever the opinion in former times may have been, it is now clear that tithes no longer constitute a burden upon land." "When, instead of a certain portion of the produce of the land, or of the price of a certain portion, a certain sum of money is to be paid in full compensation for all tax or tithes, the tax becomes in this case exactly of the same nature with the land-tax of England. It neither rises nor falls with the rent of the land. It neither encourages nor discourages improvement. The tithe, in the greater part of those parishes which pay what is called a modus in lieu of all other tithe, is a tax of this kind." 949 Cheers. s. s. s. s. s. s. "If the importation price of Wheat were 60 s. s. 950 s. s. Howick 951 "I rested the claims of the land to protection, not upon its peculiar burthens alone, but upon other grounds. I said, that protection to the produce of the soil had been afforded for the last 150 years—that large capital had been invested on land under that system of protection—and that nothing, therefore, in my opinion, could be more unwise than to risk the disturbance of the interests embarked in agriculture by the sudden withdrawal of the protection which had so long been afforded to them, under which the existing relations of society had in a great degree been formed, and in reliance upon which so much wealth had been directed to the cultivation of the soil." 952 Gibson Laughter, Mr. Ewart being asleep. "That, it having been acknowledged on the part of the Ministry of this country, that the present Corn-law is not a settlement of the question, and there being reasonable grounds for believing that the existence of such law will be of short duration, it is just and expedient that a state of uncertainty, embarrassing and unfair to the agriculturists, and injurious to commerce, should be put an end to, and measures of a settled and final character adopted without further delay." 953 954 Howick 
 Viscount Howick  thought that the right hon. Gentleman had made out even a stronger case in favour of this motion than his hon. Friend near him. In the first place the right hon. Baronet admitted that it was important in deciding on the policy of the Corn-laws to decide whether the land was exposed to any peculiar burthens or not. The right hon. Baronet said that he had never rested his defence of the Corn-laws on the exclusive burthens affecting land; yet in the very next sentence he admitted that he did lay considerable stress
 955 ad infinitum, 956 957
 Mr. Gladstone  had not received any information on the subject, but he was sure that the statements upon which the question of his hon. Friend were founded must be incorrect. At least they were in direct contradiction to the decision to which the Government had come. The Government had decided, and it was so provided in the Provisions Bill, that provisions which had undergone any part of the process of curing, in any country, should be considered as the produce of that country, and not of the countries from which it should happen to be directly imported. In order that meat should be admitted into this country as Canadian, it was necessary that every part of the process of curing should have taken place in Canada, and Government had given strict instructions to the revenue officers to that effect. If, however, the hon. Gentleman wished for any official information on the subject, there would be no objection to give him any returns which he might wish to move for with a view to that information.
 Sir D. Norreys  begged to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, whether any arrangement had been made on the
 968
 Lord Eliot  said, that although he did not approve of the present bill, yet as the subject was of great importance, and regarded with much interest in Ireland, he consented that the subject should be referred to a select committee; holding himself perfectly free to give any opposition to the further progress of the bill, should it come out of committee in its present shape; but he would suggest to the hon. Gentleman to withdraw it for the present, to give time for further consideration,
 Mr. French : the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland had assented a day or two back to this bill being referred to a select committee. He had communicated this arrangement to the different Irish Members who were anxious that the bill should pass into a law. Those Members, he had no doubt, would have been in the House at that moment but for the intimation that had been conveyed to them. This was doubly unfortunate, as the very few Irishmen who were opposed to this bill, such as, for instance, the hon. Members for Limerick and Mallow, were present. To his great surprise the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland had just communicated to him the objection entertained by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department to his pursuing the course agreed on between them; and his wish that the report of the commissioners on the state of the medical charities in Ireland should be referred to the committee in place of the bills introduced by him—that that committee should report on what principles an act for the better regulation of the Irish medical charities should be founded. He had, in the House and out of the House, declared that he entertained no hopes of carrying a measure such as this, in opposition to her Majesty's Government, that he considered the subject one of such magnitude and importance—that it should be legislated for on the responsibility of Government, that his anxious desire was through means of a committee such as he proposed, to carry out the views of the medical profession, and to secure most important advantages to the public in such a manner as the noble Lord might consistently adopt and
 969
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  conceived that no support ought to be given by the Government to a bill differing so essentially as that proposed by his hon. Friend (Mr. French)from that introduced by the noble Lord. Medical relief was virtually a portion of the Poor-law and ought to be administered under the direction of the Poor-law Commissioners.
 Sir James Graham  thought that the question of inquiry into the state of the medical charities in Ireland was one well worthy the attention of the Government, and one which the Government ought to take up. A bill had been introduced on the subject last Session and during the recess inquiries had been instituted, and a report had been made. The accuracy of some of the facts alluded to in that report had been impugned, and it was necessary that further inquiries should be made on the subject? It would also be advisable that the decision of Parliament with regard to certain other legislative measures for the relief of the Irish poor should be known, before any Government measure
 970
 Sir Denham Norreys  said, that the medical charities was but a secondary consideration; the whole subject should be taken into consideration. Something must be done with respect to the present unsatisfactory manner of administering the Poor-laws. An investigation as to the medical charities, without taking into consideration the Poor-laws, would be most unsatisfactory. They ought to consider the Poor-laws before the medical charities.
 Mr. V. Stuart  recommended his hon. Friend to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, and not press the bill further at present.
 Mr. French  said that he, before stating to the House the course he meant to pursue, wished to allude to some communications he had received from gentlemen, in reference to the statement which he had made on obtaining leave to bring in his bill. He had stated on the authority of the Poor-law commissioners, that the average expenses of fever patients in the Bray hospital was 4 l. s. d. 971 l. s. d. l. s.
 Mr. Barclay  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move an amendment, "that the bill be committed that day six months." It appeared to him, that the bill was an arbitrary and an aristocratic measure. In such a place as London, with its dense and crowded population, he would admit that Parliament might not unfairly be called upon to legislate on the
 972 A laugh. Laughter. 973
 Mr. Hume  asked what documents there were before the House justifying this legislation?
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, the motion with which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Barclay) ought to have concluded was to repeal so much of the Metropolitan Police Act as forbade the use of dog-carts within fifteen miles of Charing Cross; for if it were right to legislate so for London and the environs, it was right to legislate on the same principles for the rest of England—for Manchester, for Liverpool, or for Sunderland. It ought to be remembered that a measure of precisely the same kind passed the House of Commons two sessions ago, and it was only owing to peculiar circumstances that it was not renewed last Session. He supported the motion for the committal of the bill.
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  reminded the House, that if this bill passed, all the dogs now employed would be inevitably killed; the present was the season for house lamb; and if so many dogs were to be destroyed, people must be very careful what they purchased.
 Mr. Hume  saw no ground for interference in such trifling matters when there were so many more subjects worthy of legislation, and imperatively requiring it. It was much more important to legislate for men than for dogs.
 Lord A. Lennox  said, he was earnestly in favour of this bill, in which his constituents felt great interest. The hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. D. Barclay) had said that there was no great cruelty used to these animals. Perhaps that might be the case among the hon. Member's constituents, but in Sussex, where he lived, he could assure the House it was very different. There, he knew that dogs were compelled to drag carts twenty, thirty, forty, and even fifty miles a-day. He supported the bill with the greatest pleasure.
 Lord John Rnssell  said, that he was very unwilling to address the House upon a question of so much importance without the attention of the House having been called to its very great consequence; and, before he said anything, he begged that the second resolution, of the 30th May, 1837, might be read by the clerk. "That by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges, and that the institution or prosecution of any action, suit or other proceeding, for the purpose of bringing them into discussion or decision before any court or tribunal elsewhere than in Parliament, is a breach of such privilege, and renders all parties concerned therein amenable to its just displeasure, and to the punishment consequent thereon."
 The Attorney-General  said, that the noble Lord had in a very fair and candid manner stated the difficulties and embarrassments that belonged to this question, and of these difficulties and embarrassments no one could entertain a deeper sense than he did. However unpopular it might be, he entirely adhered to the resolution which the House passed when this question was first submitted to their consideration. On that occasion he stated his opinion of the convincing argument which had been delivered to the House by the right hon. Baronet, at the head of the Government, and after the debates which then took place, he thought it scarcely possible for any constitutional lawyer to doubt the extent of the privileges which belonged to that House, or to doubt that the House was the sole judge of its own privileges; and if in any quarter, high or low, it was supposed that he had ever receded from that proposition, he begged to say that, such a supposition was founded altogether in mistake, and that he continued to adhere to the opinions which had been so ably expressed by his right hon. Friend upon the occasion he had alluded to. But the difference between the course which it now appeared expedient to adopt for the assertion of their privileges, and that which had been assented to by, he believed, a majority of the House, was, in his mind, a very grave question. He thought, then, and he thought still, that it was not becoming in the House to deal with the question by committing the plaintiff, still less by committing attorneys' clerks, and sheriffs' officers. In his view of the constitutional privileges of that House, there was no danger from any of those attacks that these privileges could be substantially assailed, and that the House possessed quite constitutional power within itself, whenever it was necessary to resent any injury done to its privileges, to assert them. He said, moreover, that the House of Commons, possessing this power within itself, should not adapt its conduct to that of the courts in Westminster-hall, who
 985 v 986 Thomas Wilde: 987 988 989 "And it appears, that in the several instances of actions commenced in breach of the privileges of this House, the House has proceeded by commitment, not only against the party, but against the solicitor and other persons concerned in bringing such actions; but your committee think it right to observe, that the commitment of such party, solicitor, or other persons, would not necessarily stop the proceedings in such actions. That, as the particular ground of action does not necessarily appear upon the writ or upon the declaration, the court before which such action is brought cannot stay the suit, or give judgment against the plaintiff, till it is informed, by due course of legal proceeding, that such action is brought for a thing done by order of the House. And it therefore appeared to your committee, that, even though the House should think fit to commit the solicitor or other person concerned in commencing these actions, yet it will still be expedient that the House should give leave to the Speaker and the Sergeant to appear to the said actions, and to plead to the same, for the purpose of bringing under the knowledge of the courts the authority under which they acted; and if the House should agree with that opinion, your committee submits to the House, whether it would not be proper that directions should be given by this House for defending the Speaker and the Sergeant against the said actions." * "That whoever shall presume to commence * 990 or prosecute any action, indictment, or prosecution, against any person for acts done in obedience to the orders of this House, such person and persons, and all attorneys, solicitors, counsellors, and sergeants-at-law, soliciting, prosecuting, or pleading in any such case, are guilty of a high breach of the privilege of this House. That it appears to this House that the actions commenced by Sir Francis Burdett, Bart., against the right hon. Charles Abbott, Speaker of this House, and against Francis John Colman, Esq., Serjeant-at-Arms, attending this House, are for acts done in obedience to the orders of this House. That the proper officer of the Court of King's Bench do to-morrow attend this House, with all records and proceedings in the said actions." * l. nemine contradicente, * 991 "The next queston to be considered was, the peculiar situation in which the Speaker of that House was at present placed. To many Members it appeared a most monstrous novelty, that the Speaker of the House of Commons should be obliged to appear in one of the courts below, for an act which he had done in pursuance of the orders of that House. A novel proceeding it certainly was, for which there was no precedent; as to an action brought against the Speaker, the instances were rare. Yet, monstrous as it appeared to some, and novel as it must seem to all, it was his firm persuasion that the Speaker ought to appear and put in his plea to the action. Such course was open to him, without the slightest apprehension of his surrendering, in the remotest degree, the privileges of that House; and such course the House could adopt, although it had determined to commit the solicitor."  * v "For himself he would say, that if such a proceeding had occurred when he had the honour of holding the great seal in Ireland, he would have certainly felt it his bounden duty, under the jurisdiction of his own court, to commit the solicitor, and to appear in the court of law to put in his plea; for, unless such a course was adopted, how was it possible for the courts below to be apprized of the nature of the case? How was it possible for them to inform themselves of those facts, without the knowledge of which they could not know whether the injury complained of was committed in a private or public capacity? * 992 With respect to that House agreeing to resolutions in the shape of prohibitions to the courts of law not to entertain causes in which its privileges were involved, such a course was a complete novelty, on which he could not be expected decidedly to pronounce, inasmuch as in his whole course of reading and of practice he had never met with such a precedent? It was necessary that the courts should be informed of the nature of the proceeding. The difficulty was, as to the manner of making the communication. Should the Speaker write? If he did so, and were he (Mr. Ponsonby), a judge presiding in the court wherein the process was instituted, without meaning any personal disrespect to the Speaker, he would most certainly take no notice of the letter, nor treat it in that court with the smallest respect." "If I did so, I have no doubt I committed a mistake." 993 v 994 1. 995 posse comitatus, v v 996 997 998
 Sir J. Graham  objected to the return as it at present stood. He hoped that the hon. Member would withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, that he could not withdraw the motion. It appeared from the objection of the right hon. Baronet, that there was something behind the scenes which the Secretary for the Home Department wished to conceal from the public. He would divide the House on the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  wished the hon. Gentleman not to go to a division under the impression that the Government had any thing to conceal. Anything that could fairly be brought under the cognizance of the House would be freely communicated. His right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department had given an assurance that he was ready to produce all the information which he possessed relative to the establishment of that which had been called by so many names. It was not fair to assume, as the motion of the hon. Gentleman did, that upon a particular day a body of guardians had misconducted themselves. He would propose to substitute for the motion of the hon. Member—
 "That there shall be laid before this House a copy of the minutes and proceedings of the board of guardians of the union of Halifax, held on the 1st of March, as far as relates to the administration of the New Poor-law within the union; also a copy of any resolution for the erection of a rag-mill made on that or any other day."
 Colonel Sibthorp  hoped the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied with the offer made by the Government, and not divide the House.
 Mr. Ferrand would not be satisfied with less than the whole of the resolutions passed by the board on the 1st of March, together with the notices of the resolutions served by the clerk to the board.
 Sir J. Graham  could assure the hon. Gentleman that, in consequence of what had taken place in the House upon the subject of the rag-mill, he had expressed a strong opinion to the Poor-law Commissioners against its use. The commissioners had communicated that opinion to all the unions, and such mills would not be used again.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  hoped the Government would have no objection to produce the resolution, passed by the board on the same day, for the exclusion of the reporters for the public press.
 Captain Pechell  was very happy to hear what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, and he trusted he would set his face against the grinding of bones for manure in workhouses.
 Mr. B. Denison  thought the notices ought to be produced; they formed a most important part of the proceedings of the board.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, the inhabitants of Halifax complained that the board held on the 1st of March, was one packed for the purpose of doing the work of the assistant-commissioner, and that notices had not been served on the whole body. He would be content to withdraw his motion, if the right hon. Baronet would add a copy of the notices given at any preceding meeting of the board of any resolution passed on the 1 st of March; and he would have no objection to have the resolution for excluding reporters. If the notices were refused he would divide the House.
 Sir J. Graham  said, no notice had been given in respect of the resolutions which was complained of as a breach of the privileges of that House, but after the question had been decided on two occasions by the House, he deprecated its being again renewed. As to the other resolution, he thought it was highly inexpedient for the House to direct any board of guardians to admit or exclude reporters. It was better left to themselves.
 Sir R. Peel's  motion agreed to.
 Lord J. Russell : There was no Parliament in the interim; it was in James 2nd's reign.
 Lord John Russell  contiuued: if he rightly understood the course proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor-general, in this case it was that after the House of Commons had come to the resolution which had been entered on its journals, "that to bring its privileges
 976 977 v 978 v 979 980 981 982 R. Peel: R. Peel: 983 984
 Mr. Escott  entirely agreed with the noble Lord, the Member for London, and the right hon. Gentleman, that there was no one point on which the House should be more earnest than in defending its privileges, and if he thought that the vote he was about to give to-night against the motion of the noble Lord, and in favour of the motion of his hon. and learned Friend, was not a good mode of vindicating the privileges of the House, or that the noble Lord's motion was a better mode, he should vote for the motion of the noble Lord. It seemed to him that there were circumstances connected with the history of the country, past and present, which, above all things, ought to make them cautious how they took any step which would in the least endanger the privileges of the House of Commons. He thought the mode proposed by his hon. and learned Friend was not only the proper way to vindicate the privileges of the House of Commons, but the only dignified way of vindicating those privileges. How stood the present case? An officer of the House had done an act by authority of the Speaker, and of the House. An action was in consequence brought against him. He had been served with process of court and declaration of trespass. The question was, whether he was to plead to this action, and the noble Lord the Member for London and the hon. and learned Member for Worcester said, that the reason why they should not allow the officers of the House to plead to this action was, that they would, by so doing, admit the authority of the Court of Queen's Bench to decide on the privileges of the House of Commons. What was that but to presume that the judges of the Court of Queen's Bench would deny those privileges, and not admit that they existed under legal and constitutional sanctions? [An hon. Member: They have done so.] That was not the present question; but if their due privileges were not respected by the judges, then would be the time for them to assert the rights of the Commons with the highest, and not with inferior antagonists. "No, no."] Hon. Members said no, but
 1014 1015
 Mr. Hardy  stated, that, he was anxious to say a few words to explain, why though as much an advocate for the just privileges of the House as any other Member, he should vote for the motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor-general. The noble Lord, the Member for Sunderland had accused his hon. and learned Friend of inconsistency in professing himself an advocate for the privileges of the House, and yet proposing that the officer should plead to the action, and thus probably bring those privileges into discussion by the House of Lords. He (Mr. Hardy) thought this a much more consistent course than that recommended by the noble Lord which was not to plead, but to commit the attorney for bringing the action. In spite of such commitment, the action would proceed; and there being no plea, judgment by default would be obtained, and the officers would be fixed with costs which were probably all that the attorney cared for. Actions might be brought near
 1065
 Mr. Borthwick  thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had failed to answer the Attorney-General, notwithstanding the number of cases he had cited. Perhaps it would be most advisable to follow the course pointed out by the Attorney-General; but then there was this intolerable inconvenience in the practice of it,—the House would, from time to time, be called into courts of law to pay sums of money in the shape of fines for doing their duty to the people. An end must be put to that before the House could exercise its functions with satisfaction to itself or advantage to the people. The state of the case left him no alternative but to vote with the Solicitor-general. He hoped the House would assert no privilege which the Court of Queen's Bench was not ready to confirm and establish by its decision. If that should not be the case, then would come the time for the passing of some declaratory act which should define the privileges of the House and teach the judges of the land what course to adopt. Nothing could look more like "breaking flies upon a wheel," nor be more undignified, than the punishing persons so as to make them be regarded as martyrs, and to give them an appearance of claim for compensation. The House should avoid such committals. He should vote with the Solicitor-general, in the hope that the result of the present proceedings would lead to the passing of an act which would put an end to the present most dangerous practices.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, no one who recollected the debates of 1840 on this subject, but must deeply regret that this question should be re-opened on the present occasion, and by a party from whom they had no right to expect it—he meant the present plaintiff. The first action, the
 1061 v. l 1062 l ex post facto 1063 ex post facto 1064
 Mr. Grogan  begged to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade on the subject of the importation of American salted meat into the ports of this country. He had received information that such meat, which had been cured in the United States, was conveyed in large quantities into Canada, and thence shipped to this country under the name of Canadian provisions. He understood that a great deal of American salted meat had been imported into the port of Liverpool. He begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether this were done with the knowledge and concurrence of her Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Elphinstone  thought that the high court of Parliament had, and ought to exercise an exclusive jurisdiction. With regard to matters of trust, the Court of Chancery had exclusive jurisdiction, and had not allowed the Court of Queen's Bench or any other court to interfere with its jurisdiction. In the same way the Court of Admiralty, in questions of "prize or no prize," allowed no interference. It was the same in the Scotch courts. He was ready to allow that some of these courts had exercised their privilege in a convenient manner, and some in an inconvenient one. The hon. and learned Gentleman cited the case of "Sedgwick and Redmond," reported in  Carey's Reports, v Vessy, v v Beavan, 999 1000
 Sir R. H. Inglis  asked why, if the noble Lord were dissatisfied with the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, he did not carry the judgment further. His not doing so showed that he and those who then conducted the affairs of the country concurred in the judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench, and that it must be upheld. It could not now be contested when it was not contested in the legal and constitutional form. If there was any offence against the House the offence was on the part of those who gave the judgment, and not on the part of those who carried it into execution. Unless the House were prepared to commit the judges he could not but think that the course which his hon. Friend now proposed was the most consistent and safest course, and one which the general feeling of the country would support. Unless prepared to state that the privileges of this House were to outride the powers of the courts of law, they had better take the advice given by the Solicitor-general. For these reasons he should support the hon. and learned Gentleman's motion.
 Sir R. Peel : As there seems to be no disposition on the part of the professional Members of the House to continue the discussion, I will avail myself of this opportunity to state my general views with respect to the course which it is advisable for the House to pursue on the present occasion. The noble Lord the Member for London intimated an opinion that it might have been desirable to appoint a select committee to consider the facts of the case, and the precedents bearing on them. I have so much respect for the opinion of the noble Lord, and am so firmly convinced of his desire to maintain intact the privileges of this House—a desire in which I cordially concur—that if the noble Lord had thrown out that suggestion at an earlier period, I should have been disposed to receive it with the deference
 1001 v v 1002 1003 v v 1004 v v 1005 1006 1007 v. 1008 l. l. l l. 1009
 Sir T. Wilde : I do not know, Sir, with what motives my hon. and learned Friend has made his motion, but I can only declare to the House that the part I have already taken in this question has been attended with considerable pain to me. It has brought me into collision-offensive collision, I may say—with persons of whose judgment I think much more highly than I do of my own. All I can say is, that I have endeavoured to make up for any deficiencies with which I may be chargeable, by as much diligence as can be applied to this subject. I have endeavoured to impart to my hon. and learned Friends whatever information I could collect, in addition to that more valuable stock of which they are, no doubt, possessed; and if it were not that I felt that the House of Commons has now arrived at that point at which its future dignity and usefulness are to be decided, 1 have no such opinion of my own judgment, I have no such desire to occupy its time, as to venture to obtrude myself for one moment on its attention. Sir, I do believe that the character, the dignity, the constitutional position of this House are at stake. And, Sir, I am the more deeply impressed with the state of this question from perceiving that it is to the body of the House alone that the country can look for the maintenance of this House, and for the maintenance of that safety to the public in general which depends on the efficient existence of all the powers and privileges of this House; for I perceive, Sir, that every government in its turn will shrink from the difficulty and responsibility of maintaining the true station and authority of this House. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Montgomeryshire has remarked that this case is attended with great difficulties, and I shall observe that, whoever offers suggestions to the House with respect to the course of proceeding that should now be adopted, and does not feel the weight of those difficulties, only marks the deficiency of his
 1016 1017 1018 1019 1020 1021 1022 1023 v. 1024 1025 nemine contradicente. 1026 dictum "I don't mean to say that if the Commons were guilty of absurd conduct, the Courts would not be justified in interfering." 1027 1028 Solicitor-General and a laugh. 1029 habeas corpus 1030 1031 1032 1033 pro hac vice, 1034 "The power of enjoining parties to forbear from actions was formerly exercised with a high hand, on the ground that proceeding before other tribunals was a great contempt. On these questions the Court has proceeded on plain analogies, for there is no Court that suffers its power to be insulted or its process materially interrupted; and whenever this is attempted, a great contempt is committed, on which all the Courts proceed by attachment." 1035
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was induced to address the House, chiefly in consequence of the allusions that had been made to the course pursued in the case of Burdett v. Abbott. He had foreseen, at the period when it took place, that it must give birth to inconveniences which would not be confined to the case itself; some of which had already arisen, while it was not difficult to see that others not less serious might occur. In that case, a committee had been appointed to examine precedents. He had been named on the committee, but had declined to serve on it, differing, as he did, in opinion from her Majesty's Ministers and several Members of the committee so greatly, that he considered his serving on it was likely to lead to no good result. That committee concluded its report by distinctly pointing at the power which the House possessed of committing persons who commenced or prosecuted actions like the present. It rested this view on the fact, that
 "The particular ground of action does not necessarily appear on the writ or declaration. The court before which such action is brought cannot stay the suit, or give judgment against the plaintiff, till it is informed by due course of legal proceeding that such an action is brought for a thing done by order of the House. It therefore appears to the committee, even if the House should think fit to commit the solicitor or other person commencing such action, that it will be expedient for the House to give power to the Speaker or the Sergeant to appear and plead to the action." 1011 habeas corpus 1012 suis propriis legibus consistant. posse comitatus 1013
 The Solicitor-General  could not avoid
 1036 1037 v. John Russell 1038 1039 1040 T. Wilde "In bad times of our history," said Mr. Ponsonby, "I admit that the House of Commons was in the habit of writing to the judges." 1041 "If any such letter were written to me I should take no notice of it; the only way in which I could know the thing judicially, would be by bringing it before me in the ordinary and regular course of legal proceeding." T. Wilde: posse comitatus 1042 v. v. habeas corpus habeas corpus. 1043 habeas corpus; 1044 habeas corpus habeas corpus. 1045 Howick habeas corpus, 1046 habeas corpus, 1047 v. Parliamentary Precedents. 1048 v. l
 The Solicitor General : Whether there were a Parliament in the mean time or not, those judges were summoned to the bar. What did they say? The Chief Justice at the bar of the House said that the privileges of the House of Commons he knew—he respected them—they were part and parcel of the law of the land, and every judge would recognise and acknowledge
 1049 "We did not (said he) question the legality of your orders, nor the power of them; but the great business was, whether the Sergeant-at-Arms had pursued this order of the House of Commons, and that was the thing properly examinable; but, on the other side, it would be a monstrous mischief to the plaintiffs if such a plea was allowed to the jurisdiction, for it would be agreed on all hands if Mr. Topham had abused his authority and done any outrageous thing, then it would be recognizable by the court." 1050 "You have the power of committal—you are the exclusive judges of privilege—you voted Sir F. Burdett guilty of a breach of privilege—you sent him to Newgate. In my opinion (said he) that commitment is binding upon the courts of law, they will give it full effect." "If the party is guilty of running into excess in execution of the warrant the courts will inquire into it." "He could not believe that so many able and learned judges were all mistaken about their jurisdiction, and he therefore thought that the privilege of that House had been formally recognised as the law of the land. As to the opinions which had been delivered by Sir F. Pemberton and Sir T. Jones, in the case which had been so often alluded to, he understood their opinions to be entirely as to the form of the plea. They did not deny that the matter of the plea would be a complete defence, but they conceived that the plea had not been put in as the form of the law required. But he could not agree with his hon. and learned Friend Sir S. Romilly, that the courts of law could ever take into their consideration and judgment the existence of the privilege claimed by the House." "That as it had been thrown out that there was considerable difference between the cases * 1051 of the Speaker and the Sergeant-at-arms, he felt not a doubt but that the judge on reading the Speaker's plea would refuse to listen to the action, but he could not feel the same assurance as to the plea of the Sergeant, because there might be a doubt whether he had or had not overstepped his lawful authority in the manner of executing the warrant." 1052 Howick: 1053 1054 1055 1056 v. v. v. 1057
 The Solicitor-General  assured the noble Lord, that he said nothing about the resolutions of 1837, till he came to address himself to the argument of the noble Lord opposite, that the House ought to rescind those resolutions before it proceeded with that which he (the Solicitor-General) had recommended.
 Viscount Howick  would ask whether the hon. and learned Gentleman did not say, that the House was the sole judge of its own privileges, and that it rested with the House, and not with the courts of law to determine what those privileges were. The resolution of 1837 sated, that
 "By the law and usage of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges, and that the institution or prosecution of any action, suit, or other proceeding, for the purpose of bringing them into discussion or decision, before any court or tribunal elsewhere than in Parliament, is a high breach of such privilege." 1058 "What a gross inconsistency it was in you, in that year immediately after those resolutions were passed, to support the motion for pleading to the action then brought? Was there ever such gross inconsistency !" 1059 "What inconsistency; you have asked for the decision of the courts of law, and because that decision is against you, you will not. abide by it; whatever you may do in any other case, you can do nothing in this; Mr. Stockdale must pocket the damages. "He thought, that if the House had from the first maintained its privileges, it would have been in a better position; he had disapproved of the bill of his noble Friend near him; he had always been guided by his hon. and learned Friend near him (Sir T. Wilde), whose judgment seemed to him to have been uniformly right, and who had been consistent throughout the whole proceeding; and he was the only Gentleman in that House of whom he could venture to say so much. He, for one, was not prepared again to commit the same mistake which the House had then committed. Then the hon. and learned Gentleman asked,— "What do you propose to do if you call Mr. Howard to the bar?" 1060
 Viscount Howick  said, though he did not possess the legal knowledge of the hon. and learned Member who had just spoken, he would nevertheless venture to point out the gross inconsistency into which the hon. and learned Member had fallen, and to protest against the course the House was about to adopt. The hon. and learned Gentleman, at the commencement of his speech, had said that he adhered to every word of the resolution of 1837.
 Mr. Acland  wished to know from his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary whether he would bring on the Factory Bill and the Education question together?
 Lord Stanley  said, he had received an account sent by certain parties, but he could not lay it on the Table as an official document until the Governor had had an opportunity of sending in his explanation of the circumstances. He had received a communication from the father of the Governor, in which his desire to be landed at St. Kitt's was said to have arisen from the fact of a woman on board being in a dying state and his great anxiety to have her put ashore. He could not, however, take this statement by itself, and therefore thought it better to wait until the Governors own account should be sent home.
 Viscount Howick  said, he must again urge his objections to this part of the measure. The present registration courts were in the last degree unsatisfactory, but would this bill improve the system? Was it possible that gentlemen who had to sacrifice three or four weeks of their long vocation fur 200 guineas, who might be employed one year, and not the next, could make competent judges? The system was expensive and inexpedient. The present mode of patronage was most objectionable. The judges who exercised it gave very little consideration to the mode in which these small appointments were made. In his opinion, the only reasonable mode of constituting these courts would be, the appointment of eight or ten permanent judges, who, by means of dividing England and Wales into three or four circuits, might easily pass through every district in the course of the year, and who, when not on circuit, might constitute a court of appeal in London. He thought the plan of appeal proposed in the bill not much better than the present. The court would not be an efficient court.
 Sir J. Graham  could only say, that the number of revising-barristers was reduced in the bill nearly one-half. The number at present was 160, at an expense of 32,000 z l
 Mr. Bernal  said, he doubted whether it were possible to find persons to fill these
 1085
 Sir J. Graham  admitted the force of the objection, but when those tribunals should have sat one or two years, it would not be necessary thenceforward that the court should sit for more than two or three days in the year, and under such circumstances a fixed salary would be highly inexpedient.
 Mr. Hume  considered, that if the tribunal sat for so short a space as that, it would be better to send appeals before the judges, as in the case of assessed taxes.
 Sir J. Graham  was rather inclined to that course, and, if that was the feeling of the House, he would consent to postpone the clause as well as the others which related to it.
 Lord Howick  observed, that the judges would have the power incidentally as the point then stood, for they had the nomination of the tribunals. It would be much better to throw the responsibility upon them directly, and he was glad the right hon. Baronet concurred in the suggestion.
 Mr. Escott  was of opinion that the proposed tribunal, which was an excrescence on the Reform Bill, would have little or nothing to do.
 Viscount Howick  objected to the latter provision, as tending to produce an unfair multiplication of voters, an abuse which he understood had been carried very far by all parties. It led also, by freeing sons from the control of their fathers, to family disputes. It destroyed the relation between father and child; and further, it induced the owners and occupiers of land to pursue a system which would be ultimately injurious to themselves, as it would have the effect of cutting up property into small holdings. He would therefore propose as an amendment, that "not more than one should be entitled to register and vote."
 Colonel Sibthorp  would remind the House that he was the originator of what was called the Chandos clause, and he therefore must oppose the amendment.
 Lord Ebrington  supported the amendment. He knew well that in Devonshire the joint tenancy clause of the Reform Act had contributed much to prevent the introduction of a good system of farming.
 Sir J. Graham  remarked, that the amendment proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland would effect, if carried, an important alteration in the Reform Act, and therefore it was desirable to know whether the noble Lord was prepared to alter the 29th section of that act, which gave the right of voting to joint occupiers in cities and towns as now given to the joint occupiers of land.
 Viscount Howick:  Though he should not press his amendment to a division, begged to say that he had discussed his proposition without any reference to parties. He objected to giving all parties such a temptation as this clause would afford to increase their political power at the expense of the permanent moral interests of themselves and their tenantry. In answer to the question put to him, whether he were prepared to extend the same principle to cities and towns, he had to state he intended in a future clause to propose an amendment, which would apply the same principle to cities and towns in cases where actual ownership did not exist.
 Mr. Darby  said, that all the complaints against the working of the Reform Act came from hon. Members on the other side of the House.
 Sir G. Grey:  Notwithstanding the taunts of the ministerial side, begged to ask, if those who supported the Reform Act were to be in consequence precluded from proposing alterations that would remedy the defects of that measure? He thought his noble Friend (Viscount Howick) had done quite right to point out the evils, though he admitted the point at present raised was of too much importance to be discussed while considering a clause in the Registration Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  opposed the motion.
 1087
 Sir G. Grey  entirely concurred in what the right hon. Baronet said; but he thought this proviso, taken with the third question to be put to voters at the hustings, which was in the 84th clause,
 "Have you resided since the 31st day of July last, and do you now continue to reside, in the city or borough of,—"
 Sir J. Graham  freely acknowledged that the definition of "residence" would be extremely difficult, and he should wish, when they came to consider the third question in the 84th clause, to ask for some further time to consider it.
 The Attorney-general  apprehended that a person "resided," in point of law, if he had a residence which he occupied by himself, or by any member of his family, or by his servants; and though it might be inconvenient to a tender-conscienced person to declare that he had been resident when he knew he had been absent, yet he might declare, that during the whole of the time he was so absent his family or servants had occupied his house.
 Viscount Howick  thought this definition of "residence" would open a door to fraud, and persons might continue voters though non-resident and having no interest in the borough by occupying a sufficient tenement by some servant or person in their employment.
 Mr. Christie,  pursuant to notice, moved
 "The omission of so much as gives a committee the power of inquiring into decisions of the revising barristers and of the court of appeal.", 1088
 Sir J. Graham  thought, as several alterations had been made, this clause ought to be postponed for further consideration. The decision of the Court at Westminster ought, in his opinion, to be final.
 Mr. Cowper  proposed the insertion of the following clause:—
 "And whereas, by the said first recited act, it is enacted, that the poll at contested elections for counties may remain open during the space of two days; and whereas it is expedient to repeal that part of the said act which allows the poll so to continue open during the space of two days; be it therefore enacted, that such part of the said act as allows the poll to continue open during two days shall be, and the same is hereby, repealed." "And be it enacted, that at every contested election of a knight or knights to serve in Parliament for any county, or for any riding, parts, or division of a county, the polling shall commence at eight of the clock in the forenoon of the next day but two after the day fixed for the election, and the polling shall continue during such one day only, and no poll shall be kept open later than four o'clock in the after noon—provided always, that when such next day but two after the day fixed for the election shall he Sunday, Good Friday, or Christmas-day, then in the case it be Sunday the poll shall be on the Monday next following, and in case it be Good Friday then on the Saturday next following, and in case it be Christmas-day then on the next following day if the same shall not be Sunday, and if it be Sunday on the next following Monday."
 Sir J. Graham  said his own opinion was against the adoption of the clause. The effect would be to limit the franchise. By allowing the poll to be open two days, farmers who had to attend at the markets on market-days would have additional opportunities of registering their votes; were the poll only open one day, and that day happened to be market-day, they could not be expected to forego the market for the sake of going to the poll. If
 1089
 Mr. Hume  said, that where the polling was continued two days, the venal voters held out till the second day, in order to get more for their votes. It led to a great deal of tampering and bribery. He should therefore support the amendment.
 Lord F. Egerton  doubted whether any practical evils had resulted from the pre sent mode which required the remedy now proposed.
 Mr. Elphinstone  thought the second day was perfectly unnecessary. As an instance of it, he would refer to the last election for Leicestershire, when nearly 3,000 voters polled on the first day, but on the second only about 250.
 Mr. Darby  thought that one day would not be sufficient. He would ask the hon. Member for Montrose whether he would have approved of only one day's polling when he was a candidate for Stirling, and was in the minority on the first day, but stood at the head of the poll on the second. Did the voters on that occasion hold out for a larger sum? Again, he would ask the hon. and learned Member for Lewes whether he thought that the polling being confined to one day had prevented bribery in the borough he represented?
 Lord Worsley  said that, at the last election, very extensive treating was carried on. He knew that, at the election for North Lincolnshire, persons went on the first day, tendered their votes for him, and actually polled; they went back, and said they would vote on the next day for his hon. Colleague. On the morning of the second day, they accordingly went, and got their breakfast, and then proceeded to the poll, but were much disappointed at finding that they could not split their votes, because they had polled on the first day. He, therefore, thought that the clause now proposed would be a great improvement.
 Mr. B. Denison  thought that no practical inconvenience would result from taking the poll at county elections in one day. At the last election for the West Riding of Yorkshire, where the constituency was most extensive, three-fourths of the voters polled on the first day, and the majority obtained on the first day could not have been overcome by the number polled on the second day.
 Mr. Blackstone  protested against the
 1090
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, they were told that the utmost freedom ought to be of forded for the exercise of the franchise, and he conceived that the House ought not to limit that freedom; and on this ground he would vote against the proposition of the hon. Member for Hertford.
 Mr. James  thought it was unnecessary to continue the poll at county elections beyond one day. At the last election for the county which he represented (Cumberland) the election was virtually decided on the first day. Some fifty or sixty persons withheld their votes until the second day, and if it was asked why an individual had not given his vote, the reply was, "Oh, the Tories only offered him 10 l l l
 Mr. Henley  would give his decided opposition to the motion. It frequently
 1091
 Lord R. Grosvenor  regretted to observe one feature in this discussion—that all the hon. Gentlemen who supported this proposition were on that (the Opposition) side of the House, while all who opposed it were on the other side of the House. He thought that the present system of allowing two days for the poll at county elections was productive of great practical inconvenience. At one election at which he was present, a great number of the voters polled on the first day, but many of them reserved their votes; the contest was a close one, and it gave rise to a great deal of bribery, treating, and intimidation, which would have been entirely avoided if the election had concluded on the first day. At another election a strong feeling of excitement prevailed in the county, and after the first day's poll the exasperation was so great that a serious riot took place, and one person lost his life. He had mentioned the subject to many farmers, and they declared that it would be a great boon to them if the polling was confined to one day, so that they might get quietly back to their work. The hon. Member for Wallingford (Mr. Blackstone) had complained that if the proposition before the House were adopted, persons who possessed votes for several counties might be prevented from exercising the franchise for all of them; but he thought that the rapid means of conveyance afforded by railways would prevent much inconvenience in this respect.
 Sir P. Egerton  said that the hon. Member for Cumberland (Mr. James) had expressed his astonishment that this pro position was opposed by hon. Gentlemen on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, while it was supported almost entirely by hon. Members opposite; but he must remind the hon. Gentleman that the great majority of the representatives of counties, who might be supposed to express the feeling of their constituencies, were on the Ministerial side of the House. He must be allowed, as a county Member, to express his conviction that, by the limitation of the polling to
 1092
 Viscount Howick  regretted that the discussion on this subject had assumed a party character. This was a matter of great public importance, and he thought that the testimony of the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. B. Denison) was so strong in favour of the proposition, that it ought to decide hon. Gentlemen as to the course they would adopt. There was no county in England in which there was so large a number of voters, and where the difficulty of polling them all in one day was so great, as in the West Riding of Yorkshire; but the hon. Member had shown that the poll might, without inconvenience, be concluded in one day. He thought the proposition of the hon. Member for Hertford would have a most salutary effect in diminishing the duration of the excitement which prevailed during an election; and which, for a time, completely interrupted the progress of trade and industry. The adoption of this clause would also, he conceived, tend to reduce very considerably the expense of elections, and diminish the exercise of undue influence upon the voters; he would not say bribery, for he believed that whatever undue influence was brought to bear upon the minds of county voters was not exercised in the shape of bribery; but when an election was closely contested, a great temptation did exist to resort to intimidation, or other improper influence.
 Lord Ingestre  opposed the clause. He did not think that the constituencies of large counties could be polled in one day, and he begged to remind the House that elections frequently took place at a season of the year when important farming operations were in progress, and when it might be of great importance to the farmer that he should not be called from his work on a particular day.
 Mr. Hardy  proposed the following clause:—
 "And be it enacted, that, in estimating the yearly value of any land or building, or both, in right of which any occupier thereof, as tenant, shall claim to vote, it shall be lawful for the revising barrister, and he is hereby required, to take into his consideration not only the rent paid or agreed for by such tenant, but the amount at which any such tenement, or tenements, shall be rated to the poor in any city, borough, or place, with reference to, and compared with, other similar tenements there situated, as to the proportion between the clear yearly value and the rateable value thereof." l l
 Sir J. Graham  said, he thought the real remedy would be putting in force the
 1095
 Mr. Hardy  declared this was by no means generally the practice; and doubted if his clause was not required to afford a remedy for this monstrous abuse. However, he would not press it against the right hon. Baronet's opinion.
 The Atorney General  objected to the clause, on the ground of the bad policy of legislating to order a judge to do that which it was his duty to do without any legislation.
 Sir J. Graham  then brought up a clause making the personation of voters a misdemeanour.
 An hon. Member  said, that the clause would not meet a case which had come to his knowledge, as having occurred at a county election, and he believed it was not an unusual thing that fictitious names were placed on the register, and then any person that could be got was brought up to answer to them. The case that he meant was that of the rev. Mr. Jones, of Jesus College, Cambridge, who was entered on the register. No such person was known in the county, but when the polling day arrived, a respectable looking gentleman, in a black coat and white neckcloth, appeared at the polling-place, and said that he was the rev. Mr. Jones, of Jesus College, Cambridge.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the clause only proposed a remedy for personating persons who really were in existence or had existed. He could not devise a remedy for personating persons who never had existed.
 W. Patten  hoped that the Government
 1096
 Lord Stanley  said, the whole of the cruisers employed in looking after the slave-trade, were also in duty bound to protect commerce. As to the other point, it would have his earnest attention.
 Mr. Hawes  did not think that sufficient time had been given for the consideration of the clauses which the right hon. Baronet had introduced. He hoped that a sepa
 1083
 Mr. Hume  said, that the principle of compulsory education was wrong. There might be, and no doubt there were, many who would approve of one part of the bill and not of the other. He would suggest to the right hon. Baronet to divide the bill into two parts, the one relating to the factory question, and the other to that of education. This would simplify the matter and render the whole more easy to understand.
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, that after the explanation of the right hon. Baronet no blame could attach to him personally for the motion by which he (Mr. Craw ford's) motion had been got' rid of yester day. The hon. Member then fixed his motion for Monday week, but subsequently named Thursday, the 30th inst., as the day for its discussion.
 Mr. S. Crawford  had no wish to do anything which would interfere with the Government business. He would therefore, if there were no objection, name Monday next.
 Mr. S. Crawford  said he would take that opportunity of stating the course he intended to pursue with respect to his motion, which stood as a "dropped motion, by the early, and to him unexpected, motion of yesterday for counting out" the House. He must say, with respect to that motion, that he had never witnessed, on the part of any Government, such an attempt to defeat the order of the proceedings as they had been set down on the book of notices. In the first place, there was an attempt to prevent the "making of a House," and it was with very great difficulty that a sufficient number of
 1081
 Sir C. Napier  asked whether the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had yet received the official accounts of the circumstances to which he had called his attention on a former evening, as to the conduct of the Governor of St. Kitt's?
 Mr. M. Philips  said, he had received several communications from proprietors of factories on this subject. They did not object to that part of the measure which was to regulate factories and the employment of children in them, but many of them had conscientious scruples as to some other parts of the bill. He therefore joined in the suggestion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) that the measure should be divided into two, which would greatly facilitate its working.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that in his opinion, a sufficient time had been given for considering the principle of the bill and of the clauses which had been introduced.
 Sir J. Graham  intended to bring on the question of Education on Friday. He did not anticipate any objection to the principle of the bill from any quarter.
 Sir R. Peel  said, let it be Monday week, and he would do everything in his power to enable the hon. Member to bring it forward. He could assure the hon. Member he had no wish whatever to prevent the full discussion of his motion.
 Sir R. Peel  was surprised at the state-
 1082
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  said, that the magistrates were quite as anxious as the hon. Member that the truth should be known. They had intimated to their chaplain their disapproval of his conduct, because, being the officer of the gaol, he had not communicated to them what had passed in the gaol, which they looked upon as a violation of the confidence that ought to subsist between them and their officers. It appeared that during the last two or three years the chaplain had been in the habit of keeping private memoranda of what passed in the gaol. He should think that the House would expect such to be communicated to the magistrates, for unless it were made it would be impossible for the visiting magistrates to have accurate evidence of what passed in the gaol. [Mr.  T. S. Duncombe: 1131
 Lord Stanley  said, that this was very much like asking him what his opinion was upon the case. The governor had been on board the steamer in consequence of a lady who was in ill health being there; but he believed it was quite true that she was not in the boat when it was returning from the steamer. He should be quite prepared to lay the information before the House as soon as Mr. Conyngham had had an opportunity of making any explanation he might wish; and in order that there might be no inconvenient delay, as Mr. Conyngham had made a statement to the directors containing a complaint against the officer, he (Lord Stanley) had desired a communication to be made to Mr. Conyngham's father, to know whether he was satisfied with that complaint, without making any further inquiry from his son, and if he was, the papers would be laid on the Table forthwith.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know if the Chancellor of the Exchequer was prepared to state whether, in renewing these bills, he intended to make any alteration in the rate of interest of the bills for which this money was to be voted; and whether he intended to make any alteration in the
 1136
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the present vote was to make good the exchange of Exchequer bills which had been voted during the course of the last Session of Parliament. Other bills would be provided for in a committee of ways and means, at a subsequent period of the Session, in the month of June. To undertake to say three months beforehand what the rate of interest would be in June, was a proceeding which no man, having charge of the financial concerns of the country, could possibly undertake. The interest of money three months hence might materially alter, and it must be left to the rate of interest at the time of the exchange to determine what the rate should be.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether the right hon, Gentleman paid the same interest to the Bank of England for deficiency bills as he did to the public viz., 2d. on all bills.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the interest on the Exchequer bills issued in June, was 2 d d d
 Mr. William Williams  said, that the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that he had given interest at the rate of 2d. and expected to give it at the rate of 1¾d. to the Bank of England on the deficiency bills, astonished him. He had never known the same rate given except under great pressure. If the right hon. Gentleman sold the Exchequer bills to the public, he got money in exchange; whereas if he went to the Bank of England with deficiency bills, instead of obtaining money, as he did from the public, he got only notes, printed at a cost, as he (Mr. Williams) had once stated, of only l½ d l d 1137
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would answer the hon. Gentleman by reference to his own argument. He had said, that in the Three per Cents. the interest which was now given would be a proper rate; because a person who embarked 100 l l s 1138
 Mr. W. Williams  had no doubt that in the existing state of things the right hon. Gentleman could issue as many bills as were necessary at 1¼ d s l
 Mr. Divett  thought that the object of the right hon. Gentleman must be taken to be to preserve a uniform rate of interest. It was said that money could be had at a less rate than that which was now paid; but if the right hon. Gentleman were to attempt to deal with the market in the manner proposed, a variable rate of interest would be established, and inextricable confusion produced.
 Dr. Bowring : The question was whether, in the present state of the market, and with the increasing unwillingness of mercantile men and manufacturers to employ money in speculation or production, the time was not come when the interest ought to be reduced. It appeared to him, he confessed, that the Government might have reduced the rate of interest considerably below that at which it now stood.
 Mr. Hume  thought that this was not a question upon which any doubt could exist, and he had been surprised that the hon. Member for Exeter should have exhibited so much ignorance on the subject. He believed that at the present time the amount of deposits in the Bank of England, exclusive of bullion, was from 8,000,000 l l
 Mr. Hume  was glad to perceive that the expenses of this department were reduced, but he thought the diminution too small. He could not account for the large expenditure of money in the colonies; and unless our expenditure were largely diminished, the country would be placed in a serious position. The present expenditure was altogether unjustified; we were running riot in our poverty; and the only remedy to which he could look with any hopeful anticipations, was a finance committee to inquire into and check our expenditure.
 Sir R. Peel  did not justify the estimates upon any ground of the flourishing condition of the country; nor did he think that the fact of such a state of things existing could justify an extravagant expenditure. He went further than the hon. Member, and affirmed that whatever were the condition of the finances, that could not justify keeping up a single man more than was wanted. It must, at the same time, be admitted that an establishment, such as this country was compelled to maintain, could not be always reduced concurrently with the existence of distress. The total amount of the military force of this country, exclusive of the army of the East Indies, was 95,000 men; but with this force rested the protection, not only of the British, but of our colonial empire. Our regular army in all our colonies, exclusive of India, was less by 10,000 men than that retained by France in Algeria alone. A military force must be maintained for the defence of colonies. Let them take the case of Australia, and of the other colonies added to our empire within the last thirty years, and let them compare the present amount of our force, and that which we maintained thirty years ago. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to the subject of a finance committee, but he did not see the advantage to be derived from an inquiry before such a body; and was of opinion that the governors of the various colonies must be better able to form a judgment of the necessity of maintaining military force than such a committee. The colonial committee of 1834 had been unable to suggest any reduction in our colonial establishments, and he thought that the same result would
 1140
 Mr. Hume  said, that the right hon. Baronet was mistaken in the observation which he had last made, for in what he had said he had distinctly excepted China from the rule which he had endeavoured to lay down in other cases. The number of men employed in that part of the globe however, was only 3,102 out of the 45,000 men, devoted to our colonial possessions. He complained of the large forces uselessly maintained in the Mediterranean and in Canada; and he thought that the right hon. Baronet had admitted the weakness of his own argument when he had resorted to Algeria as a case in point.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  was glad to see a reduction made in this vote, and made no objection to the amount. He thought that the maintenance of an efficient commissariat was highly necessary, for without such a body, there could be no check on the expenditure of our colonies. He approved of the method in which the present estimate was prepared, and expressed a hope that the estimates of the War-office would be similarly arranged.
 Lord John Russell  saw no reason to offer any objection to the amount of force proposed to be taken for the ensuing year, nor to the expenditure of the year in this respect. Considering what had taken place, and the late termination of the war with China, he thought that the Government could not properly have asked for a smaller amount than that which was proposed.
 Mr. W. Williams  complained of the large amount of the army, which was 13,000 men more than it was in 1832.
 Mr. Bernal  did not think the army too
 1141
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the next vote which he had to propose was for the civil contingencies. As the papers relative to these estimates had only been distributed on Saturday, if it appeared to be the feeling of the House that sufficient time had not been given for the consideration of them, he would not press them. He would only state, that in preparing this vote he had endeavoured to carry into effect the wishes of hon. Members expressed last year. He had prepared, which was printed, an abstract, comparing the proposed expenditure of the present year with that under this head in former years. The vote which he had to propose was nearly the same in amount as that of last year. He should have previously observed, that he had removed from the vote for civil contingencies all those charges which were of regular occurrence. The vote last year was 130,000 l l l l
 Mr. Hume  said, though the explanation of the hon. Member was satisfactory, yet there were a number of items in the vote which before he had not an opportunity of seeing. The vote comprised between forty and fifty items, some of which he thought would require further explanation, and, therefore, all he desired was sufficient time to be prepared to ask for those explanations. He observed there was one item of 2,500 l l 1142
 Sir R. Peel  said, that when, on the occasion of a large sum of money being voted, any hon. Member stated  bonâ fide
 Mr. W. Williams  while he admitted the perfect fairness with which the right hon. Baronet consented to postpone these votes, must say that the estimates already passed had been unduly hurried forward. Since he had had a seat in that House, he had never known the estimates brought forward and gone through at so early a period as in the present Session. With
 1143
 Sir R. Peel  had already said, that if the hon. Member thought he could approach the consideration of these matters with more satisfaction to himself by a postponement, he would not press them. But the hon. Member complained of the haste in which the other estimates had been hurried forward. Now, he (Sir R. Peel) thought, that when the Government proposed perfectly reasonable estimates and took the House by surprise by the extent of their reductions—when, in fact, there was a general acquiescence in them, the hurry or haste in which they were got through did not arise from any precipitancy on the part of the Government, but from the universal consent to the Government propositions from both sides of the House.
 Mr. Hume  said, so far from being contented with the reductions in the expenditure which had been made, he should have moved in many instances still further reductions; but seeing the support the right hon. Baronet had, he, for one, had given up the notion of fighting them.
 Lord Stanley : The Government would be quite content to leave the authorities under the bill as tenants at will.
 Captain Pechell  inquired, first, whether the tribunals by which vessels taken were to be tried, were to be under a mixed commission, or under the Admiralty Court; and, next, whether it was under this bill intended to give the bounty of 4 l l s
 Sir G. Clerk  replied, that the tribunals by which vessels so seized would be condemned depended upon the treaties entered into on the subject of the Slave-trade. According to two of those treaties, the tribunals would consist of mixed commissions, and by the third the Admiralty Court. With regard to the bounty on tonnage, it was unnecessary to make any provision on this bill, because the statute 1 and 2 Victoria, chap. 47, gave power to the courts to grant such bounties.
 Mr. Gladstone  objected to the return, as it would be of no advantage to the public. The officers of the Mint had the privilege, when not engaged in the public service, of earning private emolument.
 Mr. Hume  said, they did this from the materials afforded them by the public. He complained of the amount Mr. Matthieson, of the Mint, had received for the assay of the Chinese silver as exorbitant.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, considering that Mr. Matthieson had to furnish the materials for the assay, as well as the labour, and care, and skill, his payment was only reasonable.
 Mr. Gladstone  proposed to omit all the words, after the word Government so as to exclude "individuals."
 Mr. Hume  persisted in his motion, the House divided; on the question that the words proposed to be left out, stand part of the question:—Ayes 15; Noes 39: Majority 24.
 Lord Stanley  said, the object of the bill was to carry out the recommendations of the committee of last year, by the establishment of competent tribunals for adjudication in the cases of seizures under the slave-trade treaties. It was, however, not the intention of the Government to take more for the establishment than had been voted in the estimate.
 Lord Stanley  remarked, that it would be practically impossible to submit to Parliament any budget with reference to the colonies. For some colonies, for instance, he, as colonial Minister, might be called upon, if the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose held good, to state its financial position this year as applicable to the years 1844 or 1845. That was a difficulty he would not undertake to meet.
 Lord Stanley  had no objection to adopt a limitation, but thought the bill had better stand in its present form. With regard to the production of blue books of governors' reports, as suggested, he could only say the plan, if carried out, would load the Table with a mass of matter which, while useless, would involve a vast expence in printing. Again, a colonial financial statement in that House would be calculated to excite a jealousy in those colonies which already had Legislatures of their own, inasmuch as they might object to the revision by the House of Commons of the financial proceedings of their own representatives.
 Lord Eliot  would read to the House two reports, one from the mayor of Water-ford, and the other from the inspector of the constabulary to the Secretary for Ireland? The first stated—
 "Waterford, March 13, 1843. "Sir—I think it my duty to state, for the information of his Excellency the Lord-lieutenant, that a large number of persons (computed at about 1,000 men), armed with sticks, marched in this borough this day, at about two o'clock in the afternoon, apparently making a display of resistance to the payment of the poor-rates. "I felt myself called upon, in consequence, to require the aid of the military force, under the command of Major Reid, of the 70th regiment, who promptly attended to my directions. No attempts at riot or disturbance, however, took place, and at this hour, half-past four P.M; I think they have all left the borough, and gone towards their respective districts.—I have, &c. (Signed) "THOS. MEAGHER, Mayor of Waterford. "E. Lucas, Esq., Castle." Waterford, March 13th, 1843. "I have to report that about the hour of two P.M., this day, a number of persons,
 1127 (Signed) "GEORGE WRIGHT, 2d Sub-Inspector.
 Lord Eliot  observed, that as the question had arisen out of what the hon. Member had seen stated in the newspapers, he might, perhaps, be excused for reading an extract from one of them as his reply. In the  Dublin Evening Post, "EJECTION OF TENANTRY.—Having copied the statement referred to in the subjoined extract from the  Roscommon Journal, "On March 2, sub-inspector Blakeney, with thirty-two constabulary, attended, at the requisition of the sub-sheriff, on the lands of Knockhall, parish of Kilglass. The sub-sheriff took possession of houses and lands without any
 1126
 Lord John Russell  objected to going into the miscellaneous estimates that night, some of them having been delivered only on Friday, and the others only that day. Many were arranged in a different way, and connected with different portions of expenditure from what they were formerly; and it did appear to him, that taking these two things together, they were proceeding too rapidly. He must observe, also, that the course which he used to adopt when he held office was now departed from. The course which he (Lord John Russell)
 1135
 Mr. F. French  wished to be informed whether the report was correct, that 4000 armed men had entered Waterford, from a neighbouring barony, and had taken possession of the city, stating their determination to resist the collection of poor-rates, under the recent law? He regretted also to have to put another question to the noble Lord, founded upon a statement he had seen to-day in the newspapers, that a collector of poor-rates had been found with his brains beaten out by stones, but the amount of poor-rates he had collected untouched in his pocket?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the Exchequer Bills would be
 1133 l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was imagined, because upon a particular occasion money could be obtained temporarily at 1 per cent, that the Exchequer Bills could circulate at that interest. With all deference to the hon. Gentleman's knowledge in matters of this description, he must say, that in regulating the interest on Exchequer Bills, they were not able to take the rate from a reference to a particular time or to the temporary circumstances of the market. In one week, in the City, the rate of interest might vary from I per cent. to 2½ or 3 per cent., and they would be involved in perpetual difficulty by adopting the lowest amount of interest for the moment in the market. The hon. Member must consider that the price of the funds gave 3⅛ per cent. interest; and although he admitted that it was the duty of the Government to avail themselves of every favourable opportunity to reduce the interest on Exchequer Bills, according to circumstances, yet he could not agree that they should make any reduction hastily and rashly, without considering all the facts which were calculated to affect the general rate of interest. He had been told the other day, by a gentleman connected with banking in the City, that money might be had for nothing. Of course, the meaning of that was, that money accommodation could be had at a very low rate of interest. But he did not think Government could avail itself of such a state of the money market without introducing the greatest confusion.
 Mr. Tufnell  concurred with the noble Lord in the opinion, that the production of the whole of the blue books would be useless, but there were many financial returns—from Ceylon, for instance—from the colonies, which he thought ought to be laid before Parliament.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the civil contingency estimates extended over fifteen pages, which were all details, and it was rather too great a tax, even on the forbearance of the Opposition, now to press them.
 Mr. Hume  had no objection to going on with the Exchequer bills and the commissariat estimates; but, with regard to the civil contingencies, they contained so many items many of them new, that he should certainly object to going on with them until further time had been given for their consideration.
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that it would be a great improvement in the management of colonial affairs if the colonial expenditure was brought annually before the House. In short, he thought there ought annually to be a colonial budget, an Indian budget, and a Treasury budget. At present it was impossible to ascertain what
 1144
 Mr. Hume  begged to inform the Government that he had no objection to passing the vote for Exchequer Bills and the Commissariat, but he could not agree to the immediate progress with the vote for Civil Contingencies.
 Mr. Hume  protested against the Government proceeding hastily to form an establishment on the western coast of Africa. Before this was done some plan ought to be laid before the House.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said that it would be recollected that, on a recent motion respecting the conduct of a noble and learned judge, he had referred to certain transactions in Knutsford House of Correction. A few days afterwards the hon. Member for North Cheshire had given the most unqualified contradiction to his
 1128 " Knutsford, March "Sir—As you were the Member who brought forward in the House of Commons the conduct of the gaoler of the House of Correction, Knutsford, and obtained from the Secretary of State an inquiry into the state of that prison, I have to beg you will bring forward in the House of Commons the conduct of the magistrates towards me, the chaplain, for having spoken the truth to the inspector of prisons when I was on oath. "On the arrival of the Inspector at Knutsford, on Thursday, the 2d of March, he sent for me to the George Hotel, where he was staying, and asked me several questions with respect to the Chartist prisoners and the general state of the gaol, which I answered in sincerity and truth. The magistrates met on Friday last, the 17th instant, and asked me several questions on the subject of my private interview with Captain Williams. I at first refused to divulge a private conversation. They then said, 'If you do not tell us what passed during the two hours you were with him, we shall consider it as a refusal to answer the questions of the magistrates, and shall deal with you accordingly.' They then asked if I did not tell the inspector in private that the gaoler had used these words, 'D—n these Chartists, I will give them a bellyful before I have done with them.' "My reply was, that the inspector had asked me if I had ever heard the gaoler use violent language about them. I then stated to him the above language, which the keeper
 1129 "Mr. Trafford, the chairman of the quarter sessions, said, why did not you report these words to the magistrates at the time they occurred? I answered, because you, sir, in April, 1830, in consequence of some misunderstanding having taken place between me and the gaoler, told me not to interfere in the discipline of the gaol, but confine myself solely to my spiritual duties, which I considered a prohibition to report that or any such language, or anything relating to the gaoler. After that order I made a note in my private diary on the day it was given. The letter addressed to me on the 3rd of February, 1843, by the gaol committee, desiring me not to put anything on my public journal with respect to the gaol discipline until I had first laid it before the gaol committee, which letter is in Capt: Williams's possession, will show that ray construction of Mr. Trafford's order was correct. After sitting for some time in deliberation the magistrates sent for me, and Mr. Trafford told me that they had come to the determination of recommending to the quarter sessions to be held at Chester, on Monday, the 27th inst., to remove me. I asked what charges were against me? The answer was, none. No unfaithfulness in the discharge of my duties, no immoral conduct, nothing whatever; only that I had stated to the inspector of prisons what I ought to have stated to the magistrates. I again repeated I considered myself under restraint from the order given me by Mr. Trafford to confine myself to my spiritual duties. The magistrates replied it was absurd to consider such an order a prohibition. Mr. Trafford and Mr. Lloyd shortly afterwards observed to me, 'We find it impossible for you and the governor to go on together; we cannot part with him, out with you.' Mr. Lloyd added, 'If you were to remain, it would soon be no gaol at all.' This remark had reference to the inspector having had all restraint removed, and liberty was given to me to report to the nearest visiting justice any improper conduct of the gaoler or any other officer; both Mr. Trafford and Mr. Lloyd added, 'There is no imputation on your character, and no charge for your neglect of your duties.' I replied, 'I will write to the Secretary of State.' 'With that we have nothing to do.' "When the magistrates met on the 24th of February last, and took the depositions of some of the Chartist prisoners, which they forwarded to Mr. Tatton Egerton, as the ground of his statement in the House of Commons, they never called me; if they had done so I would have stated to the magistrates the words I stated to Captain Williams. Why they did not call me is best known to themselves. "I have been thirty years in the Church, and some time officiated as chaplain to a garrison 1130 "By the next post I will forward to you testimonials from the magistrates, from the surgeon, and the gaoler in my favour, when I was candidate for the Pentonville Prison chaplaincy. "Your obedient servant, "W. BROWNE, " Chaplain Knutsford House of Correction."
 Mr. Ewart  agreed in thinking the self-governing colonies ought to be left to themselves with reference to the management of their financial matters; but with respect to those of the colonies which had not Legislatures of their own, he contended their financial arrangements ought to come under the review of Parliament. With regard to the suggestion of the hon.
 1145
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  thought the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department would do well to exact from the governors of the colonies an annual report of the state and management of the finances of each, in order to lay the same in a blue book every year before the House. With regard to the bill now under consideration, it gave unlimited power to the Government, while at the same time it was impossible to see what was the nature of the settlement to be raised. He hoped the noble Lord would not object to the insertion of a clause limiting the operation of the bill.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  rose for the purpose of putting a question to the noble Secretary for Ireland, of which he had given notice. It related to the ejectment of 225 families at Knockhall and Renefarna, but he had since understood that the property was not that of the Marquess of Westmeath, as he had supposed. He wished to know whether the police had been called in on that occasion, and whether the dispossessment had actually taken place, which he had seen noticed in several of the Irish newspapers?
 Mr. W. Williams  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had stated to the House that he meant to issue the Exchequer Bills at the interest of 1¾ d s d 1134 l
 Mr. William Williams  thought the right hon. Gentleman had better propose one vote for the whole sum required, than carry on such a farce as this. He desired to know at what rate of interest the new Exchequer Bills were to be issued. He hoped also that the House would not vote away the public money, unless they were assured that the taxes now in existence were sufficient to pay this vast amount of expenditure. He supposed that as the right hon. Gentleman had now received six months of the Income-tax, he would tell whether he had or had not the means, with the existing taxes, to pay the expenditure; and, if he could not, the House ought to wait till the Budget was before the House.
 Mr. William Williams : Before the House went into committee, he must complain of the haste with which the estimates were to be passed, those now to be discussed having been delivered only on Friday and that morning.
  Sir Charles Napier  rose to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies a question. The noble Lord had received several reports of the transaction in which the Governor of St. Kitts was involved to which he had referred the other evening; and he wished to ask whether those reports bore out the statement he had made in the House? He was induced to ask this, because, by the statement made by the noble Lord the other evening, it seemed as if the noble Lord wished it to be understood that a lady was in the boat when the circumstance took place. Now,
 1132
 Sir James Graham  thought the complaint of the hon. Member somewhat premature. Immediately after the hon. Member's statement on a former evening, an inspector of prisons had proceeded to Knutsford. The inspector did institute a searching inquiry, but his report had not yet been seen by him (Sir James Graham). It had been left at the Home Office, but on the request of Captain Williams, it had been forwarded to him for revision. He was not, therefore, in possession of the report, and he thought that the complaint of the chaplain was premature, inasmuch as it was his intention to lay the report upon the Table of the House. It was also, he conceived premature because the power to deprive him of office was not vested in the justices or in the visiting justices, but in the Court of Quarter Sessions, which had not yet met. They were, therefore, only discussing the apprehensions of an officer, which might be more or less well-founded, but still they were only apprehensions; it rested with the majority of magistrates at quarter sessions to say whether the removal should take place or not. The hon. Member had supposed, erroneously, that he (Sir James Graham) had a control over the election or removal of an officer. The power was absolutely vested by law in the Court of Quarter Sessions. Till he had come into the House he did not know of the complaint of the chaplain.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the estimates for the civil contingencies had been in the hands of the hon. Member ever since Thursday morning.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, it appeared on the notices that his hon. Friend, the Secretary of the Treasury, Sir, George Clerk, would move the Exchequer Bills, the commissariat estimates, the civil contingencies, and the miscellaneous estimates, in committee of supply; and, as there was none but Government business on the paper, he thought it might be inferred that they would be taken first. However, he agreed with the noble Lord that it would be better to follow the course which he had suggested; and he would take care that that course should be pursued for the future. He believed that the order in which the estimates would be taken had been stated on Friday. The civil contingencies, he believed, had been delivered on Thursday morning. He proposed first to take the Exchequer bills, then the commissariat estimates. To that he imagined there would be no objection. He then proposed to go on with the civil contingencies, and if any objections should be made to going on with the other estimates he would not press them.
 Viscount Palmerston* : I rise, Sir, in pursuance of my notice, to move for copies or extracts of the communications which have taken place between the British Government and Lord Ashburton, their plenipotentiary at Washington, on the subject of the treaty signed at Washington on the 9th of August last; and for reasons which I will proceed to state, I am induced to hope that her Majesty's Government will not refuse me these papers. In the first place, her Majesty's Government have already laid upon the Table a portion of the papers, which were included in my original notice. In the first week of the present Session, my hon. Friend, the Member for Montrose, asked the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, if he did not mean to lay before Parliament those communications between Lord Ashburton and Mr. Webster which had been laid before Congress, and which had been published in all the newspapers in the United States and in England. The right hon. Baronet at first gave a hesitating answer; but on being further pressed by my hon. Friend, he ended by what appeared to me to be a pretty positive refusal. Thereupon I gave notice that I should move for the production of those papers, and the silent eloquence of a notice on the order book, seems to have been more persuasive with the right hon. Baronet than the  vivâ voce * 1163 1164 1165 1166 "And that all disputes that may arise in future on the subject of the boundaries of the said United States may be prevented, it is hereby agreed and declared that the following are and shall be their boundaries,— 1167 1168 1169 1170 "Flectere si nequeo superos, acheronta movebo." 1171 1172 1173 1174 1175 1176 1177 1178 1179 1180 1181 1182 1183 1184 1185 1186 cœteris paribus, 1187 1188 1189 1190 1191 1192 1193 1194 1195 1196 1197 Cheers. 1198 1199 "The military consequences of the occupation of the outlet of Lake Champlain are so obvious, that it must not be supposed they are not perfectly understood by our neighbours across the border." 1200 "From the outlet of Lake Poyenagamook the boundary shall go south-westerly in a straight line to a point on the north-west branch of the river St. John, which point shall be ten miles distant from the main branch of the St. John in a straight line, and in the nearest direction; but if the said point shall be found to be less than seven miles from the nearest point of the summit or crest of the highlands that divide those rivers that empty themselves into the St. Lawrence from those that fall into the River St. John, then the said point shall be made to recede down the said north-west branch of the River St. John to a point seven miles in a straight line from the said summit or crest." 1201 "Whereas the traffic in slaves is irreconcilable with the principles of humanity and justice, and whereas both his Majesty and the United States are desirous of continuing their efforts to promote its entire abolition, it is hereby agreed that both the contracting parties shall use their best endeavours to accomplish so desirable an object." 1202 1203 charge d'affaires, 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 1210 Creole, 1211 Creole 1212 "In the former cases (that is to say in the cases of the Comet and Encomium), the owners were lawfully in possession of their property with in a British port, and were disturbed in their possession of them by a British functionary. But not so, in the case of the Enter-
 1213 "Our object is rather to look to the means of future prevention of such occurrences." "That this may be attained I have little doubt, although we may not be able immediately to agree upon the precise stipulations of a treaty, on the part of Great Britain; there are certain great principles too deeply rooted in the consciences and sympathies of the people for any Minister to be able to overlook, and any engagement I might make in opposition to them, would be instantly disavowed. But at the same time that we maintain our own laws within our own territories, we are bound to respect those of our neighbours, and to listen to every possible suggestion of means of averting from them every annoyance and injury. I have great confidence that this may be effectually done in the present instance; but the case to be met and remedied is new, and must not be too hastily dealt with. You may, however, be
 1214 "He indulges the hope, that actuated by a just sense of what is due to the mutual interests of the two countries, and the maintenance of a permanent peace between them, her Majesty's Government, will not fail to see the importance of removing, by such further stipulations, by treaty, or otherwise, as may be found necessary, all cause of complaint connected with this subject." habeas corpus 1215 1216 1217 1218
 Captain A'Court  said, that, as a Member of the committee, he wished for the Speaker's opinion upon this point:—Supposing the statute required three days' notice to be given, if no notice were given, would it be a valid election?
 Mr. C. Buller  observed, that the question was rather an odd one, inasmuch as it happened that the point had been decided by the committee.
 Mr. C. Buller  reported from the Athlone Election Committee, that it had agreed to a report
 "That Daniel Henry Ferrall, Esq., was not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Athlone. "That the last election of a Burgess to serve in Parliament for the said borough was a void election. "And the said determinations were ordered to be entered in the Journals of this House. "House also informed, that the committee had come to the following resolutions, which they had directed to be reported to the House. "That Daniel Henry Ferrall, Esq., was, by himself, and his agent Henry French, guilty of treating at the last election for the borough of Athlone. "That, in the course of the proceedings of the committee an objection was raised as to the validity of the last Election for the borough of Athlone, on the ground of four clear days not having elapsed between the day of election and the day of notice required by law: That the committee are of opinion, that a notice of four clear days is required by the act 1 Geo. 4, c. 11, the act by which elections in Ireland are regulated; and that such notice was not given in this case; but the committee have no reason to believe that the result of the election was affected by such irregularity; That it appears to the committee, that the law with respect to the period of notice being different in Ireland from that which the Act 3 and 4 Vic. c. 81 has established with respect to England, it is advisable that the provisions of that Act should be extended to Ireland."
 The Speaker  reminded the House that the proceeding of the hon. Member for Worcester arose from a complaint of a breach of the privileges of the House, of course he had concluded that the hon. Member would have concluded with a motion. The hon. Member had made a speech
 1162
 The Speaker  observed, that that was a pure question of law upon which, probably the House and the hon. Member, on reflection, would not expect him to give an opinion.
 Mr. French  remarked, that he could prove that the four days' notice were given.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department to state what were his intentions with respect to a Local Courts' Bill? Did he mean to
 1154
 Mr. Macaulay  said, I hope, Sir, I shall find credit with the House when I state, with all earnestness, that the few observations which in the discharge of my duty to my country I feel bound to offer on this occasion, are in no respect dictated by any feelings of either national or personal animosity. The feeling of national animosity is in all cases odious, but such animosity on the part of Englishmen towards the people of the United States, may justly be termed unnatural. Whatever intercourse I have had with the citizens of the United States has been uniformly an interchange of courtesies and kind offices; and as a public man, and as an Englishman, I can think of that great community only as one composed of persons whose veins are full of our blood, whose minds are nourished by our literature, and whose most valuable institutions
 1253 1254 1255 "I am ready to admit (my hon. Friend said), that if the causes of differences between the two countries are fairly adjusted, if the arrangements are such as to close the present, and preclude future causes of dispute, I am not one of those who would attach much importance to a few square miles of territory more or less; but then I must have a distinct assurance that those causes of difference have actually been removed." 1256 "A straw will serve to show you which way the wind blows." 1257 "The history and circumstances of this settlement are well known to you. It was originally formed from the French establishments in Acadie, and has been uninterruptedly under French or British dominion, and never under any other laws. The inhabitants have professed great apprehensions of being surrendered by Great Britain, and have lately sent an earnest petition to the Queen, deprecating that being done. Further, this settlement forms one united community, all connected together, and living some on one and some on the other side of the river, which forms a sort of high road between them. It seems self evident that no more inconvenient line of boundary could well be drawn than one which divides in two an existing municipality—in convenient as well to the inhabitants them selves as to the authorities under which they are to live. There would be evident hardship I might say, cruelty, in separating this now happy and contented village." "Forbears from going into the consideration of the mass of other arguments and proofs, for the same reasons which restrain your Lordship from entering into an extended
 1258 "The hard lot and sufferings of these people and of their fathers, give them a claim to our sympathies. The atrocious cruelties practised upon their ancestors are matters of history. The appalling details of them are among their traditions. The fathers and mothers have taught them to their children. When fleeing from their oppressors in 1785, they settled down in the wilderness of Madawaska; they believed and understood them selves to be within the limits and jurisdiction of the United States, a people of whom France had been the friend and ally in the war which had just terminated in their independence, and who was still the friend and ally of France in peace. Their history since that period has lost little of its interest. Too few in number, too weak in resources, too remote to expect or receive aid, they submitted to whatever master assumed authority over them. With a knowledge of their history, and the wrongs they and their ancestors have suffered, it will be difficult for the people of Maine to bring themselves into the belief that these people are opposed to living under the mild and gentle sway of our free institutions. It will be equally difficult for the people of Maine to satisfy themselves that it is only from a lively and disinterested sympathy for these poor Frenchmen that the Government of Great Britain is so solicitous to retain possession of the south bank of the St. John, extending from the due north line more than fifty miles up to Fish River." 1259 "If the observations contained in my note of the 13th ultimo have given rise to these consequences, I much regret it; and I would now pass over all these more than useless discussions, and proceed at once to notice the proposals you make, if I were not apprehensive that my so doing might be construed into some want of respect for the parties from whom these observations have proceeded." "It is sufficiently explained in my plan for a settlement, why I was anxious not to divide, in two parts, by our new line of boundary, the Madawaska settlements; and I am sorry to say, that the information I have since received, both as to local circumstances and the anxiety of the people themselves, tends strongly to confirm my impressions." "I had hoped that the other equivalents which I had offered, combined with the sense entertained by the government of the United States of the pressing importance of the case, on the ground of humanity, would have been sufficient for the purpose I so anxiously desired; but perceiving from your note, as well
 1260 1261 "Your Lordship's observations, upon the propriety of preserving the unity of the Madawaska settlement are in a great measure just, and altogether founded, I doubt not, in entirely good motives. They savour of humanity and a kind regard to the interests and feelings of individuals. But the difficulties seem insuperable." Caroline, "It is for the Congress of the United States, whose attention has been called to the subject, to say what further provisions ought to be made to expedite proceedings in such cases; and in answer to your Lordship's questions, towards the close of your note, I have to say that the government of the United States holds itself, not only fully disposed, but fully competent to carry into practice every principle which it avows or acknowledges, and to fulfil every duty and obligation which it owes to foreign governments, their citizens, or subjects." 1262 "The parties mutually stipulate, that each shall prepare, equip, and maintain in service on the coast of Africa a sufficient and adequate squadron, or naval force of vessels, of suitable numbers and descriptions, to carry in all not less than eighty guns, to enforce, separately and respectively the laws, rights, and obligations of each of the two countries for the suppression of the slave-trade; the said squadrons to be independent of each other, but the two governments stipulating nevertheless to give such orders to the officers commanding their respective forces, as shall enable them most effectually to act in consort and co-operation, upon mutual consultation, as exigencies may arise, for the attainment of the true object of this article; copies of all such articles to be communicated by each government to the other respectively." 1263 1264 R. Peel: 1265 1266 1267
 Sir H. Douglas  ; My right hon. Friend, the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government, having referred to me as particularly conversant with this question, I cannot hesitate to rise in conformity with that reference. Indeed, I shall never shrink, however reluctant I am to trespass on the time of the House, from taking a part in any discussion which may come up upon any matter on which I may speak on my own actual experience and personal knowledge. Had I been called upon, some ten or twelve years ago, to state my opinion as to the expediency of compromising this question by a Conventional
 1268 1269 tête, 1270 "Not to relinquish any act of practical sovereignty which had ever been exercised in and over the disputed territory." 1271 1272 "That the persons who arrested him, should be delivered up to be tried by the laws of Maine, and dealt with as justice might require." 1273 1274 1275 "If he would desist, and would withdraw from the district, he would be allowed to do so—othevwise he would become amenable to the laws of the province." "As a deep invasion of the soil and Sovereignty of the State, and required the immediate enlargement of Mr. Greely." "The liberation of Greely, and compensation for his alleged wrongs." "He had enlarged Ebenezer Greely, in consequence of a despatch he had that day received from His Majesty's Minister at Washington." 1276 "That the best way of maintaining friendly relations between the two countries would be to place these matters in the hands of the two Governments." 1277 "As a direct and palpable infringement of the subsisting arrangement;" (And)— "Demanded the withdrawing of those troops whose presence was a violation of the existing agreement." "To take measures for the removal of the British troops. April, 1841." "Approved of the expediency of withdrawing the civil posses from the disputed territory, and of letting that territory be provisionally occupied by regular troops of Great Britain and the United States." "It ought not to have been admitted; but, that under existing circumstances, it would not be advisable to disturb them." 1278 "His most decided opinion, that the Americans ought never to have been permitted to form such establishments as bad been admitted; and which presented the curious anomaly of an armed force, in the pay, and under the authority of a foreign slate, stationed within a district over which her Majesty claims, and has ever exercised jurisdiction." "The general effect was most serious, showing the inefficacy of the concessions made to the Americans, and the undue advantage they have taken of the conciliatory disposition manifested towards them." "The great difficulties resulting from the position which the Americans had been permitted to assume; his serious apprehension that collisions could not be avoided; and that, in fact, the assumption of jurisdiction within the disputed territory, and the establishment of a military post there, rendered it impracticable for the British Warden and the other magistrates to exercise any authority in that quarter." "That, under these circumstances, the claims of Great Britain will be virtually decided by the occupation of the country by the United States, without the intervention of either government, upon the question of right." 1279 videlicit "All she needs, to secure her an unobstructed communication and connection of her colonies, with each other." 1280 1281 1282 1283 1284 1285
 Sir J. Graham  replied, that it was his intention to ask leave to bring in the bill before Easter.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  rose, but was met by loud cries of "Order, order," and "Chair, chair."
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the noble Lord has occupied nearly three hours [ a voice, 1219 1220 1221 "Whereas the traffic in slaves is irreconcileable with the principles of humanity and justice, and whereas both his Majesty and the United States are desirous of continuing their efforts to promote its entire abolition, it is hereby agreed that both the contracting parties shall use their best endeavours to accomplish so desirable an object." 1222 1223 1224 "Upon the great general principles affecting this case, we do not differ; you admit, that if slaves, the property of American citizens, escape into British territories, it is not expected that they will be restored, and you may be well assured that there is no wish on our part that they should reach our shores, or that British possessions should be used as decoys
 1225 1226 1227 1228 1229 "Both governments have agreed to consider the award of the King of the Netherlands as binding upon neither party, and the two governments, therefore, are as free in this respect as they were before the reference to that sovereign was made. The British Government, despairing of the possibility of drawing a line that shall be in literal conformity with the words of the treaty of 1783, has suggested that a conventional line should be substituted for the line described in the treaty, and has proposed, that, in accordance with the principles of equity, and in pursuance of the general practice of mankind in similar cases, the object of difference should be equally divided between the two differing parties, each of whom is alike convinced of the justice of his claim." "Her Majesty's Government exceedingly regret that such an obstacle should exist to prevent that settlement (the division of the disputed territory), which, under all the circum-
 1230 "But the very existence of such conflicting pretensions seems to point out the expediency of a compromise; and what compromise can be more fair than that which would give to each party one-half of the Subject-matter in dispute." "Her Majesty's Government have them selves already stated, that they have little expectation that such a commission could lead to any useful result, and they would on that account be disposed to object to it, and if Her Majesty's Government were now to agree to appoint such a commission it would be only in compliance with the desire so strongly expressed by the government of the United States, and in spite of doubts which Her Majesty's Government still continue to entertain of the efficacy of the measure." 1231 Palmerston "But with respect to the way in which the report of the commission might be expected to lead to an ultimate settlement of the question, Her Majesty's Government in the first place conceived that it was meant by the Government of the United States, that if the commission should discover highlands answering to the description of the treaty, a connecting line drawn from those highlands to the head of the St. Croix should be deemed to be a portion of the boundary line between the two countries. But her Majesty's Government would further beg to refer Mr. Forsyth to the notes of Mr. Maclane of the 5th of June, 1833, and of the 11th and 28th of March, 1834, on this subject; in which it will be seen that the Government of the United States appears to have contemplated as one of the possible results of the proposed commission of exploration, that such additional information might possibly be obtained respecting the features of the country, in the district to which the treaty relates, as might remove all doubt as to the impracticability of laying down a boundary in strict accordance with the letter of the treaty. And if the investigation of the proposed commission should show that there is no reasonable prospect of finding a line strictly conformable with the description contained in the treaty of 1783, the constitutional difficulties which now prevent the United States from agreeing to a conventional line may possibly be removed, and the way may thus be prepared for the satisfactory settlement of the difference by an equitable division of the disputed territory. But if the two governments should agree to the appointment of such a commission, it would be necessary that their agreement should first be recorded in a convention, and, it would obviously be indispensable that the state of Maine should be an assenting party to the arrangement." 1232 "The British Government accordingly transmitted in April of last year, for the consideration of the President, the draught of a convention to regulate the proceedings of the proposed commission. The preamble of that draught recited textually the agreement which had been come to, by means of notes which had been exchanged between the two Governments; and the articles of the draught were framed, as her Majesty's Government considered, in strict conformity with that agreement. But the government of the United States did not think proper to assent to the convention so proposed. That government did not, indeed, allege that the proposed convention was at variance with the result of the previous correspondence between the two governments; but it thought that convention would establish a joint commission ' of mere exploration and survey; and the President was of opinion that the step next to be taken by the two governments ought to bear upon its face stipulations which must necessarily lead to a final settlement under some form or other, and within a reasonable time. The United States government accordingly sent to you, for transmission to her Majesty's Government, a counter-draught of convention, varying considerably, as Mr. Forsyth admitted, in some parts, from the draught as proposed by her Majesty's Government. But Mr. Forsyth added, that the United States government did not deem it necessary to comment upon the alterations so made, as the text of the counter-
 1233 "Her Majesty's Government received with very great regret the second American counter-draft of a convention for determining the boundary between the United States and the British North American provinces, which you transmitted to me last autumn, in your despatch of the 15th of August, 1840, because that counter-draft contained so many inadmissible propositions, that it plainly showed that her Majesty's Government could entertain no hope of concluding any arrangement on this subject with the Government of Mr. Van Buren, and that there was no use in taking any further steps in the negotiation till the new President should come into power. Her Majesty's Government had certainly persuaded themselves that the draught which, in pursuance of your instructions, you presented to Mr. Forsyth on the 28th of July, 1840, was so fair in its provisions, and so well calculated to bring the differences between the two Governments about the boundary to a just and satisfactory conclusion, that it would have been at once accepted by the government of the United States, or that if the American government had proposed to make any alterations in it, those alterations would have related merely to matters of detail, and would not have borne upon any essential points of the arrangement; and her Majesty's Government were the more confirmed in this hope, because almost all the main principles of the arrangement which that draught was intended to carry into execution
 1234 "But of all the propositions made by the American government, none can be more in admissible than that contained in article 10." 1235 1236 "Let us consider the American  contre projet projet projets and contre-projets, 1237 H. Douglas: H. Douglas: 1238 "A sudden and entirely unexpected interruption has been made by a large body of the people of Maine (under the authority of certain resolutions of the Legislature of the State) into a part of the territory in dispute which has hitherto been in the possession of Great Britain." "That Great Britain should hold a part of the disputed territory of Maine, denying the right of such possession, and that Maine should hold another portion of the territory, Great Britain denying the right of such occupation." Everything wears in Maine a warlike appearance; the people are hot for it. The draughting of the militia has commenced. There can be no doubt of the intention of the State; it is, to take possession of the territory we claim." "Upon the ratification of an agreement to this effect, accompanied as it was by an assurance from General Scott (which to me was entirely conclusive), of his conviction that it would be fulfilled by Maine ' cheerfully and in good faith,' I immediately ordered back to Canada her Majesty's 11th regiment, which was then in the occupation of both banks of the St. John river, just below the confluence of it with the Madawaska, and I shortly afterwards despatched the warden of the disputed territory with a suitable posse, with instructions to seize and destroy all timber illegally cut, and effectually to prevent, by the force of the laws of this province, all further depredations upon the timber of that portion of the disputed territory comprised in the valley of the Upper St. John. Scarcely, however, had these orders been given, and these movements made, in the very spirit, as I declare to your Excellency, of an anxious desire on my part to give effect to what I considered to be the true intent of the arrangement, when I learned, with equal astonishment and concern, that a portion of the armed posse of Maine had not only advanced from the valley of the Restook to that of the Upper St. John, and had established and commenced fortifying itself (why do this, if not conscious of the infringement of the agree meat which it was committing?) at the mouth
 1239 "I entertain the most decided opinion that the Americans ought never to have been permitted by Sir John Harvey to form that establishment, which was in direct and open violation of the convention made by himself; but it has been suffered, and thus the curious anomaly is presented of an armed posse, in the pay and under the authority of a foreign state, being stationed in a district over which her Majesty claims and has exercised jurisdiction. Whilst, therefore, it is true that the authority of the warden extends, even according to the interpretation above referred to, over the fort at Fish River, it would, in my opinion, be extremely imprudent and unwise to call it in question, unless we are prepared to carry it to its full extent, which would really be the removal of the American posse altogether. A case might arise of so grave a character, in the shape of insult or injury to her Majesty's subjects along the St. John's, as would necessitate interference with this force, and justify the collision that must attend it, but every endeavour should be used to avoid it, and certainly the offence contemplated as likely to call for it, is one of the last which would be a sufficient motive for what might be attended with such serious consequences." "From my despatch of the 21stult., your Excellency will have learned my views in regard to the exercise by the warden of any authority over that part of the disputed territory now in possession of the state of Maine.—I still continue to think that every exertion should be made not inconsistent with the national honour and the safety of her Majesty's subjects, to prevent a collision; but it is impossible to allow the people of Maine to carry out the schemes which you suppose to be in
 1240 "The encroachments that have taken place, and the embarrassments that they have occasioned, induces me to consider that no time should be lost for effecting such a settlement as may be now practicable, and not a compromise of the settlers' rights on either side of the St. John's. Circumstances might, at one time, have induced the Americans to assent to such a line, if any were attainable, preferable to that proposed: but the settlements on the south of the river would lead the people of Maine to oppose it, and such opposition would effectually prevent the United States from assenting to it." 1241 bonâ fide 1242 1243 "Such are the grants and concessions from Great Britain to the United States; few in number, small in value, nothing for her to yield, injurious to her to retain, and already ours as effectually without the treaty as with it. Except the restricted and compensated navigation of the lower St. John, all the rest was already ours—ours by the treat
 1244 "The infamous act—the habeas corpus against the states—squeamishly called the 'remedial justice act'—is now on the statute-book, the original polluting our code of law, the copy lying at the footstool of the British Queen. And this is the point we have reached. In the short space of a year and-a-half the national character has been run down, from the pinnacle of honour to the abyss of disgrace, I limit myself now to the affair of M'Leod and the Caroline alone; and say that, in this business, exclusive of other disgraces, the national character has been brought to the lowest point of contempt. It required the Walpole administration, twenty-five long years of cowardly submission to France and Spain, to complete the degradation of Great Britain; our present rulers have completed the same work for their own country in the short space of eighteen months. And this is the state of our America ! —that America which Jackson and Van Buren left so proud!—that America which, with 3,000,000 of people, fought and worsted the British empire—with 7,000,000 fought it, and worsted it again—and now, with 18,000,000.
 1245 1246 1247 1248 Bewe's Journal. 1249 1250 1251 1252
 Sir T. Wilde  begged pardon of the House, he had been misled by the practice in the other House of Parliament.
 Sir Thomas Wilde  said: I rise, Sir, to bring under the notice of this House a subject connected with its privileges. No doubt many hon. Members are aware, from the usual sources of information, that it has been supposed by the Lord Chief Justice of England that reflections were made upon him, in the course of a debate in this House, highly reflecting upon the principles which the person who holds that most dignified and important office ought to possess. Sir, by the public journals that speech, and those reflections, are imputed to me; and I apprehend that it becomes a Member of this House who has any explanation to offer, or any disavowal to make, to choose his place in this House to offer such disavowal or explanation. Every one must feel impressed with the great importance which belongs to the character of the Lord Chief Justice of England; and it becomes every one, therefore, to be extremely cautious of imputing to the person who holds that distinguished office anything inconsistent with the high principles which the public have a right to expect should he entertained and enforced from that station. In the course of the debate on the subject of privilege, I thought it necessary to call attention to the danger which the privileges of this House would incur by being submitted to the jurisdiction of the learned judges of Westminster-hall. I remarked on the great probability, that on many of the great questions upon which Parliament would be called to deliberate and to act, there was not the same opportunity for the judges to form a correct judgment as for Members of Parliament, and I referred to this as likely to lead to a material difference of opinion between this House and those tribunals. It is unnecessary for me to offer any remarks upon the great inconvenience and injury which must result from any conflict between this House and the courts of justice. Neither could it he a matter of discussion, because it was obvious, from what had recently taken place, that serious public inconvenience had actually been felt. The remarks, which the subject appeared to me to call for
 1155 1156 "We found," are his words, "that the wards-man, a convicted prisoner, owned all the bedding, crockery ware, the knives, forks, kettles, and saucepans, for the use of which each prisoner pays him 2 s d Dispatch, 1157 "We also found," the report continues, "several books; amongst them, 'Guthrie's Grammar,' a song-book, the ' Keepsake Annual, for 1836,' and the—,by—,18 plates, published by Stockdale, 1827. "This last is a book of a most disgusting-nature, and the plates are obscene and indecent in the extreme. It was claimed as his property by a prisoner named—,and was kept in the cupboard without any attempt at concealment. We also met with large bundles of papers, which, on examination, proved to be rough drafts of briefs." "It was likewise stated by him (Lord Denman) that the defamatory matter had no bearing on any question in Parliament, or that could arise there. The complaint before the court was, that Mr. Stockdale charged Hansard with printing a libel, and he (Lord Denman), in giving judgment, observed: 'Whether the book found in the possession of a prisoner in Newgate were obscene or decent could have no influence in determining how prisons could best be regulated.' And how could it at all bear upon the question as to the way in which a privilege of the House of Commons was exercised, whether a particular man had in his possession an obscene book or not? Nobody had ever put forth such a monstrous doctrine, nobody had ever maintained such an opinion, or had ever offered resistance to the abuse complained of in the publishing of a libel by order of the House of Commons, under the plea that the publication was of and concerning an obscene book found in the possession of a prisoner in Newgate. He would repeat that the nature of the book had nothing on earth to do with the question as to how prisons could best be regulated." 1158 1159 "Look at some of Lord Denman's opinions —remember that which he expressed, that it mattered little whether or not licentious books might be read by the inmates of a prison, old and young persons, placed there with a view to their reformation and amendment." "What in the world had that to do with the case?" "If they had got into his own family, he would have seen in a moment what they had to do with domestic government. That any man should be found to say that licentious and profligate writings, and their use by prisoners, had nothing to do with prison discipline, I own has astonished me." 1160 "The only passage which I believe refers to Lord Denman, relates to that part of his judgment in which he held the publication of the commissioners' report of the state of prisons to be libellous, because the statement that Stockdale's licentious book was in the hands of the prisoners, was unnecessary and irrelevant to the question of prison discipline; in relation to which statement, I believe I said, in substance, that I was surprised that such an opinion as to irrelevancy could be entertained; and that I was sure if such books found their way into the domestic establishment of the noble Lord, he would not fail to perceive how intimately connected the circumstances would be with the discipline of that establishment; and that it seemed to me equally pertinent to the discipline of a prison inhabited by young and old for the purpose of reformation. Since receiving Lord Denman's note, I have, for the first time, referred to the report in the  Morning Chronicle, 1161 "The Prime Minister of England, all powerful and all able as he might be, could not be justified, from anything that had taken place, in supposing that the judges, from some mean jealousy of the power of the House of Commons, would be found to play a paltry game, in order to defeat the just privileges of that House," "It was a judgment which, if it came to be correctly examined, would be found to contain less of accurate law, as well as less of good sense, than any judgment ever pronounced."
 Mr. D. Barclay  objected to the measure as partial in its operation and most oppressive to the poor, and moved that the report be further considered on that day six months.
 Mr. Ewart  believed that all bills affecting trade should originate in a committee
 1287
 The Speaker  said that this measure was not one of that nature contemplated by the rule which required bills affecting trade to be founded upon a resolution in committee of the whole House.
 Lord A. Lennox  opposed the amendment and stated that it was by no means an unfrequent occurrence for dogs to be driven forty or fifty miles a day, in the county of Sussex. The noble Lord referred to the evidence of Mr. Sewell, given before a committee of the House in 1838, to show that the hard working of dogs led to hydrophobia.
 Mr. Hume  opposed the motion and supported the amendment. The decision of a committee on the subject of cruelty to animals had reference to the use of dogs in crowded streets. There was an act against cruelty to animals, and dogs were included in that act. Was it because here and there two or three persons might abuse the trust which was reposed in them, with respect to these brute animals, that therefore it was necessary to legislate for the protection of dogs? He recollected that since he had been in Parliament a bill was brought in to abolish the use of pewter pots, because so many of them had been stolen; why, the Legislature might as well have passed an act to abolish the use of silver plate; and it was on that ground that the bill was thrown out. Now he was as anxious as any man could be to prevent the exercise of cruelty to animals; but, at the same time, he wished to protect the interests of those whose very livelihood might depend on the labour of dogs. Look at the use of dogs in Kamschatka. The hon. Member for Oldham, he was sorry to observe, was not then present; but he had on a former occasion stated the fact that whole troops of dogs were engaged or employed in smuggling goods between the frontiers of Belgium and France. He had received a letter from a gentleman who had heard that it was in contemplation to put down the use of dogs as beasts of burthen or draught; and on the subject of cruelty to animals, this party referred to a case of the then Duke of Richmond's hounds following a stag with its leg broken for one hour and a half. Now, if the Legislature would bring in a bill to pre-
 1288
 .Sir R. Inglis  did not think that any argument had been adduced sufficiently strong to induce the House to adopt the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Barclay). He begged to tender his best thanks to the noble Lord the Member for Chichester (Lord Arthur Lennox) for the part he had taken in reference to this bill. The objection to the use of dogs drawing burthens in the crowded streets of the metropolis was equally applicable to narrow and crowded streets of country towns.
 Sir G. Staunton  trusted, that the bill would pass without alteration. The statement of the noble Lord relative to the employment of dogs in Sussex was perfectly accurate, and as the House had already sanctioned the principle of the measure, he hoped it would pass.
 An hon. Member  having observed that there were not forty Members in the House,
 Mr. Disraeli  said, that he was not surprised, although the hon. and gallant Commodore had found fault with the length of the two speeches which were delivered at the commencement of the debate, that he should, nevertheless, have said one word in favour of that which had emanated from the noble Lord; for it happened, that he (Mr. Disraeli) had that day met two spirited horses, which, he believed, had run over an old woman, and, upon inquiry, was informed, that they belonged to Commodore Napier, who was paying a visit to Lord Palmerston, and who appeared to have been crammed for the delivery of what he called a condensed speech. To that speech of the noble Lord he had listened with uninterrupted attention, and unbroken admiration. He did not consider that speech to have been too long. It was distinguished by that knowledge of his subject which always characterised the addresses of the noble Lord, when he dwelt upon any topic connected with the office over which he had presided. It exhibited one of the most complicated questions that had ever perhaps been introduced in a popular assembly in a manner
 1300 J. Russell: 1301 1302 1303 Charles Napier 1304 1305 John Russell: 1306 "I am perfectly clear in the remembrance that the map we used in tracing the boundary was brought to the treaty by the commissioners from England, and that it was the same that was published by Mitchell twenty years ago." … "I remember, too, that in that part of the boundary (Passamaquoddy Bay in Maine) we relied much on the opinion of Mr. Adams, who had been concerned in some former disputes concerning those territories, and that the map we used was Mitchell's map, Congress was acquainted with it at the time by a letter to their Secretary for Foreign Affairs." 1307 "The Court of Great Britain insisted on retaining all the territories comprehended within the province of Quebec by the act of Parliament respecting it. They contended that Nova Scotia should extend to the river Kennebec; and they claimed not only all the lands in the western country and on the Mississipi, which were not expressly included in our charters and governments, but also all such lands within them as remained ungranted by the King of Great Britain. It would be endless to enumerate all the discussions and arguments on the subject. We knew this Court (Versailles) and Spain to be against our claims to the western country, and having no reason to think that lines more favourable could ever have been obtained, we finally agreed to those described in this article. Indeed, they appear to leave us little to complain of and not much to desire. Congress will observe, that although our northern line is in a certain part below latitude 45, yet in others it extends above it, divides the Lake Superior, and gives us access to its western and southern waters, from which a line in that latitude would have excluded us.".. "The map used in the course of our negotiation was Mitchell's." 1308 1309 Junius's Letters. "A noble Viscount asks why Mr. Oswald was appointed a negotiator against such odds? Because he was fitted for the great work in question by the qualities both of his head and his heart. He was inflexibly upright, had long and liberally been engaged in commerce, and was well versed in the local knowledge of America; no man therefore would deny Mr. Oswald's fitness for his station." 1310 1311 1312 1313
 Mr. Hawes  meant to express an opinion on this question somewhat different from that which had been expressed by Gentlemen sitting on his side of the House. He was quite sure, however, that those with whom he was politically connected would give him credit for saying that he did so with great reluctance, and that nothing but a sense of public duty induced him to say a word on this occasion. He thought the origin of our differences with America was to be traced clearly enough to the attempt on the part of the negotiators to describe a line over a country which had never been explored or surveyed. Under these circumstances a line had been described and a treaty framed which had led to all the discussion and difficulty on this subject. Places and islands had been described in that treaty which did not exist.
 Mr. Divett  added that he had met a gentleman extensively engaged in the silk trade, who had informed him that it was a regular thing on going into a French silk warehouse to be asked whether the goods should be sent through the Customs or "under the moon;" if "under the moon," ten percent. more was charge.
 Mr. Divett  said that reports were prevalent respecting the discovery of extensive frauds in the Customs. Silks and other goods to a large amount, it was
 1286
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that as the hon. Member had been good enough to give him notice of his intended questions, he had made immediate inquiry at the Custom-house on the subject. He found that the Board of Customs had entered into no compromises as to the recent seizures of silks, or any other seizures, and that they would not enter into any such compromises. As to the publication of the names of convicted parties, he saw no objection to it, excepting during the pendency of proceedings; the hon. Member would be aware that until the parties were convicted such publication would be disadvantageous.
 Sir Charles Napier  had listened with great attention and pleasure to the very lengthened speech of the noble Lord who brought forward the motion, as well as to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, which was not very short, though he was one of those who thought that if hon. Gentlemen would make shorter speeches they would make more impression on the House, whilst the fatigue of hon. Gentlemen would be a great deal less. Considering, however, that the noble Lord had to go over sixty years of negotiation and diplomacy, he did not think that he could have condensed his speech more than he did. The right hon. Baronet had got up to answer that speech with considerable warmth, and with an excited manner; and he (Sir C. Napier) thought it often happened that when the right hon. Baronet failed in argument, he endeavoured to fetter their judgment by the power of his eloquence, and also by the strength of his action. He confessed that he always admired the right hon. Baronet, but towards the end of his speeches his audience seemed considerably bewildered, so eloquent was the right hon. Baronet's language, and so expressive was his manner. Last night, a mist, something like a dream, had come over his eyes during the right hon. Baronet's speech, which had almost the effect of mesmerism, and obliged him to retire from the House, so as to prevent his hearing the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh, in every word of which he agreed [ laughter. "Article VIII.—The parties mutually stipulate, that each shall prepare, equip, and maintain in service on the coast of Africa, a sufficient and adequate squadron, or naval force of vessels, of suitable numbers and descriptions, to carry in all not less than eighty guns, to enforce, separately and respectively, the laws, rights, and obligations of each of the two countries for the suppression of the slave-trade; the said squadrons to be independent
 1291 1292 "The American government then is prepared to say that the practice of impressing sea men from American vessels cannot hereafter be allowed to take place. That practice is founded on principles which it does not recognize, and is invariably attended by consequences so unjust, so injurious, and of such formidable magnitude as cannot be submitted to." 1293 "The territory, in controvery is, for that portion of it at least which is likely to come to Great Britain by any amicable settlement, as worthless for any purposes of habitation or cultivation as probably any tract of equal size on the habitable globe; and if it were not for the obvious circumstance of its connecting the British North American provinces, I believe I might venture to say that, whatever might have been the merit of our case, we should long since have given up the controversy, and willingly have made the sacrifice to the wishes of a country with which it is so much our interest, as it is our desire, to maintain the most perfect harmony and good will." "In considering on the map a division of the territory in question, this remarkable circumstance must be kept in mind, that a division of acres by their number would be a very unequal division of their value. The southern portion of this territory, the valley of the Aroostook, is represented to be one of the most beautiful and most fertile tracts of land in this part of the continent, capable of the highest state of cultivation, and covered with fine timber, while the northern portion, with the exception of that small part comprised within the Madawaska settlement, is of the miserable description I have stated. It would be no exaggeration to say that one acre on the Aroostook would be of much more value than ten acres north of the St. John. There would be, therefore, no equality in making a division of acre for acre." 1294 "The inhabitants have professed great apprehensions of being surrendered by Great Britain, and have lately sent an earnest petition to the Queen, deprecating that being done. Further, this settlement forms one united community, all connected together and living some on one and some on the other side of the river, which forms a sort of high road between them. It seems self-evident that no more inconvenient line of boundary could well be drawn, than one which divides in two an existing municipality; inconvenient as well to the inhabitants themselves, as to the authorities under which they are to live. There would be evident hardship, I might say cruelty, in separating this now happy and contented village, to say nothing of the bickerings and probable collisions likely to arise from taking in this spot the precise line of the river, which would, under other circumstances, satisfy us. Indeed, I should consider that such a separation of these industrious settlers, by placing them under separate laws and governments, a most harsh proceeding, and that we should thereby abandon the great object we should have in view of the happiness and convenience of the people, and the fixing a boundary the least likely to occasion further strife." "The experience of the world, and our own experience, shows the propriety of making rivers boundaries whenever their courses suit the general objects." "The next question is, how far upward
 1295 1296 1297 "A work here (now the boundary line), on Lake Champlain, may be made to command the pass of the lake, and is considered by far the most important of any proposed on the whole line of frontier. The position of Lake Champlain is somewhat peculiar; while Ontario, Erie, Huron, and Superior, stretch their whole length along the frontier (forming in fact, the boundary), Champlain extends deeply into our territory, and while its southern extremity reaches almost to the Hudson, it finds its outlet to the north in the St. Lawrence, nearly midway between Montreal and Quebec, the two great objects of attack. This is undoubtedly the course by which the British possessions can be most effectually assailed; while at the same time it would afford to the enemy, possessing a naval superiority, equal facilities for bringing the war within our own borders, if it be left unfortified. It therefore becomes necessary to fortify a point, as near the line as possible, to shut out the enemy's vessels, and thus effect the double object of protecting the interior shores of the lake from the predatory attacks to which they would be otherwise exposed, and of securing it to ourselves, as a channel by which our troops and supplies may be rapidly thrown forward to the points of attack and defence." "Mr. Webster's proposal goes not merely to the retention by the United States of the block-house at the mouth of the Fish river, and the establishment there of a military force in the place of the civil possee at present in occupation of that post, but to confine the occupation of the territory in dispute by her Majesty's forces to the north bank of the St. John's, thereby virtually excluding them from affording protection, if required, to her Ma-
 1298 "With regard to the suggestion of adopting the channel of the river St. John as a temporary boundary between the two parties, I must at once state, that her Majesty's authorities can, under no circumstances, consent to relinquish the exercise of British jurisdiction through the Madawaska settlements, which extend along the south bank as well as along the north bank of the St. John's; and that the right will be reserved of provisionally stationing a force of British troops in any part of those settlements, either south or north of the St. John's, where it may be found necessary for the due protection of the inhabitants." 1299
 Lord G. Somerset  opposed the motion. It would interfere with the rights of persons who possessed the privilege of occupying common lands.
 Lord J. Manners  suggested that the hon. Member should withdraw the notice and bring in a bill to make allotments to the poor, as recommended by the Labourers' Friend Society. These, in his opinion, ought not to consist of less than two nor more than five acres.
 Mr. Cowper  considered this to be a question of very great importance. He hoped the hon. Member would follow the recommendation of the noble Lord. If a
 1316
 Mr. Christopher  thought it very right that the House should encourage the industrious portion of the working classes by means of the allotment system, and he should be glad to aid in the furtherance of the system, as recommended by the Labourers' Friend Society, but he objected to the mode of doing it proposed in this motion, because it would be an interference with private property and private rights.
 Mr. S. Crawford  said something ought to be done before proceeding further with the enclosure system, to protect the rights of the poor.
 Mr. Estcourt  thought, that what the motion proposed to do would very materially injure the beneficial system now in operation; it would be the means of encouraging idleness and vice instead of industry and virtue; he hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member would withdraw his motion, though he could not promise the hon. Member his support if he brought in a bill.
 Mr. M. Philips  remarked, that Parliament had never yet done what it had proposed to do so long ago as 1834, he believed, namely, to set apart open spaces for recreation in the neighbourhood of all great towns. From the great extent of the Crown lands he had no doubt an arrangement might be made to exchange with proprietors of lands in the vicinity of great towns. His recommendation to the hon. Member would be to move for a select committee to inquire. It was very important not to proceed in a hurry on such a subject. There was an objection, he thought, to the motion which had not been touched upon, namely, that the effect of it would be to check the progress of inclosure bills.
 Mr. B. Escott  deprecated pressing the motion to a division. The consequence of the hasty mode in which inclosure bills were sometimes passed in that House was, that they contained provisions by means of which numbers of families were deprived of their livelihood. There was good reason, however, to take up the subject, and the House ought to protect the rights of the poor.
  Mr. Muntz  agreed that nothing was more wanted in manufacturing towns than places of recreation for the inhabitants, and that no greater boon could be given
 1317
 Mr. Stanton  said that the great object of his motion was to put a stop to the passing of inclosure bills without having added to them some such clause as his motion embodied. However, as the general feeling of the House seemed to be that he ought not to press his motion at that time, he would, with leave of the House, withdraw it.
 Lord Stanley  said that the act of the legislature of Jamaica, to which reference had been made, certainly did impose high duties, particularly with reference to Irish produce. By the report received by the Government within the last few days, it appeared that this bill was to be in operation only for nine months: it was to come into operation on the 5th of April, and continue to the end of the present year. The Government had referred that, report
 1319
 Lord Stanley  said that the duties were considerably increased by the bill, although he did not think they were to the extent stated by the hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Gladstone  said that it seemed to be apprehended that the corn of foreign countries, carried into British colonies, and thence brought here, would not be subject to the same duty here as foreign corn. The hon. Gentleman seemed to imagine that the principle of the British law was, that foreign articles brought into British colonies, and thence imported into this country, were considered as articles of colonial produce. Such, however, was not the case. In order for articles to be admitted on payment of the colonial duty, it was necessary that they should be the produce of the colonies, as well as imported from them. With regard to raw materials brought into the colonies, manufactured there, and then imported into this country, they were considered as articles of colonial produce, inasmuch as all manufactured articles were considered
 1320
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that the subject was under the consideration of the Board of Trade, and he hoped before many weeks elapsed, to be enabled to lay some measure before the House.
 Mr. Hogg , from the select committee appointed to try and determine the matter of the petition of George Gill and Samuel Bean, electors, and also of Joseph Frearson and others, electors, complaining of an undue election and return for the borough of Nottingham, appeared at the Bar and informed the House that the committee had determined:—
 "That John Walter, Esq., was not duly elected a burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Nottingham, 1323 "That the last election for the said borough was a void election." "That John Walter, Esq., was, through his agents guilty of bribery and treating at the last election for the borough of Nottingham. "That it was proved before the committee, that— 
 
 l. s. d. 
 William Spurr was bribed by 0 16 0 
 William Wright 0 10 0 
 William Milner 0 12 6 
 John Upton 0 10 0 
 Edward Flinders 3 0 0 
 William Middup 1 1 0 
 James Rayner 2 0 0 
 William Beardsal l 10 0 
 Matthew Daniel 0 7 6 
 James Wilkinson 0 15 0 
 William Jarvis 0 15 0 
 Henry German 0 15 0 
 James Newton 0 15 0 
 Richard Roberts 0 10 0 
 Charles Birkin 0 10 0 
 James Ash 1 7 6 
 Thomas Johnson 1 18 0 
 Charles Clarke by a promise of 5 l. s. 
 William Hart 1 0 0 
 Samuel Colley by a sum not stated, given to his wife 
 Francis Beastall by a promise of 5 l. l. 
 Thomas Beastall by a promise of 5 l. l. 
 John Day, paid to himself and wife 1 5 0 
 John Kirkham 1 0 0 
 William Middleton 1 0 0 
 John Emmerson 1 0 0 "That it was not proved that such bribery was committed with the knowledge or consent of the aforesaid John Walter, Esq."
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that it had been the practice during the last Session of Parliament, whenever a report like this was presented, that a new writ for the borough should not be granted until the evidence taken before the committee was printed. He wished to know from his hon. Friend the Chairman of the committee, whether, in conformity with this practice, he intended to move that this evidence should be printed, and that the issuing of a new writ for the borough of Nottingham be suspended, until the evidence was before the House? If the hon. Member did not take this course he should.
 Mr. Hogg  had only one object or desire
 1324
 Mr. Hogg  said, he had received no instructions from the committee; but he hoped that he should not be acting in opposition to their wishes in moving that, until the House had an opportunity to consider this evidence, the issuing of the writ for the borough of Nottingham be suspended. He would say for a fortnight.
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to the motion of the hon. Member in the present instance, but he thought that it was a motion to which they ought not to agree in every case. It was, he thought, in this instance a proper motion, and other cases might arise in which it might be equally proper, but he thought that the House would not consider itself bound to take this course upon every occasion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was rather inclined to think, that as this was a motion of which no notice had been given, it should hardly on this occasion be pressed on the attention of the House.
 Mr. C. Wood , as a Member of the Chairman's panel, felt himself bound to say that he did not think that it was quite fair to throw upon the Chairman of a committee the responsibility of taking such a course as that which on this occasion had been cast upon the hon. Gentleman opposite. The duty of a chairman was to obey the desires of the committee; and, such being his position, he thought that the hon. Gentleman ought not to have been called upon to assume the position in which he was placed, because he must be taken, to a great extent, to express the feelings and views of the committee of which he had been Chairman.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought that the noble Lord the Member for Nottinghamshire (Lord Lincoln) was in error in supposing that that which he had stated was a correct description of the prevailing practice of the last Session of Parliament. He thought that that which he had stated was
 1325
 The Earl of Lincoln  bad stated what he believed to have been the common practice in the last Session of Parliament when such reports were made. In the Athlone case there was no specific report alleging bribery. [Mr.  Aglionby
 Mr. Cochrane , as a Member of the committee, begged to state that he should object to the suspension of the writ.
  Mr. Hawes  thought that to assent to the present motion under the present circumstances, would be calculated to establish a precedent which it was not right should be acted upon. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member would withdraw this motion, upon an understanding that no motion for a new writ should be made without notice.
  Sir R. Peel  did not see how they could come to such a distinct understanding, unless every individual Member gave his assent to it. The usual course to pursue was for some Member to move for the writ. If the House chose to lay it down as a rule that no one could move for a writ without giving notice it might do so, but he did not see how they could come to this constructive understanding. He thought the best course would be for his noble Friend to move that the evidence be printed and laid upon the Table of the House, and then to give notice that he should oppose the motion for a new writ in case it should be made prior to that evidence being laid before the House. But he did not think the proposed understanding would be binding on any individual.
 Sir C. Lemon  observed, that the motion
 1326
  Mr. Hogg  expressed a hope, if any importance were attached to the circumstance of the present motion having emanated from him, that the House would permit him to withdraw it; because in his individual capacity he was of opinion that no case had been made out for the suspension of the writ, and he made the motion merely for the purpose of affording the House an opportunity of coming to a decision on the subject, and not for the purpose of expressing any opinion either on behalf of the committee or for himself.
 The Earl of Lincoln  gave notice, that, on a motion for a new writ, he would move that it be not issued until the evidence of the committee was before the House.
 Sir G. Grey  thought it was the feeling of the House that the writ should be suspended until the evidence was printed; but, as any hon. Member might to morrow move that a new writ be issued, he should join the noble Lord in opposing the issue of the writ while the evidence was in the printer's hands.
 Mr. French  called on the House to observe that the chairman of the committee and also another member of it, declared it to be their opinion that the writ ought not to be suspended. As a motion had been made, he thought the House should go to a division on the question whether the writ be issued or not.
 The Earl of Lincoln  thought the most convenient course for him to pursue would be, to move, as an amendment, that the writ be suspended to that day sennight.
 Sir G. Grey  knew nothing of the proceedings of the Nottingham committee except what he had now heard from the report, which contained a list of voters who were proved before the committee to have been bribed. It was well known that the cases of all the voters actually bribed were not brought before the committee, and that as many only were pro-
 1327
 Mr. Aglionby  would vote for the issuing of the writ. He thought they had no right to suspend the writ unless upon very strong and special grounds. He had over and over again voted for the suspension of writs in certain cases where grounds had been shown, and where the evidence laid before the House proved that there had been general corruption in the town, and would do so again in similar cases. But in this case the noble Lord had shown no grounds for the suspension of the writ; he had merely made a motion to that effect. The right hon. Gentleman who last spoke had stated some grounds, but they were neither sufficient nor constitutional. He called upon the House to suspend the writ, because on a former occasion there was bribery and corruption at Nottingham. But it would appear that bribery had diminished. He had no local knowledge of or particular interest in the borough of Nottingham, and he assured the House that what effect the issuing or suspension of the writ would have upon the different parties in that borough he was totally ignorant. He grounded his remarks entirely upon the principle of the question. If the committee had reported specially that they had found in the borough of Nottingham general and systematic bribery, and treating and corruption upon a large scale, then might their report be considered a sufficient reason for suspending the writ; but, in point of fact, there had never been presented to that House a more simple report. It said nothing whatever against the town, but merely specified a few individuals who it appeared had been bribed with very small sums. For this reason he thought it the bounden duty of the noble Lord, or some one who supported the noble Lord's opinion, to show grounds for
 1328
 Mr. Cochrane  said, that after the question had been referred to a select committee, after the report which had been presented from that committee, and after the declaration which had that evening been made by individual Members of it that they saw no reason why the writ should not be issued, he thought it would be a most unjust proceeding on the part of the House to agree to its suspension. It could not be alleged that the cases of bribery enumerated in the report, amounting in all to about 3 l. l.
 Lord John Russell : The House had already ordered that the minutes of evidence taken before the committee be laid on the Table of the House and be printed for the information of hon. Members, and that step, he supposed, had been taken for the purpose of considering the result of the facts proved. The House found no fault with the decision of the committee, so far as that decision came within the
 1329
 Sir R. Peel  thought that there was ample ground for the suspension of this writ until the House had had an opportunity of looking at the evidence. The report stated that the agents of Mr. Walter had been guilty of bribery and treating, and that the bribery had been brought home to them; and no fewer than twenty-seven cases were mentioned of persons actually receiving bribes. Let the House observe what some of these case were. It was proved in some case that 1 l. l. 1330
 Mr. Hogg  wished to state his impartial opinion to the House as chairman of this committee. When he stated that there was no ground for suspending the writ, he alluded merely to the evidence that had been taken before the committee on the present occasion. He also considered it to be his duty, as chairman of that committee, to say that the committee did not, from the evidence taken before it, deem it necessary to make any special report. It should be recollected that this was a borough containing 60,000 inhabitants, and between 5,000 and 6,000 voters. On the present occasion the general prevalence of bribery had not been brought permanently under the notice of the committee, and he thought that nothing could tend more to defeat the object which the House had so much in view—namely, the suppression of bribery—than for it to press for the suspension of the writ or the disfranchisement of a place where the bribery and corruption had not been enormous. The House might depend upon it that the pursuing such a course would have a very different effect from putting down bribery. He did not mean to say that the bribery was confined to the twenty-seven or twenty-eight cases mentioned in the report of the committee; indeed he knew that it extended much further, for the evidence taken before the committee showed that bribery and treating was extensively carried on there. But admitting all this, still on reference to the number of the electors and to the size of the borough, he did not think that the bribery or treating, or other corruption, was sufficiently extensive to justify the committee in making a special report. They had, therefore, made a report in conformity with the terms of the act of Parliament. He was sure that it was the opinion of the committee that if any further steps should be taken they should originate with the House. He must add, however, that it would appear rather foolish to call for the production of the evidence and proceedings of the committee, if it was at once to put them aside. For his own part, if he was compelled to give his vote, and if the hon. Member persisted in moving that the writ be suspended, he should certainly vote with him.
 Lord Ebrington  wished to know from the hon. Member who had stated that, as chairman of the election committee, he did not consider that there was sufficient to justify the suspension of the writ, why he so readily yielded to the suggestion made to his elbow, to move for the production of the minutes of evidence taken before the committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not think that it was prudent for the House rashly to suspend the issuing writs. It was a dangerous exercise of power, and if often adopted, might he productive of the most serious consequences. He agreed with his hon. Friend, the chairman of the committee, that although bribery might be found to have been committed in a place, still it might not be carried to such an extent as to justify them in resorting to extreme measures. The case of Nottingham, however, was different from an ordinary case, for it must be in the recollection of all, that the House appointed a special committee last year, to inquire into certain peculiar circumstances connected with Nottingham, and to report concerning certain corrupt compromises which had been entered into for the purpose of avoiding investigation into gross bribery, which had been alleged to have been practised there. In that report it was stated, that the number of electors for the borough of Nottingham was 5,400, that the sum expended on the election, on the part of Sir John Cam Hobhouse, and Sir George Larpent, was 12,000 l. l. l. 1332
 Mr. Hawes  thought, that if the House was called upon to suspend the writ, that it should only be induced to do so on special grounds. He objected to the right hon. Gentleman quoting the proceedings of the Election Compromise Committee as having reference to the present question. That committee had referred to it the consideration of the circumstances which had led to the compromises which prevented the House from investigating the bribery that was alleged to have taken place at Nottingham and other places; but that committee did not allege that these corrupt practices prevailed there to such an extent as to call for the disfranchisement of the borough. The recent committee, also, although it alleged specific cases of bribery, did not make any special report as to the general prevalence of it there, he, therefore, did not think, that there was sufficient ground for suspending the writ. He must admit, however, that after having ordered the production of the evidence, that it was the rational course to read it. But in all cases of writs, he thought that it would be well to act upon a suggestion which was thrown out by the right hon. Baronet, and he hoped, that the noble Lord, the Member for London, and the right hon. Gentleman would agree to some resolution on the subject, so that there should be a practice that no writ should be moved for without due notice.
 Sir Charles Douglas  thought, that the House, consistently, could not vote for any other course than the suspension of the writ; for, after the evidence they had of what took place at the last election for Nottingham, it was a matter of consequence that the House should look into the evidence to see by whom the parties named in the report had been bribed at the last election. If those agents which were referred to as having been instrumental in the commission of these acts of
 1333
 Mr. B. Escott  said, that the House was already in a position to know some of the merits of the case, for three Members of the committee had told them that they did not consider that the evidence taken before them was such as to justify the House in refusing to issue the writ. Under these circumstances he did not see what necessity there was for their persevering in the motion to have the evidence laid before the House. If the hon. Member persevered in his motion for the issuing the writ, he should vote for it on constitutional grounds.
 Mr. Gladstone : If corn was ground in the colony the flour was deemed to be the produce of the colony.
 Lord Stanley  stated that he should be prepared to introduce the measure shortly after Easter.
 Mr. Gladstone  would answer the hon. Member by referring him to the general provisions of the law, which had existed for many years. According to the law, any articles manufactured in a colony were deemed to be the produce of that colony. Flour had been always considered to fall within the description of a manufactured article.
 Mr. Gladstone : In consequence of the interest taken in this subject by the representatives of the shipping ports of this country, inquiries had been made by the Board of Trade into the question relating to the duties levied on the timber imported into the Isle of Man, for the purposes of ship building, and it was found that those duties were lower than those exacted on the introduction of timber into this country. This was a state of facts which,  prima facie 1322
 The Earl of Lincoln  thought the hon. Gentleman had almost forgotten the terms of his notice of motion in making his last request. That was not the motion of which the hon. Gentleman had given notice, and if it were he should not have been able to comply with it. It was impossible to estimate the precise sum which would be expended on each item, although a round sum might be stated for the expenses which would be required; but there was not the slightest objection to state how the money had been expended. The motion was, in fact, not a return for one year, but for thirty years, and the only objection he had to make to this return, was the extreme attention and labour it would require, as well as a great consumption of the time of the clerks, and an unnecessary expense for obtaining information which could not be at all valuable. If the hon. Gentleman's object were to seach into the principle of the management of the Woods and Forests, he would attain that end by
 1338 l. l. l. 1339
 Sir Denham Norreys  was exceedingly disappointed at the way in which the noble Lord had disposed of the motion of his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend, the Member for Limerick, had quoted many cases of mismanagement, and many glaring defects in the system, and yet the noble Lord had not condescended to notice them. He hoped the noble Lord would forgive him for saying, that he appeared merely to have repeated in most gentlemanlike language and manner the statements of the commissioners, every one of these statements having been put into his hands as the opinions of the commissioners themselves, and their vindication. The hon. Member for Limerick asked for an opportunity of proving the statements he had made, where it would not be in the power of the commissioners to give whatever answer they thought proper. There
 1380 l./ l. l. l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  objected to the introduction of a measure of this nature without any explanation of its provisions, and moved that the debate be adjourned.
 Lord Stanley  said, that his hon. Friend who had more than once postponed the bill, was quite willing to explain the bill; but if, at that late period of the evening, hon. Members would insist on the adjournment, he would recommend his hon. Friend to postpone the bill.
 Sir J. Walsh  would consent to withdraw his motion.
 Sir Denham Norreys  said the union with which he was connected, athough a small one, had repaid instalments to the amount of 450 l. 1381 1382 1383 1384 s. d. d. d. 1385
 Lord Claude Hamilton  believed that the law would never be found to work well until they had made it palateable to the people of Ireland, and it was from the anxiety he felt to see the law permanently established and popular, that he felt inclined to vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had appeared rather to cast a slur upon the gentry, but this much he would say, so far as his part of the country was concerned, that he had
 1394 1395 1396 l. 1397
 Sir Robert Ferguson  hoped the hon. Member for Limerick would not withdaw the question from the consideration of the House. It was true the noble Lord had said, that he intended to bring forward a bill, but they had not heard one single statement as to the contents of that bill, or that the mischievous results of the present system would be in any way met. An appeal had been made to him as to the expense of maintaining the poor, and it did so happen that he was intimately connected with two unions, and had for two years narrowly watched the operation of the measure. As to the poor being supported at an expense of 2 s. 1399 1400
 Lord Eliot  had listened with great attention to the very able and moderate speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He was sure that the hon. Gentleman was actuated by the purest motives, and that he really believed the course he proposed was one from which benefit to the people of Ireland would result. He knew that this subject had long engaged the attention of the hon. Gentleman, for in 1831, he had brought in a bill which led to the introduction of the poor-laws into Ireland. The object of that bill was to enable parishes by a voluntary assessment to support their poor, but he would only further remark upon it, that that assessment was to be made on four days in each year, viz., the 25th of February, the 25th of May, the 25th of August, and the 25th of November, unless any of those days should fall on Good Friday or Christmas-day. He begged to remind the hon. Member that the poor-law now in force in Ireland was not a measure which had originated with the present Government. With regard to himself he abstained altogether from giving his vote. He felt that his knowledge of Ireland would not enable him to pronounce upon a question of so much difficulty; and he therefore did not vote upon the subject. The right hon. Gentleman now at the head of her Majesty's Government, he thought, gave rather a doubting vote; though he thought some measure was necessary for improving the condition of the Irish people—a condition which should not be tolerated in any civilised country. He did not know whether the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, took any part in that debate, but he knew that that was also his feeling on the subject. He did not boast of not voting upon that question, but he mentioned that circumstance to show that there was no feeling of predilection or prejudice on the part of the Government. With respect to the commissioners, upon whose conduct the hon. Gentleman had animadverted perhaps with undue severity, he had no acquaintance whatever with those Gentlemen until he
 1370 1371 1372 
 
 Cost of maintenance and clothing of paupers, charged upon the electoral divisions £2,033 8 6 
 Ditto, charged upon the union at large 327 8 8 
 Total £2,360 17 2 
 
 Salaries of officers and servants, including masters, matron, &c £353 3 5 
 Instalment of workhouse loans repaid 190 14 10 
 Other articles charged upon the establishment, furniture, &c. 952 2 7½ 
 Total £3,856 18 0½. l. .s d. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. l. d. l. l. l. l. l. 1373 d. 
 
 Men 7,134 
 Women 11,543 
 Boys under 15 7,881 
 Girls under 15 0,669 
 Infants under 2 1,885 l d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. l. s. 
 
 May was 20,530 
 June 23,389 
 July 28,236 
 August 29,570 
 September 22,536 
 October 21,564 1374 1375 1376 1377 "We have shown by our second report that the institutions existing in Ireland for the relief of the poor are houses of industry, infirmaries, fever hospitals, lunatic asylums, and dispensaries—and the establishment of these, except as to lunatic asylums, is not compulsory, but dependent upon public subscriptions, or the will of grand juries—that there are but nine houses of industry in the whole country—that while the provision made for the sick poor in some places is extensive, it is in other places wholly inadequate, and that there is no general provision made for the aged and impotent, and the destitute. Much is certainly given in Ireland in private charity, but it is not given in any organised system of relief, and the abundant alms which are bestowed in particular by the poorer classes unfortunately lead, as we have already observed, to encourage mendicancy with its attendant evils. Upon the best consideration which we have been enabled to give to the whole subject, we think that a legal provision should be made for rates levied as hereinafter mentioned for the relief and support of incurable as well as curable lunatics, of idiots, epileptic persons, cripples, deaf and dumb and blind poor, and all who labour under permanent bodily infirmities, such relief and support to be afforded within the walls of public institutions." "Also for the relief of the sick poor in hospitals, infirmaries, and convalescent establishments, or by extern attendance, and a supply of food as well as medicine, where the persons to be relieved are not in a state to be removed from home; also for the support of emigration, for the support of penitentiaries to which vagrants may be sent, and for the maintenance of deserted children; also towards the relief of aged and infirm persons, of orphans, of helpless widows with young children, of their families, of sick persons, and of casual destitution." 1378 "In order to effect the several purposes we have stated, we have recommended that there should be powers vested in the Poor-law commissioners, as in England, for carrying into execution all such provisions as shall be made by law for the relief of the poor in Ireland, and that they shall be authorised to appoint assistant commissioners to act under their directions. "On the most moderate computation, the amount of spontaneous alms given in Ireland, chiefly by the smaller farmers and cottiers, was from 1,000,000 l. l. 1379
 Lord Eliot  had taken fourteen unions, and had shown that the average repayments of the loan to Government in those fourteen unions was 199/. He had stated that the charge for maintenance of the establishments was 952/ l. l.
 Lord John Russell  begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, whether he had received such intelligence as would enable him shortly to introduce the measure upon the question of the introduction of wheat into Canada, which he promised to bring forward?
 Lord John Russell  said, it was desirable that the Board of Trade should give an early answer, and that this House should know whether the hon. Baronet's statement were correct, that the duties in many instances amounted to 70 per cent; for if this were so, then it was without example.
 Mr. B. Escott  would not vote for the committee proposed by the hon. Member because he did not think it would produce any practical result. The question was one of the greatest importance to Irish Members, and yet he had not seen them in their places that night, though some of them were accustomed to arrogate to themselves the exclusive privilege of protecting, and asserting the rights of the Irish people. Where was the hon. and learned Member for Cork upon the present occasion. On the last occasion, when the question of Poor-laws was under discussion, when he wished to extend the power of granting out-door relief, the hon. and learned Member had supported his motion, and had expressly stated that in the next Session of Parliament he hoped to be able to extend the principle for which he contended, to Ireland. Where, then, was the hon. and learned Member when there was a question of practical importance as regarded the best interests of the sister country? It was stated that workhouses had been already built throughout Ireland; and the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin had stated that the Government were about to introduce a measure for the amendment of the existing law. Was it then expedient, after all the machinery had been set in motion, and all the expense incurred, to take the question out of the hands of Government and place it in the hands of the hon. Member for Limerick? Was that expedient or wise? He agreed with the hon. Member opposite, that the great end of the English, as well as the Irish Poor-law system, was the erection of workhouses; but now that they had erected them he thought it would be extremely injudicious and absurd to effect a total and radical change in the system. He thought the
 1392
 Mr. Barclay : That answer of the right hon. Gentleman would not be satisfactory to his constituents.
 Mr. Barclay  wished to put a question with respect to the duties on timber payable upon the introduction of that article into the Isle of Man, for the purposes of shipbuilding. At present, the duties on timber entering that island were much lower than those payable on the introduction of timber into this country. The shipbuilders of Sunderland, and the other ship-building ports, felt this to be a great hardship on them, inasmuch as that the existing law gave a preference to the shipbuilders of the island over those of the ports of
 1321
 Mr. Ross  said, that prior to the last speech, the bearing of his mind had been decidedly in favour of this motion; but,
 1405
 Mr. French  would adopt the course asked for by the noble Lord, and suspend both his opinion, and the delivery of his sentiments, in respect of the Poor-law, and the conduct of the commissioners in Ireland, until the bill promised by the noble Lord was before the House; in doing so, he wished to guard himself from being supposed to acquiesce in the statements, or to acknowledge the accuracy of the figures quoted by the noble Lord—furnished, of course, to him by the Poor-law commissioners; on the contrary, he was prepared to show that the present system had utterly failed as a measure for the relief of the poor—that it never was suited—and never could be rendered suitable to the wants or the condition of the people—and that, notwithstanding the reckless manner in which the country had been covered with workhouses, the repeal of the law was inevitable, and that at no distant period. As to the figures quoted, he had no confidence in their accuracy, nor did he believe the public would have any confidence in assertions proceeding from the Poor-law office. The noble Lord had attempted to defend the accuracy of Mr. Nicholls—first, on his estimate for building the workhouses—saying the estimate was for 110 houses, not for 120, which was the number now built. Mr. Nicholls's estimate for providing workhouse accommodation for 100,000 paupers was 700,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1398
 Mr. Shaw  said, his observations should be short, as he considered that a more fitting opportunity for any lengthened discussion of the question before the
 1386 1387
 Mr. Aglionby  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, relative to the Merchant Seamens' Service Fund. The right hon. Gentleman would recollect, that many petitions had been presented complaining of the abuse of the collection and administration of that fund, and of the existing law. In 1840 a committee had sat upon this subject, and having received some evidence, had expressed its belief, that many abuses and much corruption existed; but it did not in its report suggest the adoption of any specific measure. He wished to know whether the matter was under the consideration of her Majesty's Government, and whether they might hope shortly to see some measure introduced to remedy the defects.
 Sir H. W. Barron  observed, that the legislature of Jamaica had, by a recent act, imposed additional duties on the produce of the United Kingdom imported into that colony. The duties varied from 70 per cent,  ad valorem
 Sir H. W. Barron  observed that the duty on beef was 75 per cent,  ad valorem
 Sir H. W. Barron  said the Government had expressed its determination not to consent to any measure that would alter the fundamental principles of the existing poor law, and in that he thought they had exercised a sound discretion. At the same time he thought, for the beneficial working of the measure hereafter, a searching inquiry into its details was necessary, although he was very far from saying that that inquiry should be instituted by the House of Commons, inasmuch as it would lead the people of Ireland to think they were about to alter that great measure which he believed was likely to raise the condition of the people, and make them something better than beasts of burden, or than the swine they reared in their cottages. It was for that reason, and because he did not think the law had as yet had a fair trial, that he supported it. What was the fact? Before they had had time to observe the operation of the law, they wished to upset it, and uproot a most valuable institution that had not yet been properly established in the country. He maintained that it would be most injurious and detrimental to the peace of the country; and above all, he firmly believed, and was conscientiously of opinion, that if they granted a committee of inquiry in the present state of the public mind in Ireland, they would do more mischief to the poor, than by any measure they could devise for unsettling men's mind in that country. When he stated that, he was aware that he was not stating, perhaps, what was the popular opinion in Ireland, nor the opinions of many of those whom he had the honour of representing in that House, but if his conscientious declaration of opinion was attended with a loss of his seat, he would cheerfully resign rather than act contrary to it. In the district with which he was connected, there was a great deal of popular commotion on the subject. He would state to the House, in a few words, its origin. It would be in the recollection of hon. Members that the Irish Municipal Corporation Bill passed that House about a year and a half ago, and in order to have a corporation in the city of Water-ford it was necessary that a poor rating;
 1393
 Mr. Curteis  complained of the conduct of the hon. Member for Montrose for not opposing the bill for expending so much money upon the Royal stables at Windsor, which he would have done had he then had a seat in the House. He thought half
 1343 l.
 Mr. Curteis  said that as his constituents were much interested in the question of the importation of wheat into Canada, he begged to be permitted to ask a further explanation from the right hon. the Vice-President of the Board of Trade upon the subject to which allusion had been made by the hon. Member for Dumfries. He wished to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman meant to say that corn, carried from any part of the world to Canada, at a 3 s.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for the following returns:—
 "1. A copy of the commercial treaty made and signed by John M'Gregor, Esq., in the year 1840, with the Neapolitan Government, on behalf of Great Britain, but not ratified by the British Government, as required in January, 1841. 2. Account of the charge for Sir Woodbine Parish's commission to Naples; stating the names of the persons employed, the salaries and allowances to each, the total expense in each year, and distinguishing the charge for contingencies. 3. Copy of the orders issued to Admiral Stopford, in 1840, to proceed to Naples with a squadron of British ships of war, to make seizures of the ships and property of his Majesty the King of Naples; and an account of the number of ships seized by British ships of war, and the conditions upon which these vessels were delivered up to their owners; and copy of the orders for restoring them." 1344 1345
 Mr. Hume  thought the return asked for might be granted, and he did not think it would require much trouble on the part of the clerks to make it out, or that it would incur much expense; he therefore thought the vote ought to be conceded. So far from the King of Belgium receiving anything, he knew that the King of Belgium subscribed to many charities in this country out of his own pocket money derived from Belgium. He regretted that he could not say so much for the King of Hanover; we were still called on to pay 21,000 l.
 Mr. Hume : Then, Sir, I now beg to give notice, that on the 31st instant I shall submit a resolution to the House, to the following effect:—
 "That the House, looking to the long-protracted negotiations between the Government of this country and that of the United States of North America as to the settlement of the north-western boundary, and taking into consideration the state of our foreign relations in October, 1841, is of opinion, that the treaty of Washington is alike honourable and advantageous to each of the high contracting parties, and that the thanks of this House are due to the Ministers who advised as well as to the right hon. Lord Ashburton, who negotiated and concluded that treaty."
 Mr. Hume  said, I take this opportunity of asking the noble Lord the late Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether he has any intention of renewing the debate of last night, which I must say was ended in a manner so discreditable to the House? The manner in which that discussion terminated was disgraceful to the House.
 Mr. Ewart  understood that a 3 s.
 Mr. Ewart  begged to inquire what was the law with regard to flour, which stood in the position of manufactured goods?
 Mr. Gregory  thought the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick had not been fairly dealt with, and although it was a motion from which he did not think much practical benefit would arise, he still felt that a fair opportunity ought to be afforded him of pressing it on the attention of the House. The noble Lord had alluded to the sentiments of a noble relative of his (Mr. Gregory) as favourable to the present law, but he could assure the noble Lord, that Lord Clancarty was convinced that a very great alteration ought to be made in the present system of Poor-laws in Ireland. The noble Lord had also read a letter respecting the opinion of the North Dublin Union. Now, as the Lord Mayor had called an aggregate meeting on the subject, he had no doubt that the noble Lord would shortly hear something from his Friend of the North Dublin Union, about the evils of the present system. Indeed, notwithstanding the speech of the noble Lord, he was sure that the noble Lord himself was convinced that there were many imperfections in the system, which required correction.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  said, that whatever indulgence he might feel it necessary to bespeak on his own behalf, in submitting the statement which he was about to make, he was sure the House would not think that any apology was required from an Irish Member, for inviting its attention to the subject which he had undertaken to bring under its consideration. Even those who were least acquainted with Ireland, must be aware that in some parts of that kingdom, there prevailed, at that moment, open resistance to the Irish Poor-law—that a few months since, blood had been shed in the attempt to collect the rate—the blood of the very peasantry for whose benefit this law was enacted. Nor was this discontent confined to the humbler classes of society. Meetings had been held in different parts of the kingdom, for the purpose of petitioning against the Poor-law, at which, almost for the first time, Conservative gentlemen and Roman Catholic clergymen, were found moving and seconding the same resolutions, condemnatory of the present system. Some of the boards of guardians, if they had not openly refused to administer the law, had, at least, practically suspended its operation. Under such circumstances, it surely was the duty of that House to lose no time in endeavouring to ascertain what was the cause of such an universal concurrence of opinion in opposition to the Poor-law, and what remedy ought to be provided to meet so great an evil. He would take upon himself, with confidence, to assert, that the unpopularity of the law was not to be traced solely to an unwillingness on the part of the population, to contribute by way of taxation to the relief of the poor. At almost every meeting which had been held in Ireland, the same resolutions which condemned the present system, affirmed the necessity of a provision for the relief of the poor—and though, undoubtedly, individuals availed themselves of the present outcry, in the hope of being able to escape from contribution, in any shape, for the maintenance of the poor—he was persuaded, that the general opinion of the country was strongly pronounced in favour of the principle of a well-regu-
 1348 1349 l. s. d. 1350 1351 1352 l. 1353 1354 1355 s. d. 1356 l. l. 1357 l. 1358 1359 "On the 9th of November, 1840, Bernard Manly Adams, aged seventy-seven years, and Mary his wife, aged seventy-two years, presented themselves to this board of guardians, having been removed from Wigan, Lancashire, where they had lived upwards of thirty years, sixteen years of which they rented a house, and paid poor-rates annually to the amount of 1 l. 1360 1361 1362 1363 l. l. 1364 de novo 1365 s. s. d. s. 1366 1367 1368 "That a select committee be appointed to inquire into the manner in which the act for
 1369
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, that the objections made against this committee were the same which were constantly
 1388 1389 "When we see that the labouring classes are eager for work, and that work is not for them, and that they are, therefore, not from any fault of their own, in permanent want, we therefore cannot recommend the present workhouse system of England as at all suited to Ireland." "We are satisfied that enactments calculated to promote the improvement of the country, and so to extend the demand for free and profitable labour, should make essential parts of any law for ameliorating the condition of the poor." 1390 1391
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that for several years he had called the attention of the House, when the miscellaneous estimates came before them, to the large expenditure on the royal palaces, and he never could get any satisfactory explanation in answer to his observations. For the last eight years, from 1835, there had been expended on seven royal palaces and Marlborough-house, and the Lower-lodge, Bushy-park, not less than 438,000 l. 1335 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. "Windsor Castle, with the Poor Knights'-houses, the Tomb-house, the Lower-lodge, the stables, Frogmore-house and other detached buildings, the engine upon the Ring's river for supplying the castle with water, exclusive of the internal repairs, alterations and addi-
 1336 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1337 l. "Account of the public money expended on each of the royal palaces, gardens, and parks, and appurtenances thereof; stating the amount of expenditure from Parliamentary grants, Crown revenues surrendered to the public by Civil-list acts, and other sources; and also the amount of the salaries or other emoluments received by the rangers and deputy rangers in each year, from 1811 to 1842, inclusive."
 Sir J. Graham  trusted the hon. Member would avail himself of the advice which had been offered him, and not persevere in his motion. It was not correct to state, as had been stated by the hon. Member for Dublin, that the intention of the Government had not been set forth to the House. A question had been put to the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland on the second night of the Session, and that noble Lord then distinctly announced the intention of the Government to bring forward a measure to amend the present law. He also had more than once stated the intention of Government. However, he would now state that a measure was matured, and it would be his duty to ask leave to introduce it before the Easter recess. Before asking leave to bring in that bill, it would be premature and inexpedient to enter into a debate upon the subject; but in answering the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick, he (Sir J. Graham) might say, that all the points alluded to by that hon. Member were dealt with by the measure of the Government. He should be deceiving the hon. Member if he held out expectations that the measure to be introduced sought to abridge the existing authority of the Poor-law Commissioners. Large powers were indispensably necessary, exercised with due discretion, to be vested in the commissioners; to that principle the Government must decidedly adhere, as also to the principle of relief administered in workhouses. The Government had given to the Poor-law for Ireland a reluctant, hesitating, and not very sanguine support. It was beyond all doubt,
 1403 1404 l.
 Sir R. Peel  thought, that there must be a general opinion on the part of the House, that the proposition of his noble Friend was a perfectly reasonable one; and that he had completely proved, that her Majesty's Government had no wish to conceal any particular items of the expenditure on royal palaces whatsoever. The hon. Member had seemed to express a desire only for an account of the proportion for the last year of the sums appropriated to this department; but his noble Friend went further, and said he would give a return for the last five years, containing a detail of the whole of the sums applicable to royal residences. Why, if concealment were the object sought, it was quite clear that it must be defeated, by giving an account for five years, as certainly as if a return were made of the expenditure for fifteen or thirty years. But hon. Gentlemen should observe, that the establishments for conducting the public business were upon a very limited scale. Those provided were not more than sufficient for the discharge of the ordinary business; therefore, if numerous and needless returns were moved for, no complaint should be made against the Government for increasing those establishments, and increasing the public expenditure, in order to furnish those returns in compliance with the orders of the House. But what possible object could a return for thirty years answer? A return for five years would be sufficient for the purpose of the hon. Member. But it was not one, but many returns, that the hon. Member asked for, and to agree to the hon. Member must only increase public business and public expense, without his being in any better position than he would be with a return respecting a shorter period. That must be the conclusion which he thought the House would come to, and he hoped that hon. Gentlemen, when they called for these returns, would bear in mind what must be the effect upon the public expenditure. Why, if an account of the expenses of any department during the last thirty years were called for, they would certainly appear to be enormous. That for Windsor Castle, for instance, would appear so; but it would answer no useful or proper purpose to call for such a return. Let not hon. Gentlemen, then, call for returns calculated to create new prejudices and to excite unjustifiable feelings against royalty on account of erro-
 1341 l. l. 1342
 Sir R. Peel  thought the hon. Member had scarcely given sufficient notice, in announcing his intention to move for these returns, to warrant him in engaging in a discussion on our commercial policy, and on the duties on woollen, linen and hardware. The hon. Member hardly gave notice enough to induce the Government to expect a discussion on the important matters connected with the returns the hon. Member moved for. The hon. Member recommended that the duties on wool, cotton, and particularly the duty on glass, should be repealed. Nothing was more easy for hon. Members in the situation of the hon. Member than to show an excess of liberality, but it was very different for those who had to provide the ways and means, and on whom rested the responsibility of keeping up the public revenue. The hon. Member must, however, rejoice that the increase of taxation passed last year had enabled him to make reductions in our duties, which it would not have been possible to effect without some additional supply of revenue. The hon. Member, however, would not expect him to enter into a discussion on the reduction of taxation. On the contrary, it was his duty not to say one word on the subject, or to admit the supposition that reduction of duties would be made, or that he designed to make any. He would tell the hon. Gentleman, with respect to his motion, that he had no possible objection to that part of it which related to the commission, at the head of which was Sir Woodbine Parish. But he could not assent to it without bearing his testimony to the admirable manner in which that Gentleman had performed his duties, nor without saying that he had exhibited throughout great zeal and great good sense. As to the expense of the commission, he could tell the hon. Member that it did not exceed 3,600 l. 1346 1347
 Viscount Bernard  said, he should give his decided opposition to the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick, on this ground, that he did not think it could lead to any practical or useful result. When he looked at the opposition that was raised against the operation of the Poor-law in Ireland at the present moment—when he knew that in the union adjoining to one in which he resided, a successful resistance to the payment of the rates had been carried on until it had been quelled by the strenuous and able exertions of her Majesty's Government—when he recollected that that opposition threatened at one time to cause serious disturbance to the peace of the country, he could not consent to anything short of a practical remedy. Let the House consider for a moment what would be the composition of the committee if it were appointed. Would there not be on it the hon. Member for Limerick, who had brought forward the present motion, the hon. Baronet the Member for Mallow, and the hon. Member for Roscommon?—all decidedly opposed to the very principle of the law itself. He firmly believed, that were the committee appointed, at the close of the present Session they would have as little advanced towards any practical measure of amendment as at the present moment. At the same time he looked forward with hope to the measure which her Majesty's Government was about to introduce; and expected from it a practical improvement which would give satisfaction to Ireland. He had been chairman of a board of guardians in the south of Ireland for three years, during one-half of which time the law had been in practical operation, and it was his firm belief, that the welfare of the country required that the principle of the law should be maintained in all its integrity. He believed, that the chief causes of dissatisfaction had arisen from defects in the details of the measure—defects so glaring, that they had unquestionably led to the supposition that the principle itself was defective. In his opinion the reason why the measure had excited dissatisfaction among the landed proprietors was, that the influence it was intended by the framers of the law to give them by means of voting by proxy, and cumulative votes, had been practically withheld. In his mind one of the greatest faults of the measure was the taxing poor creatures
 1401 l. l. 1402
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to correct a statement he had made the other evening with regard
 1318
 Viscount Palmerston : Sir, in reply to the question of the hon. Member, I beg to say, that I do not intend to give any further notice of motion on the subject. My object was to have the question discussed; and I am quite satisfied with that discussion which has taken place. I may add, that after the statement of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, that he could not without prejudice to the public service grant the papers for which I had moved, I could not have pressed my motion to a division.
 Mr. S. Wortley  wished, before the House proceeded to the debate upon this measure, to make a few observations upon the course it would be most expedient to adopt. As
 1412
 Sir James Graham  assured his hon. Friend that to any recommendation which should come from him, he would be disposed to yield; but his experience in that House had convinced him that a strict adherence to the forms of the House was, upon the whole, the most convenient. They were to discuss this evening the principles of the bill, which were these:— First: Whether there should be any limitation in the hours of labour of children; Secondly: Whether there should be a
 1413
 Mr. Labouchere  rose to ask what were the intentions of the Government as to the future progress of this bill? He was not one who would complain that the Government were asking for any undue indulgence from the House, when they called on it to agree to the second reading of this bill. He thought the principles of the bill, as stated by the right hon. Baronet, were so broad and distinct that the House was as well prepared to agree to them at once as it would be at a future time. Still, he could not but feel that this was a bill of which the details were of the utmost importance: and it was due not only to the Members of that House, but to the constituencies of hon. Members, that the country should have full opportunity of discussing these important details, which, indeed, involved principles in themselves. His object was to ask the right hon. Baronet, or rather to express a hope that he would give ample time, if the House agreed to the second reading, to consider of the details of the measure before going into committee. He trusted the right hon. Baronet, would not object to state, what the intentions of the Government were, with respect to the consideration of the bill in committee.
 Sir James Graham  said, that nothing was more fair than the question of the right
 1414
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question with regard to the principle of the bill. In the first place, he wished to know if all the expenses which would be incurred by the working of the bill were to be defrayed out of the Poor—rates? He disapproved of the entire system of management provided under the bill, for great disapprobation would be manifested if the rates were raised from all classes of the community; and only a portion were to have the management. If a particular class of persons raised amongst themselves a sum of money for the promotion of education, then undoubtedly those persons had a right to the management of the plan; but if a dissenter was taxed for the support of a school, and then was precluded from having a voice in the management of that school, such a bill was manifestly unjust, and the right hon. Baronet
 1415
 Sir James Graham  asked the assent of the House to the second reading, with the utmost latitude as to the decision afterwards, who should be the governing body. If, upon the whole, the House should be of opinion that, the time had arrived when the children in factories should have national aid for their education, the House would decide that which was the great principle of the bill. He understood the non. Gentleman's objection to be confined solely to the proposed system of management. Now, there could be no doubt that the constitution of the local boards was a matter of immense importance, and deserving of serious consideration, but still it was only a matter of detail, and no gentleman, by voting for the second reading of the bill, would be precluded from entering into the present discussion on any one of those clauses, and opposing the whole of them, if he thought proper. He could not conceive that any Member, by consenting to the second reading of the bill, would fetter himself in the least from entering into the fullest discussion in every part of its details, and if, after the bill should have passed through committee, any hon. Member should feel dissatisfied with the details, it would be perfectly open to the hon. Member so objecting to vote against the third reading of the bill.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government, to bring in a bill, to promote education among the other classes of the community? It would be recollected that the right hon. Baronet, after the speech of the noble Lord (Lord Ashley), stated that her Majesty's Government were prepared to give effect to the object which the noble Lord had in view. The object of the noble Lord was not limited to factories, it extended to education in general; and as the right hon. Baronet had stated, that her Majesty's Government were prepared to carry out the object of the noble Lord, he wished to ask whether they intended to introduce any other bill to provide for the general education of any other classes.
 Sir James Graham  said the hon. Gentleman had failed to remember very accurately what passed upon the occasion to which he had alluded. What he had stated was, that the Government contemplated the introduction of a measure to extend the provisions of the Factory Bill to two classes of children. The Factory Act had been brought into operation among four large classes of manufactures, the woollen, the cotton, the silk, and the flax manufactures. He had said that the Government also contemplated the introduction of another measure to extend the operation of the Factory Bill to two other classes of children, those employed in the manufacture of lace, and in the print works. He then went on to state, on the part of her Majesty's Government, that they intended to introduce a measure with respect to pauper children in workhouses, under certain restrictions with regard to locality; in point of fact, confining the operation of the bill to large cities. So far, however, from the Government intending to deal with the education of the great body of the working classes, without local distinction, he stated on that occasion, what was still his opinion, that such a measure would be a signal failure, and that the only chance of success, in any measure which might be adopted, would consist in its operation being confined, as he had stated, to the large classes of the community. He was quite sure that he had accurately stated what passed on the occasion in question, and that he represented the present views of the Government in relation to that subject when he said, that they were not prepared to introduce any other measure on the present occasion.
 Mr. C. Wood  was sure that the right hon. Baronet's expression as to the conduct of this bill would be received generally with great satisfaction. To the principle involved in the second reading, as the right hon. Gentleman had stated it, hardly any one would object. With regard to the education of the working classes, which was to be compulsory, being aided by the state, very few in that House were prepared to deny the propriety of that plan. The proceeding suggested to the right hon. Baronet of postponing the details of those clauses till after Easter was wisely adopted, for he believed that it would facilitate the carrying of proper clauses, by giving time for discussion. Her Majesty's Government must be aware that the general education of any other classes. 1 the dissenting body, he would not say
 1417
 Mr. Hawes  was not disposed to look upon the bill with the same satisfaction as his right hon. Friend the Member for Halifax. He agreed to a certain extent with the hon. Gentleman opposite. His hon. Friend stated that it was intended by the bill, that the funds of the nation should be applied to the benefit of certain parties in the factory districts; but he could not overlook an important portion of the bill, which placed the education of the people wholly at the mercy of the Church. To that, as a principle, he intended to give his utmost opposition. If the second reading of this bill were taken that night without being considered as any compromise whatever with respect to the education clauses, he had no objection, on those terms, to consent to the second reading of the bill, not sanctioning the general principle which ran through those clauses. The right hon. Baronet entertained the hope, that the delay would remove the objections to the education clauses; but he consented to the second reading to delay those clauses, because he believed that the more they were understood the more vigorously they would be opposed.
 Mr. C. Wood  explained that the great
 1418 of
 Mr. H. Lamblon  having presented a very important petition from the Wesleyans, wished to make one observation. He thought the proposition of the right hon. Baronet a very fair and reasonable one. He had had an interview that morning with a leading Wesleyan to whom he expressed the opinion, that he thought if the Government would consent to put off all these educational clauses until after Easter, he would attain his object of delay, and ought to be satisfied. The reply of the Gentleman was, as he understood it, that that would satisfy him. The hon. Member for Lambeth talked of this bill placing the people and Dissenters at the feet of the Church, but surely that would depend on the educational clauses, especially the clause with regard to the composition of the board of trustees. All this might be altered in committee, so as to satisfy the Wesleyans in whom he openly professed to take a deep interest.
 Mr. Stansfield  said, that the bill had created considerable consternation in the manufacturing district which he represented. It would give great satisfaction if more time were allowed, and he hoped the right hon. Baronet would postpone the whole bill till after Easter.
 Mr. Brotherton  thought that the parts of the bill which related to the labour of the children might be considered now, but the education clauses might be postponed till after Easter; they would then be considered by the country, and of course some modification might be expected.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the object of hon. Members on his side of the House, was to give time for mature consideration. The right hon. Baronet said, that by allowing this time, the justice of his clauses would be most strongly felt, whilst he and his friends thought that the more time was given, the more would the justice of the opposition be acknowledged. He concluded from what the right hon. Baronet had said, that if the House assented to the second reading of this bill, it would be perfectly in their power, when in committee, to discuss what many considered the most important principle of the education clauses, namely, how far the factory education of this country should be trans—
 1419
 Mr. M. Philips  thought it desirable to divide the bill into two parts, and from communications he had received since the first short discussion, he was convinced of the propriety of that recommendation. He did not say this with the slightest view of obstructing that part of the bill which related to the working of the factories. Although his opposition was not so strong as to lead him to divide against the second reading, when his hon. Friends thought it should pass, yet he would have wished that more time had been given to the operative portion of the people to see how the bill would affect them, for they, and they principally, ought to be consulted. He entertained the strongest objection to the education clauses. The great body of dissenters whom he represented, and a great portion of the Catholics, were opposed to these clauses; for although the clauses exempted the Catholics from the compulsory religious education, yet these clauses held out a temptation to parties to stretch their consciences upon matters of religion to secure the welfare of their children—under the guise, therefore, of giving education to the infant factory children, they were recruiting for members of the Church of England. Great objection to these clauses was entertained by all conscientious dissenters.
 Lord John Russell  thought the House would be fully aware, after the declaration of the right hon. Baronet, that by assenting to the second reading of this bill they were only consenting to the general principle of the bill. Reserving all details for consideration in committee, he for one said, that placing the education of factory children under the control of the Privy Council was a principle which he was ready to affirm: and hon. Members would be perfectly consistent in afterwards altering that or any other part in committee. The hon. Member for Dumfries, in withdrawing his motion, thought that the House should agree to the second reading without further discussion. He did not think it would be for the public advantage that this course should be adopted. He
 1420
 Mr. Hindley  thought with the hon. Member for Manchester, that it would be extremely desirable to divide the present bill into two parts. Thirty of the
 1421
 Mr. Ewart  said, that understanding from the noble Lord that he thought it desirable that the discussion should be taken on this measure now, however inconvenient that course was to himself, he felt unwilling to postpone to a subsequent day the statement of his objections to the bill. The number and the importance of the petitions which had been presented upon this subject, showed the interest which was taken and the opinions which were entertained amongst dissenters in reference to it. He begged to call the attention of the Government to the short period of time which had elapsed since this bill had been before the House—barely three weeks, and to ask whether, in the case of a bill so important, involving principles of such general interest, this was deemed a sufficient time for the consideration of its voluminous details. His own views led him to wish that in the introduction of a general system of education into the country, care would have been taken to exclude from it all matters of theological discussion. He believed that this measure was founded upon principles involving theological as distinguished from mere religious education, and that it was likely to excite sentiments of animosity amongst the community, and would not advance the general cause of education. The dissenters of this country had not been idle in the cause of education. He begged to refer to the number of schools which the dissenting body had established, and to express a regret that the right hon. Baronet had not paid some more respect to the individual opinions of those persons, than the clauses of this bill
 1422 a 1423 1424 1425
 The Earl of Arundel and Surrey  was understood to say, that he thanked the noble Lord who had directed the attention of the Government to the great want of education in the manufacturing districts, which had led to the introduction of the bill which had been brought forward by the right hon. Baronet. Generally speaking he approved of the bill which he believed was intended to be drawn with great fairness, but there were some of the clauses which he trusted the Government would reconsider. As a Roman Catholic, he felt bound to declare that as long as there was a church establishment it must he predominant, and must also of necessity be administrative in any system of general or national education which Parliament might establish. At the same time he asked for a full and secure protection for those who were not of that Church. He begged to ask what was meant by the words "teaching" the Scriptures; whether it were merely meant "reading" the Scriptures, or were intended to imply that the Scriptures were to be expounded in the schools? If it was intended to expound them, it was impossible to entertain the idea for one moment. He was anxious that no suspicion even of such an intention should be entertained, as it would militate against the usefulness of the measure. As regarded the non—attendance of Roman Catholic children at the divine service of the
 1426
 Mr. G. Knight  was sure, that every Member in that House must have listened with gratification to the fair and liberal manner in which the noble Lord who had just sat down had, as a Catholic, addressed himself to the subject. He trusted the noble Lord would be met with a corresponding spirit, and he quite agreed with him that it would be the duty of all parties not to attempt to make proselytes in the schools. If that attempt were once detected, all confidence would be at an end, and the schools would not succeed. The hon. Member for Dumfries had complained of the right hon. Baronet for having introduced theological disputes into this question, and wished to put an end to them in rather a summary manner, by excluding religion altogether, at least from the schools. But he trusted, that this
 1427 " English Churchman "If this be the Conservative way to educate and to bless the people, and to elevate the depressed church, may God, in His goodness, shield us therefrom;" Nottingham Journal gauche droit? 1428 juste malieu 1429 l l
 Mr. Hawes  hoped, with the hon. Member, that the bill would be discussed in a spirit of amity, and without regard to party considerations. In offering his opposition to some parts of the bill, he did not think that he could be considered as in any way an opponent to the establishment of a general system of education throughout the country. He recollected the opposition of the present Government to the plan proposed by their predecessors with respect to the educational board of the Privy Council, but he did not think that they should be charged with being the enemies of education on that account. He did not conceive, that he should com-
 1430 1431 "No man could be more sensible than himself of the advantages that would result to Ireland, from the general diffusion of education. In making that statement he wished to be understood, that the benefit ought to be restricted to no particular sect—no distinction whatever ought to be observed. He was confident, that it was the only measure to which Parliament could look for the introduction of habits of industry and morality, among the lower orders in Ireland; and when they considered the avidity which, to their infinite credit, was shown by the lower orders of the population of Ireland, to avail themselves of any means of instruction that were afforded them, it would be a reflection on Parliament, if, by any ill-judged and miserable parsimony such means were withheld. It had been his misfortune, in the discharge of his official duty, to be compelled to introduce into that House measures of a temporary nature, to remedy existing evils in Ireland. But in doing so he was satisfied that those measures must of necessity be temporary; and that they could weigh nothing in the scale, compared with the duration and effect of measures of a more general nature. After adverting to the previous reports of the commissioners, appointed to inquire into the existing abuses in Ireland, and to the legislative measures that had been founded on them, he remarked, that the last report of those commissioners suggested a general plan for educating the poor in that country. The reason which had induced him to forbear from introducing that plan to Parliament in the shape of a bill, was, not any insensibility to the advantage of general education; but an apprehension that the plan of education, advised by the commissioners, would not be advantageous. The report recommended, that the Lord-lieutenant should appoint commissioners for the superintendence of the education. Now, he was afraid, that this direct interference of executive government would tend to excite jealousies that would counteract the benefits that might otherwise be expected from the measure. After due deliberation, therefore, he felt himself fully warranted in forbearing to introduce to Parliament the system recommended by the commissioners. He conceived, however, that the vote which his right hon. Friend meant to propose would by no means involve the evils which he had just described. He was convinced, and he avowed it without hesitation or reserve, that the only rational plan of education in Ireland, was one which
 1432 "As a proof of the impartial diffusion of education to all sects in Ireland, that when Dr. Bell repaired to that country a short time since, and the children were examined before him to show their progress in reading, some of them refused to read in any other Testament than their own, and the school masters stated, that they never checked this independence, and never interfered with the sentiments and persuasion of their scholars." * * 1433
 Sir James Graham:  Sir, I am desirous of addressing a few words to the House before the present discussion comes to a close, because I am naturally anxious that the measure which I have had the honor of introducing should have a fair chance of success. I hoped, after what took place in the early part of the evening, that the second reading of the bill would have been allowed to take place without any angry debate relative to the details of the measure. In this expectation I have been somewhat disappointed by the speech of the hon. Member who has just addressed the House. I will, on no account, attempt to follow the hon. Member in some of his remarks. I must say, I think that the hon. Member has, perhaps, without intending it, indulged in a degree of personal taunt in some portions of his speech; and, if the debate should be carried on in a similar spirit, the discussion would, I am afraid, produce anything but amicable feelings. I will shortly notice some of the points adverted to by the hon. Member, and in doing so, I will endeavour to avoid saying anything that can be construed into an angry retort. The hon. Member referred to some opposition which was given by me, and those with whom I act, to the controlling power of the committee of Privy Council, as it stood in the first education scheme propounded by the late Government. The hon. Member must remember, that by that scheme, religious instruction was designedly excluded from the plan of education in the normal schools, and to that arrangement I was entirely opposed. Objections were also taken with respect to the power of the committee of Privy Council, and of the inspectors; and the hon. Member must be perfectly aware, that the result of the controversy was a compromise. The late Government, much to their honor, agreed to an arrangement, by which the inspectors who were appointed to superintend the education in the national schools, should receive their appointments subject to the sanction of the Archbishop of Can-
 1434 1435 1436
 "Mr. Wood  —Does the master explain the Scriptures to the children in your schools?— He interrogates them as they read daily, on the plain and obvious grammatical meaning of the text.
 "According to his own understanding of that text?—It must be so." "Lord Ashley—But what would be the view taken by the directors of the British and Foreign School Society, if they found that the master did set right this child upon a point which he thought essential to salvation?— They would hold it to be his duty to confine himself to the simple teaching of the Scriptures." "The Chairman—If the master were to teach the children in the school a peculiar creed, would that be acting contrary to his duty?—He would be acting quite contrary to his duty if he were to impress upon the minds of the children any views peculiar to him as an Independent Baptist or Dissenter; but I think the reason why there is so little difficulty in the working of the plan is, that there is very little difference among the bodies themselves, so far as the essential truths of Christianity are concerned. There is no difference whatever between the Church of England and the great body of Wesleyans and the Dissenters upon these points." 1437 "Sir Stratford Canning—Is it or is it not the positive rule of the British and Foreign schools, that the Scriptures should be given without any explanation on the part of the teacher, or is he left to judge when an explanation should accompany the passage or not?—He is left to judge as to the kind of explanation which should be given. The children are interrogated always as to the meaning of what they have read. "Lord Ashley—As to the doctrinal meaning?—I scarcely know to what extent that is to be understood, inasmuch as the doctrinal points are taught as well as the practical, and as the plain and obvious meaning of the text is required, the doctrines are certainly taught in that way. We do not recognise the schoolmaster as a commentator, but we do recognise him as a person bound to see that the child takes up an idea, and does not merely read the words." "The master asks if the child understands the passage, and if not he explains the great doctrine contained in it, but in such a manner that the master shall not impress on the child any peculiar creed of any one sect of Christians. Is it so?" "He simply takes up the obvious grammatical meaning of the text of the authorised version." 1438 Hawes 1439 1440 1441
 Sir G. Grey  said, that strong as were his objections to some of the details of the measure now under the consideration of the House, he could see enough of the proposition to be convinced that her Majesty's Government had been actuated by a sincere intention and desire of accomplishing and adopting a comprehensive and liberal system of education without interfering with the rights of conscience. How far they had succeeded by the clauses, as they now stood, was another question; and when the bill came into committee, he should be able to show that the Government had not carried out that intention, as he thought the House had a right to expect, with a due regard to the conscientious feelings of the great body of the Dissenters, whose exertions in promoting education had been justly acknowledged— exertions which entitled them to more con-
 1442 1443 1444
 Sir R. Inglis  would endeavour to imitate the example of the right hon. Grentleman, and would abstain from referring to any exciting topic which might be likely to create irritation. They were now proposing, as a Christian people, a plan of education for Christian children; and as he owned that he was not satisfied with what he had heard from hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House, he should be unwilling to think that his right hon. Friend could be chargeable with being satisfied with such an exposition of the opinions of the House, as they had heard. His right hon. Friend had deprecated any minute discussion of the measure at present; and into such minute discussion he should certainly not now attempt to enter. It would be sufficient, on a future occasion, to follow in detail the various clauses of the bill; but his right hon. Friend desired to receive generally, from both sides of the House, such suggestions as, when the bill should go into committee, might weigh with him in meeting the several objections which might be made to the bill: but he believed he might say, that thus far his right hon. Friend had heard objections from those only who, not being themselves members of the Established Church, or who, representing the opinions of persons who were not connected with that Church, endeavoured to show that the bill, as it was framed, was unworthy of the adoption of the House. On the part of those who constituted not only the majority of that House, but also the vast majority of the people of England, the members of the Church of England, he claimed for the Established
 1445 1446 1447 1448 l 1449 1450
 Mr. Hume  said that if he took the same views of the bill as the hon. Member for Oxford, he should be disposed to oppose the bill. He was sorry to hear that hon. Member say, though he did not agree in the assertion, that no system of education could be carried out in England without the support of the Established Church. The Church, according to that statement, was more powerful than the Government. That was an extraordinary doctrine to hear from the Ministerial Benches, which were occupied by what was called a strong Government. It might have suited the Gentlemen on his own side when they were in office, and were said to have no power. Was the plan, he would ask, adequate to the wants of the country? He believed not. The right hon. Gentleman had referred to the youths between twenty and eighteen years of age, who constituted the great majority of those engaged in the late riots. Now, what provision did the bill make for that class? None whatever. The hon. Member for Oxford had objected to the Church being called a sect; but he
 1451 l. l. "] l. l. 1452 1453 "That the provisions of the bill are at variance with the principles on which the orders of the Privy Council for Education,, dated the 3d of June, 1839, were framed; are in opposition to the principles of general education in Ireland, which have been repeatedly sanctioned by Parliament; will widely create new claims objectionable to the Society of Friends and many other individuals, of the same nature, and for the same reasons, as church-rates; will interfere with, and probably subvert, the British and Foreign Sunday School Societies, and all congregational and other schools dependent on voluntary support, and so eminently useful; and especially will create, in favour of the parochial clergy and the established church, new, injurious, intolerant, unlimited, and irresponsible power and authority over the people and rising generation; that will violate all religious equality, and be thoroughly incompatible with the rights of conscience and civil and religious liberty." "No parties, who are advocates for educating the poorer classes, entertain a doubt of being able to secure the attendance of children at schools where they could obtain good secular instruction, if such schools were established; but all propositions for adopting a general system of education for the poorer classes have been hitherto thwarted, by an assumed difficulty as to the religious education which should be given in these schools, without violating the conscientious scruples entertained by parents—" 1454 1455 l. l. l. l. 1456
 Mr. Acland  was disposed to support the bill, but felt it necessary to state, by way of preliminary what were the grounds upon which he was prepared to concur in a measure which he could not consider to be a one-sided measure, or one calculated to give all the advantage to the Established Church over the dissenting portion of the community. It was his opinion, that any system of education established by Parliament, which should tend, either directly or indirectly, to check individual efforts, would do more of injury to the cause of national education, than they could hope to produce good. He could not touch on this bill without feeling, that after ten years of all but hopeless attempts and the most heart-sickening failures, they had at length arrived at that point when all parties seemed desirous of meeting the question fairly, and with a desire to conciliate as far as conciliation could be desired or expected, in matters of conscience. Certain points might be considered to be established, as the result of the discussions of the last few years. First, that no system of national education could ever be successful unless it were based on religion. Secondly, to adopt the expression used by the late Government, "that religion should be mixed up with the whole matter of the instruction." And, thirdly, he must add, that the division of religion into "general and special" had been rejected by the country. At first sight of the bill he confessed many objections had met his view. He objected to the power given to the committee of the Privy Council, as being calculated to interfere with individual exertions. He also objected to what appeared to him to be a tendency in the bill to separate secular from religious instruction, by giving the jurisdiction in the one case to the Privy Council, and in the other to the clergy; and again, he did not think it advisable that a plan of national education should be carried on, by
 1457
 Mr. F. T. Baring  agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Acland) in two opinions, to which he had given expression. First, that all party topics should be banished, and the discussion carried on with calmness. Second, that unless each of the extreme parties were willing to give way on some points, to which, on other occasions, they might attach importance, he believed it would be utterly impossible for them to obtain that object, which he hoped the House had in view. It was well that the subject should now be discussed, as he believed that the right hon. Baronet might otherwise on a subsequent stage of the
 1458 ex officio 1459
 Mr. Hardy  hoped that this measure would be the means of affording proper religious education to a large mass of the youth of this country employed in manufactures, but although he agreed that they should make toleration their principle, yet he trusted that religion would be taught in these schools according to the Holy Scriptures, and in the way which alone could guide the minds and govern the hearts of the young working population of the manufacturing districts. He did not think they could hit on any plan which would be satisfactory to the members of the Established Church and the Dissenters; but he thought it important, that in whatever they did they should make religious instruction, according to the Scriptures, their rule. At that moment he would not enter into the details of the bill, but he hoped that when they went into committee they would be able to render the measure such as would afford general satisfaction.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  considered that he should not represent the feelings of his constituents if he were to express his approbation of the present measure. He had very great objections to the bill, and could almost reconcile it to himself to vote against the second reading. But if he did not do that, he meant to give his reasons why he could almost reconcile himself to vote against the second reading, on the very ground that he was anxious to extend education, and especially amongst those classes to whom the bill would apply. If he admitted the soundness of the principle on which they were about to proceed, it did not follow that a partial application of that principle might not be attended with mischievous results. They must consider what would be the probable practical working of the measure before the House. He would ask the right hon. Baronet opposite this question. He had confined the operation of the bill to the masters in particular mills, to those in cotton, silk, flax, woollen, and some other mills, but he had left beyond the scope of his measure the vast number of children employed in a number of other employments of manu-
 1460 1461 1462 1463
 Mr. Manners Sutton  rose to state the leason why he did not agree in the first point urged against the bill by the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. The hon. Gentleman had stated that he feared that the school clauses would not have the effect of promoting education, but of inducing children to enter into other employments, as a condition of entering into which the fact of their receiving education was unneccessary, and he had quoted the report of a Factory Inspector, to prove the probability of the view he took. Now he apprehended, supposing that report to be correct, that the refusal of parents to allow their children to be employed in those manufactures, engagement in which made education compulsory, could not fairly be attributed to any desire of keeping from the children the education which they ought to receive; he believed that such was not the feeling of parents. But there was one point connected with the education clauses under the existing law, which had great weight in inducing parents to send their children into branches of manufacture unconnected with any necessity for education, and that was, the fact that the education provided was of the most inferior character, and he believed that in many instances the children were on that ground prevented from being subjected to certain restrictions from which no corresponding advantage could be reaped. But as the system of education was improved so would the reluctance on the part of parents vanish. Indeed, he considered that the enactment of education clauses would be considered by parents as holding out high premiums to send their children to employments with which they were connected. He would conclude with remarking, that the hon. Gentleman opposite, in alluding to the restricted scope of the bill as originally proposed, should not have forgotten that his right hon. Friend near him had announced his intention of submitting two other great branches of industry to its operation.
 Mr. Cowper  had experienced much gratification from the declarations made in the course of the evening, that the time
 1464 1465
 Lord Ashley  said, that had it not been for what had fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Gibson), he should not have spoken a word on the present occasion; nor would he now be tempted to say anything calculated to destroy the feeling of unanimity happily existing upon this question, or to make him appear in the position of being now the assailant of factories or of factory masters. With regard to the rural districts, he wished the House and the country to understand that it never was his intention to propose a grant of public money to enable landlords to extend the blessings and benefits of education among those who it might be said lived under their protection. He did think that it was a very solemn truth that every man having landed property, with all the advantages and responsibilities that attached to its possession, ought to see that his tenantry, great and small, and his neighbours, were brought up in loyalty to the King, and in the fear of God. And he should be perfectly ready, whenever the time came, to lend his humble assistance for the purpose of making regulations to promote education in the agricultural districts, as stringent as for Lancashire and the manufacturing districts. He should then be able to adduce a vast amount of evidence to show that there were countervailing advantages in the agricultural districts which were not to be found in the manufacturing districts; and it was partly with a view to that that he had abstained
 1466 1467 vice versa, 1468 1469
 Mr. Cobden  admitted that it was a most difficult matter to deal with the rights of conscience as regarded different persuasions. Amongst the Dissenters of Lancashire it would be found not very easy to fix on a common test; but that difficulty was immensely increased when the Church of England claimed so dominant a power in this question. They were dealing there with a population the majority of which so far as the working classes were concerned, were Dissenters. The master would feel that he must consult the feelings of the minority. He thought it very likely that objections would be raised to paying rates when the majority found they could not have a master of their own views. He did not bring it as a charge against the noble Lord (Lord Ashley), that he had singled out Manchester as specially in want of instruction. He did not want to retaliate; but he must say there were districts more demoralized than Manchester. The very parish in which they sat, and which contained Westminster Abbey, he could prove by authentic documents, was more void of religious instruction than Manchester itself. He found in the  Quarterly Journal of the Statistical Society of London for April "Religion professed by the principle members of the families of the working class. Out of 5,3GG principal members of families visited, there were found, 1,181 who professed to belong to no religious denomination, and 2,077 who did not attend any place of public worship. Thus one-fifth of the principal members of the working population visited, professed
 1470 "Total number of the principal members of families visited, 50,429; of which there were found to make no religious professions, 4,481, or about one-twelfth." "Of these (said Mr. Burnett) 276 had a reasonable knowledge of the Christian faith, 229 had a confused knowledge of the leading events in the Saviour's life, 1,120 could tell the Saviour's name, and 646 did not know his name. And these, (the chaplain added), were Sussex born prisoners." 1471
 Mr. Darby  deprecated the tone which the hon. Member who spoke last had introduced into the discussion. As the hon. Member had referred to the Lewes House of Correction, he (Mr. Darby) could state, from his own experience, that a considerable portion of the prisoners confined there were not connected with the rural population. As to the Sussex clergymen, there was no set of men more anxious than they were to train up the people in a religious course. In his opinion, mere secular education would afford no guarantee for a moral population. The hon. Member for
 1472
 Mr. A. Hope  would give his support to the bill. The little discussion which the measure had received, showed that the bill was not looked upon as a great measure of national education. Looking at the disturbances, almost amounting to rebellion, that had taken place in the manufacturing districts last autumn, it was plain that there was a necessity for doing something to provide for the education of the people. The state of those districts with respect to education was a disgrace to the country. He believed, however, that exertions were being made to remedy the state of things that prevailed. In the agricultural districts, the landed proprietors were rousing themselves to a sense of their duty, and exertions were being made to provide better for the education of the people. He hoped, that the present measure would prove beneficial, and he would give it his support.
 Lord J. Russell  was afraid, that if they went into a discussion with regard to the different kinds of persons assembled in different parts of the country,—that if one hon. Member were to point out the ignorance and vice of the manufacturing districts,—if another took the metropolis as an example, and a third were to point out the extreme ignorance, and in many respects the depravity, which prevailed in some of the agricultural districts, it would prove that the attack was more successful than the defence; for there was no part of the country with respect to which they could say, that there was that religious and moral instruction which the Legislature would be proud to see established. He, for one, could not regret this discussion. He was disposed to think, that there being a very considerable degree of angry feeling amongst many bodies in the country, and much misapprehension with regard to the provisions of this bill, a discussion conducted as this had been in that House would rather tend to produce a similar temper elsewhere, and would pro-
 1473 1474 1475 1476 1477
 Mr. Ross  said that this bill was generally approved of by his constituents, though there were some of the provisions to which they objected. He approved of the principle of the bill, and would give it his support, but there were some parts of it which he hoped to see altered in committee.
 Mr. Hume  objected to proceeding with the bill at such a late hour.
 Lord A. Lennox  said, that ample opportunity had been afforded to hon. Members who felt any interest in the subject of ascertaining that the bill would be brought forward to—night.
 Mr. M. Phillips  opposed the bill, on the ground that it would injuriously affect the interests of a large class of poor persons. Dogs were very useful to venders of crockery and other wares, in drawing their carts, and he had observed that they were generally treated with humanity. This bill, if it passed, would deprive numbers of individuals of the means of subsistence, and, at best, it would only substitute one class of evils for another, as some animals must be employed to run the carts. He had heard of a person who employed a goose to clean his chimney, and who, on being reproached for cruelly in doing so, thought he made a great advance in humanity by using two ducks instead.
 Mr. Hutt  thought that a very erroneous impression was generally entertained, that the disease of hydrophobia was occasioned by the ill—treatment of dogs. A committee
 1478
 Lord A. Lennox  said, an hon. Member of that House had published a protest against this bill, in which he adverted to the hardship which would be inflicted by its adoption upon an unfortunate cripple whose legs had been amputated, and who had been conveyed from place to place in a cart drawn by dogs. This case appeared one of great hardship, but on the whole he thought that the hon. Member—like the cripple to whom he alluded—had not, with regard to the protest, a leg to stand on. He contended that the ill-treatment to which dogs were subjected frequently had the effect of producing hydrophobia.
 Mr. S. Herbert  opposed the bill. When they were legislating on subjects which were likely to affect the extremely poor classes of society, they should be particularly cautious, as those people had no persons in the House who could fully represent their wants, or sympathize in their feelings. Legislators were too much in the habit of overlooking these matters, and he must say, that he would not with patience see a poor woman seized in the streets by a constable for selling apples, and under the charge of begging sent to the House of Correction like a thief. It was not well, when measures such as the present were proposed, to allow the poor to imagine that their interests were altogether overlooked.
 Mr. Muntz  felt that the measure was proposed, not so much for the benefit of the canine tribe, as for the convenience of those who rode in coaches and on horse—
 1479
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, it was no justification of those who rejected this bill that another class of evils existed, for which no remedy had been provided. The course which those who opposed it ought to take was to repeal the Police Act, for all that this measure did was to extend a provision of that act beyond its present limits. He was willing to admit that some species of dogs were adapted to draught, and were very serviceable; but, because dogs were used in dragging the fish carts from Scheveling to the Hague, on the sand of Holland, or in drawing men in carts on the snows of Kamschatka, it did not follow that their soft and elastic foot was equally adapted to the rough granite pavements of our towns, or even to the hard macadamized roads in the country.
 Captain Bernal  begged to ask what was the diocese and what the congregation of the Bishop of Jerusalem? At present he had heard of no other congregation for the right Rev. Bishop, but that which went out with him.
 Captain Bernal  said, the explanation of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir G. Clerk) was such as to render it imperative on him to divide. No account had been given as to the Church or the diocese over which this Bishop of Jerusalem was to preside; and he (Captain Bernal) presumed the bishop had taken out both Church and diocese with him. He begged to ask the hon. Gentleman in the chair in what form it was proper, according to the forms of the House, that he (Captain Bernal) should propose his amendment.
 Captain Bernal  had observed, on referring to the estimates, that the expense of sending out this bishop amounted to more than the cost of Lord Ashburton's transportation to and return from America, and on those grounds he should certainly press his amendment to a division.
 Mr. E. Ellice  objected to the expense to which the country had been put, in
 26 l
 Lord Stanley  assured the hon. Gentleman, that the country had been put to no extra charge on account of the new arrangement with regard to the bishops in the West Indies; and that the amount to which the hon. Gentleman adverted could not possibly be refused. The late Bishop of Barbadoes, Dr. Coleridge, had a salary of 4,000 l l l l l l
 Mr. E. Ellice  said, what he wished to understand was, whether the appointment of the five new bishops would occasion any increase of expense to the country.
 Lord Stanley  said, that Dr. Coleridge made no condition, but merely requested the saving might be applied in the manner he had described. With regard to the question as to the expense of the five new bishops, he had only to say, that the Bishopric of Barbadoes had been divided between the Bishops of Guiana, Barbadoes, and Antigua; and that these three bishops would only receive the amount of salary previously paid to the Church in the West Indies. The charge, therefore, to the public would remain unaltered. The Bishop of Gibraltar, and the Bishop
 27
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that these two parks, Richmond and Kew, were the only two into which the public were not freely admitted. The expense incurred on account of these two parks was very trifling, as compared with the others. The average expense for maintaining these parks for the last eight years, was not much more than 20,000 l
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that the regulations of Richmond-park were different from those of the other parks in the neighbourhood of London. Any alteration that had taken place in those rules had been in the way of altering their stringency; He was surprised that the case alluded to by the hon. Member had occurred, as Lord Sidmouth was in the habit of attend-
 29
 Lord J. Russell  remarked, that the property of the Church was not increased in value by those commissioners who were appointed by the State, because it had undertaken to regulate the management of that property.
 The Chairman  said, he had the highest authority for stating that the hon. Member was entitled to go on.
 Lord J. Manners  remarked, that after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, he was anxious to state, that while he should refuse to vote for the proposed reduction, he was averse from the appointment of a Bishop of Jerusalem, a question which he hoped would be fully discussed.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was anxious that every reasonable indulgence should be afforded the public in admitting them to these place of recreation. He thought it, however, rather extraordinary that those attacks had not been made on the hon. Gentlemen opposite during the ten years they held the reins of power; and he thanked God they held them no longer. He thought it extraordinary to have those attacks made on the present Government, who were really disposed to afford those recreations and indulgences to the people. The present Government preferred doing what they intended to do, rather than pretending to be desirous of doing that which they never intended to do. It was singular those attacks had not been made on the former Government, or if they had, they certainly had made no impression.
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to know why this country was called on to pay the expenses of the Prince of Saxe Coburg on his voyage to this country, and of the Duchess of Victoria in her journey from Malaga to Gibraltar. He thought that those foreigners who were in the habit of coming over here from the Continent ought to pay their own expenses. Again, it appeared that those foreigners, when they landed in this country, were allowed to smuggle goods to any amount. Their persons wore considered sacred, and they were exempted from all those liabilities to
 15
 Mr. Horsman  wished to state a fact that had come to his knowledge. A gentleman living near Richmond, and in delicate health, wrote to Lord Sidmouth to request permission to ride in Richmondpark, and received for answer, that he (Lord Sidmouth) did not give permission, unless to his private friends. The case appeared to him particularly hard, as he heard that some gentlemen had the privilege of riding in this park.
 Mr. Protheroe  thought, that by the same rule, the Government should contribute to the publication of half the works that issued from the press. He should like to know whether the work on the public records was also to be continued?
 Mr. Protheroe  asked upon what principle the sum of 100 l Wright's Parliamentary History?
 Mr. Muntz  maintained that the committee was in the position of auditors of accounts, and, if the accounts were objectionable, the committee had a right, as auditors, to reject them.
 Mr. Muntz  observed, that he understood, from the tenor of the right hon. Baronet's (Sir R. Peel's) remarks, that there was a necessity for a bishop at Jerusalem; if so, there was a greater necessity for one in Italy, where there was a larger number of British subjects resident than in Syria. But when he considered the present state of the country, he thought the House ought seriously to reflect before they ventured upon any expense whatever, except upon matters in which the interests of the people were concerned. When, therefore, he found bishops appointed where they were not wanted—and as he did not agree with the right hon. Baronet, that a bishop was necessary in the present case—he could not think this expense was a proper application, in the circumstances of the country, of the public money.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, the joke of the noble Lord might be a good one, but his explanation was not satisfactory. After the honourable testimony borne to the conduct of the people by the right hon. Baronet opposite that evening, he thought that the public ought to be allowed to have free access to those parks.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not aware that any such change as that mentioned by the hon. and gallant Officer, was in the contemplation of the Government, it would involve considerable expense.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, they constituted a portion of the State, as members of which they possessed some degree of control over the management of the property, and it was their interest that it should be well managed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  defended the grant, on the ground that the commission had been constituted by act of Parliament.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to remind the committee that Lord Ashburton went out only on a temporary service—he knew he was shortly to return. in the case of the Bishop of Jerusalem it was different; he was going to a see with the intention of fixing a permanent residence. The latter had, of course, taken with him his whole family, his chaplain, and all the additions essential to the maintenance of his position as a bishop.
 Mr. Oswald,  seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, asked whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government, during the present Session of Parliament, to introduce a bill for the regulation of the police within the Parliamentary districts of Glasgow?
 Dr. Bowring  said, that though the question of the policy of the appointment of a Bishop of Jerusalem would come formally under discussion on a future day, he could not allow the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, to take the advantageous position he had assumed by a comparison between that appoint-
 22
 Dr. Bowring  wished to know whether any determination had been come to by the commissioners as to the internal decorations of the Houses of Parliament—whether fresco painting were intended to be adopted or not.
 Mr. Brotherton  rose to order, appealing to the Chairman whether it were not irregular to raise a debate after the motion that the Chairman report progress.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it now appeared that the new Houses, the expense of which was estimated at 770,000 l l l
 Mr. Hume  moved that the vote be 43,750 l
 Mr. Hume  objected, and maintained that the managers of the Church property ought to be paid out of that property, and not ot of the public funds.
 Mr. Hume  had long recommended the consolidation of the navy and ordnance.
 Mr. Hume  seeing a considerable sum for the National Gallery, wished to call the attention of the Government to the fact, that the National Gallery was shut for a period of six weeks during every year, he was anxious to ascertain if there was any sufficient reason why the public were prevented for so considerable a period every year from visiting it.
 Mr. Hume  repeated that, the question was, would the House sanction so large an expenditure? Nothing could in his judgment, be more monstrous than that the expense of sending a bishop to Alexandria should cost 603 l l
 Mr. Hume  deprecated the desultory manner in which the House was in the habit of disposing of the miscellaneous estimates and civil contingencies. There were upwards of 200 items in the estimates before the House, very many of which required explanation, and he must again, for the twentieth time, submit to the right hon. Baronet the propriety of having these estimates examined by a committee before they were presented to the House. There was scarcely any part of the world in which such a course was not pursued, and with the best possible results. Perhaps the House was not aware of the amount of money voted in this desultory manner. They would be that night called on to vote, and, in all probability, there would be voted 2,938,000 l l l l l l 16 l l l l l l Caroline. l l l
 Mr. Ferrand  said, that when he had asked for an adjournment the House was disinclined to assent to his proposal, and he was compelled to proceed, and he
 35 l s l
 Mr. Ferrand  resumed by remarking, that about Midsummer 1842, Mr. Mott visited the board of guardians again, when the whole board rose and left the room, so disgusted were they at his conduct. The board had only been visited three times since 1840. To pay such an officer at the rate of 2,000 l d.
 Mr. Williams  said, that as Richmond Park was maintained at the public expense, he did not see why it should not be open for the recreation of the public. For his own part, however, he had felt no inconvenience, though he had heard others complain. He had himself never been prevented from riding in Richmond-park.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that there were a great number of items in these charges, which ought not to be paid by the public. The cost for foreign ambassadors was already enormous, and here he found a sum of 19,800 l l l l l l l l l l 8 l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 Sir C. Napier  considered the Admiralty scale for passages of distinguished persons reasonable. He thought it such as would neither allow the captains of vessels to gain or lose. With respect to Sir C. Bagot, the charge for passage-money appeared enormous, but the right hon. Baronet had explained the reason of this, as Sir C. Bagot had been driven back to this country by stress of weather. He was not quite certain that the Government ought not to take steps to make persons sent out of the country with appointments pay the expense of their passage, by deducting so much from their pay. Naval officers appointed to the East Indies must find their passage out the best way they could, and he did not see why bishops and governors, who were better paid, should not do the same. There was a case with regard to these passage allowances which had come to his knowledge, and which he thought one of great hardship. A gallant officer, Captain Henderson, had been engaged in the naval service on the coast of Spain, and from time to time bad taken on board not less than between 40,000 and 50,000 officers and men, for which he had not received a single sixpence. Now, though the passage was necessarily short, still he thought some allowance ought to have been made. With regard to the services of Captain Parry in the survey of the Caledonian Canal, he concurred with the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, that it was only just his expenses should be paid by the Govern-
 21
 Colonel Napier  cordially supported the hon. Member for Montrose in that recommendation. He hoped the right hon. Member for Dorchester, who had formerly approved of this change, would give his opinion on the matter now. l
 Sir C. Napier  was desirous to know, whether it was in contemplation of the Government to remove the whole of the Admiralty to Somerset House? Great inconvenience to the public service arose from the present distribution. At present the civil department of the Admiralty was at Somerset House, whilst the executive part was at Whitehall. The advantage of uniting them in one place would be very great, and very beneficial to the public service.
 Sir C. Napier  said, as it appeared probable that this vote would lead to some discussion, he thought at that late hour its consideration ought to be adjourned. He would, therefore, move, that the chairman do report progress.
 Sir C. Napier  said, that monomania was now at its height. The very moment the Keighley Union was touched on, the hon. Member seemed to go stark-staring mad. As it was impossible to discuss the motion with proper temper at that hour of the night, he should persist in his motion that the Chairman report progress.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  could not vote for the amendment, having been a party to the act of last Session, and considered the occasion of the future motion upon the subject of this appointment the fittest time to raise the question of opposition respecting it. As the bishop had been sent out in a British man-of-war, the circumstance, be thought, of paying his expenses, was not one for the censure of the House; but, if it should be considered so, he must say, that he could not vote for the amendment of his hon. and gallant Friend.
 Sir G. Clerk  would suggest that this point might be better brought forward on Monday, when the hon. Member for Bolton proposed his motion as to the propriety of the appointment of English Bishops in Syria at all. The Bishop and his family and suite were conveyed to Alexandria in one of her Majesty's vessels; and as usual when persons of distinction had a passage given them in one of the royal vessels, the captain of the ship had a sum given him for the expenses which he of course incurred, which sum was paid on a scale fixed by the Admiralty.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, why a separate vote was not taken on each of the six branches, he could only say that the paper was an account of the manner in which the sum of 130,000 l 9 l l 10 l l l l
 Sir G. Clerk  believed, that very shortly the arrangement of the commissioners would be in a complete state, and that a bill founded upon them would be introduced during the present Session of Parliament.
 Sir G. Clerk  said it had been deemed desirable to have the Parliamentary history of that House completed, and that was the reason why this grant was to be made. This was a work the general circulation of which was not likely to repay the publisher and compiler, and the late Government, therefore, considered it right to issue 500 l l l
 Captain Pechell  must say, that there was no analogy between the expenses of Lord Ashburton and those of the Bishop of Jerusalem; the latter had made his passage in the Cyclops in fifteen days, while Lord John Hay did not carry Lord Ashburton to his destination in less than fifty.
 Captain Pechell  said, he felt it to be his duty to oppose this vote. The conduct of the commissioners had excited great discontent throughout the country, and their endeavours to bring the parishes incorporated under Gilbert's Act with in their jurisdiction had been regarded with general dissatisfaction. In one case an assistant-commissioner had been smuggled into a workhouse to institute inquiries with a view to promote this object of the commissioners. It had been stated that the assistant-commissioner to whom he referred was paying a visit in the neighbourhood, and had merely paid a casual visit to the workhouse. His object was, however, undoubtedly to obtain information which might serve the purposes of the commissioners, and, instead of making a direct application to the proper officers, he was smuggled into the House under false colours, and at an untimely hour. He would oppose any vote of public money for the payment of the salaries and expenses of the commissioners, or of the assistant-commissioners, for he thought that this system of employing spies ought to be discountenanced. If inquiries were instituted in a fair and open manner, the authorities in the Gilbert Unions would, he was sure, be quite ready to meet them.
 Captain Pechell  thought that the change would be beneficial.
 Captain Pechell  wished to know, if that point made by the French Government, that the fishing boats of France should be allowed to enter within the three miles of ground ceded to this country, had been insisted upon. That point had been urged by the French, and resisted by the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston).
 Captain Pechell:  On several occasions he had sought information on the subject of the Channel Fisheries, and the reply had generally been that, to give that information would be detrimental to the public service. In the year 1839, the noble Lord, the late Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, effected a treaty with France for regulating the fisheries on the coasts of the two countries, and a commission was appointed, in order to lay down certain rules upon which an act of Parliament was to be founded. There was great praise due to the noble Lord. He (Captain Pechell) wished to know what was the existing state of the question with regard to France at this moment.
 Sir J. Graham  replied, that the hon. Gentleman must be aware that there were already three private bills before the House for the regulation of the police of Glasgow and its suburbs. Now, considering that Glasgow is the second city in point of population in the empire, it did appear advisable to her Majesty's Government, with the assent of the rate-payers, to introduce an uniform system of police in Glasgow and its suburbs; at the same time they were quite aware that the efficiency of such police would much depend on the assent of the rate-payers to the rate to be laid. He was sorry to learn, that great excitement prevailed in that city, in consequence of the announcement that Government intended to introduce a general measure. It was the anxious wish of her Majesty's Government, to make an arrangement with a more general concurrence. To pass the bills now before Parliament, unless precautions were taken, would be a serious bar to such an arrangement. He was perfectly willing to declare, on the part of her Majesty's Government, that during the present Session they would not attempt to force a general system of police on Glasgow; but he would propose in each separate measure before the House to introduce clauses of suspension with regard to the criminal police, declaring they should only endure till it should be by Parliament otherwise provided. It would then be open to Parliament, notwithstanding these local acts, to pass a general measure. If he did not succeed in introducing such clauses, of course it would be open to him to proceed, even during the present Session, with a general bill.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that this fishery question was one, like many others which he had found not brought to a final close. It was a question very likely to cause collision, and the present Government had attempted to bring it to a satisfactory conclusion. He had every reason to hope that an arrangement would be shortly concluded, and as soon as it was complete, the whole should be laid upon the Table of the House. But no hon. Member had a right to take up a particular point, and, before a final arrangement had been made, to ask what the Government intended to do upon that point. When the whole arrangement was made, he should lay it before the House, so as to enable them to judge whether it was satisfactory, and to the interests of the country, or not.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to point out to the hon. Gentleman that this was not an estimate, but an account of money actually spent. The House last year, as usual, voted to the Government a sum to meet unforeseen expenses. And the Government had, he would submit, shown themselves not altogether unworthy of the confidence thus placed in their discretion, by retaining unexpended no less than 15,000 l l l l l l 18 l l 19 l l 20
  Sir Robert Peel  said, that something else besides the mere articles of the treaty were absolutely necessary, and as such was the case the regulations were being framed, and as soon as they were concluded they should be laid on the Table of the House. It was not, however, to be expected, that he could go into an explanation of parts of those regulations when the whole question was in the course of settlement.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had made it no subject of exultation; he had stated a simple fact. The question had long been subject to dispute; but from 1815 to 1827 the noble Lord would recollect that he was himself connected with the Government. [Viscount  Palmerston:
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. and gallant Member for Wycombe had a perfectly constitutional right to object to this item of expenditure; but he must protest against the Treasury being individually called upon to bear it. Let it be remembered that the Bishop of Jerusalem had been appointed with the concurrence of the noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston) before that noble Lord quitted office; and it was not in the expectation that the bishop would find a congregation that he was tent out; but he was sent out to protect the religious interests of her Majesty's subjects resident in Syria. Having been appointed, was it not fitting that he should be sent out in a ship of war. In fact, the item objected to, was merely the expense of conveying the bishop in a proper manner to his destination, was merely carrying into execution an act of Parliament.
 Sir R. Peel  replied, that the commissioners had not come to any decision as to the internal decoration. They had invited designs, which would be exhibited in Westminster-hall in May or June next, and the decision of the commissioners was suspended until that exhibition had taken place.
 Sir R. Peel : I am ready to take this question upon the grounds on which the hon. Member for Birmingham has placed it; and, certainly, if the House is disposed to resist the vote, no man can complain of any undue exercise of power on the part of the Crown or the Government in the matter. Last year this House passed an act the object of which was to enable the Archbishops of York and Canterbury to consecrate a bishop for the purpose of exercising spiritual jurisdiction over Protestants, of all nations, who might be desirous of placing themselves under his authority, for there had been many applications, both from foreign and British Protestants, to be placed under such protection. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston) sanctioned the appointment of a Bishop at Jerusalem when in office, as did Parliament, when applied to, and the proper time to have made any objection upon the subject, would have been when the act in which such application was made was before the House, The House assented to the act, and the present Government
 24
 Sir R. Peel  thought it rather hard to deprive the officers of that Institution of six weeks holidays out of fifty-two weeks, and there would be some difficulty in appointing temporary officers during their absence. He could assure the hon. Member that, in considering the subject he had not forgotten the necessity of giving to the public every facility for visiting the National Gallery. Whilst adverting to that subject he had great pleasure in stat-
 28 l
 Sir R. Peel  would not enter on the subject of the continuation of the work on public records, but he thought they ought to give this sum of 100 l
 Viscount Palmerston  confirmed the right hon. Baronet's statement. This appointment had arisen out of communications with the Prussian Government. The bill for the appointment of the bishop had passed that House almost  sub silentio.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the right hon. Baronet wag mistaken in saying that the commission had been appointed to regulate all the details of the fisheries. The treaty settled two things finally, and those two things were the matters out of which the collision had arisen. The temporary arrangement made in 1822 had not had the effect of preventing collisions, for after that collisions occurred as often as before. The first great source of difference was, that our fishermen bad trespassed upon the limits of the French oyster fisheries, and the ground of excuse was, that the French
 14 from
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the right hon. Baronet had been pleased to say, that the present was one of many questions which the late Government had left unsettled, but he begged leave to remind the right hon. Baronet that it was one of the questions which the Government to which the right hon. Baronet belonged had left unsettled. The late Government, he might observe, had settled the oyster question. [ Laughter. 13
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the question was whether, in the negotiations now going on, the commissioners had come to any agreement on the point that had been stated by the hon. and gallant Member. The treaty between the two countries contained an article by which each country reserved, exclusively for the use of its own subjects, the right to fish within three miles of its own coasts. Certain rules were then framed for the guidance of the fishermen when they met. The French commissioner had, indeed, requested that in those regulations should be contained an article permitting the French fishing boats to enter and station themselves within our limits, although the exclusive use of the water within those limits was reserved to our own boats. That point was reserved for further consideration. It was, however, obvious, if the French boats were permitted to enter and station themselves within those limits, such a permission would annul the article in the treaty, by which the exclusive right was reserved for our own fishermen. France, by her present law, not only prevented our boats from entering within three miles
 12
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that no representations had been lately made to the Government on the subject, but he would admit that it was one which deserved, and would receive, the attention of Ministers.
 Lord J. Russell  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet, the Home Secretary, whether he intended to proceed with the Factory Bill on Friday next.
 General Johnson  seconded the motion. He thought that the excessive bail which was demanded in these cases, particularly at Dudley; and the excess was proved by the circumstance that the Lord Chief Baron had reduced the bail to one-third, was of itself sufficient to justify the House in instituting an inquiry. In his opinion the demand for excessive bail was contrary to all law, and contrary to all justice. Was that the way, he would ask, to put down Chartism? He remembered that a late Attorney-general, now a noble Lord, after a petition had been presented to this House, signed by 1,500,000 persons, by Mr. Attwood, had boasted, in a speech at Edinburgh, that he had put down Chartism. But was that done by making the masses discontented? He believed that the only way to put down Chartism was to give the people their rights, and do them justice; and that there
 74 l.
 The Attorney General  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had thanked his right hon. Friend and had thanked him for the attention with which they had listened to his speech, but he always listened to the statements of the hon. Member with profit and pleasure, and on this occasion he felt a deep interest, both as to the persons concerned in the administration of justice, and in the conduct of the Government of the country. Apart from all personal considerations, he had listened with great respect to everything which had fallen from the hon. Member in his address to the House; but at no given time, within six months perhaps, were the objections so strong to the motion of the hon. Gentleman as at present. He would state to the House why it must not grant the hon. Gentleman's motion for a committee, why it never granted such committees, and he would state reasons why the House should not vote with the hon. Member. The House had no means of giving any redress whatever. The hon. and gallant Gentleman who seconded the motion complained of the excessively heavy bail taken. But if excessive bail had been taken—if the parties held to bail had suffered any illegal or unconstitutional treatment—their proper means of obtaining redress was to apply to the law of the land. They should go before courts where the evidence and examination could be taken on oath; where the men accused
 75 76 T. Buncombe: 77 Duncombe 78 "Englishmen, the blood of your brothers reddens the streets of Preston, Blackburn, and Halifax, and the murderers thirst for more!—I be firm, be courageous, be men." 79 "Let union and peace be the Chartist watchword. We counsel you against waging warfare against any recognized authority, while we believe that the moral strength of an united people is sufficiently powerful, when well directed, to overcome all the physical force that tyranny and despotism can command." "Their blood has been shed, while peacefully agitating for their rights." 80 81 82 Duncombe 83 84 "You say that I told the man not to work? Yes, you did so. Did I do any injury to any man, or was any property destroyed? So far no man was injured nor property destroyed." 85 "Brother Chartists—The great political truths which have been agitated during the last half century hare at length aroused the degraded and insulted White slaves of England to a sense of their duty to themselves, their
 86 "Nature, God, and reason, have condemned this inequality." "Nature, God, and reason, have condemned this inequality, and in the thunders of a people's voice it must perish for ever. He knows that labour, the real property of society, the sole origin of accumulated property, the first cause of all national wealth, and the only supporter, defender, and contributor to the greatness of our country, is not possessed of the same legal protection which is given to those lifeless effects, the houses, ships, and machinery which labour have alone created. He knows that if labour has no protection, wages cannot be upheld, nor in the slightest degree regulated until every workman of twenty-one years of age and of sane mind is on the same political level as the employer. He knows that the Charter would remove, by universal will expressed in universal suffrage, the heavy load of taxes which now crush the existence of the labourer, and cripple the efforts of commerce; that it would give cheap government as well as cheap food, high wages, as well as low taxes, bring happiness to the hearthstone, plenty to the table, protection to the old, education to the young, permanent prosperity to the country, long-continued protective political power to labour, and peace, blessed peace, to exhausted humanity and approving nations; therefore it is that we have solemnly sworn, and one and all declared, that the golden opportunity now within our grasp shall not pass away fruitless, that the chance of centuries afforded to us by a wise and all-seeing God, shall not be lost; but that we do now universally resolve never to resume labour until labour's grievances are destroyed, and protection secured for ourselves, our suffering wives, and helpless children, by the enactment of the People's Charter." 87 "Countrymen and Brothers, centuries may roll on as they have fleeted past, before such universal action may again be displayed; we have made the cast for liberty, and we must stand like men the hazard of the die." "Let none despond. Let all be cool and watchful, and, like the bridemaids in the parable, keep your lamps burning, and let your continued resolution be like a beacon to guide those who are now hastening far and wide to follow your memorable example. Brethren, we rely upon your firmness; cowardice, treachery, or womanly fear would cast our cause back for half a century. Let no man, woman, or child break down the solemn pledge, and if they do, may the curse of the poor and the starving pursue them—they deserve slavery who would madly court it. Our machinery is all arranged." "Our machinery is all arranged, and your cause will in three days be impelled onward by all the intellect we can summon to its aid; therefore, whilst you are peaceful, be firm; whilst you are orderly make all be so likewise; and whilst you look to the law, remember that you had no voice in making it, and are, therefore, the slaves to the will, the law, and the price of your masters." "Peace, law, and order, have prevailed on our side;" "Be firm, be courageous, be men. Peace, law, and order have prevailed on our side— let them be revered unto your brethren in Scotland; Wales and Ireland are informed of your resolution; and when a universal holiday prevails, which will be the case in eight days, then of what use will bayonets be against public opinion?" 88 "All officers of the association are called upon to aid and assist in the peaceful extension of the movement, and to forward all moneys for the use of the delegates who may be dispersed over the country. Strengthen our hands at this crisis. Support your leaders. Rally round our sacred cause, and leave the decision to the God of Justice and of Battle." "Resolved, That we, the delegates, in public meeting assembled, do recommend to the various constituencies which we represent, to adopt all legal means to carry into effect the people's Charter. And further, we recommend that delegates be sent through the whole of the country, to endeavour to obtain the cooperation of the middle and working classes, in carrying out the resolution of ceasing labour until the Charter be made the law of the land." 89 "Run for gold—labour is suspended—public credit is gone—paper is worthless—every sovereign is now worth thirty-shillings—run, middle classes—run for gold." Northern Star 90 91 "We will have the Charter; we mean to go from town to town, and from mill to mill, to turn out the workmen; and if they do not come out, then we will make them," 92 "That your petitioner appeared at Liverpool, when the first charge upon which your petitioner was arrested, and after suffering thirteen days' confinement under the circumstances above mentioned, the indictment against your petitioner was abandoned, and, as he believes, from a knowledge the prosecutor had that his witnesses were most grossly and foully perjured, and that your petitioner had ample means to prove them so." 93 94 95 certiorari
 Mr. Clive  opposed the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, and bore testimony to the honourable manner in which Captain Connolly conducted himself in his district in Worcestershire. And, with respect to the magistracy, he asked, was it not necessary that they should use the utmost precaution in order to prevent mischief when men like O'Neill were moving about the country exciting the minds of the people? Had they not acted with the greatest vigilance and activity the most serious consequences would have ensued. During the whole time that the yeomanry were out, acting under the directions of the magistrates, which was sixty-one days, he was proud to say that not a single individual, man, woman, or child, was injured.
 Captain Berkeley  said, that from all he had heard that evening, he should at once have pronounced an opinion, that the magistrates had not exceeded their jurisdiction; but he had heard nothing yet in answer to his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, who had simply confined his motion to an inquiry into the subject. He was very much afraid that this, as in most other cases, was made a party question. An hon. Gentleman on that side got up and asked for an inquiry, and immediately all hon. Gentlemen on the other side resisted that inquiry. His hon. Friend began his statement by a good-humoured allusion to the unpaid magistracy, and as one of that body, if his hon. Friend had asked for an inquiry into his conduct as a public magistrate, and had given notice of that intention, he would have gone round to every individual in that House, and entreated him to support that motion. It was an injustice to the Gentlemen whose names were brought forward that this inquiry should not be granted; and for that reason, for the reason that
 "He who filches from me my good name, Robs me of that which not enriches him, But leaves me poor indeed."
 Captain Vivian  said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury had stated that the troops at Halifax had spirituous liquor or beer given them to drink, to make them do their duty. Now, there was no duty so painful to a soldier as to have to suppress
 125
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  had to state on the part of Sir Charles Shaw, that he was most anxious to have an inquiry, and from his acquaintance with that gentleman he must say he believed, if an inquiry were granted he would come out of it with honour to himself.
 Lord F. Egerton  rose to call the attention of the House to some of the allegations made by the hon. Gentleman opposite with respect to a certain locality. He referred to the town of Preston. Now, as. it happened that he had been there in the performance of a public duty, he felt compelled to trouble the House with one or two remarks upon what they had heard with respect to that town from the hon. Gentleman opposite. He had been sur-
 96 97 98
 Mr. Muntz  did not approve of the conduct of these people; he could not excuse their conduct; but at the same time he could not excuse the conduct of the Dudley magistrates, when they acknowledged that bail ought to be taken and yet refused to take it from regard to the politics of the parties. If the Queen's Bench had not shown those gentlemen by its language that the magistrates could not do so with impunity, he should have voted for the motion; as it was he should oppose it.
 Mr. G. W. Wood  begged to explain that it was solely on the ground that his own conduct was impeached by this motion that he voted for it.
 Mr. G. W. Wood  should feel that he was not doing justice to those magistrates whose characters were assailed by this motion, if he did not make a few observations upon it. Those observations should be confined to the conduct of the magistrates in that part of Lancashire with which he was connected—the southern division of Lancashire. The charges against the magistrates were, that they refused to take bail, demanded excessive bail, delayed to investigate the charges against the prisoners, and that the prisoners experienced great inconvenience and discomfort in their confinement in gaol. The two gentlemen against whom the hon. Member's attack was principally directed, were Mr. Foster, the chairman of the Manchester Sessions, and Mr. Maude, a stipendiary magistrate. He believed the charges against these gentlemen were totally unfounded. It was true that the prisoners were confined longer than was usual in ordinary cases; but this was not an ordinary case, and they were not detained longer than was necessary to inquire into the charges against them. With respect to the refusal to take bail, the plain answer was that the magistrates did not think it their duty to admit to bail till they had completed the examinations, and known what would be the nature of the charges which would be preferred against the prisoners. If this House should decide that they were culpable in pursuing that course, he should be bound to abide by that decision; but his impression was, that the discretion exercised by the magistrates was a wise and sound one. Then as to the charge that the bail was in some cases very large, he had to observe that he had communicated with the two gentlemen already named, and it seemed that the fact was, that a very strong impression prevailed in the minds of the magistrates that the parties alluded to might be guilty of high treason—at least there were circumstances in their conduct which might lead to the supposition that they might be arraigned on such a charge. Under these
 106 107 108
 Dr. Bowring  inquired of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, whether the attention of the Government had been directed to the necessity of some regulation to prevent the overloading of steam-boats on the river, with the view to secure the public against the dangers to which they are at present exposed.
 Mr. Fielden  said, that the point on which he agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury was as to the indefensible conduct of the magistrates in refusing bail, or in fixing the amount of bail so high as to render it impossible for a poor man to procure sureties. This was the main subject of the hon. Member's complaint, and its justice had been admitted by the hon. Member who spoke last. The hon. Member for Finsbury made no complaint of the conduct of the Government in the prosecutions, but only of that of the magistrates. The conduct of the Government had been lenient, that of the magistrates unconstitutional and harsh; not to say illegal. The Government had been praised, and had taken praise to itself for its leniency towards the offenders, and why should not the magistracy be blamed for their severity, when it was admitted to have been unjust? What were the circumstances under which the disturbances broke out? The petitions and remonstrances to this House had long been treated with contempt—the House which
 101 "We are charged, (said he), with wishing to destroy machinery. Why, should we destroy the work of our own hands? But this much I maintain—that it is our duty to take care that machinery does not destroy us." 102 103
 Dr. Nicholl 
 40 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. W. Patten  confirmed the statement of the noble Lord (Lord F. Egerton), and expressed his belief that the hon. Member for Finsbury was totally and entirely mistaken with regard to the feeling of every class of the community in Preston. He believed that the general feeling on the part of the inhabitants was, that the magistrates, and more especially the magistrate who superintended the movements, exercised the greatest forbearance; indeed they pushed it to the utmost, before any order was given to fire upon the people. Another part of the hon. Member's accusation related to the magistrates of Blackburn; and he stated what he (Mr. Patten) had never heard until to-night—that the magistrates, whilst in the discharge of their duty, were guilty of irritating the
 104 105
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Duncombe) in the first place stated, that the outbreak had arisen on a question of wages, encouraged by the Anti-Corn-law League; that after that the question took a political turn, and that those persons who were connected with the Anti-Corn-law League and the magistrates changed their conduct, and became harsh and severe towards those persons whom they had previously encouraged to do what they had done. In the next place, the hon. Gentleman stated, that the magistrate, Mr. Maude, contrary to the wish and opinion of Sir C. Shaw, permitted the mob to enter Manchester, when it might have been prevented; and in the next place he stated, that Mr. Beswick, the superintendent of police, after, wards, without any warrant or authority from any one, arrested the Rev. Mr. Scholefield, and behaved in a very harsh manner. Those were the charges brought ferward by the hen. Gentleman. Now,
 110 111 112 T. Duncombe:
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, whether he would not allow him to bring on his motion (on the subject of the Treaty of Washington) on Friday next?
 Mr. Hume  gave notice of his motion for Tuesday.
 Colonel Rolleston  was understood to say that he would consider the allegations in the petition presented by the hon. Member only so far as he was concerned. The charges against the magistrates were—first, that the tribunals before which the prisoners were charged were partial and prejudiced; second, that the trials were conducted in a manner contrary to law and to a proper regard for justice; and third, that the prisoners were guilty of no offence against the law of the land or the constitution. But what was the proof of these charges? And what was the conduct of those parties who were so guiltless of offence against the law of the land or the constitution? In his neighbourhood two agitators had been for some weeks previous to the outbreak lecturing the people on every topic which could inflame them. One of these, a man of the name of Clarke, the very week before the outbreak, addressed the people in an inflammatory speech, calling on them to assemble in great numbers for the purpose of carrying forward their measures. Another placard called on the people to assemble, and exhorted them to cease from labour until they should obtain the charter. So long as they were peaceable they were not interfered with, but when they resorted to violence, the magistrates were requested to interfere, and active measures were then taken for putting an end to these meetings, by which every branch of trade had been interrupted. The hon. Member for Finsbury complained that the trials had been conducted in a manner contrary to law, but the hon. Member must be aware that the prisoners had the advantage of the assistance of some of the most eminent men at the bar, by whom their interests were, no doubt, most efficiently protected. The outbreak, it must be remembered, was not confined to persons belonging either to the town of Nottingham or the county of Nottingham, but amongst the mob were persons from Derbyshire and other places, which plainly showed that it was of a most serious nature, and that
 109
 Mr. Ainsworth  from his acquaintance with the circumstances, could say, of the magistrates of Preston, that their conduct was most exemplary in very trying and difficult circumstances.
 Mr. R. Scott  thought there were some parts of the conduct of the magistrates which greatly wanted defence. On the morning before O'Neill was tried, when the magistrates were proceeding to their judicial business, there was a crowd in the street, and although no disturbance was created, the magistrates, immediately before they proceeded to the court, went to their window and read the Riot Act, a proceeding which he considered wholly unjustifiable. Another case which appeared to him to have been conducted in a manner very discreditable to the magistrates, was that of an individual named Cook, who exhibited in his window a placard, signed "A. O'Neill," announcing that a public meeting was about to be held within a few days. That placard he (Mr. R. Scott) did not think contained anything which called for a prosecution. The meeting itself might be improper, and not fit to be held. It was prevented and he would not deny that the magistrates of Birmingham did their duty in preventing it. O'Neill was committed on account of what was contained in the placard; and the person named Cook was committed for exciting the people to seditious meetings. When the trial came on he was indicted not for sedition or treason, but for stopping the Queen's highway, by having in his window a placard which induced persons to stop and read it. That was the grave and serious charge upon which this individual was detained in prison for several weeks. He thought the learned Attorney-general had made no answer to the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury. There were a great number of cases which called loudly for inquiry. The country might judge of the prosecutions instituted by the magistrates, but there could be no proceeding by action or indictment against them by the public. Individuals, indeed, might have their recompense for injuries done to them, but the public at large could have no remedy for the infraction of the liberties of the people, except at the hands of that House. He admitted that every allowance ought to be made for magistrates placed in such difficulties as arose on that occasion; but when they proceeded to a
 116
 Mr. T. Duncombe , in reply, said, that in spite of the caution of the hon. and gallant Member, he roust repeat he had been informed that the soldiers had been supplied with money, which they had spent in intoxicating drinks. He had stated that in the case of Blackburn beer and cheese had been supplied beyond the rations to which soldiers were entitled. That the inhabitants of the town had a right to do so, he was not there to dispute; but still the case bore the appearance that the military called out had received in one place money, which they had expended in intoxicating drink, and in another place had been furnished with rations beyond the usual allowance to soldiers. The hon. Member for Birmingham seemed to think that the present motion was directed against the magistrates of Staffordshire, and said, that if it had not been for the proceedings before the King's Bench, he should hate voted for it. That case, however, did not come within the some of his motion, That case had been disposed of by the Court of Queen's Bench. The rule bad been dismissed, and the magistrates had been compelled to pay costs, and he contended, in spite of what had been said by the right hon. Baronet, that the conduct of those magistrates had been censured by that court. He was surprised, when the right hon. Baronet had read a portion of the learned judge's words, that he did not also read the part to which he had alluded in the early part of the evening. For the satisfaction, therefore, of such Members as might not have beard what be had quoted, he would again read what had been said by Lord Denman:—
 "The law is clear, and is as old as the statute of Westminster, 13 Edward 1st., c. 15. Lord Coke, in his commentary upon that statute (2 Institute, 191), says that' to deny a man plevin who is plevisable, and thereby to detain him in prison, is a great offence, and grievously to be punished; and Lord Hale, c. 17, adopts the same remark; and Hawkins (4, c. 15), speaks of ft refusal of bail as an instable offence. Black stone referring to the ancient statute (book 4, c. 22), the Habeas Corpus and the Bill of Rights, calls it an
 126 127
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to move:—
 "That a select committee be appointed, to inquire into the grievances complained of, and the allegations contained in the petitions of George White, of Birmingham; Robert Brook, of Todmorden; James Leach, of Manchester; J. G. Harney, of Sheffield; Jonathan Brown, and nine others, prisoners in Southwell house of correction; R. T. Morrison, chairman of a public meeting at Nottingham; John Skeviugton, of Loughborough; James Arthur, of Carlisle; John Allinson, of Stockport; Samuel Robinson, of Stoke-upon-Trent, James Mitchell, of Southport; Samuel Crowther, of Halifax; William Gilipillan, chairman of a public meeting at South Shields:—the committee to report their opinion, with the evidence, to the House." 43 primâ facie 44 45 46 47 "On the 16th of August the crowd from Burnley demanded admission into Colne, and promised Mr. Folds a magistrate of Colne, that no property should be destroyed, upon which he ordered the soldiers to open out, and the town was handed over to a Chartist of the name of Mooney, and also gave him 1 l. 48 49 "That your petitioner was arrested on the 17th day of August, 1842, on a charge of sedition and conspiracy, and after being confined in a dark, dirty, and damp cell from Wednesday till Friday, was then, for the first time, brought up before the magistrates, Messrs. Foster and Maude; and, after an examination, was remanded till Tuesday, Mr. Beswick, superintendent of the Manchester police, stating by that time he should be prepared with his witnesses." "That good and substantial bail was offered, but was refused, on the ground that the offence was of so heinous a nature that no bail could be accepted." "That your petitioner then, Mr. Leech went on to state, with thirteen others, was confined in a very narrow cell, where there was scarcely room for two persons to pass each other, and where the stench arising from a privy at one end of it, along with the disagreeableness of so many being confined together in so small a space, rendered it most in-
 50 "That on Sunday (the petition continued) your petitioner, with thirteen others, were paraded in the prison yard before Sir Charles Shaw, Inspector Irvin, MacMullen, and others of the Manchester police. Your petitioner was called out from the rest of the prisoners by Sir Charles Shaw, and asked if there was anything he could do to serve your petitioner; that your petitioner complained of the great hardships to which he was subjected, not being allowed to see any of his family or friends, and requested him to see Mr. Maude upon that subject, which he promised to do; that gentleman (Maude) however, refused every application made to him, and during the whole period of your petitioner's confinement, neither friend nor even legal adviser was allowed to visit him. That on the following Tuesday, August 23, your petitioner was again brought up before the above-named magistrates, and after a lengthened examination, was again put back till the Friday following, the prosecutor stating, that by that time, he had no doubt but he would be able to prove a very serious offence against your petitioner; good and substantial bail was again offered, but refused on the same grounds as before. That on Friday, August 26, your petitioner was again brought up, and after an examination of witnesses had been gone
 51 l. l. "Shortly after, your petitioner was again arrested on a second charge of conspiracy, and after seven days' confinement in New Bailey lockups, was liberated, upon finding two sureties of 200 l. l. 52 Attorney-General: 53 "On the 14th of August, 1842, we Isaac Tinker and George Seddou, were apprehended and taken from our beds at two o'clock in the morning by the superintendent of police, Richard Beswick, and a numerous body of special constables and soldiers. We were then taken to the Town Hall, Manchester, and after undergoing the ordeal of searching were locked up, without an hearing before a magistrate, or examination during a period of six days; that is to say, from the two o'clock on the morning of Sunday, until ten o'clock a.m., on the following Friday. At this period (Friday) we were brought before the stipendiary magistrate, Mr. Maude, when Beswick, not being prepared with evidence, we were remanded until the following Tuesday. On this occasion our able barrister, Mr. Green, proved, that the several charges of the indictment were only misdemeanor offences. The officer who apprehended us refused to show his authority for so doing. We were again remanded till the following Friday, when, no evidence being forthcoming, we were again remanded till tie Tuesday next, we were then brought up in a dose court, and our friends refused admission. Mr. Beswick again appeared, but stated that he had no evidence to adduce, although he confessed,' he had ransacked the town for that purpose.' We were now admitted to bail, to appear again in
 54 bona fide l. "In the month of August last the people deemed it right to cease working, but were peaceable. On the day before the people struck (Thursday August 18th), the magistrates of this district commenced swearing in constables; and on the Friday, the day the people struck, they swore in the whole day—they were sworn in drinking at the public expense. A peaceable meeting was held at six o'clock in the evening, and notwithstanding two special constables endeavoured to make a disturbance the people separated quietly, intending to meet at eight the same night, but the constables being so drunk, and anxious for a riot, the meeting was given up, to show that the people were for peace. The magistrates continued at the public office, and had the attendance of policemen, pensioners, and special constables, which caused boys and girls to assemble, from curiosity, when no disturbance having taken place, the riot act was read. On the following morning the 20th of August, I was arrested at my own door, on a charge of using seditious language, about one or two hundred policemen, pensioners, and constables, with the head of the police, coming for me, and I was taken before the magistrates, Messrs. Philips and Dawson and the rev. J. Dudley. On the testimony of one constable, whose evidence was refuted by three witnesses, I was ordered to find bail to keep the peace for six months, only one hour being allowed to obtain it,  Bonâ fide 55 "John Mee and others were taken up on the 22nd of August, by the inspector and thirteen of the county police, armed with swords and cutlasses. They took them all to Loughborough police-station for safety, and in the middle of the night called them out of bed, and took them before Edward Dawson, esq., who was waiting at the governor's house. He asked the superintendent if he saw them begging? He said, 'No, but they (the prisoners) had said they were begging.' His worship said,' that would do,' and asked their names. When J. Mee told him his name, the worthy magistrate's reply was, 'Oh, I shall send you for three months to hard labour, and I am very sorry I cannot send you for longer.' 'And is your name Green?' to another. The answer being 'Yes.' Then you may go.' Without any reason whatever being expressed, the others were sent for one month each; and when they arrived at Leicester prison, the governor questioned them. He told them 'it was a very mean case, for I believe you are innocent;' and the chaplain questioned them very closely, and said, 'I believe you are innocent, because you are all in one mind, and one tale; but God was visiting them or some of their former sins.' Now, Sir, the facts of the case are these:—There is a monastery about a mile from Sheepshead, where soup is given away every day to all the poor that go; and they were in the soup room, and Father Edwards told them to Wait a minute or two, and he would bring them something to eat; and be-
 56 "On Friday, the 30th of September, 1842, as soon as the servant opened the gates to my house, a little before six a.m., three of our police constables, Messrs. Beswick, Irwin, and Green, came into my house and sent the servant up stairs to say that I was wanted immediately. I came down, half dressed, to know the purport of their early visit. Mr. Beswick said, 'I have a warrant against you.' I said, 'Very well; I will dress and come down again directly.' I returned and said, 'What is the nature of your warrant?' He read the substance of it, being for 'riot, conspiracy, &c.' I said, 'Very well, I am your prisoner.' I was giving instructions to my son, a youth in his twentieth year, as to what he must do. 'Yes,' says Mr. Beswick, 'but I have a war-
 57 l. l. 58 "That your petitioner was arrested on the 26th day of August last, upon a charge of sedition, and was brought before Messrs. Spooner, Beale, Moorsome, and other magistrates then assembled in the public office at Birmingham, and was committed to Warwick county gaol on the evidence of hired and acknowledged spies, and others of notoriously bad character, to take his trial at the ensuing sessions." 59 "That your petitioner thereupon applied for leave to put in bail, which was agreed to by the magistrates, who demanded six sureties in 100 l. l. "Your licence will be in danger on the next licensing day if you become bail for George White." 60 "Was confined in solitude and cold for the space of eleven weeks, during which time your petitioner's wife gave birth to a child, and was thereby incapacitated from attending to your petitioner's business, thereby subjecting him; to serious loss, independent of the agony of mind which he had-to endure."
The whole of his papers, the petitioner stated, were taken from him, and when, on his bail being at length perfected, he applied for his letters and papers to be given to him, in order that he might prepare his defence, they, as well as his other property that had been taken, were detained by order of the rev. J. Boudier, one of the visiting magistrates of Warwick county gaol. He was utterly at a loss to understand by what authority this reverend magistrate had kept back from the unfortunate prisoner the letters and papers which were necessary for him in the preparation of his coming defence. Mr. White went on to state:— "Your petitioner has since applied to the magistrates of Birmingham to have his property restored. They expressed a wish that it should be delivered up, and wrote to the visiting magistrates of Warwick to that effect. That your petitioner was referred to Sir James Graham, and wrote to him on the subject, requesting that his property might be restored, or a sufficient reason given for its detention; and that her Majesty's Secretary for the Home Department refused to give it up, or state the grounds on which he withheld it." "That your petitioner was arrested at his own house, Back Brook-street, Todmorden, on the 5th of September last, upon a charge of sedition, conspiracy, and riot, &c, and was brought before John Crossley, Esq. of Scaitcliffe, Todmorden, and James Taylor, esq. of Todmorden-hall, when your petitioner was grossly insulted by the said John Crossley esq., and amongst the language used was the following:—' I have got you at last, and I am glad of it, and I will take care to punish you; you have given me a deal of trouble with writing to that rascally  Northern Star. 61 "That your petitioner was required to find bail in the sum of—himself 200 l. l. "Your petitioner was again arrested, and brought before the magistrates at Manchester, whose names your petitioner does not know, and requested to find other bail to the amount of—himself in 400 l. l. "Your petitioner was eventually brought up at Liverpool before Lord Abinger, to take his trial, when the first case was given up, and your petitioner traversed the other, and had to find bail, himself in 200 l. l. "Your petitioner complains that he was kept in prison, on account of such excessive bail being required, until the trials came on at Liverpool, when Lord Abinger reduced his bail as follows;—from himself 600 l. l. l. l. "Your petitioner, therefore, prays that your honourable House will be pleased to institute an immediate inquiry into your petitioner's case." l. 62 63 "The law is clear, and is as old as the statute of Westminster, 13 Edw. 1, c. 15. Lord Coke in his commentary upon that statute (2 Just. 191), says that, to deny a man plevin, who is plevisable, and thereby to detain him in prison, is a great offence, and grievously to be punished; and Lord Hale (c. 17) adopts the same remark; and Hawkins (Book 2, c. 15), speaks of a refusal of bail, as an indictable offence. Blackstone, referring to the ancient statute (Book 4, c. 22), the Habeas Corpus, and the Bill of Rights, calls it an offence against the liberty of the subject." "Almost the first page of their most ordinary text books, would have convinced these gentlemen that their refusal on such a ground to receive the bail offered, was not a legitimate exercise of their office, or a proper performance of their duty as magistrates, but quite the contrary." 64 65 "If you do, you will get plenty of meat and drink, and get out of your troubles; if you do not, you have got into a terrible scrape, and you will smart for it." 66 67 68 "If such proceedings as these are not calculated to goad on a peaceable people to acts of violence, I do not know what is. To see the soldiers cutting and bayonetting, in all directions, at peaceable and inoffensive people. Persons passing along the streets, no matter what busines they were upon, were driven before the soldiers at the point of the bayonet or sabre, from one street to another, till opportunity of escape offered; scores were cut with swords, and pricked with bayonets, and some of them very severely." 69 70 "In going (on their return to the barracks) by the Smithy-stake, the soldiers passed through a narrow causeway, which leads to the barracks. Samuel Crowther, a nail-maker by trade, who resides in King-street, when the soldiers had passed, went out to look for one of his children that was out of the House—he was within a few yards of his House when he was shot! Feather, the constable, was with the soldiers or standing by at the time he fired; there were not half-a-dozen persons in the street at the time. Crowther was in the army ten years prior to 1816, belonged to the Artillery, was at the battle of Waterloo and many other engagements prior to that, was then discharged with 5 d. S Leeds Times, Leeds Mercury, 71 Leeds "The affair took place in King-street, which is in the vicinity of the barracks and police office. A small number of the Hussars, who bad been clearing the streets, turned up the bottom of King-street, and, after proceeding a few yards, were filing into a street called Nelson-slreet, which runs out of it. At the time that Messrs. Bingley and Hall were approaching the top of King-street, an old man, named Samuel Crowther, a nailmaker, was coming towards them, apparently to go to his own residence, which was only two or three yards distant. At this period there was not the slightest disturbance in the streets, and, indeed, there were not, it is believed, twenty persons in the space betwixt the top of the street and the soldiery towards the bottom, a distance of probably nearly one hundred yards. All the soldiery had disappeared along Nelson-street, except one man who paused and looked in the direction of the persons above-mentioned, and then levelled his musket, and appeared to take a deliberate aim at them. Not the slightest alarm was felt by either Mr. Bingley or Mr. Hall, who, seeing no cause for violence, apprehended none, and regarded the action of the soldier as, simply, a piece of bravado, and looked at him, with perfect unconcern. The soldier, however, fired, and immediately the old man staggered and reeled in the direction ef his own door, but made no outcry. Mr. Bingley exclaimed, 'The man is shot!' or some such expression, but Mr. Hall, who had previously seen him in a fit, replied that he was only in a fit. In a few moments, however, a number of women rushed out of the House, exclaiming that the man had been shot, and on entering the House, which was crowded with women uttering loud screams, the old man was found lying on his back on a bed up stairs, with a wound in his abdomen, his shirt was saturated with blood, and he was writhing with agony. Messrs. Bingley and Hall immediately went to procure the attendance of a surgeon. On calling afterwards, it was understood that there was but little chance of recovery. At the time the shot was fired, Mr. Bingley and Mr. Hall were only about a yard from the man who received it. A more deliberate piece of butchery was never witnessed." 72 Bradford Observer? "Murder, or What?—On Tuesday afternoon, whilst Mr. Samuel Crowther, a respectable nail-maker, and aged pensioner, was standing at his own door in King-street, watching the Lancers pass by, one of the advanced guard having passed him forty yards, at the corner of Nelson-street, turned round, and shot the brave disciple of Wellington through the body." 73
 Sir G. Grey  begged to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to certain recent proceedings of the French admiral commanding the squadron in the South Pacific Ocean. From accounts which had reached this country, it appeared, that the French admiral had taken
 41
 Sir J. Graham  said, that after the best consideration which he had been enabled to give the many representations made to him on the subject, and pointing out the inconvenience of going on with only a part of the bill, before the whole was ready, he thought it right to postpone the whole measure until after Easter, but he would then proceed with the committee.
 Sir James Graham : Sir, I venture to offer myself to your notice because I think the House will expect me to address a few words to it before this debate is brought to a conclusion. I must say, I think that the hon. Gentleman who has just sitten down is singular in his opinion that the answer of my hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general, to the speech made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury is unsatisfactory. I am sorry the House was not more full when my hon. and learned Friend addressed it, because I assert with confidence that a more full, complete, spirited, and satisfactory answer never was given to any charge than the answer made by my hon. and learned Friend. The allegations of the hon. Member for Finsbury have been discussed  seriatim 117 animus "The opinion of these magistrates was hastily adopted in a crisis of real danger, and most probably from deference to a general resolution. This induces us, in conformity with the rule by which this court has regulated its practice, to decline interfering by a criminal information, and we discharge the rule; but as the conduct of the magistrates was such as to justify the application, they must pay the costs." animus 118 119 ex parte ex parte 120 T. "Duncombe 121 Duncombe 122 123 124
 Mr. Pakington  wished to call the attention of the House to the statement of the hon. Gentleman opposite with reference to the magistrates of Dudley. The hon. Gentleman, in talking of Mr. Badger and Mr. Cartwright, had stated that they had been guilty of conspiring with the Lord-lieutenant against the liberties of the people, and that they were therefore unfit to hold the commission of the peace. Now, he would say, that he knew no gentlemen more fit in every respect to hold the commission of the peace, or more fitted in every respect to do their duty with propriety and advantage than the gentlemen alluded to. What had been the nature of the charge against them? In point of strict law, they were certainly guilty in refusing bail upon the ground on which they declined accepting it. But the persons aggrieved had appealed to law—they had applied to the Court of Queen's Bench for a criminal information against the magistrates, and what was the result? The hon. Member for Finsbury had already moved for and obtained the papers connected with the case. He had a copy of the judgment pronounced, and he would read a passage bearing upon the subject before the House:—
 99 "The complaint is not that workmen assembled to devise means for bettering their condition, but that others took advantage of their quarrels with their masters, and finding vast numbers unemployed, ignorant, and disaffected, sought to incite them to every kind of outrage. Not that the discussion of public grievances had been intemperately conducted, but that tumultuous assemblies, rendering all discussion impossible, led to speeches and conduct which must have been expected to lead to violence, outrages, outbreaks, conflicts with the lawful authorities, almost certainly to bloodshed, and very probably to universal pillage. Whether or not these meetings having been held in the immediate neighbourhood of Dudley is of small importance; they had been held in other quarters, producing their natural results, and were rapidly extending. It is sworn that near Dudley, in a population of half a million, persons were expecting to follow this example, and in this state of things the meeting in question was announced. It was observed on the argument, that few deeds of violence were actually committed in that district, and those by no means of a formidable character: if that be so, we have no doubt, when we regard the materials, and the instruments of mischief that were preparing, that that Circumstance is to be ascribed to the vigilance, the spirit, and real humanity with which the magistrates enforced the law, as her Majesty's proclamation enjoined them. We think they are entitled to the gratitude of their Sovereign and the country for their conduct, and we are of opinion that they would have deserted their duty if they had not committed O'Neill for trial for the part he was proved to have taken at the meeting, which they most properly dispersed on the 26th August." 100
 Sir R. Peel  would state in answer to the question of the right hon. Gentleman, the amount of the information which had reached the Government on the subject to which he referred. It was stated that the officer commanding the French squadron in the South Seas had made a demand of satisfaction from the sovereign and chiefs of Tahiti and its dependent islands for an alleged offence against France, and called upon them to deposit as a guarantee for future good conduct towards the French the sum of 100,000 piasters. The chiefs at once declared their utter inability to comply with this order, but instead of it they consented that Tahiti and the other islands should be placed under the nominal sovereignty of the King of the French, the Queen of the islands reserving to herself the territorial jurisdiction. The islands were thus taken under the protection of France. This was the representation made to the Government. Now, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who had put the question, that the British subjects resident in those islands were fully entitled
 42
 Sir R. Peel  hoped the hon. Member would name some day for his motion which would not interfere with the "Orders of the Day." He felt bound, on principle, to decline acceding to the hon. Member's request, for many applications of the kind were made to him by other hon. Members, and if he complied in one instance, he must in another. It would be better to adhere to the rule laid down for "orders" and "notices." He would be glad to assist the hon. Member if he could, for as the motion which he intended to make was now worded, he should give it his support, but he hoped the hon. Member would fix on some day which was not a supply day.
 Lord Ingestre  could not allow the discussion to close without saying a few words in defence of the conduct of the two magistrates of Stafford who had been referred to by the hon. Member for Finsbury. Those magistrates had direct and positive evidence of the existence of a common
 113 "O'Neill was addressing the multitude. I hold a paper containing my notes of what he said, which I took down directly afterwards. He said 'Was this a time, when trade was reviving, for masters to reduce the wages? I have myself been a close observer, and I know that trade is improving. I know by inquiries at the carriers and at the railroads; the banks are more free in their discounts, they are relaxing the screw. I consider the governed as in one large room with an air-pump; when the pump is first applied, the inconvenience is not generally felt; at last some one near the window feels the want of air; he goes to the window, and finds a Duke of Wellington with his great sword, who prevents him from opening it; he goes to another and finds an Archbishop of Canterbury, who keeps out the air with his surplice; he goes to another, and finds a lawyer, who stops it with his wig. The whole system is corrupt, the House of Commons is rotten, and what does it care for the misery of the people? Sir Robert Peel is a man of the most callous heart, and he, with the Duke of Wellington, for the purpose of butchering the poor Chinese and Indians, must levy an income-tax; was this tax paid by the workmen? Not directly; it was put on the masters. In this neighbourhood there are 70,000 workmen, and the masters having to pay 7 d. d. l. 114 "Englishmen! the few remaining liberties which a tyrannical oligarchy has left to the enslaved people have been this day forcibly taken from you in Birmingham by an armed power. In vain does the British Constitution declare, that every subject has a right to petition the Queen on his grievances. The Government, through the magistrates, have denied that right, and have, in opposition to every principle of justice and of the Constitution, prevented a meeting called for the purpose of peaceably memorializing the Queen, having first brought into the town an armed power to enforce their unjustifiable and unconstitutional proceedings. We issue out our solemn protest against such undisguised tyranny, declaring, that if such an encroachment on the rights of. Englishmen is submitted to, there will be no longer freedom for any class, tyranny preserving its power only by abridging the liberties of all. We record it as our deliberate opinion, that the ruling power has taken away the just and constitutional rights of the people, and that circumstances have now arisen in which the Government has no rightful claim to our allegiance. Passive resistance on our part is not only a right, but a sacred duty. We resolve not to obey the Government by service them in any capacity. We resolve not to recognise them as our Government. We, therefore, refuse to pay all taxes. "By order of the committee, "ARTHUR O'NEILL, secretary "Christian Chartist Church." 115
 Lord J. Russell  suggested, that perhaps the most convenient course would be to send circulars to the magistrates at quarter sessions on the subject.
 Sir R. Cotton , a lawyer, who wrote on the subject of enclosing, said:—
 "In the carriage of this business there must be much caution to prevent commotion," (and he recommended), "that plots shall be devised to the inhabitants at and under easy values."
 Lord Chancellor Bacon  strenuously urged the enclosure of waste lands, with this condition,
 "So that the poor commoners may have no injury by such enclosures." "If a general bill were to be passed, every possible attention to the rights of the commoners would necessarily be paid. The poor would then evidently stand a better chance of having their full share undiminished." "That in every bill for enclosing lands, provision be made for leaving an open space in the most appropriate situation, sufficient for purposes of exercise and recreation of the neighbouring population; and that the committee on the bill have before them the number of acres proposed to be enclosed, as also of the population in the parishes or places in which the land to be enclosed is situate; and also do see that provision is made for the efficient fencing of the allotment, for the investment of the same in the churchwardens-and overseers of the parish in which such open space is reserved, and for the efficient making
 187 "Great is the crime in man or woman To steal a goose from off a common; But surely he's without excuse Who steals the common from the goose." 188 "The late Mr. Estcourt stated, that out of 196 persons there were thirty-two families, consisting of 140 persons, in the depth of extreme poverty. The poor-rates amounted to 324 l s. d l 189 "Allotment of small portions of land to labourers for the purpose of employing their leisure hours, giving them a feeling of dependence on their own exertions, and bettering their condition by increased sustenance and comforts, is beginning, much to the credit of the landowners, to be very generally adopted in this country. Of the excellent effects of this practice I am provided with testimony from many quarters. At Wells, fifty acres ate now granted by the bishop of Bath and Wells to 303 persons, in quantities varying from one-twelfth to half an acre, at a rent of 12 s d. 
 
 £ s d 
 Rent for a quarter of an acre 0 12 6 
 Digging 0 8 0 
 Manure  0 10 0 
 Seed 0 3 0 
 Planting 0 4 0 
 Hoeing, &c 0 8 0 
 Digging and hawling  0 10 0 
 Supposing the man to hire and pay for everything £2 15 6 190 
 
 PRODUCE. 
 Twenty sacks of potatoes  4 10 0 
 Other vegetables 1 0 0 
 £5 10 0 
 Less labour, &c, as above 2 15 6 
 Clear profit, supposing the man to hire and pay for everything £2 14 6 
 If all done by the man 4 4 6 The opinion expressed by the agent was, that the man who works for a farmer for twelve hours, from six to six, with the help of his wife and family, can manage half an acre, supposing it half potatoes, keep a pig, and support his family, and that a mechanic can do more. The continued increase in the demand for allotments is the best proof of the advantage derived from them. There is a general improvement in the character of the occupiers, who are represented as becoming more industrious and diligent, and as never frequenting those pests, the beer-houses. Frequently they have been known to work by candle-light. Not a single instance has occurred in which any one thus holding land has been taken before a magistrate for any complaint." "The effect upon the poor-rate has been a diminution from 10 s s 191 "1. The land is still divided into allotments, varying in size from two to five, and in one instance twelve acres.—2. The land is still occupied by the original tenants, with few exceptions.—3. The population of the parish has slightly decreased.—4. The estate has passed into private hands. (About 150 acres.)—5. The tenants are maintaining themselves, and their families exclusively by their allotments, and by the casual employment they obtain elsewhere.—6. The tenants pay their rent punctually—namely, 22 s l l. s. 192 l. l "I have at this time the charge of an adjoining parish, the population of which exceeds 600, three-fourths of whom are paupers. The parish has for years ingloriously earned the epithet of 'Wicked Wigginton.' The poor-rates are rapidly on the increase. There is a large unenclosed common in the parish of about 200 acres. I would guarantee, that in three years, if I were put into possession of this common, with the means of bringing it into cultivation, and of allotting it to the poor, there should not be half-a-dozen able-bodied
 193 l. l.  "The man sees his wife and family more comfortable than formerly. He has a better cottage and garden. He is stimulated to industry, and as he rises in respectability of station, he becomes aware that he has a character to lose. Thus an important point is gained. Having acquired certain ad-
 194 l. l l. "Mr. Beard, of Killalea, lately sold a parcel of flax in which there were three different qualities; the highest reached 140 l l l 195 "As we import a considerable quantity of flax yearly from Belgium and Holland for our establishments here, we are, of course, much interested in the success of any plan for increasing the quantity grown in England. We believe both the soil and climate are suitable for the plant. At one time the flax grown in the east of Yorkshire was of as good a quality as that grown in Belgium." A laugh. 196 d. 197
 Colonel Wyndham , while he feared that the working of the measure would be found impracticable, would yet counsel the Government to allow the bill to be brought in. There were great quantities of land, however, which he should like to see inclosed. There were great tracts of land in Hampshire and Surrey which he should be delighted to see cultivated by the people of the parishes in which they lay, but he had no idea of strangers coming from every part of the world to settle upon it. Between the Epsom-road and the Portsmouth-road was a tract of fine land, which was left quite uncultivated because of a quarrel between the lords of the manors. Now, he wanted to see all England cultivated. Let the hon. Gentleman bring in his bill; but did the House suppose that at this moment, when the greatest depression prevailed among the agriculturists, that bad lands would remain long in cultivation? No; they would all be thrown out of cultivation. He thought that their first care should be to keep in cultivation the land already in that condition. For this purpose let them support their agriculture—let them not be afraid of those gentlemen there [pointing to the Opposition]. He would stand by the Government as long as they stood by agriculture, and when they threw agriculture overboard he would throw them overboard. He had lately been honoured by a letter from a working-man in the manufacturing districts. The letter was dated from Cheetham. Now he did not exactly know the geographical position of Cheetham, but as he believed that it was not for from Manchester, he was sure that the hon. Member for that town very well knew the way to Cheetham. He would really recommend the Anti-Corn-law League to take for their motto, "The way to Cheetham." Well, but with respect to the letter, the writer said—
 "I wish you would favour the country with some more of your speeches in the House of Commons, as home truths are not often spoken in that assembly." "The people here," continued the writer, ''want work, not recreation; they have had too much of that already."
 Lord Pollington  said, that although the hon. Member for Salford seemed to think that the proposed measure was intended for the advantage of the rich, he was satisfied that it would be for the benefit of the poor, and on that ground he would support it.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he must divide the House, as he thought they ought to have a discussion before they even assented to the introduction of the bill.
 Mr. H. G. R. Yorke  advised the hon. Member for Lewes not to attempt to bring it in without a discussion.
 Sir R. Peel  thought the hon. Member should not bring in a bill of this importance, at so late an hour, without making a statement.
 Mr. Elphinstone  said, the bill had been recommended in the report of the ecclesiastical commissions of 1832, as well as in the report of the committee on the Admiralty Court. His object in thus asking leave was, that the House might have fair time to consider all the provisions of the bill. If his motion were agreed to, he should not think that any hon. Member was pledged to those provisions.
 Dr. Nicholl  would have had no objection to the bill as he had originally understood it, but as he now found it, he thought that it was not in accordance with the reports of the ecclesiastical commissioners. He suggested the withdrawal of the motion.
 The Speaker  declared himself in favour of the Ayes.
 Mr. Rice  begged to know from the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, whether the report of the Land Emigration commissioners would be laid on the Table of the House. It was usual to lay it on the Table of the House at an early period.
 Lord Stanley  said, that he was obliged to the hon. Gentleman for giving him an opportunity of answering his question. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that it was usual to lay that report on the Table so early. On the contrary, no report had been laid on the table on this subject until last year. He had then stated that it would be expedient that a report from the emigration commissioners should be produced, stating the progress of emigration, and of other matters in connection with the subject; and a report had been accordingly produced, but not until the month of August. The practice had been to lay on the table of the House, from time to time, such information as was received from the various colonies. The hon. Member was not aware, perhaps, of the extent to which these papers had gone. Last year, there had been laid on the Table of the House no fewer than forty-three papers, extending to 2,700 folio pages. Of these between 500 and 600 pages had been produced upon the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick; and another hon. Member had moved for like returns, which would take two months in preparation, and which could not be yet produced for a considerable time. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton, had also moved for some very useful papers relating to Canada and Australia; but until last year, no general report had been laid before the House. The plan which he had suggested to the commissioners was, that they should lay an annual report of all matters which they deemed it expedient to bring before the House on the Table, and he found that they would be able to make their report, in each session, shortly before the Easter recess. Before that time, they could not have the returns made out; and therefore, before that time they could not produce their report. He should feel very much obliged to hon. Members if they would, for the future, postpone, until the report was received, all motions for detached papers. After the report had been made, such mo-
 155
 Mr. Hume  said, that this being the day on which the suspension of the writ for the election of a Member of Parliament for the borough of Nottingham expired, he begged to move that the writ do now issue. He was the more anxious on this subject, because a misconception appeared to prevail in the public mind as to the proceedings which that House intended to take. A statement had been made, that it was the intention of the House further to suspend the issuing of the writ, and thus 70,000 persons, of whom 6,000 were voters, would be left unrepresented. If such an intention existed, he could only say that it was not on that side of the House.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, he had had the honour of making a similar motion last year. He quite concurred in the general principle, that the  primâ facie onus 156
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that it was not his intention to oppose the motion, but in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. Friend who had spoken last, he felt called upon to make a few observations. He agreed with his hon. Friend, that it was impossible, after the evidence had been printed and issued, to abstain from issuing the writ, unless it was proposed to take further steps. He would not, how. ever, agree with his hon. Friend, that the House had taken an improper course, when the subject was last before it, in suspending the issue of the writ, for the House was not then in a situation to know the extent or nature of the corruption which obtained at the Nottingham election. He believed, that under the circumstances that prevailed at former elections, he was fully justified in moving for the suspension of the writ, and he still continued to think that, in acceding to that motion, the House had pursued a wise and prudent course. He thought so, because they had presented to the House the report of the committee, which alleged that a number of individuals had been guilty of bribery at the last election, and this could not but recal to mind the proceedings before previous committees which had sat on election petitions from this borough, and also the notorious corruption which had so long characterized the elections for the borough of Nottingham. Having been an eye witness in one instance of the scenes at a former election which demoralized that town, be could speak with confidence on the subject, and not only was there most extensive and systematic bribery, but there were other most flagrant cases of corruption, such as drugging voters, systematic intimidation, and the abduction of voters by open violence; and, what was worse than all, there prevailed in Nottingham elections the most extensive practice of personating voters by men from the country, and this to the amount of hundreds. With a perfect recollection of such practices existing, be felt himself fully justified in moving for the suspension of the writ until the evidence taken before the committee was printed, that the House might have an opportunity of seeing whether or not these practices continued to prevail. He had read the evidence, and although be could not but deeply regret that bribery had again
 157
 Colonel Wood  did not object to the issuing of the writ, but he thought that some steps should be taken against the parties who were guilty of bribery, as well as against those who received bribes. It ap-
 158
 Mr. T. Duncombe  had proposed, in the case of the Ipswich election last year, when four or five persons had been named as having been guilty of bribery, the same course that was now proposed by the gallant Member opposite, although not with the same ability; but every Member opposite, on that occasion, objected to the adoption of such a course. With respect to Ipswich, the Members had three or four times over been recently unseated for bribery; and it appeared that in almost every one of these elections, the same parties were reported as having been guilty of bribery. The right hon. Baronet opposed the adoption of the course suggested in the Ipswich case, although he cheered the gallant Colonel when he made the suggestion. He thought that the proposition of the gallant Member was a very just one, as he had thought when the Ipswich case was under consideration, at which time the House did not seem to take the same view of the question that it did now. As for the individual cases of bribery stated in the report of the Nottingham committee, he would remind the House that they were not nearly equal to the cases which occurred at Ipswich. In the present case, he did not complain of the decision of the committee with respect to the election, and which decision, according to the report, was determined by the casting vote of the chairman; for he thought, after the evidence given, that it could not consistently come to arty other decision than to unseat Mr. Walter. But he must add, that of all the trumpery oases of bribery for a Gentleman to lose his seat, he had never heard of one more trumpery than the case of Nottingham. The House must have seen a letter of the Duke of Newcastle respecting this election, of rather a remarkable character. That noble Duke was fully entitled to be spoken of with
 159 "I have the honour to have been enrolled an honorary freeman of Nottingham; and though I have never sought to exercise the right, yet I cannot, without extraordinary alarm and very heartfelt sorrow, see myself and others deprived of our privileges for a single unnecessary hour. It is in contemplation, I understand, to suspend the issue of a new writ, and thus a great and very important manufacturing and commercial borough town, containing 70,000 inhabitants, and 6,000 voters, is to be temporarily deprived of one of its representatives, solely, it is presumed, because twenty-seven men have been proved to have taken each a few shillings from unaccredited agents, and entirely, as admitted, without your knowledge or sanction."
 Sir R. Peel  said that his recollection of the motion of the hon. Member last year, with respect to certain electors of Ipswich, was not in conformity with the description just given by him Mr. T. Duncombe had moved for leave to bring in a bill to disfranchise them.] But the gallant Officer's proposition was that the parties should be prosecuted. The course of proceeding, therefore, was essentially different. He recollected when a proposition was made for the prosecution of those who had been reported to the House of having been guilty of bribery at the Southampton election, the hon. Member objected to the motion, and designated it as a paltry proceeding. The suggestion of his gallant Friend was a fair question for consideration; and he certainly did not recollect any such motion having been made with respect to the Ipswich
 Mr. Cochrane  could not help feeling, after hearing the declaration from the noble Lord on the part of Mr. Walter, that he was in no way, either directly or indirectly, a party to the bribery, that it was a most hard case upon that Gentleman that he should not be able to stand at the next election. If it were consistent with the rules of the House, he would at once move that that Gentleman be enabled to stand.
 Mr. Hogg  said, he readily admitted that the conduct of every person who had acted in a judicial capacity ought to be open to public examination and to reprehension, if it were merited. He should have remained silent if it had not been for the observations of his hon. Friend, who spoke as if the committee had decided that one or two casual cases of bribery, originating, perhaps, in the folly of a friend or in the malice of an enemy, were sufficient to unseat a Member of that House. He would not now enter into the evidence; but, if an occasion or necessity for entering into it occurred, he should be prepared to do so, and at the same time to state the view which he took of the law upon the subject. For himself he must say, that his vote upon the committee had been given under a deep and an awful sense of the duty imposed on him by the House and of the obligation under which he acted; but, he must also distinctly state, that no cases of casual bribery would influence his mind as a member of a committee of that House. If he saw isolated or casual cases of bribery, however numerous, unless, indeed, they were to such an extent as to render ignorance of them on the part of the candidate absolutely impossible, no number of such isolated cases should influence his judgment. Whether he were right or wrong in the view he took of the evidence in this case, the impression on his mind had been and still was, that the evidence showed an organised system of bribery—showed that the acts of bribery were not individual and isolated, that the actors were not casual persons springing up in one direction and another, and acting without concert, but were parts of an organised system regulated by a committee which was in communication with the subordinate agents by whom the bribery was committed, and upon that committee sat the agent of Mr. Walter. The committee stated, that acts of bribery were not brought
 161
 Lord J. Russell  was extremely glad to hear the statement of the hon. Member for Beverly. Whatever little weight might attach to his opinion, he confessed that his reading of the evidence had produced in his mind much of the impression which that hon. Member, acting as Chairman, and with full means of judging of the witnesses, and of what they stated, had just declared to be the result of his unbiassed and honest conviction. He must say that he thought it a great advantage conferred by the act of the right hon. Baronet opposite, who had acceded to his (Lord J. Russell's) amendment, that the committee, composed most probably of persons whose pursuits did not adapt them for the consideration of legal subjects, should have acting with them a Gentleman like the hon. Member for Beverly, whose knowledge and pursuits in the course of his life enabled him to discriminate between that which was merely loose evidence of bribery committed by indiviuals
 162 onus 163
 Mr. Bernal  must take leave respectfully to differ from his noble Friend. What had fallen from the hon. Member for Beverley had given him, and he believed a great many other hon. Members, a very different idea of the case before the House from that which they had previously entertained. He
 164 vexata questio 165
 Mr. Disraeli  was understood to ask, when the debates on this subject were to terminate? He had hoped that the conscientious decision come to up-stairs after several days' labour would have been sufficiently satisfactory. After what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Beverley and others, he must say that he was not at all ashamed of the opinion he had arrived at as a Member of the committee; and he was certainly astonished to hear from that hon. and learned Member that there had prevailed at the last election for Nottingham a very extensive and organised system of bribery; for he remembered that after several ineffectual attempts to arrive at a conclusion, and when at length, it was settled that they were to represent that the seat was vacant, and to prepare and introduce into their report a list of those who were guilty of corrupt practices he prayed the chairman to put in the largest sums or the report would appear ridiculous. It seemed that 5 l. 166
 Sir G. Grey  said, that as to the eligibility of Mr. Walter to sit again, one hon. Member had treated the question as if it were a new one; while the hon. Member opposite thought he might make a motion to set aside the statute. The question was decided last session. A similar report was made in the case of Newcastle-under-Lyme, when Mr. Harris was unseated. A doubt being suggested on the subject, he understood that Mr. Harris took a legal opinion, but what it was he did not know. Mr. Harris, however, went down again as a candidate, thinking that the clause in the act would release him from his ineligibility, on the ground of having been unseated. He obtained a majority at the election, and a public notice was given of his ineligibility. He was unseated again, and the hon. Member (Mr. Colquhoun) now sat for Newcastle-under-Lyme, not by the voice of the majority, but by virtue of the decision, that the statutory enactment was not touched by the subsequent clause, that that clause did not vary with the terms of the original act, that a Member reported
 167
 Mr. Hogg  in explanation said, that he had spoken of an organized system of bribery, as leaning upon the question of agency. Under the act, the election committee was bound to report to the House, whether or not the sitting Member was aware of the bribery practised; and they were also bound to report to the House the names of the parties bribed. In the present instance the committee only reported the names of the parties who had appeared before the committee, and had spoken on their oaths to receiving these bribes; and though many others were implicated, yet the committee thought, that before they reported the names of persons to the House, those persons should have an opportunity of rebutting whatever charges might be made against them.
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, the more clear the point of law in this case was, the greater was the injustice towards the candidate. The fact was, this penalty, to which the candidate was liable (disqualification to sit for a particular place), was adapted to a state of the law which no longer existed in reference to a case like the present. He was not sorry that the discussion on the issuing of the writ for Nottingham had given rise to an expression of opinion on the operation of the law on this point, for no greater injustice could be inflicted on parties than that which had been inflicted on the late Member for Nottingham under the operation of the law by which he had been disqualified. Under the previously existing law, it was necessary, in order to unseat a Member for bribery after a contested election, that the bribery should be first brought home by distinct proof of agency. So long as that proof was required, it was just, and fair, and expedient that this part of the penalty of bribery should attach to the sitting Member, and that he should not only be unseated, out of a regard for the rights of the electors, but should also suffer a penalty. But the law was now altered. They might now unseat a Member without bringing bribery home by previous proof of agency, and without fixing on the sitting Member the stain of the bribery committed. After making this
 168 pro hâc vice 169
 Mr. E. Ellice , as one of those who last week voted in favour of the issue of the writ, could not allow the present discussion to terminate, without saying a few words in reference to that vote. He had no hesitation in saying, that if he had heard on that occasion but one half of what he had heard that night, he should not have thought it consistent with his duty to support the issue of that writ at that time; but he voted as he had done, on the sanction, as he regarded it, of the committee's report, because he considered it would be useless for the House to appoint committees, unless they were prepared, when those committees presented their reports, to show that they had confidence in the decisions to which such committees had come. They, at that time, had it, not only on the authority of the report, but on that of every Member of the committee who addressed the House on that occasion, that there had been no regular system of bribery, which was deserving of a special report. It was stated, as he understood it at the time, that they had 'only arrived at certain isolated cases of bribery, sufficient, under the present law, to overturn the election, but not presenting such an organized system as to warrant a special report. He had been more surprised than he could well describe at hearing that night from the hon. and learned Chairman of the committee, that there had been proved to the committee to have been in Nottingham an organized committee, in which sat Mr. Walter's two acknowledged agents, carrying on the election on the behalf of Mr. Walter, and committing acts of bribery in promotion of Mr. Walter's election; and that, in fact, there was shown to have been an extensive system of bribery proceeding directly from this organized committee, in which Mr. Walter's two acknowledged agents constantly sat and acted; Mr. Walter, it was true, not interfering or participating personally in these acts of bribery. He must repeat, that if he had, on the former occa-
 170
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that on the principle which it seemed was now to be acted upon, a gentleman would not be able to give an unfortunate creature whom he found on a bed of sickness, surrounded by a starving family, 5 s
 Mr. Hume , after what had taken place that night, after the statement which had been made by the hon. and learned Chairman of the committee, was not indisposed to think that it would be better to adjourn till to-morrow, in order to give the House time to reflect upon what they had heard.
 Mr. Muntz  said, he had voted on the former occasion to suspend the writ, and he had done so under a strong feeling of suspicion that the facts were, as they now turned out to he, and that suspicion he conceived from what fell from the hon. and learned Member for Beverley himself. That hon. and learned Gentleman on that occasion, after stating the twenty-seven cases of bribery which were proved, added that these were not the only cases of bribery; that the bribery, in point of fact, had been much more extensive. There was one argument thrown out that night by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, of a rather extraordinary description; the hon. Gentleman appeared to consider that the smallness of a bribe was an excuse for the bribee, but it seemed to him (Mr. Muntz) that it was, on the contrary, an aggrava-
 171 s l
 Mr. Cochrane  begged to state, after what had been proposed by his noble Friend, that it was his intention to move to-morrow for leave to bring in a bill to enable Mr. Walter to stand again for Nottingham or elsewhere in the present Parliament.
 Mr. V. Stuart , as a Member of the committee, would maintain that no sufficient bribery had been proved to warrant the committee in taking the step which several hon. Gentlemen so strongly insisted upon. He should like to ask hon. Gentlemen, who were so loud in their complaint that no special report had been made, whether they had read the evidence. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, there had been shown to be an organized system. What was meant by this expression? He would admit, in connection with the other Members of the committee, that it had been shown there was a committee appointed, acting for Mr. Walter, and that in that committee there were persons holding the situation of agents for Mr. Walter. But he would ask hon. Gentlemen would they disfranchise a constituency, because in it an agent, two agents, any number of agents, had gone down among them, and endeavoured to
 172
 Colonel Wyndham  said, he was a new Member, and therefore not very well acquainted with the mode of proceeding in the House; but it seemed to him that the case now before them was clear enough. There was an election complained of—a committee appointed to inquire into the complaint—a report of the committee that bribery and corruption had taken place—the Member complained of unseated and disfranchised; and what else was wanted. Why should they impugn the committee, and their report in this way? If they were not satisfied with committees up stairs, let them inquire into these matters themselves, in committees of the whole House. As it was, he should oppose any adjournment.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  should also oppose an adjournment of the debate. Until the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Beverley, there was not a question in the mind of any one hon. Gentleman as to the issuing of the writ; and with reference to the hon. and learned Gentleman, he must observe, with all respect to him, that he spoke on this occasion as an individual Member merely, and no longer as chairman of the committee. What his hon. and learned Friend might, while at the head of the committee, have prevailed upon them to recommend to the House was another question. It did not, however, appear that the hon. and learned Gentleman had even then proposed any resolution as to disfranchisement of the borough, or even as to delaying the issue of the writ; and this was clear, that even if the hon. and learned Member had, of the three other Members of the committee who had addressed the House on the subject, not one of them had concurred with their late chairman. If, indeed, the committee had declared, in the words of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that an organised and extensive system of
 173
  Sir T. Wilde  said, that all that had passed this evening had made a different impression on his mind from that which it appeared to have produced on the minds of other hon. Members. It occurred to him that the statement which had been made by the hon. and learned chairman of the committee by no means led to the conclusion at which some hon. Members had arrived,—namely, the propriety of adjourning the debate. As he had understood the hon. and learned Member, he had given pertinent and cogent reasons to justify the conclusion to which the
 174 175
 Mr. Cripps  expressed a hope that the writ would be allowed to issue. He had voted on the last occasion against the writ being issued, because he wished to read the evidence. He had done so, and he was sure nobody who had read it could vote for the further suspension of the writ. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) in thinking, that the insignificance of the amount of the bribe increased the guilt of the parties implicated, because, if so, the old lines became applicable:—
 "My wound is great, because it is so small; "Then it were greater were it none at all."
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that on the former night he had seconded the motion for the issuing of the writ, in opposition to the motion of the noble Lord opposite (the Earl of Lincoln), and he had done so because he then thought no sufficient ground had been laid for the suspension of the privilege of sending Members to Parliament by the town of Nottingham; but had he then heard as strong a statement as that which had been made to-night by the hon. and learned Chairman, he should have joined with those who thought the writ ought to be suspended until the evidence taken by the committee was laid before the House. That day, however, was now passed, and the question was now, whether the writ should not be suspended for one day more? Now, he did not think the proposition which had been announced by the hon. Member for Bridport—namely, to move for leave to bring in a bill to enable Mr. Walter to stand again for Nottingham, afforded a sufficient ground for adjournment, because he did not suppose the House would give its sanction to such a bill—which would be an  ex post facto 176
 Sir R. Peel  had come down to the House, after giving as much consideration as he was able to the report of the committee, and to the evidence taken before it, prepared to give his vote in favour of the motion for issuing the writ, and he confessed, that he had not heard anything in the course of the present debate, which induced him to withdraw from that intention. Considering the extent of the constituency of Nottingham—considering also the extent to which it appeared bribery had prevailed at the last election—considering also the speech of his hon. and learned Friend who had acted as chairman of the committee, he did not think there were sufficient grounds laid, for the House to suspend for any longer period the issue of the writ. The town of Nottingham comprised 60,000 inhabitants, and had 6,000 electors, and although it appeared, that acts of bribery had been brought home to somewhere about twenty-seven individuals, as reported by the committee, still he could not think that any further investigation would lead to the disfranchisement of the borough, or to any material alteration in the constitution of its constituency; and believing that the  onus 177 178 "That John Walter, Esq., was, through his agents, guilty of bribery and treating at the last election for the borough of Nottingham." 179
  Mr. Hume , in explanation said, he had consented to the adjournment, under the expectation that further proceedings would be taken.
 Mr. Hogg , in explanation, said, that the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford had stated, he had been influenced in the vote he had given by the strong statement of the chairman of the committee, that an organized system of bribery had pervaded the whole of Nottingham at the last election. He (Mr. Hogg) begged to say most distinctly, that he had made no such statement. His hon. Friend (Colonel Wood) had spoken of a few isolated cases of bribery proceeding from persons who were unconnected with the candidate; and who had acted indiscreetly as friends or maliciously as enemies. He believed that no committee ever did or ever would visit the candidate with disqualification for the acts' of such persons. If an attempt were made to prove such acts, the character of the transaction and of the individuals engaged in it would be manifest; and nothing could be more easy than for the candidate to show who the parties were he had entrusted with the charge of conducting his election. But the present debate had proceeded as if no candidate could be unseated unless he were personally cognizant of the bribery practised on his behalf. In the argument before the Committee the counsel for the sitting Member urged most ably the bill brought in by the noble Lord the Member for the city of London, as a proof of the necessity to bring home the bribery to the knowledge of the individual, and he had attempted, from the construction of that statute, to draw an inference that the law intended that the candidate must be cognizant of the acts. But he had put this question to the learned counsel,' "Does your argument go to the extent that no Member can be unseated unless bri-
 180 181 l
 Mr. Bernal  said, he could understand the law maxim—" qui facit per alium, facit per se," per alium,
 Mr. Maclean  hoped the hon. Member for Newark would withdraw his amendment for the adjournment of the debate. From what had fallen from various Members of the House in the course of the debate, it was perfectly clear that the state of the law with regard to agency was in a very anomalous and dangerous state with regard to the Members of the House. The impunity which seemed to exist for all persons mixed up with bribery, except the sitting Member, was a state of things which was perilous to the seat of every Member who might be hereafter returned. He thought such a state of things ought not to be continued. If he found that no other hon. Member of greater weight in the House called the attention of the House of Commons to the peculiar position of candidates starting for elections under the present law of agency, he should feel it his duty, after the Easter recess, to draw the attention of the House to this subject.
 Mr. Strutt  said, hon. Members complained of the anomalous state of the law. There appeared to him to be no anomaly whatever in the law. The law said, so far as holding their seats went, Members should be responsible for the acts of their agents; if a Member chose to employ agents, he must be liable for their acts. But the law went further, and said that a man should not be criminally liable unless he were personally concerned in these acts of bribery. The law said if a Member were guilty of bribery by his agents he should not take his seat, and the committee were to report whether he was personally guilty of bribery himself, because then it would be in the power of the House to direct the Attorney-general to institute a criminal prosecution against him for having done an act for which he was liable to the criminal law of the country. He thought it right to state this, as he could not understand the anomaly complained of.
 Mr. Botfield  believed that the general impression on the mind of the committee was, that no case of delinquency had been proved against the borough of Nottingham sufficient to justify the suspending of the writ, even for a single hour, but he felt that the request for delay to allow time for the evidence to be printed was reasonable, and he moreover was unwilling by a vote on that occasion to express his opinion upon the evidence before the House
 183
 Lord J. Manners , with the permission of the House, withdrew his amendment.
 Lord Worsley  thought, that the hon. Gentleman opposite had brought forward his bill with the best intentions, but he feared that the plan would not be found
 199
 Lord J. Manners  was anxious that the utmost facility which the House could afford should be given to the introduction of this bill. When he reflected on the state of the country, when he considered that men of all parties bore testimony to the want of employment, not only in the manufacturing, but in the agricultural districts, and when he saw before the country but three plans that could in any way better the condition of the people, he was sure that every encouragement should be given to such plans as that now submitted. The first of the schemes to which he had just alluded was a gigantic system of emigration, against which, as a means, he was the last person to say anything; but against which, as a first principle, he should protest, except it was voluntary. And not only this, but to be worth anything, it must be an emigration to countries where the emigrants should not be liable to the miserable vicissitudes to which they now often found themselves exposed, and where, if they should not have all the comforts, they should at least have the necessaries which they enjoyed in this country. The next proposition was a total evolution in our fiscal arrangements. He was not prepared to say, whether a great revolution of that kind would be attended with the consequences which its advocates expected; but even if it were demonstrably certain that a total and immediate repeal of all restrictions would be the means of employing a hundred thousand additional hands, he could not willingly assent to such a change. He did not, of course, wish to throw any impediment in the way of a gradual increase of our manufacturing power, but he must hesitate if he were asked, whether there was no other plan than a total change which could conduce to the happiness and contentment of the whole community. He could not shut his eyes to the fact, that there was an increasing conviction that some such proposal as that of the hon. Member for Knaresborough would have a beneficial effect. And when the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department expressed his doubt whether any waste land could be cultivated at a profit in England, he should refer him to a fact of which he was himself cognizant. Some noblemen took 270 acres of the worst land on the Charlwood Moor, and in two or three years, seventy acres only having been brought under cultivation, the produce paid the
 203
 Mr. Escott  said, that he was aware that the bill authorised the clerks of the peace to receive fees; but it did not authorise the taking of one penny from the defendant. That was the grievance in this case, and it was not sanctioned by act of Parliament.
  Mr. B. Escott  begged to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. The practice to which his question referred was one which related in an important degree to the administration of criminal justice, and which in many cases amounted to a denial of justice; and it consisted in the clerk of the peace, or the clerk of the assize, demanding from defendants charged with misdemeanors, before traversing, certain fees, and making the payment of those fees a condition precedent to the defendants pleading to the indictment and taking their trial. So that before a man, who was brought up for a common assault, could plead not guilty, he had to pay fees to the amount of from 2 1 1 153
 Mr. Ross , looked upon every oath as a solemn imprecation, and it was a serious thing for a man to take any oath when the injunction was borne in mind by which it had been commanded to them, "Swear not at all." He thought that injunction alone ought to be received as a reason why they should endeavour on every occasion to get rid of every oath which it was possible to dispense with. He was aware that the expression, "So help me God" had been explained to mean a prayer that God might help the individual who took an oath to keep it; but that was not the sense in which the words were usually understood, and the words which Shakspeare put into the mouth of Hamlet—
 "This do ye swear,— "So grace and mercy at your most need help you"—
 Mr. Aglionby  remarked, that whilst the hon. Member for Knaresborough told the House that those who opposed the bill would be considered the enemies of the people, the hon. Member for Salford had stated sufficient to show that those who supported it would run the risk of being thought the favourers of the rich. For his own part, he had his misgivings with respect to the measure, and thought it was one which ought to be watched with great jealousy. He would not object to the introduction of the bill, because he was anxious that every proposition which was brought forward with the view of alleviating the sufferings of the people should receive calm and impartial consideration. At the same time, he entirely concurred in the observation of the right hon. baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, that the House should be cautious not to take any course calculated to excite hopes and expectations which it might be found impossible to realise. There was one measure which would, he thought, exercise a most beneficial influence upon the population of this country, namely, a system of voluntary emigration upon a large scale, under the supervision of the Government.
 Mr. Brotherton  believed that the abolition of the Corn-laws would be more beneficial to the people than any measure such as that now proposed. He had received communications from poor persons in many districts, expressing their apprehension that the hon. Member's bill, though introduced professedly for the benefit of the poor, was intended covertly to advance the interests of the rich. Nevertheless, he would not oppose the introduction of the measure, but would wait to see whether the machinery of the bill was calculated to carry out the object which the hon. Member had in view.
 Mr. Hume  fully agreed with the observations of the right hon. Baronet. He had seen a good deal in his time of home colonization, and watched plans propounded by humane, honest, and zealous men with that view, but they all failed, though their projectors could not be convinced of their failure. The noble Lord (Lord Manners) had asked triumphantly whether our resources in waste lands could not be employed as the portion of Charlwood Moor alluded to had been. But he ventured to say, if the noble Lord stated the capital which was expended in making this change, it would purchase a freehold property of the same amount. When the high price of land was considered, it was impossible to suppose that for the last twenty years much that might yield profit in return was left uncultivated. Then arose the question, was it expedient to cultivate in the manner proposed on charity? Individuals might be found benevolent enough to give money for such a purpose, but he greatly doubted whether parishes would submit to assessment for such a purpose. He thought a simpler plan than either home colonization or emigration would be to admit the corn of other lands. Our people should be put on the same footing with those of other countries. England was the largest market, and it onght to be the cheapest; and if a million acres were brought into cultivation elsewhere to supply us, it was the same thing as if so much was added to our territory. We must pay for this produce by our manufactures, and this must necessarily increase the employment of the people. He had no objection to have the bill brought in, for he was sure no machinery could make it effective.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the right hon. Baronet would be convinced that this was a case which would never occur again. This was a resumed debate: what he now proposed as a separate motion would have been moved as an amendment on the original motion of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston). The debate was closed by the House being counted out, and the motion was not new matter, but a renewal only of that which had been partly discussed. He should fix his motion for Friday week, and take the chance of its coming on.
 Mr. Hume  would take this opportunity of referring to the subject of the motion of which he had given notice, with regard to the Washington treaty. He had on a former evening given notice of his intention to fix the discussion on this question for Tuesday next; he had endeavoured to learn whether it were possible that any day between this and the Easter holidays could be devoted to this discussion, but he found that every day was already occupied. The noble Lord who had fixed a motion for Tuesday next had declined to give up that day; the hon. Member for Liskeard was determined to bring on his motion on Thursday, and on that day there were nine notices on the
 151
 Mr. Ferrand  rose, pursuant to notice, "to move for leave to bring in a bill for the allotment of waste lands." He said, in the middle of the second Session of the present Parliament, the middle classes, and more especially the working classes, looked to the First Lord of the Treasury for measures which would conduce to their comfort and permanent happiness. It was perfectly true that the measures which the right hon. Baronet had brought forward last Session had conduced to the comforts of the working classes; but this benefit had been short-lived. The working classes had scarcely tasted the cup of sweetness which the right hon. Baronet had granted them than it was dashed from their lips by [an universal reduction of wages throughout the country, far beyond the reductions which had taken place in the price of food; and, instead of the working classes having been in the least benefited or relieved by the measures of the right hon. Baronet, in both the manufacturing and agricultural districts, they were suffering misery, want, and privation unparalleled in the history of England. He asked the right hon. Baronet now whether he had any remedial measures to bring forward for the purpose of raising this oppressed class of people out of their distress. In preparing the
 184 C. Napier "Mr. Chadwick states that the annual slaughter in England and Wales, from preventable causes of typhus, which attacks persons in the vigour of life, appears to be double the amount of what was suffered by the allied armies in the battle of Waterloo. In Manchester, among the labouring classes, more than 57 out of every 100 die before they attain the age of five years. He states that when the kelp manufacture lately ceased on the western coast of Scotland, a vast population of the lowest class of people were thrown into extreme want; they suffered from cold hunger, and despair; nevertheless, from their scattered habitations being surrounded by pure air, cases of fever did not arise among them." 185 "If the 46,000,000 acres now in cultivation are not sufficient to maintain the population, there are millions yet uncultivated that may be increased in value 5,000-fold. It appears, that there are 46,500,000 acres of land in cultivation, and nearly 31,000,000 uncultivated. 16,000,000 were reported by the Emigration Committee to be profitable lands. Nearly the whole of the waste lands in Ireland are reclaimable, 3,000,000 of which, that are equal to 5,000,000 of English acres, can be brought to produce a rental of 1 l l 186 Ancient Statutes, "Every cottager sal have his portion assigned him, and then' sal not the ryche man overpresse the poore man."
 Mr. S. Crawford  thought the repeal of the Corn-laws would not, alone, be a panacea for the distresses of the people. It was necessary to diminish the mass of the population depending for subsistence upon the hire of their labour, and the only way to do that was to place them upon the land. He anticipated much good from the hon. Member's bill.
 Sir J. Graham  hoped the hon. Baronet would not think him wanting in courtesy if he felt it his duty to oppose the motion for leave to bring in this bill. He could not for a moment believe that any person, while taking the oath of supremacy, really felt that he was committing any violation to his conscience. He was aware, certainly, that a strange construction might be put upon the oath, but that construction was not strictly consonant with fact. When the oath was framed, that no
 211
 Sir J. Graham : If his hon. and learned Friend had not been so obliging as to give him notice of his intention to put this question, he should have found some difficulty in answering it. Having received notice of the question, however, he had endeavoured to inform himself on that authority on which he could best rely on this subject. He agreed with the hon. Member that it had a very important bearing upon the administration of justice, and he thought that the demand of such fees, before plea pleaded, if not contrary to law, was quite inconsistent with the due administration of justice. He was not previously aware of this practice, and he did not think that it was one of such general prevalence as the hon. Gentleman seemed to think; but he knew, and he regretted that at certain courts of quarter session these fees were demanded. He had consulted the highest authority, and he had no hesitation in saying, that according to the general law of the land, such a demand could not be justified. But he was also aware, that there were provisions in an act of Parliament relative to the adoption of a table of fees, which, after they had been sanctioned by a judge, were binding. He supposed, that in the case to which the hon. Member referred this course had been adopted—that the justices of quarter sessions had framed a table of fees justifying the demand which had been made, and mat the judges had given their sanction to that table. If the fact should be as was described, he was sure that the subject of complaint had arisen from inadvertency; and he was satisfied that the judges of assize would gladly say that it was not proper. He hoped, therefore, that no difficulty would arise in the particular case; if there should, he had no hesitation in saying, that he was prepared on the part of the Government to introduce a declaratory bill on the subject.
 Sir J. Graham  thanked the noble Lord for the suggestion. He believed that it
 154
 Sir J. Graham : The hon. and gallant Member for West Sussex, had recommended that the Government should allow the bill now proposed to be brought in, and he (Sir J. Graham) would follow his advice. Indeed, he should be very unwilling that the hon. Member for Knaresborough, who had bestowed so
 200 201 202
 Sir J. Hanmer : There was no doubt that, amongst the middle and upper classes, the  dictum 205
 Sir R. Peel : The hon. Member sitting near the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. S. Crawford), could inform the hon. Gentleman that the counting out of the House might take place upon other questions than that of the Washington treaty.
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was impossible he could give his concurrence to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman. In 1829 he had concluded, in concert with the Government of that day, the arduous task—a task rendered still more arduous by the position in which he then stood—of bringing to a satisfactory settlement the long agitated question of the removal of the civil disabilities of
 212 213
 Sir R. Peel : With the consent of the House, two days were set apart for the transaction of the business of the Government— Monday and Friday—and they were scarcely sufficient for the purpose of getting through the business, which, for the general interest, it was essential should be transacted. Those days were, therefore, in the nature of a public trust, vested in the hands of the Government. He well knew what inconvenience arose from postponing the Government business until a late period of the Session: by such a course, it became impossible to transact the business of the Government properly. Bills were postponed year after year, by reason of the impossibility of discussing them satisfactorily. It was the wish, therefore, of the Government to take advantage of the two days set apart for their use, and so long as there was public business to go through, it was his duty to retain them for that purpose. He knew well that if he gave way in one instance, he must do so in many; and that if he allowed the management of the public business to be interfered with by private considerations, in one case, he must do so in all, or be placed in the invidious position of opposing the wishes of one hon. Member, and giving his assent to the proposition of another. On the motion for going into Committee of Supply, hon. Members had the power to move amendments; it was true that that power was exercised sparingly; he had always protested against its use, and few hon. Members acted upon it. If he gave way in this instance, other hon. Members to whom he might refuse the same privilege, might be disposed to take advantage of the right which they possessed. The hon. Member stood on the same footing with other hon. Gentlemen, and he could not assent to the request which he had made, even although the motion of which he had given notice, was one which he intend-
 152
 Sir T. Wilde  thought the motion was founded on a misapprehension of the oaths. It did not appear to him that either of the oaths to which the motion referred could possibly be dispensed with; but, in saying so, he would not enter on the general question as to the expediency of oaths. Assuming that, for the purpose of securing the safety of a state, oaths might be imposed, he thought the present oaths did not bear the construction which the hon. Gentle man had put on them. It was thought necessary to bind the consciences of persons,
 214
 Sir V. Blake  in reply, said he did not impute the least degree of discourtesy to the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of Slate for the Home Department, for opposing his motion; but he thought the reason given for doing so was very insufficient—namely, that he had already consented to the bringing in of another bill by another hon. Member. He had no arguments, properly speaking, to reply to, for none were used in opposition to his motion. He was proud to say, that his objection to the oath of supremacy was the result of an hereditary feeling; his ancestor and namesake was the first man who was expelled from the House of Commons, for having refused to take that oath; and it was a singular coincidence that after the lapse of two centuries, Providence should have so ordained it as to enable the descendant of that man to be instrumental in the abolition of this oath. The right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government, objected that because the oath of supremacy was taken for 150 years, it was not now objectionable—but when it was enacted, and down to 1829, the law repudiated and disavowed the existence of the Roman Catholic religion in England; but now it was avowed openly and tolerated, and protected by law—the allegations of the oath were true till the Emancipation Act—the Act of 29 was improperly described as a bill for the relief of her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects; it ought to be described as also for the relief of her Protestant subjects—for the principle I contend for is to be found in that bill, where it abolishes the infamous declaration of 30, Chas. 2nd. He thanked the right hon. Baronet for assisting to illustrate the position that the Pope could ordain a Protestant bishop. What more convincing evidence of the fact that he has spiritual and ecclesiastical power in this kingdom? The force of numbers, and not of argument, would overwhelm him
 215
 Sir V. Blake  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal and abolish all the oaths now taken by Members of Parliament on taking their seats, except the oath of allegiance. It was his original intention to have included that oath also, but in consequence of a communication made to him by a distinguished Member of the late administration, a noble Lord, whose capacity and experience entitled him to the highest respect, he (Sir V. Blake) was induced to except the oath of allegiance, and to substitute it for the other oaths, which he proposed to abolish, and that it might be taken by all Members without religious distinction. He said, an hon. Member who had recently taken the oaths at the right hand side of the table, had told him that he did not in the least understand or recollect the nature or import of all that he had sworn. He (Sir V. Blake) was not in the least surprised at that acknowledgment, for he would undertake to show before he sat down, that even the right hon. and learned Baronet, the Member for Oxford, and he might add the Members of her Majesty's Government, and Members too, of the legal profession, were not aware of the existence of a statutable provision, which expressly enjoined that those oaths should be taken in a particular sense, which was at total variance with the truth, as he (Sir V. Blake) would explain. Believing that the objectionable contents of those oaths were very little known, and as they formed the basis of his motion, he would, with the permission of the House, move that they should be read by the clerk.
 Sir V. Blake  resumed. Although he was urged on to advocate a principle, which in his humble judgment was calculated more than any other, to uphold and maintain the character, dignity, and influence of Parliament, he was not in the least unconscious of the great disadvantage under which the
 207 208 209 "And it is declared that these words, this realm, the Crown of this realm, and the Queen of this realm, mentioned in the oath and declaration aforesaid, shall be understood of the Crown and realm of Great Britain, and in that sense here, said oath and declaration shall be taken and subscribed." 210
 Mr. Gladstone  expressed his reluctance to approach a question involving a discussion on a private bill. The question, however, was so peculiar, and bore so directly on an important branch of our national industry, and such urgent application had been made to the Board of Trade respecting it, that it bad been considered at that board, and he certainly had formed an
 279 l l 280 l l l 281
 Mr. Williams  said, that he had heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, with the deepest regret, and if her Majesty's Government sustained the doctrine he had laid down, it would strike terror and dismay into all the manufacturers of the kingdom. His principle was, that every schemer who came forward with a new invention was to have a joint-stock company to carry out their schemes, in opposition to the law which guided the commerce and manufactures of this country.How different was the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman in reference to free-trade? The right hon. Gentleman was entirely inconsistent. How differently Mr. Poulett Thomson acted when he was connected with the Board of Trade. A bill had been brought in to establish a company for the sale of medicines, on the ground—and a clear case was made out—that the medicines sold in the shops were impure; but Mr. P. Thomson said, on that occasion, that it was the policy and principle of the trade and commerce of the country not to establish monopolies which would be destructive of a large trade already existing in this country. This company said they wanted 40,000 l l 284
 An Hon. Member  wished to ask a question of some Member of the Board of Admiralty, relative to a circumstance which he had seen described in some of the newspapers. It was stated, that on the conclusion of the trial of Captain Elliot before a courtmartial, by which he was sentenced to be severely reprimanded on his return to his ship, he was received by the crew with such enthusiastic cheering, that the har-
 288
 Captain Gordon  replied, that the Admiralty had received no information on the subject, but if the statement of the hon. Member were correct, no doubt the proceeding was objectionable, and not in accordance with the rules of the service. Still, perhaps, some excuse might be made, as the proceeding no doubt arose from the attachment of the crew to the captain of the ship.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he had been requested by a number of most respectable members of the body of Unitarians to correct an error which he had committed a few nights ago. He had stated, that that respectable body did not use the authorised version of the Scriptures; he found that he had wounded the feelings of several parties by this observation, and he was assured, that he was misinformed on the subject. At the same time, he found that the version of the Scriptures by Archbishop Newcome had been introduced into some schools and places of worship.
 Mr. H. Hinde  suggested, that this vote should be postponed till the report of the deputy-keeper of the records had been presented to the House for its information.
 Mr. Williams  said, he must object to any vote of the public money under the term of "other secret services." He admitted that it might be necessary to appropriate a sum of money for defraying the charge of foreign secret services, but he considered that no money ought to be voted for such purposes in this country. Such a vote could only be applied for the employment of spies, who were frequently the instigators and promoters of riots and disturbances. Three or four years since a return was made to the House of sums of money expended for foreign and home secret services respectively, and it appeared from that return that, the amount appropriated to purposes of this nature at home exceeded that which was expended for secret services abroad. He would move that the vote be reduced by 20,000 l 300
 Lord Stanley  said, this was practically a question of confidence in the Government. The whole of this money was expended by the Secretaries of State for particular purposes, which purposes were specified— such as the discovery of treasonable conspiracies, or for obtaining information with respect to foreign states. A comparatively small portion was required for the current service of the current year. What was required for each year was precisely what Government could not communicate to the House.
 Lord Stanley  said, it partook of the character of an estimate and account. The two items for fees to counsel and carrying on prosecutions, and which had been taken on the average of the years 1840, 1841, and 1842, amounted to 26,000 l l 305 l l l
 Lord Stanley  said, the sum of I5,000 l 308
 Mr. Williams  said, he did not think that too attempt now made in this prison would be successful. The cost of the prisoners was about 33 l l
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to the further progress of the bill, and declared that he would divide the House.
 Lord G. Somerset  replied, that the commissioners were extremely anxious to furnish the report with as little delay as possible, and he had every confidence that in the course of the Easter recess they should be enabled to present to the Treasury a report on part of the subject, and they would furnish as much of it as they could. Since the subject was last mentioned, a great mass of additional evidence had been furnished to the commissioners, and many new matters had been brought under their consideration, so that it was impossible to prepare a report on the whole subject at present, and he feared that if new evidence continued to accumulate in this way, that they should not be able to report on the whole subject during the present Session.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that as this was a question of some importance, be wished to say a few words. He admired the straightforward and candid course taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, and he was determined to give the bill his support. The Company only sought a fair protection from the House, and no monopoly or restrictive privilege whatsoever. On this subject a patent already existed, and all they sought was that the patent should be transferred to a larger number of persons.
 Colonel Sibthorp  rose to oppose the vote. It was not a sum that was already due, being for salaries, &c, payable on the 31st of March, 1844, and he did not see why they should vote prospectively so large a sum of money, after they had been told, that the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, meant to bring in a Poor-law Bill upon a new principle, which he expected would reduce by a very considerable sum the expenses of the commission. Now, if that were to be the case, although he hoped the right hon. Baronet would not succeed in carrying his measure through the House, he thought it would be much more satisfactory to the country, before they agreed to this vote, if the right hon. Baronet would inform them in what state that bill now was whether it were the right hon. Baronet's intention to press it forward in the present Session, and, if so, at what period of the Session? Whenever the right hon. Baronet brought it forward, it should receive his humble opposition, He was not at all willing to allow the vote to pass unquestioned, and he should propose a reduction, though, indeed, not a reduction which would satisfy him, for he would wish to annihilate the whole commission. The charge for the assistant-commissioners was 5,000 l l
 Colonel Sibthorp  begged to ask what was the condition of the records? If he mistook not, there should be an annual report from the deputy keeper of records, of the state in which they were laid before the House. He did not wish to oppose the vote, but he wished to know if there were any probability of the public records being collected together in some one place of security, as well as to be informed of the condition they were in.
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought the minority in the last division a most respectable one; and as many of the opponents of the New Poor-law had since the division gone to dinner, he would put it to the hon. and gallant Member, whether it were prudent to risk a reduction of the numbers of the minority by another division?
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he should like to see a return of the expense of printing
 302
 Mr. Ross  wished to know whether it were the intention of the Government in the Irish Registration Bill, which it was understood they intended to introduce, to insert any clause to continue or to do away with the oath which Roman Catholics had to take at elections, that they would not make use of any power, right, or privilege given to them by the bill to injure the Established Church.
 Mr. Protheroe  also thought it desirable to have this report before the House before this vote was granted. The records were being gradually classified and removed from their old repositories preparatory to their final removal. A part of them were now deposited in what was termed the Carlton Ride, the old riding-house of Carlton House, which was a most unfit place for the public records. He had observed, that on the contemplated removal of the courts from Westminster-hall to Lincoln's-inn-fields, Mr. Barry proposed to deposit all the records of the kingdom on the basement story of the present courts of law. He thought a more fitting place might be found for the records than a cellar. When cellars had been used at Somerset-house for this purpose, though with excellent arrangements, they were found not to preserve the records. Nothing could be better for this purpose than the tower proposed, or a large building like a college or library, where they might be safe from the effects of fire. Only the other day he observed a large fire near a place in which some records were deposited, but he believed that fire was now discontinued. He urged upon the Government the necessity of having a proper depository for the public records.
 Mr. Muntz  hoped the Hous would
 285
 Mr. Lambton  hoped, as the vote was quite unintelligible, that the hon. Member's motion would be agreed to. He ventured to say that not a Member in the House could explain it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not consent to the postponement of the vote, but would give every information which could be desired respecting it on bringing up the report.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : By no means.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was formerly the practice to send copies of the statutes to all the magistrates. This had been thought an unnecessary expense, and Parliament bad determined that the system should be reformed, and that one copy should be sent to each petty sessions. He was not disposed to return to the old practice.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Government asked for the amount which they conceived would be needed, and if the whole of the amount voted was not required it went t the credit of the public.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  declined to accede to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member laboured under some misapprehension on this subject, for he could inform him that the secret service money required by the Home and Colonial Secretaries was just one-sixteenth of the amount required by the Foreign Department.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had not heard of the project of placing the records in the cellars of the new courts of law which it was intended, as was said, to erect in Lincoln's-inn-fields. At present the Government were much pressed to provide all the accommodations necessary for the various departments in public buildings; but, the present state of finances would not justify them in incurring fresh expenses. He thought that the Victoria Tower would afford ample room for the deposit of the records, and that there need be no apprehension of their destruction by fire.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 297
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the estimate had been laid on the Table on the 14th of March, and the House had had seventeen days to consider it and to call for any information that might be required; but the hon. Member for Finsbury had waited until the last moment, and now proposed to stop the progress of public business. He put it to the committee whether the Government ought not to have twenty-four hours allowed, in order to consider whether the return intended to be moved for by the hon. Member should be granted?
 Mr. Labouchere  thought the House ought to be very careful, lest, by the course proposed, they should break through the common course pursued by Parliament. If they wanted no special privilege, no bill was required. He was not one who looked with unqualified admiration at the present law of partnership in this country. That law ought to operate equally and fairly upon all parties. The general principle which ought to be adopted was not to give any exclusive or particular advantages to any party conducting any ordinary branch of trade, unless that branch could not otherwise be conducted. It was not any important improvement in machinery which should call for that exclusive privilege. Suppose an important improvement should be made in machinery, and they were asked to give an exclusive privilege to the cotton trade or the silk trade, would they not scout the proposal? Would they not say that there was intelligence and capital enough in the country to carry out the improvement without giving any special advantage to a certain party or a certain trade? He had great doubts as to the propriety of referring this bill to a select committee. It would be going from an established rule, and if they did so in this case they would be unable to refuse doing so in any other. He should therefore oppose the second reading of the bill.
 Dr. Bowring  said, he would give his support to the motion, because he was confident that it would be found upon examination, that there was in reality no invention peculiar to the promoter of this bill; but that the whole machinery had been for centuries in use upon both sides of Mount Jura. Some years ago, an inquiry was made in Paris into the causes of the depression of the watchmaking trade in that city, and it was then found that the real cause was the superior accuracy and cheapness with which all the parts of a watch could be made by means of the machinery in use in Switzerland, and which he believed to be the very same as that proposed to be protected by the bill. He was surprised to hear the hon. Member for Coventry speak contemptuously of the inventor, because he was a Swiss. Did not the hon. Member know, that it was to Frenchmen and Swiss this country owed the introduction of the silk trade?—and it was to the enterprise of those foreigners we owed the foundation of the manufacturing prosperity of this country.
 Dr. Bowring  said, be saw a credit of 4,000 l
 Dr. Bowring  said, that having had the good fortune to attract the favourable notice of the late Government, he had been employed by them, and had been offered the secret-service money to aid him in prosecuting his researches, but he always repudiated it; he had never laid out a penny of that fund, being of opinion, that it was best ail that was done for the public should be done above board.
 Mr. Brocklehurst  wished to ask the noble Lord who was at the head of the commission to inquire into the Custom-house Frauds, when it was probable that the report of the commissioners would be furnished.
 Mr. J. Fielden  was convinced the country would be much better satisfied to return to the state of things which existed under the old system than to continue the unconstitutional machinery of the present Poor-law—a measure which had been introduced and carried for the purpose of reducing the wages of the labouring population. The right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department, the other night had said, that a deep debt of gratitude was be to the labouring population for the patience they bad manifested under most trying circumstances, and how was that debt of gratitude paid? Why, by now keeping up a law and a set of commissioners, who had been mainly instrumental in reducing the wages of labour, and in bringing about that state of thins which occurred in the latter end of last summer. If the Legislature persevered with the law and this commission, be was convinced it would pursue a course which ere long would involve the country in bloodshed. The right hon. Baronet bad told the House, that if the committee
 294
 Mr. Hume  thought it was quite inconsistent with the present state of the public finances to pay these charges out of the taxes. They were originally paid out of the Royal purse, but when the civil list got in arrear they became chargeable to the country, and had remained so. He had thought the commission would have been entirely an honorary one. He could not conceive how 5 l
 Mr. Hume  understood that the hon. and gallant Officer (Colonel Sibthorp) wished to abolish the Poor-law commission; but he did not think that any rational man could desire to return to the system which existed before the establishment of the commission. The time would come when the hostility raised against the commission would cease, and then it might be considered possible greatly to reduce the expense of the commission; but he could not contemplate the time when the country could do without some central board to carry out the details of the measure and exercise a general superintendence. The right hon. Baronet had promised to reduce the number of assistant-commissioners, and as the number did not exceed nine there was a saving under that head. He was satisfied that until the system was entirely established in England and Ireland this commission could not be done away with. He wished to know whether the report of the commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the agricultural districts would soon be laid on the Table of the House; and whether, with respect to the school at Norwood, which was conducted on a most excellent principle, the sum of 500 l
 Mr. Hume  thought he could satisfy the hon. Member. A single slavery return, containing the names of slaves, and a peat many unnecessary details, had cost more for printing than all the expenses of his motions. He wished he had a percentage on the reductions that his motions bad caused. He had never moved for a return without either founding a motion on it, or using it for some further inquiry, and that within the Session.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion, that the system of distributing the statutes ought to be revised. Some counties through the activity of a Member had twenty copies, whilst others had but four.
 Mr. Hume  observed that it was a singular circumstance that for several years past the same sum, 39,200 l
 Mr. Hume  thought the House ought not to consent to this vote for the Queen's plate. Indeed, though it was called the "Queen's plate" it might be more justly termed the "people's plate," for it was paid for by the people. He wished to have some more precise information as to the disposition of the sum of 1,200 l 299
 Mr. Hume  objected to the estimate. He found, that there was an expense of 15,000 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that if they were not to have the details of the expenditure of the sum of 15,000 l
 Mr. Hume  agreed in commending the excellent arrangements of the New Model Prison; but it was intended as a model. All its officers were paid; and if this were to be the plan pursued they ought to look to the expenditure and consider whether the counties could afford to introduce the principle. He did not object to the trial, but remembering how completely the Penitentiary had failed as a trial, he would caution the right hon. Baronet not to be too sanguine in his expectations. He was informed that very few of the prisoners who had undergone the discipline, and on whom so much expense had been laid out, could be cal-
 311
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was in error in supposing he had not asked for information till the present moment. He had the other day shown to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department a written statement of the information he wanted, adopting in that statement the precise words which appeared at the foot of this page in the estimates, and which were supposed to be explanatory of the vote. The paper, however, was returned to him, and he was informed that the Government could not understand it;—that was to say they could not understand their own words. Was there, then, anything unreasonable in his proposition to have the details of this expepditure? He should certainly move that the Chairman report progress.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to ask a question with respect to this prison. The separate and solitary system had been adopted. [No, no.] He believed there was not much difference between the two. The solitary system was being confined in a dark cell; and the separate system was being confined in a light one. [No, no.] Well, then, he would call it the separate system. Now, from the report of the Superintendent of the General Penitentiary, where this system had been adopted, he found a great relaxation had taken place in the discipline in consequence of the number of cases of insanity. He wanted to know whether this separate system, which during the last eighteen months had driven fifteen persons insane in the Millbank Penitentiary, was to be pursued in the New Model Prison. A more beautifully arranged prison than the New Model Prison could not be found; but he believed, that a more rigid system even than that pursued in the Penitentiary was to be pursued there. He also understood that the turnkeys and gaolers were sworn or obliged to make some declaration as to secrecy with regard to everything that happened within the walls of the prison; and if twenty or thirty individual were driven mad, or died, or were starved to death, they were sworn to secrecy, and that it was as much as their place was worth to say anything about it. It was right that the committee should know some little of the system to be parsued there.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the committee
 307
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, he should divide the committee, as the Government would not give the explanation he required.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought this vote demanded explanation. The sum required on the face of it was 47,000 l l l
 Mr. T. Duncombe  called attention to the note which said, that
 "The two items in the account for fees and expenses incurred for prosecutions, &c, were formed on an average of the last three years' expenditure, ending March, 1842, which, owing to the state of the country, was of an unusually large amount, and therefore it was hoped that 38,000 l l l l l l
 Mr. T. Duncombe  contended, that the House and the public had a right to know how the 15,000 l l l
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, he could assure his hon. Friend that the opposition which he was about to offer to the bill did not proceed, on the part of his constituents living in Clerkenwell, from any such ground as his hon. Friend had stated. They did not object to the bill on account of any injury which it might cause to their own separate interests. If it could be shown that the bill would be beneficial to the country at large, they would be quite ready to forego their opposition. He thought, however, that he should make it clear to the House that of all the bubbles this was the greatest. His hon. Friend had made some omissions in his statement, which he would endeavour to supply from the prospectuses put forth by the promoters of the bill. They began with a scheme for raising a sum of 250,000 l l "That, by means of the plan now submitted to the public, and with the assistance of numerous artificers, every part of a watch may be manufactured in the same place, and under the same superintendence, and consequently cannot fail to be incomparably superior to any produced under the existing system. A first-rate watch may be completed in one week, which at present cannot be accomplished under six." 277 "Whereas the parties hereinafter named ware satisfied of the advantages to be derived from the application of this invention." l l l s l l l. 278
 Mr. Wakley  had heard with surprise and deep regret, the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-president of the Board of Trade. It had involved the right hon. Gentleman in the charge of inconsistency of conduct. Could the right hon. Gentleman ever in future vote against going into committee to inquire into the operation of the Corn-laws? Could he refuse to inquire into the effect that law had on the manufacturers of this country? Although so meagre, shabby, and paltry, a case had been made out, yet the right hon. Gentleman said it was a case of investigation before a committee. Why the right hon. Gentleman had forgotten his own principles. It was only during the present Session that the right hon. Gentleman had said that it would be impolitic to make any change in the corn-laws, after so recent a change. Why the right hon. Gentleman dealt with, the watchmakers last year. There had been a reduction in the protection to the watchmakers of 15 per cent. The watch makers did not complain of this, on the contrary, they approved it. They said, "let the right hon. Gentleman do us justice with respect to food, and we will not ask for one farthing of protection." Look to the nature of the bill. It was set forth that 40,000 l 283
 Mr. Wakley  said, the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had been in the enjoyment of a flourishing trade for the last few years; but in a few years hence he would see a difference in his own district from the working of this measure. His opinion on the subject remained unchanged; he was still for the abolition of the commission. The hon. and learned Member for Bradford, who had always voted against the commission, was, in effect going to vote for it by agreeing to this money grant for its support. If the hon. and learned Member wished to give a useful and practical vote, now was the time, by voting against the salaries of the commissioners. He might rest assured there was no patriotism in the commissioners—they would not work without pay, and, therefore, by denying them the grant of their salaries, the commission might be wholly abolished. He wanted to ask the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham), if he did not thing extraordinary, that the sum required for postage in the office of the Poor-law commissioners should be so great as compared with the amount required in the right hon. Baronet's own office. The sum required for the Home-office, which was in constant communication with magistrates and other authorities, was 1,300 l l 295
 Mr. Ewart  suggested, that there should be an improvement in the composition of the statutes, which was a disgrace to any country. They were composed of parenthesis within parenthesis, forming a complexity of style which contrasted most unfavourably with the simplicity which characterised the laws of other countries,
 303
 Mr. Williams  would not divide the House on the motion.
 Mr. W. Williams  observed, that though the expediency of abolishing the Poor-law commission might be doubted, still he thought the vast expense for England and Wales, where the unions were now formed, might be considerably reduced. At present, though the unions had been formed, there were precisely the same salaries paid, the same number of commissioner and assistant-commissioners, as when the heavy work was being done. He could not understand how the travelling expenses, which were at the rate of 3 l l l
 Mr. W. Williams  thought it hard that the people of England should be taxed for horse-racing in Scotland. He knew very well that the people of Coventry would scorn to have a Queen's plate sent to them in this way.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, there were, some items of the amount, the expulsion of which he should move. He referred to the sums charged for the Queen's plate to be run for at Edinburgh and at the Caledonian bunt. He also objected to the payment of a salary of 600 l
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that when the printing of the Bible was thrown open it was deemed necessary, to meet objections which were urged against such a step, to adopt means for ascertaining that the editions of the Scriptures were accurately printed according to the authorized version. In order to effect this object an unpaid commission was appointed, and they had a secretary whose duty it was to ascertain the correctness of the editions. This duty was necessarily a laborious one, and it was for the payment of the salary of this officer that the sum of 600 l
 Mr. F. Baring  wished to press on the Government the necessity of a revision of the present mode of distributing the statutes. The new boroughs must want copies, and be thought all of them ought to have copies sent to them.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, it was true that the 15,000 l l l l l
 Mr. F. Baring  declared, he was stupid enough not to understand it, and unless her Majesty's Ministers were prepared to say that it would be inconvenient to the public service to postpone the vote, he should support the motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that the postponement of the vote for two or three days would occasion no inconvenience; they had not yet come to the end of the financial year, and, with the exception of the sum of 15,000 l d
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the average of the last three years only applied to the two items, for fees to counsel and expense of prosecutions; that the expenses of last year were 22,000 l l l l l
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the sum disbursed on the average of the last three years, added to the heavy expenses incurred by the late special commissions, made a total of 47,000 l l
 Sir G. Clerk  reminded the hon. Member that some few years ago, upon the expiration of the patent of the Queen's printer in Scotland, it was proposed that the office should be abolished entirely, but it was thought necessary that some control should be exercised over the printing of the sacred Scriptures by booksellers and publishers there, and a commission was appointed, with a secretary, to whom 600 l l
 Captain Pechell  objected to the travelling expenses of the assistant commissioners. Now that the machinery of the unions was established, he did not know what mischief could arise from abolishing the commissioners altogether; they were now employed in endeavouring to corrupt the Poor-law guardians. If the House were averse to doing away with the commissioners and assistant-commissioners, he thought, at all events, that their number might be reduced. He should move that their number be reduced by one commissioner and two assistant commissioners, which would be a reduction from the vote of 4,100 l
 Captain Pechell  would not divide the committee upon it.
 Captain Pechell  said, he had been compelled by the manner in which the Poor-law was administered to offer to it every opposition in his power. The whole system had been one of interference with every arrangement which had been left untouched at the passing of the Poor-law Bill. Towns governed by boards of guardians, and incorporated parishes under the Gilbert unions, had been molested in every way; and this annoyance had been effected by the Poor-law commission through the agency of the assistant-commissioners. l l 292
 Captain Pechell  wished to know whether the new boroughs were to have the statutes sent down to them as the old ones had, and whether such magistrates as were likely to attend to their magisterial duties might have copies sent to them. He objected to the present mode of distributing the statutes.
 Mr. Ward,  in reply, said, that even if the Some refused to accede to the motion, the invention would not fall to the ground, for that, as the machinery had been completed, others would be found to perfect the invention.
 Mr. Ward  said, that in moving the second reading of a private bill, it was seldom necessary for the mover to occupy the time of the House at any length; but the bill to incorporate the British Watch and Clockmakers' Company had met with so much fierceness of opposition, that it was necessary for him, in moving this Order of the day, to say something to the House, for the purpose of removing the prejudices which might have been created by the
 274 275 276
 Sir J. Graham  replied, that the hon. Member had given notice of his intention to introduce a bill on the subject; he, therefore, should on the part of the Government abstain from giving an opinion on the principle of it until he heard the arguments which the hon. Gentleman would no doubt urge in his motion to introduce the measure. Her Majesty's Government had no intention to introduce any clause, or take any other proceeding on the subject.
 Sir J. Graham  stated that last year, when the Poor-law Commission Continuance Act passed, the number of assistant-commissioners was twelve. He then said he thought that number might be reduced; and he had fulfilled the assurance given to the House, for the number was now only nine—not too large a number to perform the duties connected with the various unions in England and Wales. The commissioners of the inquiry into the state of the agricultural districts had made their report, and it would shortly be laid before the House. With respect to the Norwood school, which was conducted on the best prin-
 293 l
 Sir J. Graham  said, in answer to the question of the hon. and gallant Officer, that it was the intention of the Government to introduce the Poor-law Amendment Bill in the course of the present Session, but it was not intended to alter the provisions of the act of last year, with reference to the continuance of the com-
 290 l l 291 usque ad nauseam
 Sir J. Graham  said the correspondence at the office of the Poor-law Commissioners increased every year, and when it was remembered, that it applied to no less than 580 unions in England and Wales, it was not remarkable that the cost of postage at the Home Office was insignificant when compared with that of the Poor-law office.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that there was a difference between an estimate and an account. This 47,000 l 304 l l
 Sir J. Graham  thought be was not asking too much, when he proposed that the hon. Member for Finsbury should give notice of a motion for the information he required, and allow the Government twenty-four hours to consider what course they would pursue.
 Sir J. Graham  said he was extremely sorry that any hon. Member should think his conduct had been contemptuous to the House; if it had seemed so, it was more from his manner than from any intention on his part. Before the Government could make up its mind as to whether the information sought should be granted or not, it was necessary to know what was the precise information asked. He was by no means disposed to say on the part of the Government that the information should not be given, but still it was indispensably necessary he should know the precise details of the information required. This could be done by a notice of motion when the House resumed. He felt the force of the observations of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. F. T. Baring), and he would therefore accede to the proposition that this vote should be postponed.
 Sir J. Graham  said, it was quite evident that the hon. Gentleman was not aware of the difference between the solitary and the separate systems. No two systems could be more unlike. In the separate system each prisoner, though confined in
 310
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the estimates had been framed on the the report of the inspectors, and with a due attention to economy.
 Sir J. Guest  remarked, that it was arrant nonsense to ascribe the reduction of the wages of labour to the operation of the New Poor-law.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that his attention was turned to this subject because the town which he had the honour to represent was one of the three principally engaged in the watchmaking trade. He would not object to a commission of scientific men to inquire into the merits of the supposed invention, and the expediency of the bill, but he should oppose the present motion.
 Mr. Hume wished  to know whether the rig-lit hon. Baronet would, on consideration fix a day for him to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice respecting the negotiation of the Treaty of Washington.
 Captain Bernal  asked why, in the present instance, the usual notice for tenders had not been given. The contract expired on the 28th May next, but no notice was issued by the Postmaster-general until the 22d February, though six months notice was the proper notice to give in these cases.
 Mr. B. Dennison  wished to know whether the judge would appoint one barrister only to revise one district or riding?
 Mr. B. Dennison  was interested in the question, because it was not possible for one barrister to go through the revision of the West Riding of Yorkshire. He however, did not ask for three barristers, but only two, who might be employed for thirty-four days. It was not possible to complete the revision in twenty-five days. At the same time if they had more than one barrister in a district, there might be in that district conflicting decisions. He wished for two barristers, and that the judge, if an exception could be made, should be forced to divide the West Riding and that each of them should be employed thirty-four days, though the 200 l.
 Mr. Gaily Knight  proposed the omission of the penalty of 20s. for the purpose of inserting 40 s
 Mr. Rutherford  thought it would be difficult to separate the consideration of the clause more immediately before the House from that of clause G referred to by the noble Lord. In his opinion the noble Lord had not at all exaggerated the importance of the questions which, under this appeal, would come to be determined by the courts of law. It was perfectly true that there was no appeal on any question of fact, and that the appeal was to be limited to abstract points of law which might arise on a case stated by the revising barrister; but he (Mr. Rutherford) thought that these questions of law might be of a most delicate and important nature, because they might turn on questions which necessarily involved the defi-
 344 345
 The Attorney-General  did not think it necessary to follow the rather discursive observations of the hon. and learned Member respecting the impediments which it was alleged the bill would cause to the administration of justice, for the cases it might give rise to would occupy no larger space of time than the courts would afford.
 347 mandamus 348
 Captain Fitzroy  stated, that in the borough which he and his hon. Friend represented, there had been two directly conflicting decisions in two successive years by the revising barristers. In the
 361
 Lord Eliot  said, he would ask the Postmaster-general this question, if it were desired, but as he was not connected with that department he could not himself answer it.
 Lord Eliot  said, that such was the case. The contract being about to expire, the Post-office authorities had given notice in the usual terms that they were ready to receive tenders from persons desirous of taking the contract for the next year. Three tenders were sent in; one by Mr. Purcell, the present contractor, proposing to contract again on the existing terms; one from Messrs. Wright and Williams, of London, who proposed to contract on lower terms than Mr. Purcell; and a third from Mr. Croal, of Glasgow, who proposed terms considerably lower than Mr. Purcell's, and by which in fact, a very large sum per annum would be saved to the public; in fact, no less than 2,000 l. l
 Lord John Russell  wished to ask two questions of the right hon. Baronet with regard to the motion of the hon. Gentleman and to the treaty which had recently been entered into between this country and the United States. Before doing so, it would be necessary for him to say a few words in explanation, as the hon. Gentleman had given notice of a motion calling upon the House to express its approbation of the treaty. Now the treaty might be taken as divided into three parts—the boundary question—the mutual right of visit on the coast of Africa—and the mutual surrender of criminals. It would be desirable before the House engaged in a discussion on the subject that the construction of the treaty should be understood by the House. It appeared from the accounts recently received from America that a very different construction was put on some parts of this treaty in the United States from what was put on them in this country. The House was aware that the question of the right of mutual visit had led to much correspondence, first between his noble Friend the late Secretary for Foreign Affairs and Mr. Stevenson, and subsequently between Lord Aberdeen and Mr. Everett. This right of visit had been claimed on the part of this country by Lord Palmerston and Lord Aberdeen, and had been denied by Mr. Stevenson and
 324 "The principles laid down in Lord Aberdeen's despatches, and the assurances of indemnity therein held out, although the utmost reliance was placed on the good faith of the British Government, were not regarded by the executive as a sufficient security against the abuses which Lord Aberdeen admitted
 325 "The purpose of this Government is faith-fully to fulfil the treaty on its part, and it will not permit itself to doubt that Great Britain will comply with on hers. In this way, peace will best be Preserved, and the most amicable relations maintained between the two countries." 326
 Lord John Russell  said, that before the bill was recommitted, he wished to say a few words as to a most important alteration which had been made in it while it was passing through the House  pro forma 331 pro farmâ, pro formâ, l.
 Lord John Russell  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had in some degree misapprehended his meaning. The hon. and learned Gentleman argued as if he (Lord J. Russell) wished to see the election committees of that House overruling and altering the decisions of the court. Now what he desired was, that the questions should be referred to a separate tribunal. But he said, if the House wished to try the experiment of referring these
 349
 Lord J. Russell  said, that, from what he had observed of the working of the bill of the right hon. Gentleman, it was a great improvement.
 Lord John Russell  thought the committee should consider that, and several of the following clauses with reference to that clause, not only constituting the Court of Common Pleas the Court of Appeal, but of making the decisions of that court binding on committees of the House of Commons. He thought that it must be allowed that this was a question of great magnitude and importance. Ever since the House of Commons had existed, at first through struggle and difficulty—afterwards more calmly and without dispute—it had asserted that the final decision on questions of this nature, the power of deciding upon the election of Members of Parliament rested in itself. He was not then going to enter fully into the arguments which might be brought forward upon the subject; but would it not be wise—now that they were going to appoint a new court of appeal, such as had not before existed, and to endow that court with certain powers—would it not be wise not to completely part with the power of the House of Commons over the election of its own Members. He had objections to entrusting judges with that power. They could not very well assert, from any knowledge they had upon the subject, that these judges were infallible, and they could not deny that it was possible but that these judges might also take a greater interest and a more conspicuous part in political proceedings than they had hitherto done. That of itself would be a great misfortune, if, instead of judges looked up to by all as unconnected with politics, they should have to combine their names with the triumph of one political party, and the defeat of another- If they were to have one political party rejoicing, in the decision of the Court of Common Pleas—and another party angry and mortified, attributing that decision to improper motives—that of itself, he repeated, would be a very great misfortune;
 338 339
 Lord J. Russell  remarked that 20 s
 Mr. C. Buller  had the unhappiness to differ from what he supposed was the popular side of the question—the opposition to the jurisdiction of election committees. He believed, that by the alteration effected in the last measure, so much had been done, and that by some easy alterations in that amendment so much could be done, towards rendering those committees good tribunals ["Oh, oh,"] "always let a man finish his sentence," that he believed, bad as they might be thought, they formed—or would formߞthe best tribunals for the objects in view. He would warn the House not to abandon the decision of questions relating to the franchise, and leave it in the hands of the courts of law. If anything could operate as a warning on this point, it would be the decisions of the courts of law on corporation questions before the reform of the corporations, and the effect of those decisions on the character of the courts. Every one who had been accustomed to attend the courts of justice during the trial of such cases, must have heard the remarks that used to be made; counsel, witnesses, and every one concerned on either side, were accustomed to speculate freely on the known political inclinations of the judge who tried the case. But if the House determined to bring in the Court of Common Pleas to decide parts of these questions, why not bring it in altogether? Why leave the decision (as practically it was left by the bill) in the Court of Common Pleas and the committees of the House of Commons jointly? Doubtless, the decisions of the Court of
 350
 Mr. Ross  said Mr. Purcell put in his tender exactly in conformity to the advertisement, whereas Mr. Croal and Messrs. Wright and Williams, of London, though they put in tenders, both lower in price than Mr. Purcell, accompanied their tenders with a condition that the Postmaster-general was to allow an extended time for the supply of the necessary number of new coaches, and that they should be permitted to work old coaches for some months, until the new ones could be fur-
 330
 Mr. Ross  begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland whether it were true that a new contract had been taken for the supply of mail coaches in Ireland, to the exclusion of Mr. Purcell, the gentleman who had fulfilled this contract for the last ten years?
 Mr. Horsman  said, that the word "building" lad a very wide signification, and he thought that the words "other buildings" in this clause ought to be more clearly defined. He therefore, moved the insertion of this proviso:—
 "And whereas doubts have arisen as to the meaning and construction of the words 'other building,' Be it therefore declared and enacted, that no person who shall occupy within such city or borough, any building, not being a house, warehouse, counting-house, or shop, jointly with any land, shall be entitled to vote in the election of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament for such city or borough, in respect of the occupation of such premises, unless such building, when taken separately from such land, shall be of the clear yearly value of not less than 5 1.
 Mr. Horsman said,  there were several contrary decisions by revising barristers on this point.
 Mr. Darby  was so desirous that clause G should stand part of the bill, that, if he had any reason to anticipate that it would be omitted, he would divide against the clause now before the committee. He did not wish that any collision should occur between the judges and the committee. It seemed the disposition of the House to consider the judges fallible, whilst they considered that House to be infallible. He feared, therefore, that if any collision of opinion should occur, the decision of the judges would not be treated with much respect even in matters of law. For these reasons be thought it most important that their decision should be final, and trusted that the clause would be maintained in the bill.
 Mr. Aglionby  mentioned, that he had been requested to state that the remuneration proposed was thought by many gentlemen at the bar to be inadequate, as the twenty-five days would, in many cases, be insufficient for the business to be transacted,
 Mr. Aglionby said,  he would leave the matter in the hands of the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Aglionby  proposed to add the words "upon proof that a notice of the objection aforesaid shall have been given." The hon. Member said that his object was to prevent bonâ fide claimants, who might be objected to when they were not
 335
 Mr. Hardy  contended, that the operation of the 68th clause removed any reason for apprehending inconvenience through vexatious appeals to the court. He did not wish that jurisdiction should be taken from the committees upon matters fairly within their cognisance, but questions of law ought to be referred to lawyers.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to see, in the first place, a simply constituted tribunal. That end he did not conceive would be obtained by the proposition now before them, which was too complicated in its machinery. He had hoped that they would have some simple court of this description in which one judge could decide upon the appeals that came before him. Every one acquainted with the administration of justice knew that justice could not be done unless the judge was assisted by a bar. The appellate jurisdiction proposed to be given to the Court of Common Pleas would bear the same relation to the Revising Barrister's Court, as the Queen's Bench now did to the Court of Quarter Sessions. Now, let them take the decisions of the Court of Queen's Bench on appeals from the Quarter Sessions, with respect to the construction of some of the sections of the Poor-law Act. Ever since these appeals had been made, the Court of Queen's Bench had been directing its attention to the question of settlement, and their conflicting decisions had made the whole mass of the law a complication of difficulty and technicality. He would ask, was the present administration of the law so cheap and rapid, that they ought to thrust on the judges of the Law Courts a host of new cases? Was it proper to thrust on the judges of the Criminal and Civil Courts, who already were unable to get through their business, a mass of cases with which they ought to have no connection? They were at present overwhelmed with work, so much so that the law of the country was not administered by them. [Sir J. Graham: Not those of the Common Pleas.] No, it was quite true that business had been shut out from that court by the exclusive regulations adopted recently in regard to those who were admitted to practise there. But was there to be no attempt to secure a more frequent administration of justice in the country? Was it not well known that prisoners were confined far too long already? Was this a time for thrusting on the judges wholesale a mass of cases with which they had no connexion or concern? He appealed to his hon. and learned Friends the Attorney and Solicitor-General, and to all the county magistrates present, whether they
 346
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether the whole number of 85 barristers must be appointed, or whether the judge would use his discretion and appoint a smaller number.
 Mr. Hume  supported the proviso on the ground that the law, as it at present stood, encouraged bribery, as the candidate might pay the rates of the scot and lot voters even on the morning of the poll.
 Sir George Grey , having been present in the committee refered to, begged to say a few words. There certainly had been stated a strong objection on his side of the House to the appellate court proposed in the original bill, of three barristers of a certain standing. It was considered that the barristers, perhaps, might not carry much weight in their decisions; certainly not so much as that which would be attached to the decisions of judges; and it was proposed that all appeals as to matters of law should be referred to judges of assize. This was also objected to; and it was then proposed, also by an hon. Gentleman on his own side of the House that the appeals should be made to one of the courts at Westminster to which the right hon. Baronet was inclined to assent, and which appeared, upon discussion, to be the general opinion of the House. As to the making the decisions of this court final and conclusive as to committees of this House, however, that had been objected to; and he certainly considered that this very important part of the ques-
 334
 Sir G. Grey  would not shrink from avowing his opinion that this was the best appellate tribunal they could have. He thought it was necessary, but the necessity for it had arisen from the original fault of having too great a number of
 354
 Mr. Elphinstone  suggested that the word "churchwardens" should be used as well as "overseers," as doubts had arisen about the meaning of the latter word.
 Mr. Elphinstone said,  that this was the part of the bill in which he could properly move to add the clause of which he had given notice as a proviso. The hon. and learned Member then moved the addition to the clause—
 "Provided always, That no scot and lot voter (whose name is on the register of voters for the current year) shall be prevented from voting by reason of his not having paid any rates demanded of him previous to the day of election."
 Sir J. Graham  said, the question which the amendment raised had been fully discussed when the bill was last in committee, and he had then stated his reasons for dissenting from the present proposition. It had never been intended by the Reform Act to place the scot and lot voters in a better position than they enjoyed before that measure, and yet the proposition now made by the hon. and learned Member went directly to attain that object. He opposed the proposition of the hon. Member because, if agreed to, it would give the scot and lot voter a great advantage over every other class of voters who appeared upon the register.
 Sir J. Graham said,  the clauses providing an appeal to the Court of Common Pleas afforded the best answer to the hon. Gentleman's statement relative to con-conflicting decisions, for that appeal would establish an uniformity of decision. He felt bound to oppose the hon. Member's motion.
 Sir J. Graham said,  he did not think that any doubt could be entertained on this point after the decisions of committees on the subject. The great essentials of qualification were residence, occupation, payment of the rates, and the value of the premises. As the object was to have a substantial constituency, the relative value of the building to the land was of little importance.
 Sir James Graham  said, that after what had passed in the former part of the evening, he was unwilling to press the subject
 340 341 342 343
 Sir J. Graham  observed that it was dif-
 337
 Sir J. Graham  was of opinion that the greatest abuses would be found most frequently to occur in making the first claims, and putting the first objections.
 Sir J. Graham said,  in point of law, he understood there was no doubt that churchwardens were overseers. However, the matter should be considered.
 Sir J. Graham  remarked that the proposition had been already negatived by a large division.
 Sir James Graham said,  that the point which the hon. Gentleman had raised was a new one, and it was the first time he had heard of it. There had been no notice of the amendment, but ho was quite willing to consider it, and state what course he should pursue at a future stage.
 Sir James Graham  said, that by the 29th clause, the judge had power to divide the districts; but that was a power which was used exceedingly sparingly. With respect to the remuneration, a portion of it was allowed for travelling expenses, and could be found sufficient if the barrister remained a greater number of days stationary.
 Sir James Graham  said, the words were "not a greater number than 85," so that the judges might appoint a smaller number if they thought necessary, but he had no hope that such would be the case, for at present the number was 160, and the bill reduced it one-half.
 Sir James Graham  said the judges would appoint the barristers to districts or ridings as they saw proper.
 Sir James Graham  had, on the former
 332 pro formâ seriatim, 333
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the despatches from Mr. Fox had only reached London that morning, and he had not received them till a very advanced period of the day, having been attending her Majesty in council, and very possibly, therefore, his answer might not be so complete as it otherwise might have been had he had more time to read the despatches, but, as it was, he thought he should be able to give an answer sufficient in substance to serve the purpose for which the noble Lord had put his question. He found, in the despatches from Mr. Fox, the last message of the President of the United States, delivered at the latter end pf the month of February, 1843, to which the noble Lord had referred. There was also appended to that despatch a communication from Mr. Webster to the President of the United States, reciting, and faithfully reciting, the purport of the communication addressed by Lord Aberdeen to Mr. Fox, to be read to Mr. Webster, and which was written after the first message—the annual message—of the President of the United States. Of course he should have no difficulty whatever in laying upon the Table of the House extracts from the official despatch of Mr. Fox, containing the last message of the President, to which the noble Lord had referred, and also that communication of Mr. Webster which gave the substance
 327 328 "To seize and detain a ship upon suspicion of piracy, with probable cause and in good faith, affords no just grounds either for complaint on the part of the nation whose flag she bears, or claim of indemnity on the part of the owner. The universal law sanctions, and the common good requires, the existence of such a rule. The right, under such circumstances, not only to visit and detain, but to search a ship, is a perfect right, and involves neither responsibility nor indemnity. But, with this single exception, no nation has, in time of peace, any authority to detain the ships of another upon the high seas, on any pretext whatever, beyond the territorial jurisdiction. And such, I am happy to find, is substantially the doctrine of Great Britain herself, in her most recent official declarations, and even those now communicated to this House. These declarations may well lead us to doubt whether the apparent difficulty between the two Governments is not rather one of definition than of principle. Not only is the right of search, properly so called, disclaimed by Great Britain, but even that of a mere visit and inquiry is asserted with qualifications inconsistent with the idea of a perfect right." 329
 Sir Robert Peel  replied that he could not give the hon. Member any other assurance than those he had already given on the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  said —I agree with the observations made by the hon. Member for Liskeard, that one of the great causes of complaint against election committees of this House, is, that the nature of the subject, affecting as it does party interests, has a tendency to excite a suspicion of partisanship; and therefore, I cannot help coming to the conclusion that when this House decides upon transferring its authority on the decision of points of law to other hands a more favourable opinion will soon be entertained of its proceedings in such cases. I cannot, however, agree with the hon. and learned Member for Bath that this authority should be transferred to one judge, with enormous and unwieldly power; because, before a month elapsed, I am perfectly satisfied that there would be many more complaints made against his decisions than had ever been made even against election committees of this House. How would such a judge be able to perform the duties imposed on him? For instance, some election committees lasted as long as five or six weeks —what would become of the others that might be pending at the time? He could not begin to try one till he had finished with another. After the bill has passed, the administration of the law of elections will be greatly changed for the better My opinion is that if the committees of this House believe that the Court of Common Pleas gives a judgment founded upon pure motives they will have perfect confidence in that judgment, given, as it will be, upon the law clearly stated. I feel assured that, under such circumstances, the committee would not think of reversing the decision of the Court. I am, I confess, very unwilling to give to a court of law any power over our privileges;
 355
 The Solicitor-General  must say, that the noble Lord put a construction on this clause which it would not fairly bear. What was it intended to effect? There had been an outcry—he thought undeservedly—raised against committees since the passing of the late act, principally because they had had difficult questions to decide. What then was to be done? The revising barristers decided questions of franchise in the first instance, but their decisions were found to be sometimes con-
 351 352 353
 Lord Ashley * * 363 364 "One of the greatest changes that has taken place, and which, in my own opinion, will, sooner or later, affect the security of our trade, is the enormous extent of the smuggling trade now carried on in China; I do not imagine they possess the means of putting it down, at least by any marine force which they have." "Would lead to riot and disturbance, which would put a stop to the trade altogether." "I have been present at several of the collisions, which have taken place in our day, between the residents and Chinese; and have remarked, that the sympathies of this people have always been ranged on the side of their rulers, and against the foreigners. I have heard of late some outbursts of the native sense of injustice, at the impunity of the foreigner, under regulations which punish the Chinese opium-dealer with cruel severity. I was an eye-witness of the riot of December 12th, when the populace turned upon us, at an idle
 365 "For nearly forty years, the British merchants, led on by the East India Company, have been driving a trade, in violation of the highest laws and the best interests of the Chinese empire. This course has been pushed so far, as to derange its currency, to corrupt its officers, and ruin multitudes of its people. The traffic has become associated, in the polities of the country, with embarrassments and evil omens; in its penal code, with the axe and the dungeon; in the breasts of men in private life, with the wreck of property, virtue, honour, and happiness. All ranks, from the emperor on the throne, to the people of the humblest hamlets, have felt its sting. To the fact of its descent to the lowest classes of society, we are frequent witnesses; and the Court gazettes are evidence that it has marked out victims for disgrace and ruin even among the Imperial kindred." "As it is, nothing can be more injurious to the British character than the mode in which the opium-trade is at present conducted. It is now real smuggling, accompanied by all its worst features of violence, and must frequently be attended with bloodshed and sacrifice of life." 366 "The trade is proceeding tranquilly for the present; but the vast opium deliveries at Whampoa, under extremely hazardous circumstances, may certainly, at any moment, produce some grave dilemma." "In ray judgment, the interruption of the trade is less likely to ensue from the commands of the court, than from some grave disaster arising out of collision between the Government craft and our own armed boats on the river." "The deliveries of opium have frequently been accompanied by conflict of fire-arms between those vessels and the Government preventive craft." "After the most deliberate reconsideration of this course of traffic (which he heartily hopes has ceased for ever), the chief superintendent will once more declare his own opinion, that in its general effects it was intensely mischievous to every branch of the trade; that it was rapidly staining the British character with deep disgrace; and, finally, that it exposed the vast public and private interests involved in the peaceful maintenance of our regular commercial intercourse with this empire, to imminent jeopardy." "It had been clear to me, my Lord, from the origin of this peculiar branch of the opium traffic, that it must grow to be more and more mischievous to every branch of the trade, and certainly to none more than to that of opium
 367 "In the meantime, however, there has been no relaxation of the vigour of the Government, directed not only against the introduction of the opium, but in a far more remarkable manner against the consumers. A corresponding degree of desperate adventure upon the part of the smugglers is only a necessary consequence; and in this situation of things, serious accidents and sudden and indefinite interruptions to the regular trade, must always be probable events." "A traffic, which by the present manner of its pursuit must every day become more dangerous to the peace of this ancient empire, and more discreditable to the character of the Christian nations under whose flags it is carried on." "But, my Lord, the difficulties in China are not confined to this matter of opium. The true and far more important question to be solved is, whether there shall be honourable and extending trade with this empire: or whether the coasts shall be delivered over to a state of things which will pass rapidly from the worst character of forced trade to plain buccaneering." "If my private feelings were of the least consequence upon questions of a public of a public and
 368 "That there is a spirit of hostility to the English very general among certain orders in Canton, and that the common people are guided and influenced by parties who have means and ability of giving effect to their operations in a more systematic manner than could be expected from an ordinary mob." "So far as the mass of the population was concerned, they were, I have understood, as civil and as well-disposed as I have invariably found them in all parts of the empire which I have had occasion to visit since the peace was concluded. It thence follows, that the change which at that time came over the people, and which has gradually led to their present state of exasperation and excitement, must have been brought about by ourselves—that is, partly by mismanagement, and partly by ill-treatment; and I believe both these causes to have had a share in bringing matters to their present crisis." "Such," (says he, meaning the opium trade), "was the proximate cause of the war declared in 1840; but such was not the end of the opium trade. The hostilities between the two nations had the effect, not of putting down the traffic, but merely of enhancing the value of the article. At length, after the destruction of many thousand lives, peace was concluded by Great Britain a few months ago. And what became of the opium trade, the cause of such dire ef-
 369 "Had not the East India Company's ships always a considerable force in sailors and guns?' 'No, (was his reply), the East India Company's ships arrived generally in September, October, and November, and left again in January or February, and through the rest of the year we were without any force.' (He was afterwards asked), 'What force had the ships engaged in the opium trade? ''The Indiamen (he replied), were all there at the time, they had probably 150 or 160 men among them. I mean the opium ships.' 'And they had guns?'—'Yes.'" 370 "It was the opium question which had given rise to many of the difficulties with which they had now to contend, and he agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Sandon), that it was to that question, that Government ought to direct their attention. And although he did not agree with the noble Lord, that they deserved any censure now for having neglected that question, still he admitted that it became any persons to whom the administration of the affairs of this great empire was entrusted, to turn their immediate and serious attention to it." "Far be it from him to wish to say anything less than was deserved of the unfortunate results of that traffic, or to palliate them. He could not but deprecate it as a vice, for a great vice it was." "At Whampoa (the port of Canton), there are no less than seven opium vessels, selling openly, day and night. It will be disgraceful if the Home Government do not make some regulations for these vessels, though hard to say what they ought to do. The character and behaviour of some of the scoundrels who command them is hardly a grade better than than that of a pirate or slave captain. The provincial government of Canton is now perfectly helpless in regard to them." "If by a generous and noble resolve on the part of the growers, this evil could be counteracted, and the name of the pernicious drag erased from our price current, we should have done very much toward bringing our political relations with this country to an honourable conclusion." 371 "The Chinese are most anxious to trade with us." "It is a perfect axiom, that the Chinese people are most anxious for our trade, from the great wall to the southern extremity of the empire." "The people are intensely desirous to engage in traffic." "English woollens are in great demand, yet we have still to look for that time when the spirit of British enterprise shall be roused, for in regard to China it is almost dormant." "Tartar government were anti-commercial." "Intensely mischievous to every brine of the trade." 372 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 373 l l l l l 374 l l l l 
 
 Years. Opium. Cotton and sundries. 
 £ £ 
 1817–18 737,775 2,32,625 
 1818–19 1,98,250 1,91,568 
 1819–20 1,116,000 1,248,233 
 1820–21 1,621,500 910,429 
 1821–22 1,041,562 1,251,011 
 1822–23 2,332,250 984,812 
 1823–24 1,822,150 946,102 
 1824–25 1,128,750 1,627,389 
 1825–26 2,445,625 1,479,594 
 1826–27 2,317,456 1,609,851 
 1827–28 2,810,874 1,150,537 l l 375 "The  Scotland "By paying four millions for opium, the Chinese show that they have money to spend, and if we can but induce them to take our cottons and woollens instead of our opium, we shall be blessing them and enriching ourselves." 376 "It is quite a vulgar error to believe that the Chinese are otherwise than a very commercial nation, they are without exception the most trafficking people in Asia; they continue the great traders of the east." "Here is, in China, a nation, in population nearly doubling that of all Europe, combined with a sea-coast of fully 3,000 miles, abounding with the finest rivers and harbours in the world. Its ports and cities are filled with an industrious, enterprising, wealthy, and commercial people, and yet not 800,000 yards of broad cloths are consumed amongst them annually, although their numbers amount to 360,000,000, thus not giving an average of one yard among 450 persons." "The Chinese are naturally kind and conciliating, and feel keenly when treated with injustice: they possess a strong predilection for commerce, and a great taste for foreign manufactures. The principal barrier to the rapid increase in the consumption of British goods is, I conceive, the opium trade. … Stop the opium trade, and you will have their warmest friendship—a friendship that will so facilitate and increase the consumption of your manufactures, that a few years only would show them to be your best customers." 377 Philosophical Transactions, "It impairs the digestive organs, consequently the vigour of the whole body, and destroys also gradually the mental energies. The memories of those who take it soon fail, the become prematurely old, and then sink into the grave, objects of scorn and pity. Mustapha Shatoor, an opium-eater in Smyrna, took daily three drachms of crude opium. The visible effects at the time were the sparkling of his eyes, and great exhileration of spirits. He found the desire of increasing his dose growing upon him. He seemed twenty years older than he really was; his complexion was very sallow, his legs small, his gums eaten away, and his teeth laid bare to the sockets. He could not rise without first swallowing half a drachm of opium."
 Dr. Madden , in his  Travels in Turkey, "Their gestures were frightful; those who were completely under the influence of the opium talked incoherently, their features were flushed, their eyes had an unnatural brilliancy and the general expression of their countenances was horribly wild. … The debility, both moral and physical, attendant on its excitement is terrible; the appetite is soon destroyed, every fibre in the body trembles, the nerves of the neck become affected, and the muscles get rigid; several of these I have seen in this place at various times who had wry necks and contracted fingers; but still they cannot abandon the custom;—they are miserable till the hour arrives for taking their daily dose." Travels in the Morea, "He who begins taking opium habitually at twenty, must scarcely expect to live longer
 378 "Opium can only be regarded, except the small quantites required for the purposes of medicine, as a pernicious poison. … To any friend of humanity (he adds) it is a painful subject of contemplation that we should continue to pour this black and envenomed poison into the sources of human happiness—the misery and demoralization are almost beyond belief." "Any man who has witnessed its frightful ravages and demoralizing effects in China, mu3t feel deeply on this subject," "Would be well if the rich opium merchants could see the frightful effects which the use of their drug produced upon the unhapppy beings who used it." "Calculating, therefore, the shortened lives, (he adds) the frequent diseases, and the actual starvation, which are the results of opium smoking in China, we may venture to assert that this pernicious drug annually destroys myriads of individuals." 379 "There is but one point of difference (he says), between the intoxication of ardent spirits and that of opium deserving of particular attention here; and that is, the tenfold force with which every argument against the former applies to the latter. There is no slavery on earth to name with the bondage into which opium casts its victim. There is scarcely one known instance of escape from its toils, when once they have fairly enveloped a man." On the Annals and Antiquities of Rajasthan. "This pernicious plant has robbed the Rajpoot of half his virtues; and while it obscures these, it heightens its vices, giving to his natural bravery a character of insane ferocity, and to the countenance, which would otherwise beam with intelligence, an air of imbecility. Like all stimulants, its effects are magical for a time, but the reaction is not less certain; and the faded form or amorphous bulk, too often attest the debilitating influence of a drug which alike debases body and mind." "An execrable and demoralizing plant." "By promoting the growth of the poppy throughout Central India, as we have done;
 380 Report OH the Tea Plantations in Assam, "I might here observe, (says Mr. Bruce), that the British Government would confer a lasting blessing on the Assamese and the new settlers, if immediate and active measures were taken to put down the cultivation of opium in Assam, and afterwards to stop its importation. If something of this kind is not done, and done quickly too, the thousands that are about to emigrate from the plains into Assam will soon be infected with the opium mania—that dreadful plague which has depopulated this beautiful country, turned it into a land of wild beasts, with which it is overrun, and has degenerated the Assamese from a fine race of people, to the most abject, servile, crafty, and demoralized race in India. This vile drug has kept, and does now keep down the population: the women have fewer children compared with those of other countries, and the children seldom live to become old men, but in general die at manhood; very few old men being seen in this unfortunate country in comparison with others. But those who have resided long in this unhappy land know the dreadful and immoral effects which the use of opium produces on the native. He will steal, sell his property, his children, the mother of his children, and finally, even commit murder for it. Would it not he the highest of blessings if our humane and enlightened Government would stop these evils by a single dash of the pen, and save Assam, and all those who are about to emigrate into it as tea cultivators, from the dreadful results attendant on the habitual use of opium? We should in the end be richly rewarded by having a fine
 381 "The cultivation of Opium is free in Assam; the fearful results from its use, which every day present themselves to notice, are very painful to witness." "The men are healthy, robust, and enterprising." "You tell us very fine things, certainly; but the things you say, and the things your countrymen do, are so little in keeping, that we cannot listen to you." 382 "The health and morals of the people suffer from the production of opium. Wherever opium is grown it is eaten, and the more it is grown the more it is eaten; this is one of the worst features of the opium question. We are demoralizing our own subjects in one-half of the crime in the opium dirt murders, rapes, and affrays, have their origin in opium-eating. Both Hindoos and Musealmen eat the drug; and its pernicious effects are visible on the population of the opium districts, particularly in the neighbourhood the depôts." "One opium cultivate wards adds) demoralises a whole village." Chinese Repository, "The growing of opium (says the writer) is compulsory on the part of the ryot Advances are made by Government, through its native servants, and if a ryot refuses the advance, the simple plan of throwing the rupees into his house is adopted; should he attempt to abscond, the peons seize him, tie the advance up in his clothes, and push him into his house. The business being now settled, and there being no remedy, he applies himself as he may to the fulfilment of his contract." 383 "Vast tracts of land, (it is stated) formerly occupied with other articles, are now covered with poppies, which require a very superior soil, in order to produce opium in perfection. Hence, its cultivation has not extended over waste and barren lands, but into those districts and villages best fitted for agricultural purposes, where other plants, grown from time immemorial, have been driven out before it."
 Mr. Trevelyan , one of the collectors of the East-India Company's revenue, said, in 1840:—
 "The Benares province is our Jamaica; it is the great sugar district of India. … The valley of the Ganges is a tract of alluvial country of extraordinary fertility, about 1,000 miles long, and from 150 to 300 miles abroad, and if perfect freedom of trade prevailed, and the necessary degree of capital and skill were applied to the production of sugar, it might grow sugar sufficient for the consumption of the whole world. It might get its grain from the neighbouring countries, which are suited only for the production of grain, and might itself be given up to the growth of sugar, indigo, tobacco, and other valuable productions." "Never cultivated on waste land, but on land before appropriated to tobacco and potatoes; both these, with opium, are crops which require the richest soil; in every particular case the poppy, where I increased the cultivation, was substituted for other articles which had been grown from time immemorial." 384 "The opium trade is not annihilated. It has only, as it were, changed hands. It has passed to a class of men prepared to carry on the traffic at all hazards, to overcome all obstacles that may oppose their progress, by the weapons of war, and who for this purpose, at this time, both here, at Manilla, and Singapore, are fitting out vessels in such a manner as will defy all the naval power of China." "Vessels armed to the teeth are employed along the coast, and actually forcing it into the country." "The smuggling trade, as now carried on on the coast, too closely approximates to murder, ever to enable them to defend the morality of it, whatever they may say of the drug; to fire upon parties who endeavour to stay them in an illegal act, or to sell the opium to men who choose to risk their heads for money, is neither a gentlemanly nor honourable trade." "The opium trade is carrying on with the greatest vigour, and enormous prices are being realized. We have seen a letter from an officer of the Lady Grant, a clipper that left this in September with about 700 chests of opium. She was leaving Singapore with twelve guns, and a crew of fifty-five men, for the coast of China. A letter from——,of the Vansittart, states—(it is dated Hong Kong, October 17), that a vessel has just arrived from Calcutta, carrying eighteen guns and forty Europeans, besides her Lascar crew. Our last letter would inform you that the Bengal government put up 6,000 chests on the 4th of January. The Sir Edward Ryan has just arrived with a full cargo, and fully armed and manned by a set of desperate fellows, who burn and destroy everything that comes in the way of their disposing of their opium." "If from what was before known in Eng-
 385 "To show you that more of such occurrences may be expected, we conversed the other day with a gentleman just arrived from China, who informed us, that before he left Macao, he had been in company with four captains of opium vessels, who declared to him that they had fully made up their minds to attack and sink all that opposed them in any way whatever." "The clippers lying in the Hoogley, with crews double in number to what was required for the navigation of the vessels, carrying guns, and fully armed, (cannon, cutlasses, and muskets), with captains determined to fight their opium in at all hazards." "The Lintin smuggling fleet keep in use a set of signals. In 1838, a dispute between the Chinese and the opium ship, Hercules; a small village subsequently set on fire by the English opium smugglers. In 1833–4, collisions and loss of life. 1835, Opium ships continue to increase, frequently fire into the Chinese junks: send armed boats to cover the landing of the opium. 1837–8. The smuggling in the Canton river, in schooners and small craft, commenced about August; much murder and much bloodshed must have taken place. In the night the sound of firearms on the river might be heard in the foreign factories. The
 386 "When I was in Bombay, in the latter part of 1839," says the writer, "I learnt from good authority that the opium clippers were supplied with arms." From where, does the House think? From the merchants' stores? No. From private depositories? No. But actually from "the very arsenals of the Government itself." Sir, is this to be tolerated? The letter goes on to say, "Our opinm clippers assumed the style of our ships of war when in Whampoa reach, firing morning and evening guns, and in no way differing; so that the Chinese could only recognise them as ships of war." "Full information," it says, "of the new plan on which it is proposed to conduct the concern in Malwa will be communicated through the board of customs, salt and opium, to all persons concerned in the opium trade to China, at this presidency; and we informed
 387 "Advances were made by him to the Gomastah, by the Gomastah to the Suddor Mattoo, by the Suddor Mattoo to the Village Mattoo, and by the Village Mattoo to the Ryo;" and he adds, "the Gomastah obtains a further income by a species of extortion." "The great object of the Bengal opium agencies is to furnish an article suitable to the peculiar tastes of the population of China, who value any sample of opium in direct proportion to the quantity of hot drawn watery extract obtainable from it, and to the purity and strength or the flavour of that extract when dried and smoked through a pipe. The aim, therefore, of the agencies should be to prepare their opium so that it may retain as much as possible its native sensible qualities, and its solubility in hot water. Upon these points depends the virtually higher price that Benares opium brings in the China market, and the lower prices of Behrá, Malwa, and Turkey opium." 388 "We do hereby grant a license, for, and in the name of the said united company, to the said ship to proceed upon and throughout the said voyage, to the said port of Canton, in China, and back again, &c. … Provided and upon condition that this license shall cease and be void, if and so soon as any foreign opium, or other opium than such opium as shall have been sold at the public sales of the said united company in Bengal, shall be laden with the knowledge or concurrence of the master or commander thereof, on board the said ship." "The monopoly of opium supplies the Government with … of revenue." It does not appear advisable to abandon so important a source of revenue, which appears, on the whole, less liable to objection than any other which could be substituted." "The Europeans engaged in the trade were not aware of the moral objection to the trade?" "When," says he, "the East India Com-
 389 "Which tended to bring Christianity into contempt was high treason against the civilization of the human race." "It has been told, and it shall be rung in the earn of the British public again and again, that opium is demoralizing China, and becomes the greatest barrier to the introduction of Christianity which can be conceived of. But the difficulty of convincing others of the truth of Christianity, and of the sincere intentions of Christians, is greater in proportion to the extent of the opium trade to China. Almost the first word uttered by a native, when urged to believe in Christ is"— "Why do the Christians bring us opium, and bring it directly in defiance of our own laws? That vile drug has poisoned my son;
 390 "Never, perhaps, was there a nearer approach to a hell upon earth than within the precincts of these vile hovels, where gaming is likewise carried on to a great extent. Here every gradation of excitement and depression may be witnessed." He adds, "Truly it is an engine in Satan's hands, and a powerful one; but let it never be forgotten, that a nation professing Christianity supplies the means; and further, that that nation is England, through her possessions in Hindostan." "The great blot on foreigners at Canton, though not all, is the opium trade. That men of correct moral sensibilities and enlightened minds should be so blinded by custom, or desire of gain, as to engage in this business is amazing … We have little reason," He continues "To wonder at the reluctance of China to extend her intercourse with foreigners; nearly the whole of such intercourse brings upon her pestilence, poverty, crime, and disturbance. No person can describe the horrors of the opium trade … That the government of the British India should be the prime abettors of this abominable traffic, is one of the grand wonders of the nineteenth century. The proud escutcheon of the nation which declaims against the Slave-trade, is thus made to bear a blot broader and darker than any other in the Christian world." 391 l "The Emperor Kanghe sent men to weep before the corpse of a missionary, Father Magaillans; he supplied also a costly shroud, and directed the chief men of his court to attend the funeral, to show the high esteem he had for the preachers of the gospel." 392 "Decree by Imperial Commission, dated Canton Taon-Kwang, 16th year, 29th day, 4th moon, against Christianity, from the Treasurer Goo and Superior Judge Van. To spread the Christian religion is to deceive the people; that religion is, in fact, the ruin of morals and of the human heart. Why do you believe fables which only destroy the human heart? Why do you seek vile gain, and thus procure your destruction" "I have never been without some faint hope," he says, "that a system, to my mind most pernicious and discreditable to us, would sooner or later be abandoned. … The utmost efforts have been used to extend the cultivation of the poppy in our old provinces. Premiums and rewards have been held out; new offices and establishments have been created. … The supreme government of India, too, have condescended to supply the retail shops with opium for domestic consumption, and have thus added a new feature to our fiscal policy." "I believe," he adds, "that no one act of our Government has appeared in the eyes of respectable natives, both Mahomedan and Hindoo, more questionable than the establishment of the abkarry or tax on the sale of spirituous liquors and drugs. Nothing, I suspect, has tended so much to lower us in their regard. They see us derive a revenue from what they esteem an impure source." … "Was it becoming," he continues, "in a great government to exhibit itself as the purveyor of opium to publicans, or to establish shops on the part of the government (I use the word of the regulation) for the retail sale of the drug?' Is it desirable that we should bring it to the very door of the lower orders, who might never otherwise have found the article within their reach, and who are now tempted to adopt a habit alike injurious to health and good morals?" "The cultivation of the poppy has now been spread throughout a large portion of Rajpootana, as well as in our own and the Mahratta districts of central India and the
 393 "How long ago," he was asked, "had you said that you were sure that the thing could not go on?"—"For four or five years past; the last time I was in England 1 remember more than once saying that the thing could not go on." "What gave you that impression?"—"An immense quantity of opium being forced upon the Chinese every year, and that, in its turn, forcing it up the coast in our vessels." "When you use the words 'forcing it upon them' do you mean that they were not voluntary purchasers?"—"No; but the East India Company were increasing the quantity of opium almost every year, without reference to the demand in China; that is to say, there was always an immense supply of opium in China, and the company still kept increasing the quantity at lower prices." "Do you use the word 'forcing' in the same way that you would use it in reference to a large supply of cotton goods, or anything else?"—"Yes." "When you say 'The East India Company,' you mean that it was opium grown in India?"—"Yes; I say the East India Com-
 394 "Our monopoly," says that officers, "acted as an encouragement to this vice, for no sooner was it promulgated that the Compani Sahib was contractor-general for opium, than prince and peasants, nay, the very scavengers, dabbled in the speculation. All Malwa was thrown into a ferment; like the Dutch tulip bubble, the most fraudulent purchases and transfers were effected by men who had not a seed of opium in their possession." "The Government encourged the growth of the drug by allowing the collectors a per cent-age on the produce; and not merely a per centage on what was produced, but on the quantity produced under each collector above what was produced under the former collector. The local government allowed the collectors of the districts a per centage at the sales in Calcutta, upon the surplus produce over and above what was produced by their predecessors?" "Hence." said the opium agent, "the great stimulus given to cultivation in Behar and Benares." "The hope (with reference to internal consumption) that it will tend to restrain the use of this pernicious drug." … "Were it possible to prevent the use of the drug altogether, except strictly for the purpose of medicine, we would gladly do it in compassion to mankind." 395 "If the now paramount power, instead of making a monopoly of it, and consequently extending its cultivation, Would endeavour to restrict it by judicious legislative enactments, or at least reduce its culture to what it was forty years ago, generations yet unborn would have just reason to praise us for this work of mercy. It is no less our interest than our duty to do so, and to call forth genuine industry for the improvement of cotton, indigo, sugar-cane, and other products, which would enrich instead of demoralising, and therefore impoverishing the country." "In prosecuting our policy," he says, "we
 396 "The growth of the poppy on their lands is entirely prohibited. This prohibition it will be as much the interest as the duty of the company strictly to observe; and it is to be hoped, that the Government itself will take active measures to put down the cultivation of opium throughout the province, for to the very general use of this drug may be mainly attributed the scantiness of the population, the wretched condition of the Assamese, and the difficulty of obtaining labour from a race enfeebled by its effects." "Whenever," said that gentleman, "his Majesty's Government direct us to prevent British vessels engaging in the traffic, we can enforce any order to that effect; but a more certain method would be to prohibit the growth of the poppy and manufacture of opium in British India."( cheers. 397 "In Kienlung's reign, as well as previously, opium was inserted in the tariff of Canton, as a medicine, subject to a duty. After this it was prohibited. As soon as his successor, Keaking, mounted the throne, opium-smoking was declared to be an offence punishable by the pillory and the bamboo. In the fourth year of his reign (1799) the sale was interdicted; and the punishment annexed to a contravention of the law increased gradually to transportation and death by strangling. In the following year its importation was utterly forbidden, and heavy penalties denounced against offenders." 398 l l ad valorem l l "Have you ever heard of any attempts made by the Chinese government to put down the growth of opium in China?"—Frequently, in former days there used to be translations of the  Pekin Gazette Pekin Gazette, 399 Recollections of Siberia, "The trade with China is here very considerable; about 40 poods, or 1,440 pounds weight of opium, are generally imported into China yearly from this, but in 1839 it was all seized and confiscated." "Merchants are forbidden to bring opium, which is positively a contraband article in the territories of Siam, and should a merchant introduce any, the governor shall seize him, and destroy the whole of it." 400 "But for the unfortunate superabundance of narcotine, and comparative paucity of obtainable morphia in Indian opium, the manufacture of the muriate on a large scale might advantageously be established at one of the Bengal agencies for the supply of our India medical department with this admirable preparation." "According to the information that you have obtained, can opium be cultivated more cheaply and with greater advantage in Bengal, than in any other part of the East, taking into consideration both quantity and quality?—The Bengal Government have never attempted," he replies, "to produce opium with reference to its medical qualities, but entirely with a view of meeting the taste of the Chinese." "However valuable opium may be when employed as an article of medicine, it is impossible for any one who is acquainted with the subject to doubt that the habitual use of it is productive of the most pernicious consequences—destroying the healthy action of the digestive organs, weakening the powers of the mind, as well as those of the body, and rendering the individual who indulges himself in it a worse than useless member of society." "I cannot but regard those who promote the use of opium as an article of luxury, as inflicting a most serious injury on the human race." "The following gentlemen state, that they entirely agree with Sir B. Brodie in the opinion expressed by him in the foregoing letter, and
 401 "The import of opium for home use in the Phillippine Islands is strictly prohibited, and there is no inland trade in the article." "Opium imported in Spanish vessels is permitted to be bonded for re-exportation, except to China, to which country Spanish vessels are not allowed to carry it." 402 This regulation is frequently evaded, by the vessels clearing out for a false destination, does not this manifest, on the part of the Spa-Spanish authorities, respect for the laws of China?" l "Not a poppy for the product of opium is permitted to be grown in Java or any other of the (Dutch colonies. The Government monopolizes the import, which is from 300 to 400 chests annually, the Dutch East-India Trading Company acting as their agents in purchase and import. Formerly its import for re-export was allowed, but now, since last year, as it led to smuggling, it has been prohibited," "The opium." (he adds) "is sold to persons being the highest bidders, who farm the sale in different districts, of which there are about twelve. The Government condemns the use of opium, and would profess that they limit the supply for this reason—the native chiefs also are inimical to it. There is no chance whatever of the growth being permitted, even if abandoned by the British, because, among other reasons, the land is occupied with more valuable productions, as coffee, tea, sugar, and indigo." "Formerly a considerable portion of the Malwa opium was shipped from Demaun, which is 100 miles north of Bombay. It was taken through Mewar, north of Deesa and Cutch, to Kuratchee, whence it was shipped to Demaun. In 1838, Kuratchee was taken possession of by the British, and as we have possession of all the ports of Scinde, opium
 403 "The European Government, overlooking every consideration of feeling and humanity, allows an addition to their finances to outweigh all regard to the ultimate happiness of the country." "I must contend that, if a revenue cannot be drawn from such an article as opium, otherwise than by quadrupling the supply, by promoting the use of the drug, and by placing it within the reach of the lower classes of the people, no fiscal consideration can justify our inflicting upon the Malays and Chinese so grievous an evil." 404 "I have been a long time in this country, and I have a few words to say in its favour; here we find our persons more effectually protected by laws than in many other parts of the east of the world. In China, a foreigner can go to sleep with his windows open, without being in dread either of his life or property, which are well guarded by a most watchful and excellent police; but both are perilled with little or no protection in many other states: business is conducted with unexampled facility, and in general with singular good faith, though there are of course occasional exceptions, which only the more strikingly bear out my assertion. Neither would I omit the general courtesy of the Chinese in all their intercourse and transactions with foreigners. These, and some other considerations, are the reasons that so many of us so oft revisit this country, and stay in it so long." "Strictly speaking, the whole trade with India," (says the Count) "rests at present on a highly immoral basis; on 15,000 or 20,000 chests of opium, of the value of 2,000,000 l l 405 "That it is the opinion of this House, that the continuance of the trade in opium, and the monopoly of its growth in the territories of British India, is destructive of all relations of amity between England and China, injurious to the manufacturing interests of the country by the very serious diminution of legitimate commerce, and utterly inconsistent with the honour and duties of a Christian kingdom; and that steps be taken, as soon as possible, with owe regard to the rights of Government and individuals, to abolish the evil."
 Mr. Brotherton  said, he reluctantly intruded himself upon the notice of the House, but he could not refuse to second the resolution of the noble Lord. It was
 406 "What is morally wrong, can never be politically right." l 407
 Mr. W. Bingham Baring  should feel, he said, great difficulty in addressing the House upon this occasion, if he thought the arguments and the statements of the noble Lord were only to be met by casuistry. He was far from wishing to deny that great and palpable evils had arisen from this traffic; but, allowing that there was good foundation for much that the noble Lord had advanced, he was still prepared to contend that there had been great exaggerations of those evils, and he was further ready to declare, that if he could believe them to admit of the easy remedy proposed, and if he could suppose, that the East India Company offered the only impediment to the application of that remedy—in that case he would not remain one minute in his office, subordinate as it was, without declaring himself willing to lend the noble Lord every possible assistance. But to proceed to the arguments the noble Lord had used. In the first place, he had stated, that the cultivation of opium in India might be easily put
 408 409 410 411
 Sir George Staunton  said, * * 412 413 ultima ratio 414 l 415 416 417 418 coup d'état "The opium question is left in statu quo, and may yet cause trouble. In England we might set such a subject at rest by legalizing
 419 "We have been united, by a friendly commercial intercourse, for two hundred years. How, then, at this time, are our old relations so suddenly changed, so as to be the cause of a national quarrel? It arose, most assuredly, from the spreading opium poison. Opium is neither pulse nor grain, and yet multitudes of our Chinese subjects consume it, wasting their property and destroying their lives; and the
 420 Beawes' Lex Mercatoria, Hong Kong Gazette, 421 Hong Kong Gazette) 422 "Do you conceive that it would be possible, in any other way than by monopoly, to raise, as was raised in 1829 and 1330, 1,931,000 l l Parliamentary Papers on Opium, 423 "Facilis descensus averni; Sed revocare gradum, superasque evadere adauras Hoc opus, hic labor est." 424
 Lord Jocelyn  said he regretted that he felt it impossible to support the motion at present before the House; and the more so, because he was well aware that it originated from an anxious desire to disconnect this country from a trade generally considered disgraceful, and to put a stop to a traffic, the effects of which had proved most baneful and demoralizing to the people of China. Having paid the utmost attention to the speech of his noble Friend, and the arguments which he had adduced in favour of this motion, he must acknowledge that they had called to his recollection scenes which he had witnessed of the lawless character of the trade, and in all that his noble Friend had stated as to the moral, political, and physical evils he concurred. If he could bring himself to believe that an enactment framed upon this motion would check the evil,—if he could imagine that by legislation we could abolish a trade derogatory to the character of this country, because tending to the degradation of the human species, he would not hesitate to give it his support; but when, on the contrary, he believed it would have an entirely opposite tendency, he thought he should be acting worse than foolishly, because against the dictates of his own conscience, to support a motion which must necessarily engender measures pregnant with evils, unless he was satisfied that some counteracting good would ensue. The line which he took in opposing the motion was from no wish to encourage those engaged in the opium trade, nor to support the improper and illegal manner in which that trade was carried on; neither had he any desire to palliate the moral and physical evils which necessarily followed too great an indulgence in the use of the drug. All these evils he admitted and acknowledged. He had had personal evidence of the truth. He could state to the House the lawless manner in which armed vessels prowled around the coast of China, laden with their baneful cargoes, ready to defend themselves against the government whose laws they were there to infringe. He could bring forward instances of individuals who were pointed out to him as once intelligent and healthy, with their mental and physical faculties destroyed by the too great indulgence of a depraved appetite; but he would not trouble the House with these details. We had too many instances of the same kind
 425 426 "The monopoly being in some measure discouraging the internal consumption of a drug so pernicious as opium is surely a rational object of policy." "The monopoly of opium is in some re-
 427 "I have reason to believe that the cultivators are as well paid as any trade could afford; that is, if a tax was levied likely to produce a revenue equal to that now realized by the drug." "The ryots would not approve of the change as far as oppression went. They would make more money by speculations under a change of system, but they would not be treated so well. It is impossible to legislate without taking into consideration the revenue of the country." 428 "A tax upon opium, in the shape of an Excise-duty, to be as productive as the revenue the Government at present derive, must necessarily be a very heavy one, and would afford, of course, great temptation to smuggling, and carrying opium clandestinely out of the country, which I conceive it would be im-
 429 "The great difficulty that occurs to me as standing in the way of levying a duty upon opium commensurate with the revenue at present derived, consists in the great inducements that so high a duty as must necessarily he imposed would afford to smuggling, added to the great facilities which the nature of the article, the localities of the country, and the dishonesty of our Excise officers, present to its successful accomplishment." "I apprehend, as I have already said, that the speculators, whoever they may be, would collude with the officers appointed by Government, and we could not by any pay which we could afford to give those officers, make them honest under the temptation that the speculators would hold out to them." 430 "The populace, (said M'Culloch), as in all similar cases, espoused the cause of the smugglers and unlicensed dealers; informers were hunted down like wild beasts, the officers of revenue were openly assaulted, and drunkenness, disorder, and crimes increased with fearful rapidity." "In two years, (said Tindal), the act had become odious and contemptible, and it was found requisite to mitigate its penalties."
 Captain Layard  said, that after the
 431 "Atque omni damno major dementia, quænec" " Nomina servorum, nec vultum agnoscit amici." l 432 433 434 "For green is the Emerald Isle of the ocean," "Whose daughters are fair as the foam of the wave," "And whose sons, unaccustomed to rebel commotion, "Though joyous are sober, though peaceful are brave." 435 "Begin, be bold, and venture to be wise; "He who defers this work from day to day, "Doth on a river's bank expectant stay, "That the whole stream, which stopped him shall be gone, "Which runs, and as it runs, for ever will run on."
 Mr. Hogg  greatly regretted that he felt it his duty to give his decided opposition to the motion of his noble Friend. He was well aware of the weight and influence that his noble Friend's advocacy of any measure connected with the great interests of morality and humanity, would have, and ought to have, both in that House, and throughout the country. He hoped he might not be misunderstood, he regretted as deeply as his noble Friend, the injurious and demoralising effects of the excessive use of opium, or any other stimulant. But that was not the question. The House must not be led away by having it supposed, that they were merely called upon to make an abstract declaration of their abhorence of intoxication, and its ruinous consequences. His noble Friend had proposed a remedy, and had stated his means—upon that ground he was prepared to meet him—he was prepared to shew, that the measures proposed were impracticable, and if practicable, that they would not only fail in accomplishing the object in view, but would aggravate the evils complained of. Perhaps, he might, without presumption, suppose that the House was not generally acquainted with the history of the opium cultivation in India; and with their permission he would give a brief sketch of it. The poppy had been cultivated in India for several centuries, more particularly in the provinces of Bengal, Behar, and Benares, and in Central India in the Malwa and Rajpootana States; and under the Mogul dynasty, a considerable revenue was derived from opium, which was farmed out to influential and opulent individuals. The subject, including the very questions now raised, attracted the attention of the Bengal government, in the year 1786, and was fully discussed, particularly by Lord Cornwallis, who gave it that enlightened consideration which he bestowed upon every matter that embraced the in-
 436 437 438 "In the present state of the revenue of India, it does not appear advisable to abandon so important a source of revenue, a duty on opium being a tax which fails principally upon the foreign consumer, and which appears upon the whole, less liable to objection than any other which could be substituted." 439 440 "The Governor-General in Council having taken deliberately into consideration the several despatches received in reply to the circular instructions dated 21st of March 1828, and subsequent correspondence proceeds to record the following observations and resolutions on the subject of our Malwa opium arrangements. The general tenor of the evidence now before the Government leads irresistibly to the inference that evils of a very serious nature are inflicted by our monopoly system in Central India, on all who fall within the sphere of its operation. It had been found altogether impracticable to enforce that part of the original scheme which contemplated a positive reduction of the poppy cultivation, and we have already therefore determined to abstain from any direct interference with the production of the article, and have instructed the local authorities accordingly. Nearly all our agents concur in representing that our measures for controlling the transit and exportation of Malwa opium are oppressive and vexatious to the people, unpalatable and offensive to their rulers, whilst we have abundant proof of their imperfect efficacy, in the continually increasing prevalence of smuggling, and in the yearly augmentation of the export of the drug from Dice and Demaun to the China market. The intervention of Scindia's scattered and extensive possessions, which it has been found impossible to include in the general arrangement, would alone defeat our hopes of preventing the escape of contraband opium in considerable quantities from Central India And further the temptations to smuggling are so powerful, the pursuit of the illicit traffic is so congenial to the tastes and habits of the wild tribes and dissolute adventurers who abound in Malwa, and the public sentiment is necessarily so hostile to our monopoly, that it may reasonably be doubted whether the native states, however well disposed to cooperate, and anxious to fulfil their engagements are strong enough to carry the system into complete effect, either with or without the constant and minute interference of our local agents. In the meantime there is reason to fear that the repeated and desperate efforts made to pass the opium beyond the limits of our restrictions by large armed bands of smugglers, and their open systematic defiance of the local authorities, whilst engaged in the enterprise, are operating to demoralize and disorganize the country, and to revive the ferocious and turbulent habits of the Meewahs and other uncivilized tribes, in a degree which demands the most serious consideration." 441 l 442 "From the earliest periods in every nation, and among every people, we find some de-
 443 "High courage, patriotism, loyalty, honour, hospitality and simplicity, are qualities which must at once be conceded to them; and if we cannot vindicate them from the charges to which human nature in every clime is obnoxious;' if we are compelled to admit the deterioration of moral dignity, from the continual inroads of, and their consequent collision with, rapacious conquerors, we must yet admire the quantum of virtue which even oppression and bad example have failed to banish. Reduced in power, circumscribed in territory, compelled to yield much of their splendour and many of their dignities of birth, they have not abandoned an iota of the pride and high bearing arising from a knowledge of their illustrious and regal descent. The poorest Rajpoot of this day retains all the pride of ancestry, often
 444
 Mr. Mountstuart Elphinstone , the first living authority as to anything relating to India, while he laments the excessive use of opium throughout Rajpootana, thus speaks of the people.
 "The sort of feudal system that prevailed among the Rajpoots, gave additional stability to this attachment, and altogether produced the pride of birth, the high spirit and the romantic notions, so striking in the military class of that period. Their enthusiasm was kept up by the songs of their bards, and inflamed by frequent contests for glory or for love. They treated women with a respect unusual in the East; and were guided, even towards their enemies, by rules of honour, which it was disgraceful to violate. But, although they had so many of the characteristics of chivalry, they had not the high strained sentiments and artificial refinements of our knights, and were more in the spirit of Homer's heroes, than those of Spencer's or Ariosto's. If to these qualities we add a very strong disposition to indolence (which may have existed formerly, though not likely to figure in history,) and make allowance for the effects of a long period of depression, we have the character of the Rajpoots of the present day." 445 Here some hon. Members laughed. 446 447 448 Canton Gazettee, 449 450
 Sir T. E. Colebrooke  hoped that, from his having been some time resident in India, the House would indulge him with a patient hearing. First, with respect to the statements of the noble Lord, he must say his own impression, derived from his acquaintance with India, was, that those statements were rather overcharged. Having been a good deal about in India he was never in a district in which the vice of indulgence in this drug had been carried to any extent, or to an extent anything resembling that which the noble Lord described as prevailing in Assam. It so happened that when in India he had
 451 452 453
 Mr. Lindsay  did not rise to defend the opium trade, but rather to confirm the statements made by the hon. Member for Beverley. If the House believed that the trade was attended by evils equal to those described by the noble Lord who opened the debate, it would be the duty of this country to put it down at all risks; but he believed that the alleged evils were greatly exaggerated. He would read a letter, which was well worthy of the attention of the House, having been written by a gentleman who had the fullest opportunity of ascertaining what were the moral add physical effects of the use of opium on the people of China. That gentleman had been for seventeen years a surgeon in the service of the East India Company in China; he was now president of the Medical Mission Society in China, and during Six of the years that he had been in the Company's service, upwards of 4,000 patients had been relieved by his skill. The letter of Dr. Colledge ran as follows:—
 "Cheltenham, March 28, 1843. "Dear Sir,—From your long residence in China, I presume you are already aware that opium is not used by the Chinese in any other way than in their own peculiar manner of smoking it. It is never taken in the solid or fluid state, either as an article of luxury or medicine; and it is most important to bear this in mind, in any discussion you may be engaged in regarding its baneful effect on the human frame. So much has been said and written on the effect of opium on the animal economy,
 454 455 "Believe me, dear Sir, "Yours very faithfully, "J. R. COLLEDGE." "To H. H. Lindsay, Esq., M.P." 456 457
 Viscount Sandon  resumed the debate after some further conversation a bout adjourning it, and said, that he was quite ready to go on if the House desired it, although at that hour and amid the confusion which prevailed it was impossible to do justice to the subject of the debate. He had heard a great deal on minor points, but had received no assistance on the great question, whether it was possible that our relations with China could coexist with the opium trade. Among other things they had heard was a long speech about the glory of the people who ate opium; but had they not evidence of every kind, evidence not only from missionaries, but from persons engaged in the cultivation of the soil, to the effect that the growers and consumers of opium were a people generally in the lowest stats of degradation Then another hon. Member had told them that opium was the only stimulant permitted to be used by Mussulmans. He believed, however, that opium-eaters were looked on by their fellow Mussulmans with much scorn and contempt, and that they were no more permitted by their religion to consume it that they were permitted to consume any other intoxicating liquor. But all these, as he said before, were minor questions com-
 459
 Sir R. Inglis  said he wished first that the whole House could have heard the speech of his noble Friend; and next (in which he hoped to give no offence) that no Member would, he would almost say presume, to vote, without having heard it; for that speech must convince any man that had a heart or a head that this question was not one to be treated with levity, or to be dismissed because it was half-past twelve or half-past one; but ought to be considered with the calmest deliberation by the assembled representatives of the people of England. He also felt, that our commer-
 460 l l New York Observer, "I visited one of the opium-houses, and shall I tell all I saw in this ante-chamber of hell? I thought it impossible to find anything worse than the results of drinking ardent spirits, but I have succeeded in finding something far worse" l 461
 Sir Robert Peel  was surprised at the conclusion to which his hon. Friend and his noble Friend the Member for Liverpool had come with reference to this resolution. Here was a matter of the greatest delicacy and importance, involving a revenue of 1,200,000 l 462 "That it was the opinion of the House of Commons, that the continuance of the trade in opium, and the monopoly of its growth in the territories of British India is destructive of all relations of amity between England and China." 463 464 "Whatever may be the result of your endeavours to prevail upon the Chinese government to legalise the sale of opium, it will be right that her Majesty's servants in China should hold themselves aloof from all connexion with so discreditable a traffic. The British I merchant, who may be a smuggler, must receive no protection or support in the prosecution of his illegal sale; and he must be made aware, that he will have to take the consequences of his own conduct. Her Majesty's Government have not the power to put a stop to this trade on the part of the British smuggler; but they may impede it in some degree by preventing Hong Kong and its waters from being used as a point by the British smuggler, as a starting point for his illegal acts. That is to say, when Hong Kong is ceded—until that the smuggling of opium cannot be prohibited there; but as soon as it is ceded, you will have power to prevent the importation of opium into Hong Kong, for the purpose of exportation into China." 465 466 467 l Member l l l l l 468 "That the continuance of the trade in opium and the monopoly of its growth in the territories of British India is destructive of all relations of amity between England and China; … and that steps be taken as soon as possible, with due regard to the rights of governments and individuals, to abolish the evil."
 Mr. Acland  said, that after the speech of the right hon. Baronet, he certainly could not support the motion of his noble Friend; but at the same time he hoped it would not be supposed that he was indifferent to the moral considerations involved in the resolution. He desired to express no opinion on the theoretical question of monopolies, and he did wish that the House might be saved from the necessity of expressing any opinion whatever on the subject.
 Lord Ashley , in reply, said, that after the indulgence which the House had kindly given to the remarks with which he had introduced the subject to the House, he would much rather submit to the effects of misconception and misrepresentation, than trespass upon the attention of the House for more than a few moments at that late hour. There was, however, one remark which he wished to make, namely, that the minute made by Lord Cornwallis in the year 1786, relative to the circumstances of those times was
 469
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was extremely difficult for him to speak positively on the subject of negotiations. Most certainly, negotiations were pending, and the noble Lord bad heard the spirit in which reference had been made to them. Every one must see it was perfectly possible that if those negotiations were not concluded before the news of that motion arrived at the seat of those negotiations, the adoption of such a motion by the House must have a material effect upon their progress.
 Mr. Labouchers  begged to call the attention of the House to the words of this notice of motion. He did not think that it was a decent thing to apply the expression of "inveterate prejudices," to the religious opinions of any class. He had thought the terms of the motion had not been generally heard by the House, and he felt himself bound to refer to them.
 Mr. M. Sutton  had no objection to offer to the suggestion of the hon. Member. He, however, could not give his assent to the bill as it now stood, though he was ready to admit that the state of the law was not very satisfactory, and he gave his consent to this proposition upon the understanding that the House should not be pledged to adopt the provisions of the bill as they now stood.
 Mr. S. Herbert  begged that the second reading might be now take  pro forma
 Mr. Gill  begged that this bill, which had been of the Table a very short time, should be postponed. He had some objections to the compulsory clauses of the bill.
 Sir. V. Blake  thought, upon consideration, that the language used was certainly rather strong, he would, therefore, adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, and withdraw the notice for the present.
 Sir. V. Blake  gave notice that the should move an amendment to the motion of the hon. Member for Bridport for an inquiry into the system of education at Maynooth, to the effect that an inquiry be instituted into the question, whether the indiscriminate perusal of the Bible, as a school book, unaccompanied by any note or comment, was most calculated to conduce to the interests of true religion; or whether it had not produced those inveterate prejudices which had produced so many forms of dissent from the established religion of the country.
 Mr. H. Johnstone  would ask his right hon. Friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, the question of which he had given notice. Her Majesty's Government had declared their opinion that the Church Courts in Scotland had the power, in considering the qualifications of presentees, to judge of their suitableness for the particular parishes to which they were presented; and unquestionably this had very generally, throughout Scotland, been understood to be the law. Within the last few days, however, an opinion of a different nature had been expressed by the highest legal authorities in England, who held that the Church Courts had no power to inquire into anything that does not relate to the literature, morals, and doctrine of a presentee. This was calculated to occasion the utmost doubt and anxiety in the minds of many conscientious members of the Church of Scotland, and greatly to aggravate all the difficulties and dangers which beset that Church at the present moment. He would, therefore, ask whether her Majesty's Government had it in contemplation to introduce any bill to do away with these doubts, and to secure to the Church of Scotland these powers, so essential to her peace and constitution?
 Mr. Gally Knight  said, after the speech which had been delivered that evening by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, a speech replete with much and various in formation, replete with just and generous sentiments, dealing with a subject of vast importance, and dealing with it in a masterly manner—he felt he could say nothing that could add to the force of the arguments which had been used; but having long taken a deep interest in the subject of colonization, and being impressed with the belief that at this time a systematic colonization was more than ever desirable, he
 539 in limine 540 "The abolition of the Corn-laws would be utterly inoperative as far as regards the removal of the causes which are depressing money wages, whilst it would be accompanied, in the first instance at least, by a period of transition and revulsion, during which a portion of the rural population would be reduced to destitution." Ubi bene, ibi patria. 541 "Every thing depends upon the combination of labour. In order to have free labour combined, there must be a class of persons in the society who are ready to let their labour for hire. That class never exists where laud is cheap. The price should be sufficient, and no more than sufficient, to effect this object." "The effect of employing revenue arising from the sale of land in an emigration fund, would be to give the greatest possible progress
 542 "In new countries, it is possible, by having the price of land so high, as to place it above the reach of the poorest settlers, to keep the labour-market in its most prosperous state from the beginning. This precaution will at once ensure a supply of labourers, and prevent the settlers from spreading over too wide a surface. Society, thus kept together, is more open to civilizing influences—more directly under the control of the Government—more full of the activity which is inspired by common society, and of the strength which is derived from the division of labour; and, altogether, is in a sounder state, morally, politically, and economically, than if left to pursue its natural course." The Times "To give security to capitalists, not independence to the labourers, and confidence to both; to stimulate enterprise, yet repress wild speculations; to array, support, settle, move, control, educate, those masses who are to wage the war of peace against the forests of Canada or the plains of Australia; all this to be done steadily and surely, if indeed systematic colonization is to be taken up with effect and on a large scale. Nothing, certainly, short of supreme authority, can undertake such a task,
 543 "The more emigration there is, the more there may be. The more labourers you send to the colonies, the greater will the demand be for labourers in the colonies—the demand will continually increase." 544
 Lord Stanley  said; Sir, the motion now before the House—I mean the original motion brought forward by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard is connected with many circumstances which recommends it to the particular, the patient, and the unprejudiced consideration of the House. It comes before the House with the approbation and consent of at least that large portion of hon. Members who are not accurately acquainted with the actual condition of the emigration question, and who, consequently, cannot know how far the change which the hon. Member seeks has already been carried into practical effect by her Majesty's Government. It comes, too, recommended to our consideration by motives of policy and humanity. The hon. and learned Gentleman places in front of his motion the words,
 "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will take into her most gracious consideration the means by which extensive and systematic colonization may be most effectually rendered available for augmenting the resources of her Majesty's empire, giving additional employment to capital and labour, both in the United Kingdom and in the colonies, and thereby bettering the condition of her people." 545 546 547 548 549 "During the current year nearly 34,000 immigrants have been landed at this agency; they generally arrived in parties numbering from 50 to 300 or 400 persons. The course adopted at this office with reference to their distribution, and the relief which is occasionally afforded has been as follows:—We will assume that a party of 200 immigrants are to be disposed of; the names of the heads of families and their occupation are first ascertained, as well as their destination, if they have left home with the intention of settling in any particular part of the province. We will suppose that seventy-five with to proceed to Toronto, twenty-five to Cobourg and Port Hope, twenty-five to the ports on the Bay of Quinte, and that the remaining seventy-five are in search of work. As the steam-boats leave Kingston for Cobourg, Port Hope, and Toronto every evening at eight o'clock, except on Sunday and Monday, during the season, the immigrants anxious to proceed to these ports are first examined, and the questions generally put to them are as follow:—When did you leave Montreal? Did you apply to or receive any relief from the agent at that port? If these questions are answered in the affirmative, the Montreal list is referred to, and if it confirms his statement, his reasons for wishing to proceed to any particular place are demanded. The reason generally assigned is, 'I have relatives settled there, and I came to Canada to join them.' If the immigrants have any letters or written directions from their friends, they are required to produce them. We then endeavour to discover whether their poverty is real or pretended. If the immigrant given a straightforward account of the means which be started with, and the manner in which he has expended it on his journey, his claim is admitted. If he hesitates or declines, his claim is rejected; at all events, until fur-
 550 
 
 Currency. 
 From Bytown to Kingston. each adult 2 s. 6 d. 
 From Kingston to Dickinson's Landing 6 3 
 From Kingston to Ports on the Bay of Quinte 4 0 
 From Kingston to Cobourg and Port Hope 3 9 
 From Kingston to Toronto 7 6 
 From Toronto to Hamilton 3 9 
 From Toronto to Niagara 3 0 Being 25 per cent. under the established charges. Transport by land is of course more expensive than by water. The average expense may be stated at 1 d d. 551 l s d 552 C. Buller: 553 554 Buller: Colonial Gazette, Colonial Magazine, "A plan of national colonization for the relief of the mother country and the benefit of the colonies, which cannot fail to attract considerable attention at the present moment." 555 "The whole of the unappropriated lands in the colonies being the property of the British nation, the Legislature has the undoubted right to dispose of them in any manner in which, by an act framed for that purpose, they may think fit to prescribe—regarding, as the basis of such act, the present exigencies of the British population, and the importance of their well-being to the general national welfare." "If, in the first year in which such an act should come into operation, a million of persons should be conveyed, at the public expense, across the Atlantic, the savings in the poor-rates and private charity alone throughout the kingdom would more than pay the cost: for the ships being the property of the nation, and the seamen and officers already in its pay, the really additional expense would be very trifling; certainly not 5,000,000 l l "An act might therefore be passed, authorising the free gift of certain fixed and defined portions of such lands to families or individuals applying for them on certain conditions to be prescribed, not at the discretion of
 556
 Mr. Buckingham , in the third paragraph of page 9, of his pamphlet, said,—
 "That in order to insure the best practicable guarantee for the due fulfilment of the conditions on which such free gifts should be made, the power of Government to resume possession of all lands forfeited by non-performance of the requisite conditions, and the power of regranting them to others, should form a part of such act." "That the requisite free conveyance of all applicants for land under certain fixed regulations also should be provided for by the same law, and the Government be authorized to employ the requisite number of ships, as well as to make such grants of money as might be voted in the naval estimates of the year for that purpose." l l s c 557 558 
 
 In 1835 16,000,000 dollars 
 1836 25,157,000 dollars 
 1837 7,000,000 dollars 
 1838 4,000,000 dollars 
 1839 6,000,000 dollars 
 1840 2,700,000 dollars 
 1841 1,024,000 dollars American Almanack 559 l. l l. l l l l l. 560 l l. l C. Buller 561 562 l l 563 C. Buller 564 "The present indisposition to buy either land or stock cannot therefore be attributed either to the dearness of land, or to the scarcity of money. To what, then, is it to be attributed? I answer, principally, if not solely, to the general panic which has succeeded a general mania. There is no occasion to go far in search of reasons for the existing derangement of the colony. Wherever a mania for excessive speculation rages, there surely will follow a season of depression; the one, in fact, succeeds the other as naturally as the hot fit of an ague succeeds a cold one. It is this general panic which causes people to hold back from purchasing either land or stock; they hold back, for the most part, in the expectation that prices will fall still lower than they now are, some few, perhaps, in the apprehension that the whole colony is really going to ruin. I need not go at length into all the causes which produced the late mania, or (which is the same thing) brought capital to this colony in excessive quantities between the years 1835 and 1840. Various circumstances conspired during that period to turn the attention of English capitalists to the Australian colonies. I will allude only to the attractive theories which were then put forward by the disciples of the Wakefield school, and to the vauntings of the excessive riches of New South Wales, which are to be found in the evidence taken before the transportation committee, of the House of Commons. The real El Dorado was at last said to be found in Australia, and the only question asked was, why people would not come and share in the vast profits we were making. Capital then began to flow into the colony a great deal faster than it could be advantageously invested. For a time, however, all looked well, and the demand for stock which the opening of Port Phillip and South Australia created, caused the price of sheep, oxen, and especially of horses, to rise very rapidly. That during these years far too much capital came into the colony will, I think, be admitted, if we only consider the shape in which it must have come; and here I must be permitted to say that there appears to me to be a great want of clearness of apprehension as to what capital consists of. Many persons talk of bills of exchange or letters of credit, as
 565 566 567 "Each allotment of land for which a licence is thus given is called a station, and the size of the stations may vary from 5,000 to 30,000 acres. The extent to which this system has been made use of is very large indeed. By the latest return which we have seen, being for the last half-year of 1840, the number of stations was 718; the people living within the districts in which they were comprised amounted to 7,068; there were between 9,000 and 10,000 acres in cultivation, and the stock amounted to nearly a million and a half of sheep, besides a large quantity of horses and cattle. The extent of the lands over which the parties had a right to depasture this stock is not stated in the document to which we are now referring; but in the similar return for the previous half-year, when the number of stations was only 673; the runs were estimated to reach over 3,022,560 acres." l d 568 
 
 Years. From Australia. From Other Places. Total. 
 1832 2,377,000 25,752,000 28,129,000 
 1833 3,517,000 34,529,000 38,046,000 
 1834 3,558,000 42,897,000 46,455,000 
 1835 4,210,000 37,965,000 42,175,000 
 1836 4,997,000 59,243,000 64,240,000 
 1837 7,061,000 41,319,000 48,380,000 
 1838 7,837,000 44,757,000 52,594,000 
 1839 10,129,000 47,251,000 57,380,000 
 1840 9,721,000 39,715,000 49,436,000 
 1841 12,309,000 43,772,000 56,171,000 
 
 PROPORTION OF AUSTRALIAN TO THE TOTAL WOOL. (Shown in Hundredths.) 
 1832—·08 1837—·15 
 1833—·09 1838—·15 
 1834—·08 1839—·18 
 1835—·10 1840—·20 
 1836—·08 1841—·22 d d d 569
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, that although he agreed in much that was said by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard as to the advantages of emigration, still he thought that even for the promotion of that object the hon. Member would do well to adopt the suggestion of the noble Lord, the Member for the City of London, and leave the matter to the Government. He did not agree in all the objections that had been urged by his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Colonies. The hon. and learned Member suggested that funds for emigration might be provided by means of an advance of Exchequer-bills, on the guarantee of the sale of lands, and such an advance of Exchequer-bills for great public undertakings was made every year, and it was not long since that an advance of this kind was made for the carrying on public works in one of our North American colonies; he therefore did not think that the proposition was quite so inadmissible as had been stated by his noble Friend. He thought, that if this advance were made with caution, and within proper bounds, a very judicious encouragement might be given to emigration, and in such a way as to prove highly beneficial to the colonies. There were some curious details as to the effects of emigration on the poor-rates, in the last report of the Poor-law commissioners. In the appendix to this report, there was a statement of Mr. Tufnell, the assistant Poor-law commissioner, on this subject. That gentleman reported as to the results of emigration in Sussex, and showed, in one instance, the remarkable effect pro-
 597
 Lord F. Egerton  said, that as several hon. Members had come into the House since the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Buller) sat down, it was his wish to mention, in answer to the remarks of the hon. Member who spoke last on a part of the speech of the hon. Baronet (Sir R. H. Inglis)—and one of the hon. Member's remarks when he spoke of the emigrants to New England flying from the bishops here, was certainly a rather happier one than was usual with him—that that part of the speech of the hon. Baronet was only carrying out the description of the hon. and learned Gentleman respecting the mode of colonization pursued by the Greeks and Phœnicians, who carried with them, when they colonized, all the institutions of the country that gave them birth, and established wherever they went miniature types of the mother country. The same was the case with the Spaniards, who, as the hon. Member observed, carried with them the dignitaries of their Church into every colony they had planted. The hon. Baronet had carried out the idea by expressing a hope that our colonization might be carried on upon the principle of the colonists taking with them all the institutions, civil and religious, of our own country. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet when he said the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had confined himself in his speech to the subject of emigration, and had not entered upon the subject of colonization, he thought the reason was that the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced the motion had not curried out that part of the subject in any degree of detail. However, to the plan of colonisation recommended by the hon. Baronet there were doubtless numerous difficulties opposed, he had felt them himself, and be was satisfied that any hon. Member who tried would find the difficulty of framing
 582 583 Blue Books,
 Lord John Russell  said, I entirely agree with the noble Lord who has just sat down, that the House owes an obligation to my hon. Friend for the admirable and temperate speech in which he has brought this subject before the House. I listened likewise with pleasure to my noble Friend, the Member for Sunderland (Viscount Howick), who expressed an opinion favourable to this motion. But when I consider the various propositions which were laid down in those two speeches in favour of this motion—though I think both of those speeches are of great value, and that some of the suggestions made in them are well worthy of consideration—yet, when I come to apply those propositions and suggestions to the motion which my hon. Friend concluded with, I do not think, that it would be advisable that the House should adopt so extensive a resolution. The suggestions of my hon. Friend relate to the mode in which land should be sold in the colonies; he touched also in some degree upon loans, but it did not appear, that he was an advocate for a large loan, by which to assist the object of emigration. Now, if these are the only suggestions which one who has studied this question very much, who has been constantly attending to its details, can make after great reflection, I ask the House whether it be adviseable that the House of Commons should adopt a resolution,—
 "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will take into her most gracious consideration the means by which extensive and systematic colonization may be most effectually rendered available for augmenting the resources of her Majesty's empire, giving additional employment to capital and labour, both in the United Kingdom and the colonies, and there by bettering the condition of her people?" 584 585 586 587
 Mr. C. Buller , in rising to reply, had to return his thanks to almost every Member who had addressed the House, whether his conclusion was for or against his motion, for the candid consideration given to the vote which the House was about to give. He hoped, that it would not be thought disrespectful to them if he did not notice the suggestions which had fallen from different Members, and confined himself to the speech of the noble Lord opposite. He was sorry to find, that it was toe determination of the Government to oppose this motion; but he was, nevertheless, convinced that he had taken the right course.
 598 599
 Mr. C. Buller  spoke as follows: * * 485 486 487 488 489 "I doubt," (says Mr. Everett, in the wise and feeling answer which he recently made to a deputation of holders of State Stock); "I doubt, if in the history of the world, in so short a period such a transition has been made from a state of high prosperity to one of general distress, as in the United States, within the last six years." 490 491 492 493 d 494 495 496 497 498 499 500 501 502 503 504 505 l. l 506 507 508 l l 509 l s s. 510 s. d. s l s l d. l. s d s d. s d. 511 512 513 514 515 516 l. 517 l l l l l l l * * 
 
 — s. d. 
 In 1835 3,333,299 10 0 
 In 1836 5,243,296 9 2 
 In 1837 1,459,900 12 6 
 In 1838 896,992 10 0 
 In 1839 1,346,772 10 0 
 In 1840 581,264 7 6 The facts stated by Lord Stanley are perfectly correct; but they do not controvert the conclusions drawn by Mr. Buller. The sales of 1835 and 1836 were no doubt swelled by the speculative spirit of the period; but it is just as obvious that the great falling off in the latter years has been the result of the extraordinary commercial distress that has pressed on the United States all the time, The only subject for wonder is that during such a period of distress as that from 1837 to 1340 there should have been so much as 4,284,930 l 518 519 520 521 522 523 l 524 l l 525 526 527 528 529 530 531 "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will take into her most gracious consideration the means by which extensive and systematic colonization may be most effectually rendered available for augmenting the resources of her Majesty's empire, giving additional employment to capital and labour, both in the United Kingdom and in the colonies, and thereby bettering the condition of her people."
 Mr. Hume  was afraid that the hon. Baronet who spoke last had mistaken the object of the motion before the House, and had supposed that it was a motion for Church extension. He had spoken of the necessity of providing for the emigrants an Established Church, and no doubt the hon. Baronet would wish that a number of bishops should be sent out with the new colonists. The hon. Baronet appeared to forget that New England was founded by men who had actually run away from bishops. It was necessary that the hon. Baronet should read history again, when he would discover, what indeed all history had proved, that it was not the Church, but the protection which the power of
 579 580 581
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, he had listened with deep attention to the speech of the hon. and learned Member, who had not professed that the measure he proposed was to be a mere temporary experiment for the relief of the country. Had it been so, and were it likely to afford any assistance to the suffering portions of the community he would not object to it. But the hon. Member had proposed a systematic plan of operation for diminishing the pressure of the prevailing distress, and for affording continued means of ensuring the prosperity of this country. Now, he was opposed to the system expounded by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He was aware of the difficulty of impressing his views upon this subject upon many Members of that House, because he believed, that though they generally took an interest in the debates of the House they did not consider the subject worthy of their attention. Nevertheless he stood up to protest against this erroneous system of providing relief for the distresses of the people. Moreover, he was not prepared to look with favour upon a proposition of this kind when he found it emanated from one who took the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman did last year upon the subject of the Corn-laws. As to the great body of merchants and their memorial, which had been alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, he must say, that he was not inclined to look upon their request with any more favour than he did upon the motion of the hon. and learned Member, for he never found those men so very for ward to sign a declaration in favour of any measure for the relief of the poor, or for promoting the rights of the people. He regarded, then, with great suspicion a plan which emanated from such quarters, and he would oppose a measure, the effect of which would be nothing less than trans-
 532 533 534 535 536 l l 537 l. 538 "That the resources derivable from the lands, manufactures, and commerce of the United Kingdom, if fully brought into action, are adequate to afford the means of giving employment and supplying food to the whole population; and that, therefore, before any measures be adopted for removing to foreign lands any portion of that population, it is the first duty of this House to take into consideration the measures necessary for the better application of these resources to the employment and support of the people."
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, that as the hon. Gentleman had withdrawn his motion, he, of course, should withdraw his Amendment.
 Sir Howard Douglas  said, finding that very extravagant expectations are entertained, that a gigantic system of colonization may be adopted to such an extent as to prove an immediate remedy for the very general distress which prevails in this country, by abstracting large masses of un employed labour, and transplanting it to the colonies, where, as is supposed, it may be absorbed into masses of employed labour; and knowing on my own experience, that such an extensive scheme, suddenly carried out, would prove fallacious and abortive, I came down, prepared to follow the hon. Member, the mover of this resolution, to state my views on the progress and prospects of colonization and the extent to which this might be safely prosecuted. But after the very able and comprehensive exposition made by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies, I shall lay aside this mass of documents with which I was prepared to enter fully into this question, and at this late hour of the night, I shall confine myself to a few general observations. I concur generally in the opinion stated by the hon. Gentleman the mover of this resolution, as to the temporary causes of the prevailing distress in this country; but not so, as to the main cause. I believe that the distress in which the working classes of this country are involved, is
 588 ad valorem 589 590 591 592 593 594 l 595 596
 Sir J. Graham  was anxious to give a distinct answer to the question, the importance of which he fully felt and fully admitted. He would state that he adhered to the exposition of the law relating to the settlement of ministers in Scotland as it was contained in the letter written by him to the Moderator of the General Assembly. That letter had the general assent of all his Colleagues whom he bad consulted upon the subject; and he had likewise taken the opinion of the Lord Advocate of Scotland with respect to the law. To the principles contained in that letter he still adhered; and he did not see anything since that letter was written, or since the debate which had lately taken place upon the subject, which could in any material way alter the circumstances. He was inclined to attend with great respect to the opinions expressed, even though in debate, by the noble and learned Lords in the other House, and he was still more disposed to admit the weight of the judgment which had been pronounced in the Auchterarder case. The  obiter dicta 484 obiter dicta obiter dicta
 Sir R. Inglis  said, although nothing could be clearer than the speech of his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, it was not so complete an answer to
 577 578
 Viscount Howick  said, before the House came to the vote on the hon. and learned Gentleman's motion, or whether they should come to a vote on it or not, he wished to express his opinion that the House and country were deeply indebted to the hon. and learned Gentleman for having brought this subject before them, and for the manner in which he had done so. He thought very great advantage would arise from this discussion and the able speech with which the hon. and learned Gentleman had introduced the motion to their notice, was calculated greatly to enlighten the public, and to promote hereafter measures of great utility on this subject. He had also heard with considerable satisfaction, on the whole, the speech of his noble Friend who had just sat down. He had heard with great pleasure from his noble Friend, that he did approve to the extent stated by him, the system of emigration which had in the course of the last few years been gradually introduced
 570 571 572 573 s. s. s s. s l 574 l l l s. l. l. l. 575 576
 Mr. Stuart Worthy  could not help adverting to the recommendations of the noble Lord, that if these commercial negotiations with foreign states failed, that it would be for the Government to take another course, and to take into consideration what changes they ought to make in our tariff, entirely with reference to our own interests. Now, if it were supposed that such a suggestion would be acted upon, he was satisfied that all commercial negotiations with foreign countries would fail. It was as much as to declare that you would give all the advantages to a foreign country without any stipulation for any return. If this was the view which the Government and Parliament were to be called upon to take, it would be a far more effectual course to legislate without reference to foreign powers. He did not say, that this was his feeling in the mat-
 684
 Mr. Hanes  said, that not only was he ready to support what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, but that when hereafter he should, on behalf of the Dissenters of England, advocate a free system of education, he should expect to be supported by the hon. Member, and
 701 "He could not but complain of the Government, that the Church Education Society should be refused any grant of public relief merely because the parents of the children could not accept the education of the National Society."
  Mr. V. Smith  was astonished to hear the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken lay down the principle that the system of national education in Ireland was not a system of religious education. It appeared to him to be an eminently religious though it might not be a sectarian education, and that but for this they would have avoided a great part of the difficulties they had encountered. When the hon. Gentleman said that all the prelates were averse to this system, he forgot that the Archbishop of Dublin sat at the board of education, and that, however he might differ from them, the opinions of that rev. Prelate were entitled to great respect. As they would soon have another opportunity of discussing this question, he would now only further say that he had listened with great admiration to the manly and statesmanlike speech of the right hon. Baronet, and that he cordially concurred in his deliberate sanction of this system as the best system of education that could be established in Ireland.
  Mr. Brown , as a Roman Catholic, begged leave to say, that they did make use of the Bible although they did not use the English version. In the county of Kerry, which he represented, the national system of education was most successful, most perfect, and free from objection.
 Mr. Acland  feared that some observations, which had been made in the course of the discussion, might unintentionally have the effect of casting some reflection on those whose duty it was to act as trustees of the buildings in question, and who, he believed, had performed that duty in the most praiseworthy manner. He knew that this was the case with regard to the chapter of Westminster, the Members of which took every pains to afford every facility for the admission of the public to the abbey, consistent with a regard to the preservation of the valuable monuments and relics committed to their care.
 Colonel T. Wood  would ask the hon. Member for Oxford what more important moral lessons the people could learn, than those they received from viewing the interior of such places as Westminster-abbey.
 Lord Eliot  must say a few words on the part of the Board of Education. He must remind his hon. Friend who had just sat down, that under the existing system, the Holy Scriptures were not excluded, and that the only limitation required was, that they should be read at a fixed and prescribed hour—whether that hour was at the beginning, the middle, or the end of
 722
 Lord Eliot  said, the temperate manner
 696 697 l. 698 l. l. 699
 Lord F. Egerton  was of opinion, and he had had some experience of the matter, that the mass of the people might be admitted to public, and, he might say, to private institutions and collections of various kinds, even of the most valuable objects, with entire security. The only persons whom, as far as he had had opportunities of seeing or hearing, bad misconducted themselves when admitted to collections and institutions, public or private, were precisely the half-and-half gentry that the hon. Member had referred to—people who, many of them, indeed, of a superior class in life, when they were admitted to view objects of art and science occupied themselves with rummaging over your books, or rocking about on your chairs, or trying to open doors that were locked, whereas the humbler classes contented themselves with looking
 738
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had been misunderstood by the hon. Gentleman; he had merely said, that where negotiations failed, we should take such a course with reference to duties as our own interests and sound principles demanded; but he did not apply this to all articles, for instance, as regarded articles on which the duty was very high, and smuggling very great, it would be advantageous to diminish the duty. Again, with respect to articles of luxury, it might be very fair to make the reduction of duty a matter of negotiation with foreign countries.
 Lord John Russell  said that, as the House was now going into committee of supply for the last time before Faster, he would take this opportunity of adverting to some questions which did not appear to have been yet decided, but on which he hoped that some information would be given to the House, either at the present time, or when the House met, immediately after the Easter recess. The House would recollect that in going through the alterations in the Customs Bill last year
 679 680
  Mr. B. Cochrane  also opposed the vote, but would defer any lengthened observation until the motion of which he had given notice, should come before the House. A committee would be better able to judge of how far that system of education had been prejudicial to the country. With respect to the bearing of this question on the point of keeping faith with the Irish Union, the fact of the grant being annual, was of itself evidence that Parliament might at any time discontinue it. He had heard it said, that the articles of the Union would virtually be violated by a refusal of the grant, but he had that
 728 l. Plumptre: "
 Mr. Lefroy , always reluctant to trespass upon the time of the House, yet he felt it a necessary duty to express his opinion on the present occasion, and the more so, after the sentiments which he had, with much pain, heard expressed by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. The right hon. Baronet had treated the question as if it had been proposed that the Church Education Society should be substituted for the National School Society. He had not heard from his hon. Friends about him any such proposition, but he heard them express deep regret, in which he sincerely concurred, that as the Government were determined to continue the national system, they had not felt it their duty at the same time to consider the feelings and wishes of the prelates and laity of the Established Church in Ireland, and at least propose a grant for the education of children of that persuasion in conformity with their religious opinions. He felt some difficulty in alluding even to the letter addressed by the right hon. Baronet on that subject to the highly revered prelate who was at the head of the church in Ireland (which, almost in a single sentence, blighted all the hopes that had existed of a different plan being pursued), lest he might be tempted to depart from the temperate and conciliatory course which the prelates of Ireland had adopted and recommended to all who agreed with them, and which he felt was most becoming so grave and so important a subject; but this much he might be permitted to say, that the blow was as severe as it was unexpected. Whilst he expressed his unfeigned regret that the Government had acted thus to the Church Education Society, he was most anxious to guard himself against the House supposing that he preferred a separate grant being made for the education of Protestants and Roman Catholics in Ireland. He had ever desired to see the children of both religious persuasions trained up together, and, whilst free from the bitterness which too often arises in after life, taught the first lessons of good will and kindness by those scriptures which are the grounds of their common
 719 "It was a great truth that education, to be valuable and to deserve the name, must be a religious one, and to be religious must be founded on the definite word of God." 720
 Mr. Ross , without meaning to doubt the hon. Member who had just spoken, must say that he knew of no school, attached to the nunnery of Newry, which was under the auspices of the Education Board; but he did know that an application to the board for money to improve the national school-house was refused on the ground that the parish priest lived within its precincts. That being the case, it seemed to him very unlikely that assistance would be given to a school held in a nunnery. If the system suggested by the hon. Member for Bradford were carried out, there could be no education in Ireland at all, for, according to the hon. Member himself, the Roman Catholics would not avail themselves of a system which required the whole Scriptures to be read from beginning to end. That the Scriptures or revelation were excluded at present, he denied; for, as the noble Lord stated, the entire Gospel of St. Luke was included in the extracts, and that Gospel every child was encouraged to read; and if the hon. Member for Bradford was a believer in the Scriptures, he must confess with him, that the words of eternal life were in that Gospel. Different sets of children might be brought
 724 Art of Love."
  Mr. Shaw  said, there was one statement of his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel), which be (Mr. Shaw) could not let pass without correction; it was, that the system recommended in the 14th report of the Commissioners of Education, of 1812, signed by the Archbishops of Armagh and Cashel, and Bishop Elrington, was the system adopted by the present National Board, and now objected to by the episcopal bench in Ireland. So far from it, be bad in his speech that night—when his right hon. Friend was not in the House—quoted from and expressed his concurrence in the principal sentiments that report contained. The present Primate had on public occasions done the same. But, what was still more important, the only two of the individuals who had signed that report, and who lived to see the present national system proposed, had openly protested against it, as totally different from the one recommended in their report. These were Dr. Elrington and Mr. Leslie Foster'—they objected both to the schools—which, according to their report, were to have been supplementary to the church schools, and to the Scripture extracts, which they had hoped could be agreed on by both churches; whereas those at present recommended, but not enforced by the National Board, had been altogether objected to by the authorities of the Established Church—and had, in fact, fallen into general disuse. Again, his right hon. Friend was in error in the sug-
 726
 Mr. Shaw  said, he could not allow that vote to pass without troubling the committee with some observations upon it. It was not possible for him to raise the question in such a shape as to take the sense of the committee upon the vote. He did not desire to diminish the amount of the grant. On the contrary, he considered that the sum granted by Parliament for the advancement of education, both in this country and in Ireland, was too small, and the forms of the House would prevent his moving to augment it. His remarks would be in the way of remonstrance, and pro-
 688 689 690 691 692
 Mr. G. A. Hamilton  rose, not for the purpose of prolonging the discussion, neither could he add anything to the very able speech which had been delivered by his noble Friend the Member for Bandon. But he felt it his duty to corroborate the statement of his right hon. Friend and Colleague with regard to the dissatisfaction which prevailed in Ireland amongst the Protestants generally, and especially amongst the clergy of the Established Church, with whose sentiments he had the opportunity of being well acquainted, in reference to the national system of education; and he had also for himself to express the deep regret and disappointment he felt that her Majesty's Ministers had not thought it their duty, in deference to the conscientious and nearly unanimous opinions of the bishops and clergy of the Established Church, and the great body of those who formed the sincerest and best supporters of the present Government, so to modify or alter the national system, as to render it scriptural in its principle and character, which was all that they required, and therefore enable the clergy of the Established Church conscientiously to join it. He felt very strongly the inconvenience and objections to raising a discussion, and going to a division upon a question of such magnitude, and involving so important a principle as that of national education, in a committee of supply, and on the occasion of a vote for the maintenance of an existing establishment; and, in order that this great question might be raised properly, and discussed fully and fairly, and on its principle, it had been his intention, if the Irish estimates had come on at the usual period of the Session, to have given timely notice, that on the motion that the Speaker do leave the chair, he would move as an amendment a resolution to the effect, that no system of national education is sound in its principle, or worthy of support by the state, in which the supreme value and importance of God's holy word are not distinctly recognised and practically inculcated as the very basis and foundation of education, that the value and importance of God's holy word are not duly recognised, or practically inculcated
 709
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not know whether the committee would agree with the boa. Member, that this vote should be refused; but he thought that the committee would be hardly disposed to concur in that proposition. It would be remembered that the universities
 727
 Mr. Kemble  deprecated the introduction of questions of religion into debates in that House, for he considered that that was not the proper place for them, and that they were but too likely to give rise to angry feelings. After having seen the reports of the commissioners, and having had an opportunity of looking into the working of the present system of education, he had no hesitation in saying that, on the grounds on which it had been recommended by the commissioners, it was an utter and entire failure. As he understood, it was to have united all denominations of Christians under one general system of education, by which there should be no compromise of principle, and which would form the means of softening down the asperities of religious rancour into one general sentiment of charity and benevolence. But such, he regretted to" say, had not been the result. Walking on one occasion through the streets of Newry, he inquired where the national school was, and could not learn, but was informed that there was a nunnery school, and this he found to be the national school of education. He went into it, witnessed the mode in which the children were instructed, and when asked to record his opinion of it, certainly did express himself to have been much pleased with it, as far as cleanliness, regularity, and general education were concerned; but he did maintain that this was not a school which could be called "national;" that a school which was to unite different denominations of Christians could not be held in a nunnery. He would not join in that ge-
 723
 Mr. Labouchere  was glad to learn from the concluding observations of the right hon. Baronet that it was his intention at an early period after the holydays to let the House and the country know what progress had been made in the treaties now pending with several states, and particularly in that between this country and France. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that it had been the earnest desire of the late Government, of which he had the honour to be a Member, to maintain amicable relations with France, though it had differed from it on some points. He could state that the offer made to that Government of reduction of duties for corresponding reductions on its part was ample and liberal, and such as if viewed in the light of a bargain would have been found more favourable to France than to this country. He, however, had no desire to regard such offer in the light of a bargain, but rather as the basis of a fair and liberal reduction of duties on both sides, which would be equally beneficial to each. France had rejected the offer made to her, but he believed more in accordance with the prejudices of the people than with the sound views and just principles of its Government, for the people could not be persuaded but that in any commercial treaty the advantage must be all on the side of England and the disadvantage on theirs. Similar prejudices on the part of the people of Portugal and other states had hitherto retarded the negotiations with their Governments, and, indeed, such were the extremes to which those prejudices were carried and such was their in-
 683
 Dr. Bowring  thought that the objection of his hon. Friend applied more strongly to Oxford than to Cambridge; because, while at the latter place dissenters were allowed to study, at the former they were excluded from all participation in the liberality of the country.
 Dr. Bowring  had heard the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman with much pleasure. He thought from that declaration he should be able to find out what was the tendency of the right hon. Gentleman's mind. The more he thought on the subject, the more he was satisfied that, if we wished foreign countries to modify their respective tariffs, we must sot the example, and begin with reforming our own, He was convinced that, if the House and the Government were anxious to promote the commercial interests of England, that we must take the commodities of those countries with which we had any dealings. During the course of his experience, he had uniformly found that, when a foreign country was asked to reform its tariff, it pointed out the imperfections and the vicious policy of our own. He had not the slightest doubt that if our own were formed in a wide and generous spirit, it would be followed by a reform in those of other nations. If this were done, this country would soon he relieved from its commer-
 686
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the cathedrals, and instanced that of Exeter, were now more difficult of access than they used to be.
  Mr. Colquhoun   believed the appointments made by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, had reflected as much honour on his Lordship as upon the persons appointed, who were distingushed for their enlightened views, their profound learning, and unobtrusive piety. They were such appointments, notwithstanding the aspersions of the noble Lord, which he would yet regret perhaps, as would make the present Lord Lieutenant look back upon them as the most glorious and satisfactory part of his administration, and which rendered him deserving of the greatest public confidence. Surrounded as this question was with great difficulties, and embarrassed by considerations which he thought it wise to appreciate, he must express his sincere regret, that her Majesty's Government had come to the resolution not to grant to the Irish Prelates, and the Irish Church, that assistance which he thought consistent with the greatest toleration and the national system of education. The noble Lord had said, that he preferred a board authorised by the Government to a voluntary association, when, in fact, grants Were made to voluntary associations—the British and Foreign School Society on one side, and the national society on the other. In speaking of conscientious feelings of Roman Catholics, he thought the same regard ought to be had for those of Members of the Established Church. He thought, that to have the co-operation, in a convulsed and agitated country like Ireland, of men inferior to none in learning and piety, and disposition to maintain order, was what no Government ought to neglect, and what all Governments ought to appreciate; and he not know any class of men more free from those peculiar feelings to which the noble Lord had adverted. Even the hon. Member for Lambeth, who advocated the cause of the Dissenters of this country, must see the injustice of excluding Members of the Church of England from the public aid which was granted to the Members of another Church.
 Mr. Hardy  quite agreed with the hon. Member for Longford, that they could not call that a religious education which was not founded on revelation; why was revelation excluded from the schools? The extracts used did not contain the great doctrines of religion, nor were they in the language of Scripture. They might afford a moral education, but there was great difference between that and a religious education. They were told by the highest
 721
 Mr. Hardy  said, that at a recent meeting of the Repeal Association in Dublin, three priests of Maynooth contributed to the fund for the repeal of the Union.
 Mr. Plumptre  rose and said that he should not enter now into any discussion upon the subject of this vote, but he should take the sense of the committee upon the vote.
 Sir JR. Peel  said, that he had then to propose the annual vote for the British Museum, but as there were such ample details with respect to it in a paper which had been laid on the Table, it would not be necessary for him to go into any lengthened explanation. The estimate was 2,640 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that the circumstance of the great increase in the number of Visitors was most satisfactory; but this showed that formerly the trustees of the Museum had not properly estimated the character of our countrymen. But there was no reason why this useful institution should not be made even more useful than it was at present. He objected to the constitution of the trustees who had the control over the institution, and who formed almost a self-elected body of thirty-eight persons. Of these, twenty-eight were  ex officio, 731 "That the trustees of that institution had adopted a variety of regulations, by which every possible degree of accommodation would be afforded to those who were desirous of visiting that interesting establishment. It was now provided that seventy-five persons might be admitted per day, three times a week, and that even those who applied in the morning might be admitted in the course of the same day. Regulations were also adopted for admitting private parties three times a week, and orders had likewise been issued for an easy and regular access to the reading-room. In short, it would appear that the Museum promised to furnish the means of being both useful, instructive, and adequate to the gratification of the public curiosity."
 Mr. Hume  rose to object to this vote. The universities possessed private funds of their own, and the House was not in possession of any means of ascertaining how those funds were appropriated. Under those circumstances it was not fit that the House should vote away the public money. He wished, therefore to know from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he could give any explanation of the appropriation of the private funds, and he ventured to submit to the House, that until they had such an explanation, they should not agree to this vote.
 Mr. Hume  considered it most desirable that a cheap catalogue of the contents of the Museum should be published. The publication of cheap catalogues of the National and other picture galleries had been productive of the greatest advantage. After many ineffectual attempts to induce the authorities at the National Gallery to issue a cheap catalogue, he had printed a catalogue at his own expense, which was sold at a penny, and the reception which it met with showed how much the public had been in want of such an accommodation. On the very first day of its appearance, while only four of the shilling catalogues were sold, the persons who were stationed at the door of the gallery with the penny catalogues, though they came rather late in the day, sold 147 of them. The catalogues the purchasers took home with them, and everybody must see that such a work, lying on a poor man's table, must at once refine the minds of himself and his family, and operate as an inducement to his neighbours to go and view the works of art which had so pleased him. Similar cheap catalogues had been printed of Dulwich Gallery and other collections with vast public advantage, and it was most desirable that the poorer classes should be placed in possession of an equally cheap catalogue of the contents of the British Museum. The trustees of that institution, however, were most lamentably tardy in meeting the wants and the wishes of the people in this as well as in other respects. The utmost facilities should be given to all classes, including the lowest, for viewing all those public treasures which were calculated to refine and enlarge the mind. As to the damage which it had been the fashion with a certain class of people to predict would be done by the admission of the masses to the treasures in the Museum it was now proved that no damage whatever need be apprehended. It could no longer be justly charged against the English commonalty that they could not safely be admitted to places where foreigners might in all security be trusted. In one day, 30,000 persons of all classes, principally of the humbler ranks, had passed through the various public room of the Museum, and not one sixpenny worth of damage had been done to any of the multitudinous objects which were exhibited. The conduct of the humbler classes, on all these occasions, was stated by the officers in attendance to be most
 734
 Mr. Hume  thought that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered his question; for it might be that the universities had funds of their own so large as to make any further vote unnecessary.
 Mr. Hume  was not so sanguine as his hon. Friend; but he believed his hon. Friend was right in principle. He was not going to address himself immediately to the question before the House. It appeared that the House had no power in it, and therefore the conversation that had just taken place was of very little importance. He wished to address himself to the right hon. Baronet on matters relating to the taxation of the country, and in reference to what was to be expected from him when the budget should be laid on the Table of the House. He held in his hand an estimate of what the right hon. Baronet expected their situation to be in April, 1843. The right hon. Baronet had estimated that the new taxes would produce this year a revenue of 4,340,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 687
 Mr. Hume  objected to the large cost which it appeared each of these criminal lunatics involved the country in. The average was not less than 40 l. l.
 Captain Jones  said, that the clergy of the Church of Ireland were opposed to the plan of national education established in that country, because they did not consider it a system of Scriptural education. It was on that ground, that he also objected to it, and he thought the children of Protestants had, at all events, an equal right with those of Roman Catholics to be educated properly in the principles of their religion at the expense of the State. The noble Load treated the Church Society as an antagonist establishment, but the noble Lard should recollect, that it a rose but of the necessity of the case, and because the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland had conscientious objections to the system of religious education adopted in the national schools. There was no wish on the part of the Bishops or the clergy to interfere with the education of either Roman Catholics or Dissenters; but they thought, and in his opinion correctly, that they were entitled to a grant of public money for the purpose of communicating to the children of their own flocks that description of religious education of which they could approve. If, however, it were proposed to discontinue this grant, he should not be found to vote against it.
 Mr. M. Gibson  wished to remind the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Yorkshire, that it was the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government who first laid down the principle that whether foreign countries negotiated or not with respect to import duties, that if it was advantageous to this country, to reduce its duties, it ought to make the reduction without waiting to see whether other countries would make concessions or reductions. It was on these grounds that he objected to commercial negotiations altogether, and which he believed were, generally speak-
 685
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said he had the misfortune of seldom being able to support the measures of the Government; but on this occasion he was happy to say he could give his full concurrence and support to the measure proposed and the sentiments expressed by the right hon, Baronet at the head of that Government. He considered that great good would be produced by an united education in Ireland. It would tend, by the early mixture of young people in the same school, to take away the prejudices and the bitterness of feeling which in after-life produced such injurious effects on society in that country; and he was of opinion that the system adopted under the National Board was the best which could be devised for that purpose under the difficult circumstances which existed. He lived in the north of Ireland, and could say that the system was decidedly successful in that part of Ireland, so far as respected the children of Presbyterians and Roman Catholics. Both these classes went in common to the schools, and were educated together; but he regretted to say that the clergy of the Established Church still thought themselves called on to oppose the system, and in consequence, there was a reluctance on the part of that section of Protestants to make use of these schools. The right hon. Baronet had truly pointed out the objections to a separate grant to the Established Church. He had stated that each of the other sects would then require separate grants also. Even if a grant were given to the Established Church, the cause of discontent would not be removed, but on the other hand very probably aggravated. Would the Established Church be satisfied with a grant proportioned to its population, as compared to the population of the other religious sects of which the Irish community was composed? He believed that the proportion of the church would not exceed a tenth of the whole grant, the Presbyterians would obtain another small fraction of the grant, and the Catholics would necessarily absorb the great proportion of whatever sum the state should allow. He was quite convinced that this
 718
 Mr. Grogan  said, he was anxious to avail himself of that opportunity of pressing upon the attention of the Members of her Majesty's Cabinet the propriety, nay, he would add, the justice, of giving to the question of education in Ireland a full and liberal reconsideration, before they should be called upon to vote these estimates in the ensuing Session of Parliament; and this he should think the more necessary, because he did not believe that the Ministry were aware of the true state of public opinion upon this subject in Ireland. Now, after the able and dispassionate speech of the right hon. and learned Recorder on the general question, he should endeavour to confine himself to ground which had not yet been travelled over or alluded to. If, after a full and patient investigation of the subject, her Majesty's Ministers should be of opinion that the system of the national board was the best adapted to the circumstances of Ireland, afforded the best chance of inducing Roman Catholic parents to send their children to the schools of a Protestant state—in fact, of giving to those children such an education as would enable them the better to struggle and push their way in the busy and bustling scenes of life, and afford them a good literary secular education, or if so, it was not necessary for his present purpose to enter into the question, to combat that opinion. But, did the duty of the State stop here, or was it not also bound to furnish to the children a really sound, wholesome, and religious education also? The system was introduced when the noble Lord the Secretary for the colonies was Secretary for Ireland, it was a great and bold experiment, and he doubted not was intended for good. The object
 693 694 695 "With regard to education itself, there seemed to be no difference of opinion—there seemed to be a common unity of sentiment—and every one cried out educate the people; and, indeed, he would ask how could there be a second opinion with regard to the subject of educating the people: was there a second opinion, he would ask, with regard to the cultivation of the land?—who was bold enough, or foolish enough, to stand up and say, there was no use in cultivating the land, when the curse that sin brought into the world declared that the earth should bring forth thorns and thistles f—who would, for a moment, advocate the principle that it was not necessary to cultivate the land; and, surely, if the mind of man, if the heart of man had not suffered less from the fall than the ground from which he produces the food he eats, who was there among them bold enough—who was there mad enough to deny the necessity of imparting a scriptural education to the people? Education, without religion, was like turning up the ground with the plough, and leaving it to bring forth thorns and thistles. Such was the view which he took of education without religion; and he thought that man would err from common sense who would set about the education of children without the assistance of religion—he would be turning up the land, but casting no seed into it. Then came the question, if they were to cast seed into the ground, what kind of seed was it to be? Some people said, and he believed the advocates of the national board had sometimes said, that they were in favour of religious education, but did they tell them what that religion was which was the seed of that good tree from which they expected good fruit? No; they talked of religion only, but they left out, they excluded that which God himself had said was the good seed—that seed was the Word of God, and therefore he would maintain, that if they educated the children, and did not cultivate the heart, as well as the ground, and cast good seed therein—and there was but one good seed, and that was the Truth, the Word of the Eternal God—they educated them in vain without it."
  Sir G. Grey  in rising to move in pursuance of the notice he had given for leave to bring in a bill for the better application of certain charitable trusts for purposes of education, did not intend to enter into the general question of education which had already occupied the attention of the House during the present Session, and respecting which future opportunities for discussion would arise. At this late hour he would only state as briefly as possible the object which he had in view in the present bill, and the grounds upon which the bill was founded. The object was simply to render applicable to purposes of education a large amount of funds in the aggregate, but scattered over the country in small sums, originally appropriated to education; but now, either from the small amount of the fund in particular cases, from the failure of trustees, from the terms of the original endowment, or from some other cause incapable of being usefully applied to the important object for which they were intended. Of the existence of such funds in one who
 739 "An approximation to the probable amount of strictly educational funds may be made by a reference to the digest of the reports of the Charity Commissioners, published in 1835. The sum at that time appeared to be— 
 
 £ s d 
 For Endowed Schools 180,309 12 5 
 For other Schools 16,938 17 5 
 Total Income 197,248 9 10 l s d l l "The smaller charities by which I mean those whose incomes range from 1 l l "The reports of the inspectors appointed by the committee of the Privy Council on education will satisfy those who feel an interest in the matter, that the present application of educational funds derived from the smaller charities, is in general so lamentably defective as to tend to injure rather than otherwise those whom it was intended to benefit, and that some alteration with respect to them has became a matter of absolute necessity." "Utterly inefficient as their funds are for all
 740 "The most general and prominent evil by which charities are affected is the want of an easy and inexpensive mode of keeping up the succession of trustees. It often happens that the instrument of foundation omits to make provision for such succession, and when it does make it, and the donor has empowered a given number of surviving trustees to nominate others to fill up the trust, the nomination is generally deferred till the prescribed number of trustees no longer exist, when if an appointment is made it is invalid, but more commonly no appointment is made at all. This occurs either through inadvertence, or because the funds of the charities are too small to bear the expense of a conveyance or transfer to the new trustees. Rent charges of which a very great proportion of the endowments of charities consists, and which are frequently below 10 l 741 "By the 71st section of the municipal corporation set, persons who at its passing were trustees of charities is their corporate character wave constituted trustees in their individual character, till the 1st of August, 1836, but their estate interest and title, and their power were immediately thereupon utterly to cease and determine, and it was provided that if Parliament should not otherwise direct before that day, the Lord Chancellor should make such orders as he should see fit for the administration of the trust estates. No provision for the case having been made by Parliament, applications were after the 1st of August made by petition to the Lord Chancellor relative to charities in many corporate towns, and under his Lordship's directions, appointments of trustees of the several charities took place, but the property belonging to them has not been conveyed to such trustees by reason of doubt in whom it was legally vested, and by whom conveyances could be made. Much inconvenience has consequently been felt. In other towns the property of the charities was two small in amount to bear the expense of applications to the Lord Chancellor, they have therefore remained Since August 1836, without the protection of any regularly appointed trustees." "When the Court of Chancery is resorted to to effect the appointment of trustees, the expense of the proceedings including that of a conveyance to the to can hardly be estimated at leas than 50 l l 742
 Sir James Graham , in giving his assent to the introduction of the bill, wished to guard himself from misconstruction. The object of the bill was a good one, and he was willing further to admit that a necessity existed for legislating on the subject, though the subject was attended with much difficulty. He was not, however, prepared to admit the distinction drawn
 743
 Sir B. H. Inglis  was not prepared to expect a discussion on cathedrals, on a question as to the estimates for the British Museum. He would, however, not shrink from it. The hon. Member for Montrose seemed to consider that all the sacred edifices of the country ought to be open freely to the curiosity of all men. He held a contrary opinion: and did not wish to make them mere exhibitions. The chief object of attack was Westminster Abbey. Now, whatever was the case formerly, that sanctuary is now at least sufficiently open. He could call the hon. Member, perhaps, indeed, the House generally did not know the fact—that every man, woman, and child in England might enter Poet's-corner for nothing. Every person might see the nave and north transept for 3 d. Hume d d. d. 736 Cheers and Laughter. d. 737
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it had not been his intention when he came down to the House to have taken any part in this debate, and he should not have risen bad it not been for an observation of his noble Friend the Member for Bandon, who had delivered a speech of so much ability that he was sure the House must wish to hear him more frequently; that observation of his noble Friend was to the effect that her Majesty's Government had adopted this system of united education in Ireland merely because it might have embarrassed them to depart from that system, which his noble Friend had described as one of the legacies which had been left to her Majesty's present Government by their predecessors. Now, he could assure his noble Friend and the House, that no spirit of servile adherence to the policy of the late Government, nor any fear of encountering difficulties, would have caused her Majesty's Ministers to shrink from the responsibility of asking for a grant for another system of education in Ireland, had they felt that to be their duty; but, on the contrary, after a full consideration
 710 711 712 "That such will be its acceptance we shall indulge the more confident expectation if all
 713 "It appears to us that a selection may be made, in which the most important parts of Sacred History shall be included together with all the precepts of morality, and all the instructive examples by which these precepts are illustrated and enforced, and which shall not be liable to any of the objections which have been made to the use of the Scriptures in the course of the education. The study of such a volume of extracts from the Sacred Writings would, in our opinion, form the best preparation for that more particular religious instruction which it would be the duty and, we doubt not, the inclination also of their several ministers of religion to give at proper times, and in other places, to the children of their respective congregations." 714 "We seem to have a choice of but two general modes of proceeding, either to have separate schools for the Roman Catholics and Protestants, and to teach them each the principles of their respective religions, or to unite them in the same schools, within which the points of their religious differences must never be adverted to. The first, though it may appear to some the most plausible, may, on consideration, be found highly objectionable. To promote the intercourse between the Protestants and Roman Catholics in all possible manners appears to me of the greatest importance, observing, as I always have, that their mutual prejudices abate in proportion as they become acquainted with each other, and that an increase, not of dislike, but of toleration, is the effect of this collision." "There is no plan more calculated to disconnect Protestants and Roman Catholics, than by setting Protestant schools against Roman Catholic schools, and allowing the pupils to look with jealousy upon each other." 715 716 717
 Sir R. Peel  never heard a statement with greater satisfaction than that of his right hon. Friend, who, from his position, was a high authority in Ireland, and who said the Primate of Ireland, concurred in the principles of the report. He would read from the report the principles in which they concurred. The commissioners declared it as their unanimous opinion:—
 "That no principles of national education, however wise and unexceptionable in other respects, can be carried into effect or execution in Ireland, unless it be explicitly avowed and understood as a leading principle, that no attempt shall be made to influence or disturb the peculiar religious tenets of any sect whatever."
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the conduct of the hon. Member for Montrose, in printing a cheap catalogue of the National Gallery, was in the highest degree creditable to him; and there was not one word which the hon. Gentleman had said as to the cathedrals in which he did not entirely concur. He believed that access might be given to these edifices to the mass of the people with the most perfect safety, and that nothing but good could result from such access being freely afforded; even if any additional precautions were considered
 735
  Sir R, Peel  said, that the hon. Gentleman bad stated that the Government had no control at the board of trustees of the British Museum, whereas six members of the cabinet were  ex officio 732
 Sir R. Peel  replied, that the hon. Gentleman's fertile imagination had suggested certain statements which the hon. Gentleman supposed that he had made, when he was not aware that he had ever said anything as to any negotiations of the nature described by the hon. Gentleman, on the subject of the sugar duties. On the earliest opportunity, he would take care to make a statement to the House on the whole state of our finances, and although he was aware, that the hon. Gentleman's constituents were naturally anxious on the subject, still the hon. Gentleman must excuse him if he did not make him an exception, so as to enter on the present occasion into an explanation on the subject of the sugar duties.
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that it was hardly fair to discuss matters of such great importance without notice, when he had merely risen to answer a question put to him by the noble Lord. All that he said was, that when the duties were high on articles of luxury, and with respect, to which there was no danger of smuggling—for instance, on such articles as wine—that it was advisable, when it appeared possible to make a reduction of the duty on it, to see whether we could not stipulate with foreign countries from whence it came to make a corresponding reduction on our manufactures. His hon. Friend must not infer that in all cases, because corresponding advantages were not granted, that we should insist on stipulations where the continuance of extremely high duties would only inflict injuries on ourselves.
 Sir Robert Peel  had not meant to state anything, nor did he think that he had said anything, which was inconsistent with the opinions he expressed last year with regard to the negotiations with the Brazils.
 Sir R. Peel  said the noble Lord and the House must feel that it would be impossible for him to eater at that moment into any statements as to the several subjects to which the noble Lord had referred. With respect to the noble Lord's question as to the time when the House might expect to have a statement of the finances of the country laid before it, he was sure the noble Lord himself would feel that there were many circumstances which had rendered it impossible to bring forward a statement of the finances of the country at an early period in the session. The state of the finances last year had rendered it necessary to lay a tax on property to the amount of 7 d. 682
 Sir V. Blake  concurred with the hon. Member for Surrey in the impropriety of introducing: religious discussions into that House. But he could not help remarking upon the egregious error into which the hon. Member for Bradford had fallen, in saying that the Catholics objected to the use of the Bible, and that they did not allow the introduction of revelations into their religious education. What they objected to was the abuse of the Bible, and for this objection he thought good grounds existed. He begged also to say, that the revolution was effected not to subvert the Roman Catholic religion, but to establish the civil liberties of Englishmen.
 Viscount Bernard  would not have intruded any remarks of his upon the House, on a subject upon which there were so many Hon. Members present much better qualified to speak, were it not that there was no other Member present, from a large district in the south of Ireland with which he was connected, and that be represented a constituency who entertained the same opinions,
 702 703 "I think now in brief, that any prospect of our uniting with the Roman Catholic church is not deeply alarming, only because it is utterly impracticable There are essential differences between the two churches, which admit of no accommodation. To concede in these matters would be in us unfaithfulness to our providential trust, and in them gross inconsistency; but on such points as I refer to they would not concede a hair's breadth, nor could they without unlocking their whole arch. They, therefore, could only indulge us with modified explanations, in the prospect of afterwards drawing us, by subtlety or by force, from such modifications as, in the first instance, the enlargement of their church might have made it expedient to yield to, but merely with the design of re-explanation as soon as it would be practicable." 704 "Any plan for compelling all the varieties of schools to give way to one inflexible form, would, in our opinion, be a great mistake. We feel strongly that the unexampled improvement that has taken place within a short time in the education of the peasantry of Ireland, ought to be duly appreciated before any of the means by which it has been produced shall be destroyed or endangered. We have stated in our second report that there are at present in Ireland no fewer than 11,823 schools—a greater number, perhaps, than is to be found, for the extent of the population in any other country; and though we lament that many of them still supply instruction of a very objectionable nature, we see, with the utmost satisfaction, the rapid improvement which has already been effected in their character. About twenty-years ago the Scriptures, as we are led to believe, were not read in so many as 600 schools in Ireland, while at present we have ascertained, and stated in our report, that they have found their way into 6,058 daily schools, independent of 1,945 Sunday schools—in all, about 8,000 schools. This great amelioration in the education of the Irish peasantry is still in progress, and can perhaps be checked by no means less powerful than such interference on the part of the stale as would be calculated to counteract it; while, therefore, we are ready to promote the trial of any experiment that may suggest the means of usefulness, or which may, perhaps, be now fitted for some districts hitherto less accessible than others, we cannot too strongly express our opinion that any such experiment ought to be considered only as an accompaniment to those means which experience has proved to be useful, and not as tending to the suppression of any tried instrument of good." 705 706 707 l. l. l. l. "I have myself within the last week seen the houses of two Scripture schools, which for several years had flourished and prospered, but are now closed for want of provision for the payment of the teachers. I well remember when one of them, being in the centre of a large Protestant population, was attended by from seventy to eighty Protestant boys, with about the same number of females in the adjoining department. Now, however, it may well be said, that Ichabod is written upon the doors of the male department of this handsome building, while at the opposite side of the street stands a large Popish school superintended and taught by the four monks." 708
 Lord Ebrington  could not admit that the objections to the grant had originated entirely in religious scruples, for he thought that party spirit had much to do with it. No one could doubt that, who knew how unscrupulously and perseveringly the cry of "No Popery" had been raised in connexion with this subject, and how much had been said about the mutilation of the bill by the commissioners of education. With regard to this, he could not but observe, that while the Established Church maintained the doctrine that the Scriptures ought to be read and circulated amongst the people, principles were spreading in it, which were utterly opposed to those Protestant principles which up to the present time had been regarded as the glory of this country. Every day showed more and more that the, principles of some members of the Established Church were less liberal even than those which induced so many Roman Catholic prelates to sanction the use of those Scripture extracts, which he had read and examined with attention, and found to contain all the essential doctrines and principles of Christianity. He knew they had been abused, but chiefly by those who had not read them. As the noble Lord had defended the national system, it was not necessary for him to say one word; but the attack was not to be wondered at, when the nature of the recent Church appointments and preferment's in Ireland was considered. Scarcely a single distinguished preferment or appointment had been given to any Irish divine, except to such as had been engaged, and some conspicuously, in running down the system which the Government now professed itself determined to uphold. That was the case with respect to the Rev. Mr. Daly. The Government
 700
 Viscount Palmerston  was highly gratified at what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite as to Westminster Abbey. For himself, having been long acquainted with Dean Turton, and knowing his high qualities, and the liberal character of his mind, he was well persuaded that the rev. Gentleman would use all the means in his power to carry out the intentions of the right hon. Baronet. It was not a feeling of mere ordinary curiosity which drew people to Westminster Abbey, but feelings of a far higher kind.
 Lord J. Russell  begged to lay on the Table of the House, the resolutions which it was his intention to propose after Easter, on the
 745 
 "1. That in any bill for the promotion of education in Great Britain, by which a board shall be authorised to levy, or cause to be levied, parochial rates, for the erection and maintenance of schools, provision ought to be made for an adequate representation of the rate-payers of the parish in such board. 2.That the chairman of such board ought to be elected by the board itself. 3.That the Holy Scriptures, in the authorized version, should be taught in all schools established by any such board. 4.That special provision should be made for cases in which Roman Catholic parents may object to the instruction of their children in the Holy Scriptures in such schools. 5.That no other books of religious instruction should be used in such schools unless with the sanction of the Archbishops of Canterbury and York, and the concurrence of the Committee of Privy Council for Education. 6.That, in order to prevent the disqualification of competent schoolmasters on religious grounds, the books of religious instruction, other than the Holy Bible, introduced into the schools, should be taught apart, by the clergyman of the parish, or some person appointed by him, to the children of parents who belong to the Established Church, or who may be desirous that their children should be so instructed. 7. That all children taught in such schools should have free liberty to resort to any Sunday school, or any place of religious worship which their parents may approve.  8. That any school connected with the National School Society, or the British and Foreign School Society, or any Protestant Dissenters' School, or any Roman Catholic School, which shall be found upon inspection to be efficiently conducted, should be entitled, by license from the Privy Council, to grant certificates of school attendance, for the purpose of employment in factories of children and young persons, 9. That, in the opinion of this House, the Committee of Privy Council for Education ought to be furnished with means to enable them to establish and maintain a sufficient
 746 " 10. That the said committee ought likewise to be enabled to grant gratuities to deserving schoolmasters, and to afford such aid to schools established by voluntary contributions as may tend to the more complete instruction of the people in religious and secular knowledge, while at the same time the rights of conscience may be respected."
 Lord J. Russell  was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman should have misunderstood the notice which he gave. The resolutions of which he had given notice stood for to-morrow, and if he had brought them on it would have been necessary, according to the forms of the House, to state what his resolutions were. He bad stated that he did not intend to bring them on till after Easter, but that he would this day lay them on the Table. He had framed them in such a manner, and had deferred the consideration of them, to preserve that
 747
 Lord Stanley,  in answer to the question of the noble Lord, had to state that her Majesty's Government had not thought it necessary to issue any instructions subsequent to, or consequent on, that assurance on the part of Lord Ashburton to the American Secretary of State, to which the noble Lord bad referred. A short time before the correspondence in question, or almost simultaneously with it, her Majesty's Government had had under their deliberate consideration all the circumstances connected with the case of the Creole, out of which the correspondence had arisen; and the whole of that case, with the questions of law to which it bad given rise, had been submitted to the con-
 748
 Lord Stanley  said, if he understood the question of the noble Lord right, it was, whether the instructions sent out by her Majesty's present Government, arising oat of the Creole, were different to the instructions sent out by the previous Go-
 749
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  would take that opportunity of calling the attention of her Majesty's Government to a matter which he thought deserved its serious attention. He held in his hand the papers which had been laid before the House accompanying the instructions issued to Lord AshBurton, and on which that noble Lord had negotiated the treaty of Washington. They contained all those documents which were thought to be necessary to illustrate the eighth article of that treaty. One of those documents was a report made to the United States government by two officers of the United States navy, who had been selected for the service on account of their being extremely welt acquainted with the nature and consequences of the African slave-trade. In that report those two officers, after stating their views of the course which they thought it would be desirable to be adapted by the two governments, went on to describe the slave-trade on the
 750 "From the best information we can obtain, it seems that a large trade is carried on by Portuguese colonies, the Arab chiefs, and negro tribes. Their greatest markets are the Mahomedan countries bordering on the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, the Portuguese East India colonies, Bombay, and perhaps other British possessions in the East Indies; this part of the trade is probably in the hands of Arab vessels."
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, the words, "greatest markets, "were applied to Bom-
 754
 Lord J. Russell  believed the act quoted by the right hon. Baronet was not a new law. Several laws had been passed respecting the status of slavery, before the present law.
 Mr. Colville  moved the following clause:—
 "Be it enacted, that in case the vote of any person so protested against for personation shall have been received, and any other person shall afterwards tender his vote, in respect of the same qualification, stating, at the same time the name or names of the candidate or candidates for whom he tenders such vote, the returning-officer or his deputy shall enter on the poll-book every vote so tendered, distinguishing the same from the votes admitted and allowed at such election."
 The Attorney-general  said there was nothing in the bill to authorize the returning officer to reject a vote tendered by a second person in the same name. The second person in such a case was more likely to be the true man, for it could hardly be attempted to personate a man who had already voted.
 Sir James Graham  moved the second reading of the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill,
 Sir R. H. Inglis  rose and said: * * 785 Graham: " 786 * Blue Book Blue Book * 787 quasi "The very rev. the Dean of Sarum, by an ancient constitution of the cathedral church, has exercised peculiar and exempt episcopal jurisdiction over eighty-two parishes; the dean having ordinary jurisdiction over the prebends of the Church (in which the prebendaries exercise archiadiaconal jurisdiction, having formerly resided on their prebends) and peculiar jurisdiction in other parishes; and, as ordinary, visiting triennially the prebends, in like manner as the bishop visits the archdeaconries; and visiting annually the other parishes in his peculiar and immediate jurisdiction, according to the ancient statutes of the Church, and the constant usage for above five centuries past, " 788 789 * 790 oculus episcapi, 791 792 "Within my own experience, I have known many instances of suits having been amicably settled by an inspection of the will of the deceased in the registry office; the parties have recognized their relative's handwriting, and been content. How is this to be effected at Exeter or in London? How are poor people to travel 100 or 300 miles to see and be satisfied?" "And when once the difficulty and improbability—of inspection by those interested in detecting frauds or forgeries—are known, it cannot be supposed that such practices will be less frequently resorted to." * 793 " Nobody but those in the practice of it can tell how it appeases angry and litigant parties by taking them to the register office, and showing them the orignial document, the handwriting of the deceased, &c. &c. These are matters inherent in human nature, about which there is no arguing. At present, a will may be seen for a shilling. If deposited in the Commons, I will give you an idea of what the probable expense would be, by inclosing a skeleton of a probable bill.
 Sir James Graham , Sir, my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, baa made so direct an appeal to me, that it is impossible for me to delay replying to the remarks with which my hon. Friend has prefaced the amendment that has just been read. I can assure my hon. Friend that if this measure had been hastily prepared, or if I thought, that further deliberation might change my views upon the bill now under the consideration of the House, I would willingly yield to the suggestion for delay. But the bill has not been brought forward prematurely, nor without ample preparation on the part of her Majesty's Government, and I should only be guilty of deception, if I were to lead any one to believe it possible that I could change my views respecting this measure. Considering the view which nay hon. Friend takes of this measure, it is quite natural and consistent on his part
 806 807 808 bona notabilia, 809 l. l. 810 811
 Mr. Jervis  repudiated the insinuation cast on the motives of the opponents of this measure by the right hon. Baronet, who, in his Opinion, would have done better had he refuted the arguments urged in opposition to it, and proved the advantages likely to follow from its enactment, instead of bringing forward the authority of committees over which he himself presided—[Sir J.  Graham 812 caveats l. 813 814 bonâ notabilia,  815 l. l. l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would support his hon. Friend the Member for Oxford in endeavouring to remove at one fell blow a Bill of that obnoxious character. If her Majesty's Government had made this an open question, many of the Members of the Government would not have supported the right hon. Baronet, the Home Secretary, on that occasion. When a similar
 816
 Sir G. Grey  said, if it were the pleasure of the House to continue the debate—  [Loud cries of
 Sir R. Peel  said, that, if the debate had been commenced at five, he should have pressed the question to a division that night; but as the debate was not begun until half past nine, he thought it only right to adjourn it.
 Lord C. Fitzroy  said, he hoped the House would not reject the clause, though he was thankful the right hon. Baronet had thrown out enough in the course of his observations to induce revising barristers to act more in conformity with that opinion.
 Lord C. Fitzroy,  pursuant to notice, moved the following clause:—
 "And be it enacted, that in order to obviate all doubts as to the meaning of the words of the clear yearly value of not less than 10 l. l. l.
 Lord John Russell  could not allow what had been considered the rights of the House of Commons for several centuries—those rights on which the existence and power of the House of Commons had ere this depended in the most troublesome times—to be given up without again stating his reasons for dissenting from what would probably be the judgment of the House. He did not think that it was fair that these rights should be given up without further discussion, or that it was idle and impertinent to make some still further stand for the privileges of the House. The right hon. Baronet to-night, as well as on other occasions, had alluded to the proposition made during the time when the late Ministry was in power with respect to the Court of Appeal established in Ireland. The right hon. Baronet seemed to think, that that proposition was decisive against him (Lord John Russell), and that it was a great authority in favour of the measure which the right hon. Baronet now brought forward, a compliment which he appreciated and acknowledged. He thought at first, from what the right hon. Baronet stated, that he was wrong with reference to the last registration bill which had been introduced; but, upon referring to that measure, which had been brought in by Lord Morpeth, he found that it gave power to the judges appoint three barrister to be the court of appeal, and were to sit in Dublin, That had been the proposition of the late Government, as brought in by Lord Morpeth. But with respect to the Irish franchise, he found that it was in so vague and unsatisfactory a state, that he was deeply impressed with the necessity of adopting some remedy, and it was, therefore, proposed, in a bill brought forward by one of the law officers of the late Government, to leave to the judge of assize the decision of questions relating to the franchise. He could not say, that what had occurred in Ireland was to him a great inducement to invest the English judges with a similar power to that reposed in the Irish judges. He remembered, that on one case there were eleven judges who gave an opinion on a question affecting the franchise, and of the eleven, there were eight holding Tory principles, who gave an opinion in accordance with those principles, and three Whigs, who also gave an opinion in accordance with the advancement of Whig interests. It could not be denied, that
 774 775 776 s. s.  s. s. 777
 Mr. Cochrane  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government. He begged to ask whether the Greek government had not refused to find means to pay the first instalment of the Greek loan which was now due, and whether England would cot, in that case, have to pay the interest of the loan? He also wished to ask whether if that government came here for another loan it would be granted?
 Mr. Thesiger  maintained that the qualification gave the right to vote, and if the qualification were exhausted, if the returning officer had registered a vote for a qualification, he could not register another vote. That was, according to his view, the present state of the law. There was no power to enable the returning officer to receive the vote of a voter who had been personated, and in his opinion the clause was clearly essential and ought to be introduced into the bill.
 Mr. Kemble  said, he understood there was some difficulty in the minds of the law officers as to the clause of which he had given notice, and he would therefore withdraw it.
 Mr. Hume  was understood to refer to that part of the report of the officers of the United States which described Bombay as the market of slaves, and to ask whether any slave ships now went to Bombay.
 Mr. Hume  said, the case was one of some difficulty, but be thought that it was likely that it would not be single cases, but classes of cases, that would be determined by the court of appeal, and as he thought the reference 10 the Court of Common Pleas would compel the revising barristers to act on some uniformity of principle, he should support the motion.
 Sir George Grey  saw no objection whatever to the clause, and would support it.
 Sir James Graham  said, there was a difficulty on the subject, arising from differences of opinion as to the nature of the law and the power of the returning-officer. It was contended, on the one hand, that the returning-officer had no power to place the real voter on the poll, and, on the other, that he had. If the returning-officer had ascertained that he had received anerroneous, and the returning-officer befog satisfied of his error, should, on the real voter presenting himself, think it his duty to place that voter on the poll, then there was an occasion for the clause of his hon. Friend. In fact, the clause of his hon. Friend, were the law as he had stated, would not only not gain, but it Would defeat his hon. Friend's object. would place the personated voter in a worse condition than he would be in under the present law. That opinion as to the present state of the law was entertained by persons of high authority, but persons of equally high authority took a different view. They contended that a returning-officer having once carried a vote to account on the poll, had on power to recall
 756
 Sir James Graham  objected to the clause. If the bill introduced into that House by the hon. Member for Stroud, for establishing a uniformity of rating had been carried into effect, he should have no objection to the clause. But such was not the case. So far from there being a uniformity of rating, it was different in
 755
 Sir James Graham : I labour under many disadvantages in rising to answer the very able speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman. In the first place, I am not at all prepared to enter upon the wide field of discussion opened by the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, who gave no notice of his intention to bring forward as a subject of discussion, the question which he has so fully debated. After the third reading of the bill, I was not prepared for the discussion of a principle so important. I entertain the greatest respect for the talents of the hon. and learned Gentleman—I feel the most unfeigned admiration for the boldness, integrity, and resolution with which, under all circumstances, and on all occasions, he defends the privileges of the House. If I thought the clauses in question involved any surrender of the rights and privileges of the House, so far from agreeing to them, I would give them my most hearty opposition; but I differ from the notion that the clauses involve any such surrender, and I must observe, that it appears to me, that the speech of the hon. Gentle-
 768 769 in statu quo 770 771 772
 Sir J. Graham  had not, of course, had as yet any opportunity of considering these resolutions, for he was not at all cognizant of them until that they bad been read by the noble Lord; but he would give them his best attention. He had every reason to hope and believe that this question would be most dispassionately considered. On the former occasion he had received the greatest assistance from the noble Lord and other hon. Members in promoting a calm and dispassionate discussion; and he trusted, that the House would act up to this principle throughout. Since the second reading of the measure he had received many deputations on the subject, and had heard objections to various parts of the bill. It had been the duty of himself and of his colleagues, a duty which they most readily fulfilled, to give their most calm and dispassionate consideration to the objections suggested. He was not prepared now to state exactly what modifications of the original proposal the Government was disposed to make; but thus far he was at liberty to mention to the House, that several points touched upon in the noble Lord's resolutions had formed the subject of deliberation by the Government; and he confidently hoped, that consistently with the principles announced by him on the second reading, it would be in his power to propose several modifications upon those points.
 Sir Robert Peel  said it was quite true that the Greek government had failed to pay the first half of the loan, as the hon. Gentleman had mentioned; and it was equally true that the interest must be paid by this country. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that if any application were made for a fresh loan, it would be declined.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the present act was an act to declnre and amend the laws, and not a new law.
 Sir R. Peel  replied, that it might have occasionally happened that Arab vessels, bringing African boys, came to these ports, and transferred their cargoes to the natives without the interference of the British authorities, but the greatest efforts were made to prevent abuse.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the House must recollect, with respect to the papers referred to by his hon. Friend, how they came to be laid on the Table of the House. The noble Lord opposite had asked for certain
 751 752 " Fort William Legislative Department, Jan. "The following draft of a proposed act was read in Council for the first time, January 6,
 753 "1. It is hereby enacted and declared that no public officer shall, in execution of, any decree or order of court, or for the enforcement of any demand of rent or revenue, sell, or cause to be sold, any person, or the right to the compulsory labour or services of any person, on the ground that such person is in a state of slavery. " 2. And it is hereby declared and enacted, that no rights arising out of an alleged property in the person and services of another as a slave, shall be enforced by any civil or criminal court or magistrate, within the territories of the East India Company. " 3. And it is hereby declared and enacted, that no person who may have acquired property by his own industry, or by the exercise of any art, calling, or profession, or by inheritance, assignment, gift, or bequest, shall be dispossessed of such property, or prevented from taking possession thereof, on the ground that such person, or that the person for whom the property may have been derived, was a slave. "4. And it is hereby enacted, that any act which could be a penal offence, if done to a free man, shall be equally an offence if done to any person on the pretext of his being in a condition of slavery."
 Sir T. Wilde  conceived, that it went much further. The election committee of that House was a committee to be appealed to, and not one of original jurisdiction, and by this clause it was excluded from doing that which ought to be so left to it. That clause must be read in connection with the 42nd clause, to which he had already called their attention; and, as he conceived, that House should maintain that which they had already secured with great cost and hazard, and ought always to possess the power of determining finally upon the franchise, instead of being, as it was proposed, precluded as to matters of law by the opinion of courts of law. The period, too, at which this was attempted was most inauspicious. It was when they were engaged in the discussion of questions as to the jurisdiction of courts of law. It never had been denied that, to a very great extent Parliamentary law was distinct from the common law. He had always considered that committees of that House were too much trammelled, and bound down by the ordinary and technical rules which prevailed in courts of law. They Were now, however, not merely to introduce the practices of the courts of law, and permit them to interfere with Parliamentary tribunals, but they proposed to refer questions of law to the Court of Common Pleas. They had determined to leave questions of law—and these might include more than questions of law—to be decided by the technical rules of the courts. The mode of doing this, he considered, was one which ought not to be assented to. It was open to very serious objections —it was one assimilated to a class of cases against which complaints were the loudest, and the mode of proceeding regarded as most anomalous; he meant the session cases, wherein that was confirmed by one court, on which appeal was made on
 762 sic volo " And be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for any person who, under the provisions hereinbefore contained, shall have made any claim to have his name inserted in any list, or made any objection to any other person as not entitled to have his name inserted in any list, or whose name shall have been expunged from any list, and who in any such case shall be aggrieved by or dissatisfied with any decision of any revising barrister on any point of law material to the result of such case, either himself or by some person on his behalf, to give to the revising barrister in court, before the rising of the said court, on the same day on which such decision shall have been pronounced, a notice in writing that he is desirous to appeal, and in such notice shall shortly state the decision against which he desires to appeal; and the said barrister thereupon, if be thinks it reasonable and proper that such appeal should be entertained, shall state in writing the facts which according to his judgment shall have been established by the evidence in the case, and which shall be material to the matter in question." 763 764 765 766 767
 Sir T. Wilde  considered that it was otherwise. The register of the voters should be final and conclusive as to the rights of the electors, as it appeared on the register.
 Sir Thomas Wilde  thought that no second vote could be polled in the same name. The prudent course would be to insert such a clause as was proposed.
 Sir Thomas Wilde  wished to call the attention of the House for a few minutes to clauses 42, 48 58, 72, and 94, all being connected with the same matter, those
 757 758 759 "And whereas in and by the said first-recited act it is provided that upon petition to the House of Commons, complaining of an undue election or return of any Member or Members to serve in Parliament, any petitioner, or any person defending such election or return, shall be at liberty to impeach the correctness of the register of voters in force at the time of such election, by proving that, in consequence of the decision of the barrister who shall have revised the lists of voters from which such register shall have been formed, the name of any person who voted at such election was improperly inserted or retained in such register, or the name of any person who tendered his vote at such election improperly Omitted from such register; and the select committee appointed for the trial of such petition shall alter the poll taken at such election according to the truth of the case, and shall report their determination thereupon to the House, and the House shall thereupon carry such determination into effect, and the return shall be amended or the election declared void, as the case may be, and the register corrected accordingly, or such other order shall be made as to the House shall seem proper: And whereas doubts have arisen as to the true intent and meaning of the said enactment with respect to the power and authority of any such committee to inquire into the validity or invalidity of the vote of any person being on the register of voters in force at the time of such election j be it therefore declared and enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for any such committee to inquire into and decide upon the right to vote of any person who, being upon the register of voters in force at the time of such election, shall have voted in such election, or not being upon such register, shall have tendered his vote at such election, in case the name of such person shall have been
 760
 The Solicitor-General  observed, that the words now objected to were introduced in consequence of reported decisions of committees of that House. It Was for the purpose of making the law uniform. Committees had decided that they would not inquire into the validity of a Vote Unless an objection had been taken before the barrister. If there had been no objection offered before the barrister, then the committees had determined to make no inquiry as to the validity of the vote. The object of the clause was to make that clear which before had been doubtful.
 The Solicitor-General  remarked, that was the case at present. He referred the hon. and learned Gentleman to the 60th section, and there it would be found that restriction was imposed, which was now complained of. The fact was, that it was the Reform Bill that determined that they could not examine into the validity of votes unless an objection to them had been taken and expressly decided upon by a revising barrister. Therefore, it was the Reform
 761
 The Solicitor-general  took the same view of the law as his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Woodstock. When the returning-officer had once placed a person on the poll for one qualification, be had done his duty, and he could not place another person on the poll for that same qualification. He ought not to do so. There was then a difficulty in the case for which the clause of the hon. Member for Derby was meant to provide.
 The Solicitor-General  was sorry to trespass on the House, but he felt called upon to do so in consequence of what had fallen from the noble Lord and his hon. and learned Friend (Sir T. Wilde.) His hon. and learned Friend had spoken of this bill as being of equal importance to the Septennial Act, and the noble Lord said that this bill was an inroad upon the constitution, and that they were called upon to part with some of the jurisdiction of the House which their ancestors had struggled to maintain. Now, he trusted that both his hon. and learned Friend and the noble Lord would pardon him for saying, that it appeared to him, from what they had slated, that they did not understand the clause. He was sure that his hon. and learned Friend, when he rose to address the House, was under the impres-
 778 779 T. Wilde: 780 J. Russell: 781 782 783
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that certain papers on this subject bad been laid on the Table of the House in 1839, exhibiting the views of the then Government in reference to it. He wished to see from the instructions whether, and to what extent, the present Government differed from the late Government in their view of the operation of British law in our colonies, in reference to slaves coming into those colonies, under whatever circumstances.
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, with reference to the papers laid on the Table on the subject of the negotiations respecting the Washington Treaty. In a letter from Lord Ashburton to Mr. Webster, dated the 7th of August, 1842, in answer to Mr. Webster's application with regard to the case of the Creole, his Lordship said —
 " In the meantime, I engage that instructions shall be given to the governors of her Majesty's colonies at the southern borders of the United States to execute the laws duly, and that there shall be no officious interference with American vessels."
 Mr. G. Knight  said, that it was with regret that he felt compelled to oppose the motion of his hon. Friend; but having been for several years a vestrymen of one of the metropolitan parishes which the measure proposed to be introduced by his hon. Friend would affect, knowing how contrary to the wishes of the rate-payers in that parish any such alteration would be, and not having found that any such evils resulted from the present state of things as had been represented by the hon. Baronet, he should not be doing his duty by his fellow parishioners if he did not resist the introduction of the
 839 l.
 Colonel T. Wood  could not admit that the hon. Member for Lambeth had made a fair statement of the feelings of the public upon this subject, because, though in a majority of parishes the people were very well contented with the present act, in Marylebone and St. Pancras there was the strongest party feeling existing that it was possible to imagine. As an instance of it he would mention that the other day a bill was introduced as the suggestion of the trustees of St. Pancras, which every member of the committee approved of as being most laudable; but the committee having introduced the elective principle, making half of them to be nominated by the parishioners and the other half by the vestry, a hostile feeling was kindled immediately and the bill was dropped. As to the measure before the House, he thought his hon. Friend attempted too much. Certainly he had not grounded his propositions on facts, but upon gene-
 841
 Mr. Cowper  rose to move for a select committee to inquire into the propriety of setting apart a portion of all waste lands which shall be inclosed by act of Parliament, to be let out in small allotments to the labouring poor of the district, and also into the best mode of effecting the same. There had been considerable experience as to the effects of the allotment system, and it was shown to be highly beneficial. The cultivation by spade husbandry increased to an extraordinary extent the produce of the land. It had been shown that land of scarcely any value had by this means been brought into profitable cultivation, and that land somewhat fertile had increased in value seven fold. The scheme which he wished to see adopted, was that of setting apart a very small part for each man, to be cultivated in his leisure hours, but not to interfere with his usual daily employment. This would add materially to the comforts of the poor man, without making him independent altogether of work. It struck him, when vast quantities of land were about to be enclosed, that a proper opening was afforded for the introduction of this system; and while parts were apportioned according to the rights of each, the public interest should not be lost sight of when the residue came to be dealt with. It had been found that this system was a sure method of keeping down the rates; and in a district near Bath a reduction had been thereby effected from 700 l. l. 857
 Colonel Wood : It was no reason, because it might be determined to open our ports hereafter to the corn of other countries, that the poor man should be prevented from raising some for himself. As in former enclosure acts certain quantities of the enclosed lands were set apart for the use of the parish in which they were situate, and these were let by the overseers of the poor to one farmer, the rent being applied to reduce the poor-rates, he thought the committee should have power to inquire whether these lands might not be more usefully allotted in small parcels to labourers, and he should, therefore, suggest the addition after the words "act of Parliament" of the following words, "or of any lands which under any enclosure acts, shall have been appropriated to the benefit of the poor."
 Captain Rous  thought, as far as he was acquainted with its operation, nothing could have acted better than Hobhouse's Bill, and he should object to going back to all the evils of the select vestry system.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the bill proposed by the right hon. Baronet was not approved of by any persons having local influence or information in the metropolis. He hoped the House would not consent to its introduction.
  Mr. Hindley , seeing the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department in his place, wished to ask him whether be was then prepared to state to the House what alterations he intended to make in the educational clauses of the Factory Bill? and also what portion of the resolutions read last night by the noble Lord, the Member for the City of London, the right hon. Gentleman approved of, and which of them he disapproved of?
 Dr. Bowring  rose to move for the production of the correspondence of the British Government with the Porte on the subject of the Bishop of Jerusalem. The hon. Member proceeded to state the circumstances relative to the mission of a Protestant bishop to Jerusalem. It having been determined that it would be desirable to establish a Protestant bishop at Jerusalem, application was made to the Porte to obtain its sanction to the establishment of a Protestant bishop at Jerusalem, and a large sum of money had been obtained on the understanding that a firman had been granted by the Porte for the establishment of a Protestant bishop in Syria. But no such firman had been granted. The Porte neither could nor would recognise the new Bishopric of Jerusalem. It could not, for the superior tribunals to which such questions were necessarily referred, had again and again decided that it was not competent for the Porte to establish new churches in the countries which had been submitted to the Mussulman sway. And thus the large amount of money which had been raised in England had been raised on a statement which was without foundation. Another object, however, had been connected with this proposal. It was known that there was one monarch in Europe, the King of Prussia, who was desirous of co-operating for the purpose
 843 Ebn Tavudi, 844 845 Mèmbers: 846
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the grant of money having been made in this case, he thought it a fair subject for discussion. He took in very good part everything that was said as to the impropriety of his observations; but he really had intended to treat it without exaggeration. He should withdraw his motion for the present.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that there had been laid on the Table of the House reports from the commissioners appointed to inquire into the criminal law of this country, one of which reports recommended a code of criminal law. He wished to ask whether Government was prepared to bring forward in the present Session any measure embodying the recommendations of the commissioners?
 Mr. Hume : There was nothing at this moment to prevent landlords letting out allotments. He considered this motion would only tend to raise delusive hopes, and take the minds of the people off the real object—a free-trade in corn. Why adopt a doubtful expedient when a remedy was before them whose efficacy nobody questioned? He had no objection that the hon. Gentleman should amuse himself with collecting evidence on this question, but he should rather see him assist-
 858
 Mr. Hume  had had sufficient experience of vestries to dread a return to the old system. The present bill seemed to be levelled at the parish of Marylebone, from which, and, indeed, from nowhere else had a single petition come in its favour; but he was sure that nine-tenths of the parishioners of Marylebone would petition against it.
 Mr. Hume  war glad to hear the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis) say, that there was nothing in the fact of an individual being bore of Jewish parents to prevent him from obtaining a high religious office. He hoped, therefore, that when the opportunity was next afforded to him, which would perhaps be soon, the right has. Baronet would give his vote in favour of a removal of all civil disabilities from the Jews. His hon. Friend (Dr. Bowring) deserved the thanks of the House for obtaining that acknowledgement from the right hon. Baronet. With respect to the object for which the Bishop had been appointed to Jerusalem, he was of opinion that where a man was anxious to promote those religious feelings and that belief which he held to be right, he aught to be allowed to do so, when, in thus acting, he did not interfere with the law. He was of opinion, that it would have been better, if before sending out the Bishop, they had ascertained how he would be received, and secured for him that respect to which he was entitled as a British subject. It was in reference to that considerations, as to the reception and treatment of the Bishop, that he thought any inconvenience could be attached. He was sure that no man was mere in favour of the extension of religious enlightenment than his hon. Friend who brought forward the motion.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  asked whether it were the intention of the Government to extend the operation of the Factory Bill and education clauses to other trades and manufactures in which children and young persons are employed, besides those mentioned in the preamble of the bill? Whether the Government could name the particular employments to which factory regulations were to be extended? It was thought by some, that since there are now commissioners inquiring into the employment of children and young persons in the agricultural districts, it might be the intention of the Government to propose some kind of regulations respecting the employment of children in those districts, perhaps with a view of promoting education, making employment conditional on school attendance, and obliging a farmer, previous to employing a child, to see that such child had obtained a school certificate. He wished to ask had the Government any plan of this sort in contemplation? and when would the report of the commissioners for inquiring into the employment of young persons in the agricultural districts be on the Table of the House?
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he had been ready and anxious to bring forward his motion, "For a yearly report by a Minister of the Crown on the subject of education." The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had represented to him that such a course might embarrass the general question of education. Though he (Mr. Ewart) had opposed, and should continue strongly to oppose (if they remained unaltered), the principles of the educational clauses of the right hon. Baronet's Factory Bill, he would not take any unfair advantage of the right hon. Baronet; and he felt certain that, whenever he brought forward his own motion again, the right hon. Baronet would meet him fairly, and rather facilitate than embarrass its discussion. Further representations had been made to him by Gentlemen disposed to support his measure, that it would come on with more advantage at a later period of the Session. He thought it neither prudent nor proper, in general, to oppose the prevailing feeling of the House, still less the feeling of those who were favourable to a measure. He considered that this measure would gain, rather than lose, by time and consideration. He should, therefore, postpone it till a later period of the Session; but he should certainly bring it forward before the Session closed.
 Mr. Mackinnon  would not deny that his hon. Friend had gone too far; but why not let the bill be brought in and go into committee, and then there would be a proper opportunity to strike out what was objectionable? The majority of the borough of Marylebone wished the evils of the present system to be remedied, and there was no other way of meeting their wishes than by the course taken by his hon. Friend, who was met, not in the ordinary way, but in a manner which looked very much like an indication of party spirit.
 Sir B. Hall  opposed the motion. The measure would interfere very much with the metropolitan parishes, and it was made by a gentleman who had not the slightest parliamentary connection with the metropolitan districts. His hon. Friend had not stated that there was any single grievance under the present system. He had not shown that there had been any jobbing, any increase of rates or expenditure. In fact, in every parish where this Act had been adopted the contrary was the case, and in the parish which he represented the select vestry had, during the seven years preceding the adoption of the Hobhouse Act, expended 1,015,824 l. 840 l. l. l.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he had been asked, on the part of the Government, to undertake to introduce this bill, and he declined; but he said he was perfectly willing to hear the statements which might be made by the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward the measure, and to give it his most deliberate consideration. Most certainly he had been led to believe, that, in the various parishes of the metropolis, there was an earnest desire for a change of the law as now established, and he had come down to the House prepared to be the strenuous supporter of his hon. Friend; but when he heard the hon. Member for North Notts, the hon. Member for Middlesex, and the hon. Member for Lymington, though they supported the hon. Member to some extent, declare that he had gone too far, and when he found that the bill did not receive that support from the metropolitan members which was naturally expected for a measure desired by the inhabitants of the metropolis, he must say that he could not join in the advice given by the friends of the hon. Gentleman to let the bill be introduced;
 842
 Sir J. Graham  agreed, that such allotments would be conducive to the comfort of the labourer if kept within very narrow limits. The land allotted must not be considered by the labourer as a provision for his family. The plan had been tried already by kind and considerate landlords with the best effects. He thought the present a more safe course than that proposed the other night by the hon. Member for Knaresborough. He should gladly assent to the committee, if fairly selected, for he should be sorry to interfere with so benevolent an object.
 Sir Jams Graham  said, that on former occasion, he had intimated that it was the intention of Government, after the Factory Bill should have received the sanction of the House, to extend its operations by a supplemental measure to manufacturers of lace and cotton prints, the Factory Bill before the House only applying to manufacturers in cottons, woollen goods, silks, and flax. The report of the commission referred to was not yet ready
 Sir J. Graham  said, that this was a most important question, and he was therefore much obliged by the notice the hon. and learned Gentleman had given him of his intention to ask it. The House was aware that the result of the protracted labours of the commission referred to was seven reports. In the last of these reports the commissioners recommended the consolidation of the criminal law, appending specimens of the mode in which they would suggest this to be done in the laws as to treason and murder. He was persuaded, however, that such important changes in the criminal law could not be effected in this way. There must necessarily be not merely a compilation of the statutes, but also a thorough examination of the decisions of the judges, and of the interpretations of the law by the courts. To render such a compilation safe and eligible, would require the exercise of the utmost caution, the most matured experience, and the most extensive knowledge. He did not think the Government, as a Government, should undertake this compilation. If done at all, it should be the work of a commission; and he was not prepared to say, that for the purpose of attempting this great work, he could advise her Majesty to issue such a com. mission. It would be one of the greatest changes ever attempted in the laws of this country, having a most important bearing upon the future administration of those laws. He could not conceive a
 831
 Sir J. Graham  replied, that he was altogether at a loss to answer the question of the hon. Gentleman. Last night, he said, in reply to the noble Lord, that there were certain modifications of the educational clauses of the Factory Bill under the serious consideration of the Government; but he distinctly stated that nothing had yet been matured or determined on by the Government.
 Sir J. Walsh , in reply, said that he could not but feel that the House had met his proposition in a spirit somewhat different from that which was usual. He had attended to the loose and desultory conversation which had followed his statement, and had heard hon. Gentlemen near him and others opposite say he had gone too far; but he had heard no attempt to deal with the bill on its merits, and there seemed to be a determination not to allow the subject to be discussed. He thought he had made out a sufficient case to entitle him to the ordinary courtesy, and he had been disappointed of support where he expected it. Therefore, standing alone almost, he should not be guilty of betraying the interests of those who were anxious for an alteration of the law if he submitted to circumstances and withdrew his bill.
 Sir J. Walsh  said, that in order to render the objects of his proposed amendment intelligible to the House, it would be necessary for him briefly to retrace the principal provisions of Hob-house's Vestries Act, and the circumstances which had led to its adoption. Many hon. Members would no doubt remember the great excitement which had prevailed about twelve or fourteen years ago in the metropolitan parishes on the subject of the close, or self-elected vestries. These vestries had not in the first instance been established by legislative enactments,—they had grown
 832 d 833 l. 834 835 836 837 
 
 Parished containing rate-payers. 
 2000 to 3000 into 2 districts. 
 3000 to 5000 into  3 districts. 
 5000 to 7000 into 4  districts. 
 Above 7000  into 5 districts. 838
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that if his right hon. Friend were prepared to state the intentions of the Government, he would at once withdraw, without interposing any delay to the House receiving that gratification. It would be a compliment to the hon. and learned Gentleman who bad just sat down to say, that he was surprised at his speech. Much as be objected to its tone, spirit, and manner, it was only what he might have expected. The hon. and learned Member thought fit to speak with taunt and levity of the appointment and the person of the Bishop of the Church of England in Jerusalem. That scorn and derision were misapplied. The appointment did equal honour to the princes who concurred in it, and to the individual who was the object of their favour. For what was the fact? up to the date of that appointment, ours was the only Christian community in the old world, which had not sent one of its highest order of ecclesiastics as its representative to the Holy Land. Why should the Protestant Reformed Church of England be prevented, more than the Church of Rome, the Greek Church, the Armenian Church, the Church of the Nestorians—from having a bishop in Jerusalem? We did not presume to send any one to he the "representative of Christianity" in the East, as the hon. and learned member called the bishop. "The whole front of the offending" in the matter was neither more nor less than this—that Dr. Alexander had been sent forth as one of the highest ministers of our own Church, to reside where the bishops of other communications had long been permitted to reside. So much for the appointment itself—then, as to the person appointed. The hon. and learned Gentleman specially objected to the individual chosen: first, he was stated to be a Jew—as if this were a conclusive
 847 R. H. Inglis 848 Pangloss 849 "The banner of the Cross waving below the crescent of Mahomet." 850 "There is not a word of truth in the story; in the first place I have never preached in the open air; and, in the next, I have never been stoned."
 Sir R. Peel  said, perhaps acceding to a motion for the production of papers may depend, in a great measure, on the tone and spirit in which the application is made, and I think the hon. Member who brought forward this motion, appears to have been actuated not only by a hostile spirit with respect to the Bishop of Jerusalem, but that he has commented upon his reception in a tone of levity not at all suited to the importance of the subject. Certainly it could not be expected, that a person undertaking the discharge of episcopal functions under such circumstances should not labour under some prejudices, and not have to contend against difficulties; but I am bound to say, that the production of the correspondence moved for would not be calculated to lessen those difficulties, or relieve him from those embarrassments connected with the discharge of his duties. On these grounds, I feel bound to state that it would not be consistent with my sense of public duty to produce the correspondence. But even were I able, consistently with my sense of public duty, to produce the correspondence, 1 should have great unwillingness to risk the production of that impression on the public mind which might be created if the hon. Member's motion was agreed to. I do not see the public grounds for his motion. The hon. Member says that we assured the public at the time, that this appointment would cause no public expence. Well, it has not, beyond the Bishop's conveyance to the coast of Syria. All the assurances given at the time of his appointment will be fulfilled. No demand has ever been made on the public purse for any allowance, nor am I aware that there is any probability that any such demand will be made; therefore the hon. Member had no right to charge those by whom the nomination of this Bishop was originally promoted with any departure from the arrangements then proposed. The hon. Member says, that the greatest prejudices exist amongst the inhabitants of the coast of Syria with respect to his appointment. I apprehend that there is great exaggeration on this subject. I hold in my hand an account of the Bishop's reception on his arrival, which was. as favourable as could have been expected by the most sanguine friends to his appointment. I have here the report of Colonel Rhodes who accompanied the Bishop in his passage from Jaffa to Jeru-
 852 Bowring: 853
 Sir R. H. Inglis and Sir Robert Peel  rose together; but Sir Robert Peel gave way.
 Viscount Palmerston  concurred in the view taken by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, with respect to the motion before the House. It did not appear to him that there were any Parliamentary grounds for the production of the papers moved for, and he could easily understand that the presentation of these papers would tend to impede, rather than advance, the objects and labours of the bishop of Jerusalem. He regretted that his hon. Friend had introduced his motion in a speech so characterised by tone and manner as that which his hon. Friend had addressed to the House. He could not compliment his hon. Friend on the good taste of that speech, or the judgment he had shown in supposing it to be well adapted to induce the House to accede to his motion, His hon. Friend had lavished some witticisms on the fact of Bishop Alexander being a married man, and being accompanied by his wife and children. Now it seemed to him rather extraordinary that a Protestant should deem that fact a subject for either surprise or merriment, or should consider that a circumstance connected with the doctrine and discipline of the faith of which he was a member, could be a matter for reproach or ridicule in any quarter of the world. He should think that any Protestant would rather deem such a fact a matter of praiseworthy distinction between Protestant churches and other churches, and a subject for pride and self-congratulation. But his hon. Friend was mistaken in the facts on which he had founded the impression he sought to excite, because, although marriage was forbidden to the clergymen of the Catholic Church, it was not so in the Greek church with which the Protestant Church would naturally come into comparison in that part of the world. It was true he believed, that the bishops of the Greek church were not married men; that was to say, that no married man was a bishop in that church. But his hon. Friend knew that in the same church no man could be a priest unless be was married, so that in the lower degrees of officers of the church marriage was an essential requisite. With respect to the assertion that demands had been made inconsistent with the Turkish law, he would observe that the British had asked no favour of the Turkish government. A British subject had merely gone to Turkey, and no Task had any
 855 856
 Mr. D'Israeli  wished to put certain questions to her Majesty's Government with respect to the affairs of Servia. The House would recollect, that by the treaty of 1840, the principal powers of Europe, among whom, of coarse, were, England and Russia, had entered into stipulations to maintain the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire. He, had, however, been informed, upon very competent authority, that the Cabinet of St. Petersburg had insisted on interfering in the internal affairs of one of the provinces of the Turkish empire, which was contrary to the wishes and in direct opposition to the policy of the Sultan and of the other powers. The questions he wished to put to her Majesty's Government were, whether they considered that such conduct on the part of the cabinet of St. Petersburg was in unison with the stipulations of the treaty of July, 1840; and whether, in case the cabinet of St. Petersburg should persist in that conduct, it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to uphold the integrity and independence of the Ottoman empire and the sovereignty of the Sultan?
 Mr. Williams  complained of the high interest which was paid on Exchequer-bills, and he begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman opposite to the subject. The Government was at this moment paying l¾ d 861 s. s., l l l d. d. l l l l d. d. 862
 Lord Stanley  said, with regard to the Canada Corn Bill, the information that had been received from the Governor-General of Canada was ready to be laid on the Table, though it had been only recently received. Probably within a few days he should be enabled to give notice of the precise day on which he should move for leave to bring in a bill on the subject. Certainly the Government would take an early day for bringing on the discussion on this subject. As to the second question of the noble Lord, he must remark that the act complained of was only passed for nine months. He had only that morning received private information from the Board of Trade, to which, as the noble Lord knew, all such questions were
 865
 Lord Stanley  said, he had not recently received any communication from the governor; he was therefore unable to answer the question. Neither had he received the official report from the Board of Trade, and when he had received that report, he should immediately, and he hoped by the next packet, communicate with the Governor-general.
 Mr. Williams  said, there were three of the voles to be submitted to the House to-night, which, he thought, in fairness to the public, ought to be withdrawn. The first was vote No. 13, of 12,190 l l l l l 866 l l l l l
 Mr. Bernal  was not prepared on that occasion for the colonial disquisition in which his hon. Friend had indulged. His hon. Friend came there with figures prepared to his hand; and he, who was without figures, could not at the moment be prepared to contradict him; but when his
 867
 Lord Stanley  said, he could not be surprised at the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, at the same time he felt satisfied the House would excuse him if he did not find it necessary to follow the hon. Member for Coventry into the general discussion as to the profit or loss caused by the colonies to this country. His silence, on that topic would not, however, he hoped, be understood as a concurrence in the doctrines broached by the hon. Member for Coventry. The hon. Member had taken an unusual course in discussing at once three items of the estimates before the House went into committee upon them. He hoped, however, that the hon. Member's present proceeding would save as many speeches upon each item. It was in that hope that he was induced to follow the hon. Member upon the three points to which he had called the attention of the House. Those three points were the expenses for the North American clergy, for the stipendiary magistrates in
 868 869 l l l l l 870
 The Lord Mayor  observed, that he should perhaps not be out of order if he took that opportunity of asking the noble Lord opposite what were the duties of the Land and Emigration Board, for which he saw, by these estimates, that a sum of 7,500 l
 Lord Stanley  was very glad that the attention of the House had been called to this matter. It was one which had caused him much uneasiness, and he did not hesitate to pronounce the case one of the most flagrant nature, and of the grossest hardship and oppression that had ever come under his notice. For that hardship and oppression, however, no blame whatever was attributable to the Emigration Board; on the contrary, the commissioners of that board had carried their interference in this case to the utmost limit—nay, he believed, even beyond the strict limit—of their duty. As he had thought it possible that he might be called on, if not by the right hon. Gentleman, from some other quarter of the House, to enter into some explanation respecting this matter, be had that evening refreshed his
 874 875 876
 Mr. Vernon Smith  remarked that there was one species of information, which he conceived the emigration board might well give to the country. They might make it generally known what were the colonies most favourable for emigrants and most under the immediate protection
 877
 The Lord Mayor  was glad to have heard the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, state that instructions had been sent out to the Governor of Prince Edward's Island, enjoining him to assist and provide for the unfortunate emigrants in case of their arrival there.
 Lord Stanley  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not run away with any such notion. The Governor of Prince Edward's Island had been merely instructed to give the emigrants every assistance in enforcing on the company and the owners of the vessel the terms of the original agreement.
 Lord Stanley : If the hon. Member had taken the trouble to refer to the bottom of the page, he would have found the explanation which he has asked of the Government. The explanation of the estimate had been before the House since the 23rd of March.
 Mr. Chapman  thought, that the colony of New Zealand was in a flourishing state, and deserved every encouragement from the Government. The public money could not be better laid out than in extending the interest of that colony.
 Lord J. Russell  thought, the objections to the vote were not well founded.
 879
 Lord Stanley  agreed with the hon. Member, that this sum ought to be limited to those Indians residing within our own territory. Two or three years ago an arrangement was made with the tribes; an offer was made to the Indians to the effect that those who preferred remaining within the territory of the United States, should not receive any portion of these presents. It was to be confined to those who resided within the British possessions.
 Lord Stanley  agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last, that the subject was one of great public importance, and he could inform the House that it had for some time been under the consideration of her Majesty's Government. It was important to define the law under which consuls were to act, but it was at the same time a matter of considerable difficulty. A bill was prepared on the subject, but he could not undertake to say that it would be introduced during the present Session.
 Lord Ingestrie  observed, that vessels found great difficulty in getting in and out of the Dardanelles: it was, therefore, necessary that there should be consuls to regulate their entrances and exits.
 Lord Stanley  replied, that no appointment had been made except that of Sir H. Pottinger, and that only for the purpose of giving him legal authority to act. None others had been made, and probably none would be made for some time.
 Lord John Russell  said, he would take that opportunity of putting some questions to the right hon. Baronet respecting the commercial treaties which this country was now negotiating, and about which it might be expected that the Government would give the House some information. He had taken an opportunity before the House adjourned for the Easter holidays to put similar questions to the right hon. Gentleman; and he wished to know whether those negotiations had terminated favourably or unfavourably. It was not his wish to ask respecting negotiations still in progress, and whether they were likely to proceed favourably or not; but respecting two of the negotiations in progress, he had seen it announced in the public papers that they bad terminated, and concerning them he thought the
 863 Gazette 864
 Mr. B. Wood  said, that he had not had time to peruse the papers which referred to the vote under the consideration of the House. He had been out of town, and had not seen the document. This was no common vote; it required looking into. He did not think that such a vote should be pressed until proper explanation was given by the noble Lord.
 Mr. B. Wood  hoped that the noble Lord would postpone this vote until hon. Members had time to read the document to which reference had been made.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that although the emigration commissioners had published information of the kind alluded to and had circulated it in those districts where it was most likely to prove useful, yet he dad think that that circulation had not been sufficiently general. He thought, at the same time, that there
 878
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that a new arrangement had been entered into with reference to the payment of the lieutenant-governors of these colonies. Certain lieutenant-governors had been appointed, who would have prescribed duties to perform. The office would be no longer a sinecure. The double payment of salaries was more apparent than real. The offices of lieutenant-governor of Grenada and Dominica, to which the hon. and gallant Member had particularly referred, who were in the receipt of small salaries,
 880
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the establishment of a fortnightly communication would double the expense of the steam navigation necessary, in this heavy branch of expenditure; which was borne, as it was, in conjunction with the Indian Government. The present communication was extremely regular; and without saying that the time might not arrive when it would be well to have a more frequent transit of intelligence, at present he feared that it would be hardly practicable.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to remind the hon. Member that the First Lord of the Treasury bad on a former occasion assured the House that consular offices would not be made use of as a matter of patronage—that they would not deserve to be called a  refugium peccatorum ; cœteris paribus,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed that he had heard the same observations from the hon. Gentleman before, and the same recommendations. At this period, however, when the arrangements for the year were so far advanced, it was impossible those recommendations could be acted on. The hon. Gentleman had hardly done justice to him when he said that Lord Althorp had reduced the interest of Exchequer-bills, for he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had reduced it to the rate Lord Althorp found it at when he came into office. Before the interest could be reduced there was such a variety of circumstances to be taken into consideration, that it was not possible to say beforehand that the interest should be reduced. At the present time, be would repeat, it was impossible to take the hon. Gentleman's recommendations into consideration without disturbing all the financial arrangements for the year.
 Dr. Bowring  wished to know what had been done with respect to consular appointments in China?
 Dr. Bowring  said he thought it would be desirable that the House should be furnished with more accurate information on the subject of the consular establishments, and of the duties which that class
 881
 Dr. Bowring  urged the necessity which existed in all parts of the world that the consuls who represented Great Britain should speak the language of the country. A Queen's messenger underwent an examination as to languages before he was
 882 refugium pecca-torum.
 Dr. Bowring  declared that he could not avoid reiterating his earnest wish that the Government would accede to a more frequent communication with their vast eastern empire. When he reflected on the magnitude of the interests involved, and the momentous importance, both in public and private relations, of rapid transmission of intelligence; when he remembered how much of national advantage would be secured, and how much of individual anxiety would be allayed by shortening the interval delaying the reception of news from India, he did feel inexpressibly the extreme weight of the question, and he considered it one well worthy of the serious attention of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. Immense would be the benefit to civilization and to science from the measure he was advocating, and incalculable the augmentation of public and private convenience arising from thus extending the facilities of intercourse.
 Dr. Bowring  wished to know whether
 883
 Mr. Ewart  directed attention to the propriety of providing for better communication with such places as Trebizond, and with the ports on the Black Sea, where British commerce might ere long penetrate.
 Mr. Ewart  expressed his gratification at the report which had been laid before the House on this subject, whence it appeared that provincial schools of art had been established in and at Manches-
 885
 Mr. Ewart  said in that grant he found a sum named to be given to the corporation of Berwick for the repair of their bridge; another sum for the support of a school in the Isle of Man. Now, why should such grants come under the head of a grant for Protestant Dissenting ministers? What connexion there was between a bridge and a minister he was at a loss to know.
 Mr. Williams  objected to this vote. He said, that many of these Indians were far better off than many of the inhabitants of this country, and of Ireland particularly. He saw, that a sum exceeding 14,000 l
 Mr. W. Williams  thought that the present Government ought not to endeavour to justify any proceedings of theirs respecting the appointment of consuls by saying that they followed the example of their predecessors in office.
 Mr. Williams  wished to know what advantages were derived from our having a consular establishment at Paris? He saw that they had a Gonsul-general at Constantinople, receiving a salary of 1,600 l l l
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that really this was a most extraordinary item. Why, there were not, he was told, 14,000 people in the colony. Never were officers so highly paid; their scale of remuneration was far above that of corporate officers at home. The chief-justice had 1,000 l
 Sir C. Napier  thought, that this vote required some explanation. He saw that there were two lieutenant-governors of Dominica — one receiving a salary of 1,300 l l l l
 Sir C. Napier  said, he certainly concurred in the feeling expressed by the right hon. Baronet. At the time when the British forces were intercepting the Pacha's correspondence, he was generously admitting the uninterrupted transmission of ours. Conduct like this was worthy of civilized states, and showed that the Pacha's policy was not that of a barbarian, at least.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, he had devoted as much time as he could spare towards simplifying these estimates; they had been very complicated, and, although he had made some improvements, he had not carried them so far as he hoped to do another year.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the hon. Member appeared to confound the duties of the ambassador with those of the consul, when, in fact, the functions of the two offices were quite distinct in their character.
 Sir H. Douglas  said, that he should not permit himself to be led into any discussion on colonial affairs by what had fallen from the hon. Member for Coventry; but this he must say, in passing, in reply to the desire expressed by the hon. Member to get rid of the colonies altogether, that the total value of British goods and manufactures taken from this country by the colonies in 1841 was upwards of 15,000,000 l "The tide of Emigration (it said) continues to flow to British America and Australia; tens of thousands of poor labourers are to be found in the forests of Canada without churches, or clergymen, or schools; while the Australian settlements, originally designed for a small; number of convicts, have grown up rapidly 1 into populous colonies, nearly destitute of the means of religious and moral improvement. In the East Indies great Britain has established her dominion over a hundred millions of Hindoos or Mahomedans. The West Indian colonies are making great efforts for the education of their coloured population; while on the western coast of Africa, and at the Cape of Good
 871 "That the constitution of the Church of England has no authority within it, excepting that of a Bishop, competent to ordination, to enforce rules of discipline, or even to connect thoroughly into one body the various ministers of local districts. " That the Roman Catholic Church is fully organised in this respect, and so is the Church of Scotland; and it does not seem appropriate that members of the Church of England, in considerable numbers, should either be under the superintendence of a Bishop residing at a great distance, or be left entirely to voluntary contribution in this essential matter. "For these reasons, his Lordship proposed to advise the Queen to erect a bishopric in New Brunswick, and stated his opinion that the Imperial Parliament should make provision for this foundation to the extent of 600 l 872 l l Hutchison's History of Massachussets Bay, 873
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that before the holidays, an hon. Gentleman had put questions to him concerning our negotiations with Brazils and Portugal, and on that hon. Gentleman giving him notice that he intended to ask those questions of him again, he had requested that hon. Gentleman to postpone his questions till the morrow. To-morrow, then, he should be prepared to answer both as to Portugal and Brazils, and he begged to postpone the answer to the noble Lord to the same period.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it was difficult to answer the questions of the hon. Gentle man without entering into a very long explanation. He would state to the House what was the subject of controversy between Russia and the Porte, according to the latest information which the Government had received upon the subject. The discussion between the two powers was still going on; and he need scarcely state to the House, that although this country had no direct or immediate connection with Servia, it was the desire of her Majesty's Government to use any influence which
 860 "We, therefore, in fulfilment of the said eighth article of the treaty of Bucharest, as well as in pursuance of the stipulations contained in the treaty of Adrianople, and of the contents of the before-mentioned separate treaty, have given our imperial permission to the Servian deputies to represent to us the claims and wishes of their nation; and we have likewise given the Servians leave freely to exercise in their own country their own mode of worship, and that they may elect their own chiefs from among themselves."
 Sir R. Peel  said, he did not at all dispute the force of the general principle advocated by the hon. Member. At the same time he begged to observe, that it was far better to increase the communication with Alexandria than with the East Indies; that though Austria and France had more frequent communication with the Levant they had not so with India; and that the expence provided for in this
 884
 Sir R. Peel  said, as to the York school, many gentlemen well qualified to judge bad expressed a strong opinion as to the advantage of such an establishment in that city, and he could by no means allow that a school of design could never be of any public advantage except in a manufacturing town; at the same time, too, the citizens of York had responded to the appeal, and had cordially availed themselves of the opportunity afforded by the Government. He therefore believed great good would result from such a seminary in an important metropolis like York.
 Viscount Howick  wished to know on what grounds the governor had sanctioned the present bill.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that he was not able to state, whether her Majesty's Government had in contemplation any enact-
 898
 Captain Gordon,  in reply to the question of the hon. and gallant Officer opposite, could state that the Board of Admiralty approved very much of the use of paddle-box boats, which were used in all their own steam-vessels. He was not prepared to say what was the opinion of the surveyor of the navy upon them, but he should apprehend it was in their favour.
 Lord J. Russell : The right hon. Gentleman will perhaps allow me the honour to second the motion. I should hardly have added a word to what has been so well and so feelingly said by the right hon. Gentleman on this subject, but that I had the honour of an intimate acquaintance with the late Duke of Sussex, and was most sincerely attached to him. With regard to his political opinions, what the right hon. Baronet has said is perfectly true, that their consistency attracted the respect not only of his friends, but also of his political opponents. I will not say one word as to whether these opinions were right or erroneous, but I will say that they were opinions taken up from thorough conviction—that they were not opinions which were naturally in conformity with; his birth or rank, but opinions which he; advocated as tending to the maintenance of the constitution under which he was born, and to the benefit of the people amongst whom he lived. With respect to his attachment to science and literature, there was nothing of ostentation in his
 901
 Lord J. Russell : The noble Lord who has just addressed the House, has incidentally revived a theory which I thought had been long since exploded. I allude to the theory of the balance of trade, but I must say, that the noble Lord has, to my mind, failed to produce any convincing refutation of the arguments of Adam Smith on this point, which, I confess, have always appeared to me to approach as near to demonstration as any reasoning on a question of political economy possibly can do. The noble Lord also observed, that the relaxation of our commercial restrictions which we made last year, did not lead to the adoption of similar measures by foreign countries; but that, on the contrary, six new tariffs of a hostile character were immediately afterwards issued against us. I cannot tell exactly for what reason the noble Lord adverted to that fact. Did the noble Lord intend to show, that the relaxation we effected last year was unwise—that we ought no longer to continue in that course, but should go back to the system which previously existed? If the noble Lord's argument is good for anything it is good for that. One remark, however, 1 must make to the noble Lord, as I have before made it to the House, and it is this—that although in 1842 the theory of free-trade was brought forward here, and supported by the Government and by a great majority of this House, and advocated in the eloquent speeches of Members of the Government which proposed it, yet it is probable that the governments of foreign countries, in adopting the hostile tariffs to which the noble Lord has referred, had in view the doctrines preached, not in 1842, but in 1841, in conformity with which, the House
 939 940 Gladstone: 941 l 942 943 944
 Mr. D'Israeli  said that the noble Lord who had just addressed the House had indulged in a traditional sneer against the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) for his policy with respect to what was called the balance of trade. It had been truly said by Sir Walter Raleigh that what was wrong in the main, might still be right in the detail. Now, he considered that anything that could cause a sudden abstraction of the precious metals from this country must necessarily affect the commercial transactions of the country at the same time. This was a subject which rendered the consideration of the hon. Members motion of the deepest importance. Three years ago they made a very large importation of corn from Germany, at which time the Bank of England had negotiated a loan of money with the Bank of France. They all remembered the effects of that mercantile transaction upon the currency of this country. It was difficult to forget the humiliations that were cast upon them when it became known what were the terms upon which this loan was effected between the two countries. No person could deny the abstraction of precious metals which then took place from England, which resulted in the most serious consequences. Their currency was deranged, prices were generally reduced, and wages fell considerably. A mercantile convulsion had actually taken place. This sudden abstraction of 3,000,000 l 945 946 947 948 949 "licence they mean, when they cry liberty !" 950 951
 Mr. Gladstone  acknowledged the fairness and ability of the statement of the hon. Gentleman, but at the same time he did not think, considering the state of the
 914 915 916 917 918 919 Ricardo 920 921 922 s d s d Ricardo: 923
 Lord John Russell : I rise most cordially to second the motion of the right hon. Baronet in this Address. All who know her Majesty know that the happiness enjoyed by her, in her Own home, is greater than that which she derives from her high station; and all must concur in Congratulating her Majesty on an event which conduces so intimately to both.
 Mr. Villiers  said, he rose to meet the only objections that could be said to have been fairly opposed to the proposition of his hon. Friend. One of these was by the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, and the other was by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury; and be noticed them because, he knew they were current in other quarters, and that some persons were influenced by them. The hon. Member for Liverpool considered that the system o f freedom proposed by his hon. Friend would lead to farther restriction by other nations, because, he said, that the relaxation of our system of late had already been met by
 956 l 957 958 959
 Mr. Labouchere  was aware of the inconvenience of raising discussions upon questions of this sort; but there was one point upon which he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet a question. He wished to know whether he were to understand that the Brazilian Government had absolutely refused to treat at all, with a view to a commercial treaty with this country, unless the terms it had proposed to us, as the
 896
 Mr. Ricardo  spoke to the following effect * "All the world knew that the interests of the English population were sacrificed to the interests of the English landowners and of the proprietors of West Indian estates. "All the world knew that the consumption of Brazilian sugar was prohibited in England, but that it was refined there and sent to the West Indies, in order that the planters of Jamaica and the other islands might be able to buy it at a very low price there, and in that way be able to send all their produce to England, to be sold at monopoly prices to the English people. "All the world knew that the interests of the English people were thus sacrificed; but they had long been accustomed to submit to
 * 903 "Now there are some very important articles on which we do not propose any reductions, partly from considerations of revenue exclusively, partly on this account, that we found on entering office there were negotiations pending with many states in respect to proposed commercial treaties, and we have done all we could to continue these negotiations, commencing also with some other states." "Now, while these treaties are pending, there are several articles, wine and brandy for instance, which would enter into discussions with these states, and with respect to the duties on which, therefore, I shall humbly advise the House not at present to make any material relaxation." "We have reserved many articles from im-
 904 905 "When you speak of giving an example to Europe, do you believe that if England would remove those which are protective duties to cotton, or any other manufacture, that might induce the other nations of Europe to adopt a more liberal system of trade, and consequently lead to the admission of a larger portion of British manufactures?—I think it very probable that even such partial removals would have that effect; but I feel the strongest confidence that if we were to give up our protective system altogether it would be impossible for other countries to retain theirs much longer. Would you remove our own protection without any foreign country removing theirs?—Most certainly, without even asking them; I dislike treating with any foreign country upon any subject except navigation, and that for the reason that there would be waste in the matter of carriage between different countries, it would end in the ship always going empty one way; on both sides this would be a dreadful waste, from which every country would suffer in its commerce." 906 "A ship in one place is a ship in another, there is no difficulty in the comparison; but there is difficulty in comparing one description of goods which one country makes with a totally different description made in another, and equal terms can hardly be made; but I feel quite confident if we were entirely to drop our system of protection, in a very little time it would be a race with other countries which should be the first, or rather, which should avoid to be the last to come in for the benefit of that trade which we should then open." "Mr. Villiers: Do you not consider a retaliatory duty as most adding to the injury which the duty imposed by the foreign country occasions in this country?—1 have always thought so. I have always disliked all treating in this matter; I would take what I wanted, and leave them to find the value of our custom. "Chairman: Then that principle you would apply generally to the commercial transactions of this country?—Entirely so; I should make our laws according to what I deemed best, which would certainly be to give the freest possible introduction to the goods of other nations into our country, and I should leave others to take advantage of it or not as they thought fit. There can be no doubt that if we imported from any country any considerable quantity of goods, and the manufacture of that country were protected, the producers of these goods which we took would very soon find the great difficulty they had in getting their returns, and instead of soliciting the governments of those countries to admit our goods, our advocates for that admission would be in the country itself, they would arise from the exports of the goods which we received.  "Mr. Chapman: It is your opinion, that the trade of this country would flourish more without the intervention of commercial treaties with other nations?—I think that we should settle our commerce better by ourselves, than by attempting to make arrangements with other countries. We make proposals to them, they do not agree to these. We then, after that, feel repugnance to doing that which we ought, perhaps, in the first instance to have done of our own accord; and I go upon the principle that it is impossible for us to import too much, that we may be quite sure that the export will follow in some form or other. And that the making of the articles to be so exported, will be an employment infinitely more beneficial to this country than that which may be thus superseded." "It is incontestable that a nation, which deprives you of the faculty of trading with her, does you an injury. She deprives you of the
 907 "The colonies which rebelled at the beginning of this century (1800) such as La Plata, St. Domingo, or Haiti, have opened their ports to foreigners, they have insisted on no reciprocity, and they are richer and more prosperous than ever they were under the prohibitive system. The commerce and profits of the Havannah have doubled since by the force of circumstances, and contrary to the system of its metropolis, this Spanish colony has admitted all flags—the old States of Europe resemble those obstinate peasants who persist in their routine and their prejudices, although they see around them the very good effects of a better and wiser conceived system." 908 s d l l s
 Mr. Ricardo  in reply, admitted that his object was to produce an abandonment of the whole of the present system. He was quite aware of the great benefits which the country had derived from the reduction of duties in foreign countries; but he did not think that commercial treaties were the best means of obtaining that reduction. The right hon. Baronet had referred to a pamphlet which had attracted considerable attention, and the right hon. Baronet had stated what Colonel Torrens intended to prove, and not what he had proved, so that this mathematical demonstration was in  nubibus 971
 Sir J. Peel : On account of the event which has taken place this day, it is my duty to propose to the House to mingle congratulation with condolence in addressing her Majesty; and I feel perfectly convinced, that the address which I am now about to propose to congratulate her Majesty on the birth of another Princess, Will be received With equal unanimity with that which has just been agreed to. In conformity With all usage, ah address of this kind would be moved on such an occasion. It is impossible that a Princess of the House of Brunswick could be born Without its being considered a matter for congratulation. But I venture, Sir, to say, that the congratulations which this House will offer On this occasion are not mere formal compliments iu accordance with established usage. Every one who knows how to estimate the discharge of every duty that can be imposed on a wife and a mother—every one who can estimate the effects of such an example, set in the highest station in life, can properly estimate a proposal of this kind, and will give their cordial wishes for the Continued health and happiness of her Majesty.
 Mr. Cobden  contended that there never could be a time when it was more important to lay down the principle against which the right hon. Baronet contended. The object of the motion was, that foreign commercial negotiations should not be left in the hands of ministers, and one reason why he supported it was, that he wished to prevent a government, which was the creature of monopoly, from meddling with any of our commercial arrangements. What had the present Government done as regarded Brazil? It had sent out an ambassador, a special mission, to negociate a commercial treaty; but had the people ever asked for the reduction of any duties there? On the contrary, there was no kingdom of the world where our goods were received on such favourable terms as in Brazil. No complaints had been heard in this country? No complaint had ever been heard in this country of excessive duties in Brazil. Yet what had been the course of the present government? When the people of England applied for an equalization of the sugar duties, ministers had sent out an ambassador to Brazil, as they stated to negociate a fresh treaty. The people wanted no fresh treaty; all they required was the abolition of the West-India monopoly. The ambassador dispatched would, in fact, only represent monopolists, and did not go to negociate any treaty in which the people were interested: he was sent out to obtain the best terms for the West-Indian monopolists, and the worst for the people of England. The Brazilians offered a monopoly to the extent of 10 per cent., but that did not satisfy the envoy and would not satisfy the government which sent him out. Was this, then, anything less than an insult and a mockery to the inhabitants of the British empire? Was it not exposing the country to the shame of the civilized world. It was this which had induced one of the senators of the Brazils to exhibit and denounce the people of England as the slaves of a corn, sugar, coffee, and timber oligarchy. Ministers attempted to delude
 969 970
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, that on an occasion some time back, when it was proposed to reduce the duties on foreign sugars, he understood that the objection raised against the proposition was grounded upon the fact that the sugar of Brazil was produced by slave labour, and that by encouraging its importation we should be encouraging slavery, It was hoped, in refusing to ad-mil the Brazilian sugars upon more favourable terms, that the Brazilian government would have been induced to make some alterations in the laws relating to their slaves. He wished to know now, whether, when Mr. Ellis was deputed to the Brazils to negociate commercial relations with that government, he was instructed to make any proposals for an improvement of the condition of the slaves in that country?
 Mr. Macaulay  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department upon a very important subject, that was now in the right hon. Baronet's hands, and he did not know that the question could possibly be lodged in better—he meant the question of reform in the present state of the medical profession. He wished to ask, in the first place, whether the negotiations (as it was understood) in which the right hon. Baronet was engaged were in such a state as that a hope could be entertained, that this great question could be brought to such a termination as all might wish to bring it? The second was, whether any reasonable expectations could be entertained by the right hon. Baronet that he could introduce such an act as might pass into law this Session? The third question it would not be necessary to answer if the two previous questions were answered in the affirmative. The third question was, whether, if he felt he could not introduce a general measure on this subject this Session, he would not propose some remedy for that most pressing and crying grievance upon the medical profession, the exclusion of Scotch and Irish practitioners from practising in the union workhouses under the present law, or rather, as he would say, under a harsh construction of the present law?
 Mr. Ewart  begged to repeat the questions, which he had put to the right hon. Baronet previous to the Easter recess, relative to the commercial treaties with Brazil and Portugal; and, also, as to the return of Mr. Ellis from Brazil.
 Mr. Ewart  was obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for his very clear statements; but he did not exactly understand, from what the right hon. Gentleman said, what was the amount of reduction which this Government had proposed to make in the duties on Portuguese wines.
 Mr. Ewart  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had remarked that foreign countries were increasing in their hostility to British interests, and that this was only to be averted by negotiation. What good, he would ask, had the negotiations into which we bad entered yet produced? The hon. Gentleman was bound to show, that negotiation was likely to produce better effects than it had yet done. The right hon. Gentleman, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, took another course; he said not negociate but retaliate. The right hon. Gentleman used these words:—" Above all things do not abandon the instrument of retaliation," he added that commercial retaliation was the instrument we were to wield against the hostile tariffs of other countries. The right hon. Gentleman was not content with laying down this precept: he proceeded to illustrate it, by mentioning an instance of the practice of retaliatory measures against the King of Naples. But how bad those measures succeeded? For four years we retaliated against the King of Naples, by imposing double duties on olive oil coming from that country. What was the effect of this proceeding on our manufactures I There were complaints from all parts of the manufacturing counties. Such was the result at home. What was it abroad? Did we succeed in excluding the olive oil? The only effect was, that the oil which we refused to receive directly from Naples, was sent round by Genoa, and came into this country from an intermediate port, so that this retaliation was itself becoming fruitless. We began by injuring our manufactures, we ended by owning the futility of our own restriction. He thought the right hon. Gentleman was not quite fair in his remark, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent had brought forward this question without preparation. Circumstances had prepared us for the question; the whole investigation of the subject of the import duties had prepared us for it. The tariff of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had prepared us for it. The adverse tariffs of Germany and America, the hostility of France and Portugal, had prepared us for the question; we had been prepared
 952 intercursus magnus, 953
 Sir C. Napier  said, he did not know whether or not her Majesty's Government considered itself responsible for the lives of British subjects voyaging in steam-boats, but he hoped he might be allowed to ask a question on the subject of the right hon. Under-Secretary of the Board of Trade. It was generally known that steam-boats voyaging in various parts, and carrying a great number of passengers, were often very ill provided with boats for succour in case of casualty. In the case of one of the mail steamboats, which was wrecked the other day on the coast of Spain, great advantage resulted from her being provided with paddle-box boats; and he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman whether her Majesty's Government had an intention of taking any steps to oblige steam-vessels to carry a sufficiency of boats to rescue the lives of passengers in case of shipwreck? He wished also to ask the gallant Officer opposite, who was a Lord of the Admiralty, whether it was true that the Surveyor of the Navy had objected to the Queen's steam yacht being fitted with these paddle-box boats?
 Sir H. Douglas  said, as the arguments which had been advanced by his noble colleague (Lord Sandon) had been impugned by the noble Lord the Member for
 954 "To impose duties upon foreign, for the encouragement of domestic industry, when burthens are laid upon it by foreign nations (and what foreign nation does not lay burthens upon our industry?), is one of the cases in which it is advantageous to protect, in this way, the home productions. For to lay suitable duties upon the productions of the foreigner who lays burthens upon yours, does not give the monopoly of the home market to the home producer, nor turn towards any particular employment more capital and labour than would naturally go there. It only hinders that amount of those actually engaged, from being turned away into a less natural direction, and leaves the competition between foreign and domestic industry, upon the same footing, as before the protecting duty, so laid and reciprocated." "Take the productions of other nations, and they will take yours." 955 "Take foreign productions, and foreign nations must take yours."
 Sir J. Graham  begged leave to introduce the bill of which he had given notice respecting the County Courts. The bill was the same in principle as that which had been introduced last Station, but in the present he only intended to appoint one, instead of two tribunals in each county to decide upon sun not amounting to more than 10 l.
 Sir James Graham  was understood to say, that he had to answer the first question in the negative: but he had to state, to the right hon. Gentleman that he had been so far successful that he had no
 891 Macaulay:
 Sir Robert Peel  replied, as to the question put by the hon. Gentleman, as to whether Mr. Ellis was on his way to this country, he must say, as to that particular question, that he had not heard that Mr. Ellis had taken his departure from Rio de Janeiro. He would take that opportunity of answering the questions which had been also put by the hon. Gentleman and that were in substance the same with those put by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) on the preceding evening, as to the present state of the commercial negotiations with Portugal and Brazil. To these questions he now meant to give such information as was consistent with his public duty to afford. He was sure, at the same time, that the House would not press him for any information which he might conceive would be prejudicial to the public interest. In the first instance, then, he had to answer the question as to their commercial relations with Portugal. In the course of last year—he thought on the 3rd of July, or early in July, 1842—a
 892 893 ad valorem. ad valorem, 894 895
 Sir Robert Peel : Unless I misunderstood the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, he made a statement which was gratifying to me to hear, and which I hardly expected to come from that quarter. For the hon. Gentleman stated that some four or five years ago there had been a great export of bullion from this country, that greatly inconvenienced and deranged the currency, in consequence of a sudden demand for foreign corn, and the inability of exchanging British manufactures for that article, but that within the last two or three years a great change had taken place in that respect — that there had been no sudden demand for foreign corn, but that there had been a ready demand for British manufactures, and that foreign corn had been imported into this country in a regular way, and in the ordinary manner of commercial intercourse. And the hon. Gentleman said, that this regular interchange of British manufactures for foreign corn of late years had prevented that large demand for bullion which was apprehended by my hon. Friend, the Member for Shrewsbury. Now, I well remember that one of the prophecies of the inevitable consequences of maintaining the sliding-scale, as it is called, used to be, that there must be at intervals a sudden demand for foreign corn, which it would be impossible to pay for by the exportation of British manufactures. I think the hon. Gentleman said, that that prophecy had not been fulfilled, but that there had been a regular interchange of British manufactures for foreign corn, and that though a large quantity of corn was imported in the month of August last — to between two and three millions of quarters—yet no apprehension was felt that it would derange our monetary system. That was the statement which the hon. Gentleman made, and coming from such high and unquestionable authority upon such a point I heard it with a very great deal of pleasure. I do not intend to trouble the House with many observations on the present occasion. I well know the peculiar difficulty under which I at this time speak on the subject, considering that on next Monday week my right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer intends to submit the usual
 960 961 962 "Are you at the head of the statistical department of the Board of Trade?" He answered, "I am." How long have you been connected with that institution?" From its first establishment in 1832." "Have you been engaged in effecting a commercial treaty between this country and France?" The answer was, "I have." 963 l l l l 964 965  That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, respectfully expressing the opinion of this House, that it is not expedient that any contemplated remission of import duties be postponed, with the view of making such remission a basis of commercial negotiations with foreign countries." 966 "You must not postpone (he says) even for a month, any contemplated remission of duties, though that remission were only contemplated in the hope of getting an equivalent." l l 967 "I would beg to submit for your consideration, what appears to me to amount to a mathematical demonstration, that a reduction of the duties upon foreign productions, unaccompanied by a corresponding mitigation of the duties imposed by foreign countries upon British goods, would cause a further decline of prices, of profits, and of wages; and would render it doubtful whether the taxes could be collected, and faith with the public creditor maintained." 968
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he could not say exactly what was the amount of reduction proposed in these duties; but he could assure the House that they were so liberal that they would have occasioned a very considerable reduction in our revenue, and it was thought necessary to stipulate for very reduced duties upon British manufactures imported into Portugal.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that in answering the questions put to him on this subject, he laboured under some disadvantage, which might possibly cause him to do injustice to the Brazilian Government, from the fact that the last accounts which had been received by her Majesty's Government from Brazil had been made up within so short a period before the departure of the ship, that Mr. Ellis had not had time to inclose a copy of the letter which he had just received from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and could only give a summary of its contents; and the tenor of it was that M. San Honorio had refused to entertain any commercial negotiations, except upon the basis that no articles mentioned subject to differential duties, should be subject to differential increase exceeding 10 per cent. He was not now in a position to be able to state whether or not Mr. Ellis had made a proposal to the Brazilian government of putting them upon a footing of the most friendly nations, but by the next accounts he hoped to have full particulars upon this and every other point connected with this negotiation.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he could not encourage the noble Lord to believe that any result had been attained materially different from that which he had already explained to the House. Mr. Ellis, in his despatch, mentioned something about some new proposition being in contemplation, but added that it was not his impression that any such proposition would be acceptable, and that under this feeling he was then making preparations for his departure. It was possible, however, that some new proposition might have been brought forward between the date when this letter
 897
 Sir R. Peel  said, that Mr. Ellis was charged with various propositions to offer, as he should think necessary, in case one or other failed. He was authorised, in order to place our commercial relations with that country upon a firmer footing, to waive any exclusive advantages which we possessed under the existing treaty. Among other points intrusted to him to submit to the Brazilian government was one relating to the state of their slaves, but Mr. Ellis had not occasion to bring that point before the Brazilian government, because M. San Honorio said he could only treat with him under the conditions at the outset, that Brazilian produce should be admitted under no higher duties than
 899
 Sir R. Peel : I dare say, Sir, that any Gentleman who may have given notice of a motion which stands for to-night will permit me, in conformity with usual courtesy, shortly to interpose for the purpose of carrying out the intention of which I gave notice last night, of proposing an address of condolence to her Majesty, on account of the loss which the country and her Majesty have sustained by the lamented death of his Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex. The motion with which I shall conclude, of course, contains an address of sympathy to her Majesty, and a tribute of public respect to the character and memory of the Duke of Sussex. Though the Duke of Sussex was not called upon to perform distinguished military services, and though, by his position, he was precluded from rendering any great services in a civil capacity, yet, by the force of his own character and conduct, he succeeded in establishing claims on the respect and public attachment of his country. His long residence by preference in England—his truly English habits—his conciliatory manners and demeanour—his habits of friendly and social converse with all classes of society —his zeal in the promotion of every object connected with science and literature, a zeal the more effectual on account of his own literary and scientific attainments—the readiness with which he, in common with all other members of the Royal Family, made every sacrifice of time and personal interest for the advancement of every object connected with charity and benevolence; all these constitute claims on the grateful remembrance which must long endear his name to the people of this country. I must also add, that the integrity, consistency, and disinterestedness with which his Royal Highness maintained, throughout his life, those political opinions which he professed, must have naturally established a strong point of connection and attachment between him and those who shared those opinions with him; whilst they entitled him no less to the respect of those
 900
 Viscount Howick : I cannot help thinking that the right hon. Gentleman, throughout the whole course of his speech, has laboured under a misconception of the
 924 925 926 927 "It is true we have failed for a moment in obtaining commercial treaties with Portugal and France, but we have raised up a party in each country strongly in favour of our views, who will never cease their efforts until they obtain freedom of trade." 928 "Make every possible effort to obtain reciprocal advantages from other countries; but if you fail, you should not refuse to buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest, for the purpose of punishing other countries." 929 bonâ fide 930 931 l l l 932 933 l 934 935
 Viscount Sandon  observed, that the
 936 937 938
 Lord J. Russell  rose to move the second reading, and said that when he obtained the leave of the House to bring in the bill, the House had been sufficiently indulgent to him to allow him to bring it in without further explanation, on the understanding that on the motion for the second reading he should explain the objects which he proposed to effect by the measures. He would, therefore, proceed to state his views and the grounds on which he thought the House ought to pass the second reading of this bill. The bill had reference to those corporations of England and Wales which had been left untouched by the Municipal Corporations Act. Some of those corporations were of little importance, whilst others, as being possessed of considerable property, were of great importance in the country. In 1835 the House had passed a law, altering the constitution of a great number of the corporations of this country, reforming them on one model, allowing of popular control, and introducing the principle of popular election. Before the introduction of that measure, in most of these corporations the members had elected themselves. When he had introduced that measure, he had stated that there were several corporations to which it was not intended to apply the provisions of that bill. He now proposed to deal with those corporations. He divided them into two classes. In the first class he placed those corporations which were of little importance, and of the existence of the charters of which there were, in some instances, great doubts; and, in the second class, he placed those corporations which were possessed of considerable property. With respect to these last, he trusted that Parliament would adhere to the principle which it had sanctioned, by a large majority, in legislating for the other corporations in 1835, and would substitute in those also the principle of popular control and of popular election for that of self-election, from which so many abuses had resulted. He would state next what was the character of these different classes of corporations. He was not about to do so on his own authority, but on the authority of the reports of commissioners, who had been appointed in consequence of a recommendation of a committee of that House. He would first refer to those
 978 979 l l l l 980 l s 981 l l l 982
 The Lord Mayor  said, that very erroneous opinions prevailed respecting the Lord Mayor's expenses. What was the income of the corporation? 156,354 l l l l l l l l l l 992 contra l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 993 l l l l l l W. Williams l l 994
 Mr. W. Howard  wished to know from the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department, whether he had any intention of extending to Malmesbury the same course of investigation as he had adopted in regard to Queenborough? He believed that this place afforded as gross an instance of peculation, malversation, and corruption as any borough corporate in England.
 Lord J. Russell , in reply, said, that whenever the hon. Gentleman behind him brought forward his motion for the reform of the corporation of London, he should be quite ready to consider it; and he thought the corporation could not be in
 995
 Mr. Barnard  said some difference of statement existed whether the treaty with Portugal had been broken off, or only interrupted. He wished to ask what it was?
 Sir W. Barron : Then there was no question about slavery mixed up with the negotiation?
 Mr. T. Duncombe  expressed his pleasure that the subject was taken up by her Majesty's Government, and his unwillingness to stand in their way. He was glad that the propsition he had brought forward had merited attention. The Order of the Day for the committee on the bill was discharged.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  wished to obtain from the right hon. Gentleman some information respecting the subject which had been noticed last night, he meant as to the amount of the differential duties it was proposed to be levied on foreign and colonial sugars. He was aware of the reluctance there must be to answer his question, but he believed the Government had come to a determination on the subject, and he wished for information. He did not mean to press any question as to whether there were to be a reduction of the duties, he would only ask on what grounds the Government proceeded? After Mr. Ellis had arrived at Brazil, the Brazilian government had made a proposition to him, and stated that it would be content were the sugar and other produce of the West Indies only favoured to the extent of 10 per cent. The Brazilian government was ready to enter into the negotiations, on the principle that its produce, including its sugar, should be subject to a duty of 10 per cent. higher than the duty on colonial sugar. He asked whether that would satisfy the West-India interest, or whether her Majesty's Government had ascertained what amount of differential duty would satisfy the claims of the West-India proprietors? This question related clearly to the policy of the Government in a great practical measure, and he wished to know what amount of protection her Majesty's Government had authorised Mr. Ellis to offer. He thought her Majesty's Government—[Order]—He was not going to argue the question; he only asked the right hon. Gentleman—and he thought,
 975
 Mr. M. Gibson  simply wished to know whether the negotiations with Brazil were broken off in consequence of the difficulty of giving protection to the West-India proprietors, or upon the question of slavery? Whether the difficulties were moral or pecuniary, whether we objected
 976
 Mr. W. Williams  wished to explain. The right hon. Gentleman had said that he had sought to obtain the office of Lord Mayor. In this the right hon. Gentleman was perfectly mistaken. The fact was, that during the time he had resided in the City of London he had been offered all the situations in the corporation. That was, he had been applied to to fill the office of sheriff, and had been invited by three different wards to serve the office of alderman. He certainly had been, during two years, and a short period longer, a member of the common council. He had been solicited for many years to become a member of the common council, but had always declined, until the City authorities adopted the extraordinary part of refusing all information to the citizens in reference to the management of their affairs, and he then consented to go into the common council, in order to bring this matter to an issue, and, having succeeded in obtaining the information which was printed in this book, he retired.
 Mr. W. Williams , in supporting the motion, said that he considered that the House was deeply indebted to the noble Lord for having, by his Municipal Reform Bill, annihilated those nests of corruption and local mismanagement, and substituted for them new corporations, founded en the elective franchise. But then he did not understand why the noble Lord had left untouched the corporation of the city of London, which exceeded all other corporations in corruption and profligacy, and in which seemed to be accumulated all the vices which all other corporations had practised. He could tell the noble Lord that his constituents felt aggrieved that they should be excepted from a system of reform, which they felt so requisite for their advantage, or that there should be continued that system of misrule and profligacy, of which they had already complained to that House in the strongest possible terms, and that, too, in a petition, in which the noble Lord, before he became their representative, had presented; and that was signed by from eight to nine thousand inhabitant householders of the city. Not only were the inhabitants of the city under the domination of the London corporation, but all who lived in the vast valley of the Thames, from Windsor to the Medway, were under its jurisdiction, and from them it exacted taxes; upon the most important necessaries of life. He should like to know on what ground of justice or morality these corruptions were to be continued, when all the towns in England had been purified? He was sorry that the noble Lord had shrunk
 983 l s 984 l 985 986 l 987
 Sir James Graham  intended to intrude but for a very short time upon the attention of the House. He confessed that he had almost anticipated from the speech made by the hon. Gentleman, that, instead of seconding the motion of the noble Lord it was his intention to have moved, that it be an instruction to the committee that the corporation of the City of London should be included in one of the schedules of the bill. It was not, he confessed, his intention to become the assailant of that corporation, or to do that which the hon. Gentleman had recommended him to do— to undertake its reform. He thought at the present moment he had quite sufficient to do, without placing upon his shoulders this new burthen. He found that he had already excited a good deal of feeling out of doors, and had incurred no small share of obloquy, by venturing to bring forward the education clauses in the Factory Bill; and then he had undertaken he was afraid, with a considerable degree of rashness, to bring forward a bill, which would affect the medical profession — a task in which it was to be anticipated that difficulties might be encountered. But those difficulties would be of trifling import compared with the difficulties which he would have to encounter, were he to make the attack on the Corporation of London which the hon. Gentleman recommended. For, notwithstanding the divisions which the hon. Gentleman said prevailed in the corporation, he was sure that the first motion of an assailant character, of which notice was given in that House, would unite its members, as one man, to resist the attack. Bat if he would not be the assailant, so neither did he intend to become the defender of the corporation. Its defence might be more safely entrusted to the hands of the Lord Mayor of London, whom he saw opposite; and he was quite sure that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) who sat next but one to him, if from no other motive but gratitude, would assist him. But, if the right hon. Gentleman would take his (Sir J. Graham's) advice, he would postpone his defence to a more opportune season. Time reminded him that an occupation quite as necessary, and more congenial to the habits of a Lord Mayor called. He might be allowed to say, that he cordially agreed in the eulogium pronounced by the hon. Gentleman
 988 John Russell 989 s quo rvrranto 990 quoad 991
 Sir J. Graham  said, that if any facts tending to support a charge of misconduct on the part of the borough of Malmesbury were brought before him, he should be ready to take them into consideration.
 Sir James Graham  said, seeing the hen. Member for Finsbury in his place, he would appeal to him not to bring forward his motion for
 974
 Sir Robert Peel  said that he had given all the information he possessed yesterday, and he had stated that he might possibly be doing an injustice to the Brazilian government by undertaking to answer any question upon this subject, without being in possession of its letter. Mr. Ellis, writing immediately before the departure of the mail, said that he had received a fresh communication from the Brazilian government of which he could give only the substance, and the substance as given by Mr. Ellis was that the only terms upon which the Brazilian government would treat were, that the differential duty between Brazilian produce and colonial produce should not exceed 10 per cent. The negotiation was broken off on the ground that Mr. Ellis was not authorised to treat upon that basis—the only basis proposed —namely, a differential duty of 10 per cent. It was not possible, Mr. Ellis said, to give the letter of the Brazilian government, and thus he was only able to state the substance.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished he could reward the ingenuity with which the hon. Gentleman sought to extract information from him; but really he was unable. The hon. Gentleman asked him what proposals Mr. Ellis was authorised to make to the Brazilian government respecting the duty on sugar. Now, that was a point on which he could give the hon. Gentleman no information. With respect to the other questions, he was ready to give the hon. Member some information. Supposing there had been a reduction in the duty on port wine, it would necessarily follow that there would be a reduction of duty on sherry. Had the negotiation with Portugal been successful, and the reduction of duty under that treaty taken place, it would, as a matter of course, have led to a reduction of the duties in Spanish and French wines also.
 Sir R. Peel  was understood to say that it had been quite unnecessary to go into that subject, as the negotiation came to a premature close.
 Sir R. Peel  said the hon. Gentleman was now referring to an announcement made by the Portuguese government. That announcement, as it appeared in the paper was, that the negotiation was broken off. He believed that the proper construction of the word used by the Portuguese government was "interrupted," and not broken off. The terms which we had stated we should abide by had not been accepted by the Portuguese government, and, therefore, so far there was an end of the negotiation. He could not answer for the future, but there was an end to the negotiation for the present.
 Mr. Lane Fox  gave notice that on the 1lth of May, he should move a resolution with a view to put a stop to the agitation for the repeal of the union, and to call on the Government, if it have not sufficient power to attain that end, to ask for the necessary power. He should, on the same day, move that the House be called over. He had waited for the hon. Member for Cork, but not seeing him in the House, he now gave these notices.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  regretted that the Government had nothing better to offer Ireland than an Arms' bill. They might depend on it that such a bill would not prevent a single outrage, and that they would do much better if they applied themselves to remedy the cause of discontent, by protecting the middle and humble classes in their constitutional rights, and saving them from the extremities into which they were now too frequently reduced.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had objected to a similar bill last year, and he equally objected to the measure now offered for their acceptance. To obtain the confidence of a people they must confide in them. It was the privilege of free men to carry arms if they pleased, and a measure to preclude
 1012
  Mr. French  said, that the noble Lord being, as he observed, determined in all things to legislate and act against the wishes of the Irish people, did that which was most prudent in him, to commence with a measure to deprive them of the use of arms for their defence.
 Lord Eliot  in reply to the observations which had been made from the other side, begged to remind the House that this was not the first time of proposing an Arms bill for Ireland. The first measure of this kind had been adopted as long ago as 1807, and it had been continued ever since. The bill was not intended to prevent the use of arms in Ireland, but their abuse; and he asked if the House would not be prepared to adopt some measure for the same purpose for England, if it were found that the people of this country made use of arms in their possession for the unlawful acts which too frequently disgraced the annals of the Irish assizes? The bill which he was about to introduce would do nothing more than make the present law more effective, which was now constantly evaded. He really thought it was a misplaced sympathy on the part of hon. Gentlemen to claim the right of possessing arms for men who made use of them for unlawful purposes, thereby exposing the lives of innocent and unprotected persons to peril.
 Mr. B. Escott  defended the wise and conciliatory policy which had distinguished the policy of the present Government in reference to Ireland.
 Mr. A. Chapman  was understood to say, that the hon. Mover was wrong in stating that 4 d. d.
 The Speaker  explained, that it was the practice for one hon. Member not to give notice for another hon. Member, when that other was present. If present, he must act for himself, and not by another. He thought it would be advisable that some rule should be adopted with a view of securing order and regularity in giving notices. He knew no better plan than of hon. Members putting down their names, and drawing lots for precedence before five o'clock.
 Mr. E. Rice  said, he had long endeavoured to press upon the Government the importance of establishing harbours of refuge, and yet for two or three Sessions the report of the Select Committee of 1840 remained unattended to. Between Dover and Portsmouth there was not a single harbour which was not dry at low water, or which was capable of receiving war-steamers, &c. In time of war, it would be too late to remedy this evil.
 Mr. Lambton  did not see the necessity of this committee, if it were necessary to inquire into the propriety of doing away with the Passing Toll, the subject might well be referred to the shipwreck committee, which would have ample time for that inquiry if one might judge from the fact that that committee had only sat once before Easter, though it had then been appointed five weeks before that time; but the hon. Member had stated, that the object he had in view was to apply the surplus to making a harbour of refuge. The subject of harbours of refuge was one of immense importance, and ought to be taken up by the Government on their own responsibility. If they asked for a great national grant for that purpose, he was sure they would get the support of both sides of the House. It was important, first, because great national harbours of refuge, placed on the most exposed parts of our coast, would diminish the loss of life and of British property that took place every year from shipwreck. The committee of 1836 reported there was an average loss of British property to the amount of three millions, and of one thousand lives every year. It specified also, especially on the east coast, particular shipwrecks—with loss of many lives that never would have occurred if there had been a harbour of refuge there. In the second place, these national harbours of refuge would be important as great national defences in time of war. The French were not idle on this subject, and he had been informed that a large sum was voted every year for the improvement and enlargement of Calais harbour, and that in the course of a short time, Calais would cease, to be only a tidal harbour, and vessels of a large size would be able to find safe anchorage at all times of tide. He most sincerely hoped the peace with France would be lasting; but when he saw the violence and the virulence that had been displayed in that country of late against England, a violence and a virulence which he trusted would not be imitated on this side of the water—when he saw all this, he was the more inclined to think, we
 1009
 Mr. H. Curteis  said, that in seconding the motion, he begged to deny, as a commissioner for the harbour of Rye, the statements made by the hon. Member for Lymington as to the state of the harbours of Kent and Sussex. With regard to the job, and the costs of the Banqueting-house at Ramsgate, it did not apply to the borough with which he was connected. As to the state of the harbour at Ramsgate, he said nothing; but he thought the motion of the hon. Member opposite would be likely to be useful. He (Mr. H. Curteis) must repeat his denial of the charges urged as applying to Rye, the commissioners of which port courted the fullest inquiry.
 Mr. Hume  recommended, having recourse to the ballot, as formerly.
 Mr. Hume  complained of the expences of the commission, and said, that the charges made upon commerce were greater than the advantages obtained. Reports respecting the various harbours were annually made, but never printed, unless some hon. Member moved for them; they ought always to be printed and laid before the House, that hon. Members might know what was going on. For four or five years past he had been complaining of the neglect of the Government in not acting upon the information which had been furnished by the commission. He trusted that the right hon. Baronet would cause inquiry to be made into the amount of the charges upon commerce, with a view to see whether they could not be reduced, or,
 1010
 Mr. T. Duncombe  begged to call the attention of the House to a point of order. The hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford, had adverted to the indecorous rivalry of hon. Members to give notices, and had given notice of a motion on the subject. The hon. Baronet had, at the same time, given notice of a motion for another hon. Member who was in the House; and he believed, that such a proceeding was contrary to the rules of the House. In doing this, he
 1002
  Major Beresford  rose to move an amendment, which would include the harbour of Harwich in the inquiry. There was no harbour from Languard Fort to Portsmouth, where vessels coming from the
 1008
 Mr. Mackinnon  in reply said, he feared he should appear to be placed in that position spoken of by the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton—of making only a sham fight; but after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet he had, no alternative but to withdraw his motion. [ Cries of "
 Mr. Mackinnon  : In rising to move for a committee for the purpose of investigating the Revenue, Expenditure, and present condition, of the Harbours from the Thames to Portsmouth, I will as concisely as the subject will admit, state the object of my motion. It is a subject of very great importance to the trade of the empire, and to the security of navigation. I am aware that a committee on shipwrecks is now sitting, but that committee will confine its enquiries to the question how far it is expedient to educate mates and masters of ships for the merchant service, or to find some place of refuge in bad weather, the committee that I require is to supply funds for a harbour of refuge, or to give back to the Treasury large sums now raised by tolls to no purpose, or, if these sums, it appears, are not required, to ease the shipping interest of a heavy and useless payment of dues, which dues at present are wasted in a manner unprofitable to the country or to navigation. The House is aware, that in 1840 a commission was named by the Queen, to ascertain the best
 1003 "ex uno disce omnes." d d. 1004 l l 5,694 l l d. "Foreign Trade Committee, April 26, 1822. "Sir W. Curtis examined. " Q. A. " Q. l "W. Domett, Esq. examined (p. 276). " Q. A. " Q. l A "George Good, Esq. examined. " Q. A. l " Q. A. " Q. A. 1005 l l l l l l l l l l 1006 "That a Select Committee be appointed, to ascertain the revenue, expenditure, and condition of the harbours and lighthouses on the coast, from the mouth of the thames to Portsmouth."
 Sir C. Burrell  said, that Shoreham having been so pointedly alluded to, he could only repeat that which his hon. Friend, the Member for Rye had stated, namely, that the commissioners of Shoreham had no objection to the fullest inquiry into the mode in which they conducted the trust confided to them.
 Sir C. Napier  thought, that the Government ought to take this question into consideration. Government, however, was very tardy about it. He had been forty-three years in the service, and had never known the Government take a single step towards the improvement of the harbours. His only objection to the motion was, that it did not go far enough; it ought to extend to an inquiry into all the harbours of the country, for from what he had seen of the accounts of shipwrecks during the past year, it was high time for the Government of the country to do something towards saving life and property now lost by shipwrecks. There was no part of England where a harbour was more required than at Ramsgate. There were continually 300 or 400 vessels riding in the Downs, and if it should blow a gale, it was impossible at low water for the vessels to run into any harbour, and they must run the almost inevitable risk of being lost.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, he had no doubt, if all the other harbours attacked had representatives in that House, those Members would hare risen to make si-
 1007
 Captain Pechell  Would call on the Member for Lymington to prosecute this inquiry. There was great necessity for it. He hoped, that the hon. Member would press his motion to a division. The debate appeared to him to have much the appearance of a sham fight.
 Sir R. Inglis  was not aware, when he gave a notice for his hon. Friend, that his hon. Friend was in the House. His hon. Friend had written to him from the country, and he was not aware that in giving his notice he was violating any rule.
 Sir R. Inglis  would, on the same day, submit a motion to the House to consider some plan with a view to prevent the indecorous rivalry of Members on both sides of the House trying to get the start of each other in giving notices of motion. At the same time, in the name of his hon. Friend, the Member for Newcastle-under-Lyne, he gave notice for a motion on May the 11th, on the subject of Tahiti.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that his opinion was very much in consonance with that expressed by the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House upon this subject, namely, that it ought to be left to the Government. The construction of harbours of refuge was undoubtedly a work of great importance; but, there was another equally important point to be kept in view, namely, the site to be selected for those harbours. The subject was a very fit one for inquiry, but that inquiry should not be conducted in the way proposed by the hon. Gentleman. Suppose that 1,000,000 l. l
 Lord Stanley  had no objection to the returns, and he would take the opportunity of stating that he had learnt with great satisfaction, within the last day or two, from the Lord Mayor of London, that parties connected with the British and American Land Company had contributed several sums for the relief of the emigrants.
 The Lord Mayor  was happy to announce that he had received contributions from the Duke of Argyll, the Marquess of Downshire, and Sir Robert Broun, in sums of 50, 1 l l l
 Mr. D'Israeli  rose to ask her Majesty's Government a question in relation to a series of diplomatic occurrences which had taken place at Constantinople, concerning Servia, and in which the honour of this country was concerned. If the House would permit him, he would explain the circumstances. [" No, no."] He felt a necessity to give a simple statement of the circumstances on which his inquiry was founded, otherwise it would not be understood. The House was aware that the cabinet of St. Petersburg wished to interfere with the domestic arrangements of a province of Turkey, which had engendered a dispute between the cabinets of Constantinople and St. Petersburg. There was no doubt, that official information of these circumstances
 1029
 The Attorney-General  said, that the object of the bill then before the House was to bring under one system the proceedings in ecclesiastical law, and to cause them to be adjudicated in one central court. Although at first sight it might appear that the principle of this bill was directly in opposition to that of local courts, which had been sanctioned by this House, yet he thought that, upon examination, this objection would not be found to hold to the extent some imagined. If the House would consider the mode of administration, in matters not only of equity but of common law, they would find fully borne out the principle proposed to be adopted in this bill. There was but one system of equity throughout the country, and but one jurisdiction on the subject, if he excepted only a court which sat in the county-palatine of Lancaster, and where considerable business was done in cases of injunction and other matters of no very important character. He believed that with this exception the equitable jurisdiction of this country was perfectly central, the Rolls' Court and the Vice-Chancellors' Courts being subject to appeal to the Lord Chancellor, constituting but one jurisdiction. It was true that by means of masters extraordinary, answers and depositions might be sworn in the country, so that the persons concerned in any suit might not be required to come up to London: but all the arguments in the case, and the decision upon it, took place in London. The practice in common law proceedings, it was true, was somewhat different from that in equity, but still, if examined, it would be found that the same principle of central jurisdiction prevailed in it as in the other, though not so directly and immediately. The only essential difference between the two cases arose out of the circuits of the judges, who went from time to time throughout the country to try issues. It was true also, that in various minor matters justice was administered by the magistrates of the county sitting in sessions. But with reference to every trial at assizes in the country, opportunity was afforded to any party to apply for a new trial at the courts in London, and judgment upon all such applications was given at the courts in Westminster. To carry the analogy further, in many cases writs of  certiorari 1041 1042 1043 l l l "The peculiar jurisdictions in England and Wales, with these manorial courts, amount in number to nearly 300. These jurisdictions, as we have already stated, are of several kinds: royal peculiars; peculiars belonging to the archbishops, bishops, deans, deans and chapters, archdeacons, prebendaries and canons, and even to rectors and vicars; and there are also some of so anomalous a nature as scarcely to admit of accurate description. In some instances, these jurisdictions extend over large tracts of country, embracing many towns and parishes, as the peculiar of the Dean of Salisbury. In others, several places may be comprehended, lying at a great distance apart from each other. Again, some include only one or two parishes. The jurisdiction to be exercised in these different courts is not defined by any general law. It is often extremely difficult to ascertain over what description of causes the jurisdiction of any particular court operates; and much inconvenience results from this uncertainty. This variety of jurisdiction has proceeded from different causes, connected with the history of the Church, which it is not necessary here to specify. The peculiars were always considered (he begged the hon. and learned Member for Oxford's attention to this remark) as interfering with the beneficial exer-
 1044 "It does appear wholly inconsistent with any sound principles of jurisprudence, that exclusive right of adjudicating on certain subjects should be vested in any court, and yet that court be left without the means of carrying its decrees and orders into effect. We see no reason to expect that these additional powers, so essential to the purposes of justice, will not be discreetly exercised; it is to be recollected that we proceed on the presumption that the jurisdiction of all the ecclesiastical courts, save the provincial courts of Canterbury and York, will be abolished." 1045 corum judice; 1046 1047
 Captain Fitzroy  regretted the course which the Government had pursued with reference to this measure. He was in hopes that they would have allowed the bill to drop still-born, instead of pressing it upon the notice of the House. Although he was generally found among the supporters of her Majesty's Government, he felt it to be his duty to oppose this particular measure. He had not been canvassed by any solicitor to oppose the bill. He acted entirely upon his own judgment in the matter. He thought the measure, if carried, would inflict a great injustice upon a large number of men, without giving rise to any counterbalancing advantages. By this bill the archdeaconry of Lewes would be abolished, whilst the archdeaconry of Chichester would be retained. The latter archdeaconry was situated at the extreme end of the county, and, therefore, those who formerly would only have to go to the court at Lewes would hereafter be compelled to travel to the archdeaconry of Chichester to establish their claims. This would operate most prejudicially to many persons. They proposed to adopt the system of centralization. Before doing so, they ought to ask themselves the question whether the practice of Doctors' Commons was of so superior a character as to warrant them in abolishing at once all the local tribunals, and transferring the administration of the law to the former court? Were there not cases on record showing the grossest negligence, want of prudence, and circumspection on the part of those who were intrusted with the administration of the
 1053 1. s. d. 1. s. 1054
 Mr. Newdigate : Mr. Speaker, it is with grief, it is with regret, that I find myself, for the first time, upon my legs in the House of Commons to oppose her Majesty's Government, particularly on this subject, in which I am personally interested. I should have been glad to have remained silent; but since I believe, that I am the only owner of a peculiar at present in his place; and since some misunderstanding seems to have arisen out of what fell from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department when this subject was last under consideration—and since some hon. Members think that, the expressions used by the right hon. Baronet implied, that certain hon. Members were influenced by private interests in their opposition to this measure—I feel bound to explain the motives which actuate me on this occasion. Individually, I do complain, that the effect of this measure, if carried, will be a direct violation of property as strictly my own as the house I live in; which was re-granted by the Crown in the reign of Henry the 8th at the exact period when the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney-general has stated, that complaints were first publicly made against the peculiar jurisdictions." But 'Gentlemen" (Sir, I beg to apologise if from being unaccustomed to speak in such a place as this, I have made use of an improper mode of expression)—but, Sir, I beg to state, that I object to this measure on public grounds far more important than those I have alluded to. I object to this measure as a part of that system of centralization, of which we have had far too much in our legislation of late years, a system essentially democratic. Sir, if I stated this on my own authority, God knows, that would be light enough, but I state, that it is so, on the authority of M. Guizot, as declared in his writings on the life of Washington, The fact that the tendency of this measure is democratic, might recommend it to some hon. Members opposite; but I yet think, that it is too arbitrary to meet their approval. There are other reasons on account of which, I disapprove this measure. I believe that it will subject the public to serious inconvenience and expense, for even supposing, that the charges of the central court as proposed in this bill, should be somewhat lower than those of the local courts. If you add to these the cost of the journies to London, which parties having testimentary
 1055
 Mr. Collett  approached the discussion of this bill with diffidence, arising from a consciousness of his inability to grapple successfully with the intricacies of the question: but he owed a duty to his constituents, and he trusted that the House would be indulgent to him whilst he endeavoured briefly to discharge that duty. The disadvantages, under which he laboured were increased by the impossibility of offering any original observation after the able speeches which had already been delivered. He opposed the measure as being uncalled for, insulting, and unjust—uncalled for, as no general complaints had been made by the people, nor petitions presented, for an alteration of either the law or the system—insulting, as assuming by clause 71, that the country proctors connive at fraud and perjury—and unjust, as it robbed one class of practitioners for the profit of another, and removed justice from the poor man's door. The most objectionable feature in the bill was that principle of centralization which it was too much the fashion of the day to
 1056 "Although France may be Paris and Paris France, yet London is not yet England nor England London, whilst we have in our provinces those local institutions as ancient as they are wise and national." l. l. l. 1057
 Captain Gladstone , amidst loud calls for a division, wished to say a few words in explanation of his vote. He would not, in its present stage, undertake the responsibility of voting against the measure; but if his present objections to it were not removed when it went into committee, he must then vote against it.
 Lord Eliot  could assure his hon. Friend that the subject he had mentioned had attracted the anxious attention of her Majesty's Government. That the meetings of which his hon. Friend had spoken, and the agitation of the repeal question disturbed that tranquillity which was essential to the prosperity of the country, was not at all subject to doubt. The Government, he could assure his hon. Friend, would employ all the power which belonged to the executive Government to preserve the peace and protect the property of all her Majesty's subjects.
 Lord R. Grosvenor:  I am well aware, Sir, of the difficulties which beset the path of any one who would attempt to carry through this House a bill for the purpose of effecting any very extensive measure of legal reform. I remember to have read somewhere, that great as would be the mischiefs to a community were the secrets
 1048 1049 1050 1051 1052
 Mr. Lefroy  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland a question relative to the meetings which were held in different parts of Ireland, to agitate the repeal question. He would ask the noble Lord whether he considered these meetings legal or illegal, and whether her Majesty's
 1028
 Mr. Escott  remarked that the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat, and the right hon. Member for Devon-port, were the only members on the opposition side of the House who had yet declared their intention to vote for the second reading of the bill. At the same time, they had urged such various and important objections against the measure, that if he wanted any reasons for opposing the second reading of the bill, he need not seek for them further than in their speeches. He, however, required no additional arguments to convince him of the propriety of opposing the bill; upon that point he had already, on consideration, made up his mind. The House had been told, on the part of the Government, that the bill must be passed as it stood; that no alterations would be allowed to be made in committee [expressions of dissent]. He would willingly correct himself if he were wrong; but he would be glad to hear what alterations were to be made by the Government. No projected alterations had been announced, and, therefore, it was the duty of the House to take the bill as they found it, and to determine for
 1067 [cheers]. 1068
 Mr. G. H. Vernon : It would be much more agreeable to my feelings to give a silent vote on this question, but filling the situation of Judge of the Ecclesiastical Court of York, I must not shrink from the duty of declaring publicly the opinions which are the result of long experience on this subject. It may become necessary in the course of that discussion that I should make statements which may cause annoyance to persons whom I should be unwilling to wound, and the support which I must give to the principle of this bill will affect the interest of many individuals whom I should be loath to injure. I trust that every care will be taken in the progress of the bill to avert or mitigate such apprehended injuries; but I know that my duty here is to consult for the benefit of the public, with due care indeed to deal justly by individual claims for compensation, but not with paramount regard for private interest. I have intimated that it would be especially painful to me to disclose the evils of a system against which it might seem invidious that I should bear testimony inasmuch as they arc " Quque ipse miserrima vidi. Et quorum pars magna Jul." 1069 1070 1071 1072 1073 Bona Notabilia l 1074 ipso facto 1075 Bona Notabilia 1076
 Sir H. W. Barron  had presided over a committee which had sat for three months on the subject of Irish ecclesiastical courts, in which the abuses existed in a treble degree to what they did here, and knowing the extent of the abuses in these courts, the bill should have his cordial and warm support, inasmuch as it remedied some of, though not all, the abuses. But why was not Ireland included in the bill, and why were not the evils and abuses in the ecclesiastical courts of Ireland also sought to be remedied? If the House wished to do justice to Ireland and put an end to the arguments which were now urging there in favour of a local Legislature, they would put down the abuses of the ecclesiastical courts in that country, and if this bill were agreed to, he trusted the Government would next Session bring
 1089
 Mr. Labouchere  rose amidst loud cries for a division, which were frequently repeated. He said, that having been some years ago chairman of a committee which had examined into this subject, he could not feel that he should perform his duty in giving a silent vote. He would give his cordial support to the second reading of the bill. The principle upon which it was founded had been too long neglected, and it was the sacred duty of the House to endeavour to reform the errors of the ecclesiastical jurisdiction. Of all the abuses in our courts those in the ecclesiastical jurisdiction were the most flagrant and the most aggravated. Indeed, they had not been denied by any of the hon. Members who took a share in the discussion. He, however, considered the proposition of his right hon. Friend the Member for Devonport a good one, as he was of opinion that the errors of the present system could be best considered by a select committee, which could also deliberate more calmly on the necessary reforms. There were no reforms more difficult than those which affected local and professional interests, and this was
 1088
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that after the extremely forcible and ingenious speech of the right hon. Baronet, he thought it necessary to explain the ground on which he should vote for the second reading of the bill. The right hon. Baronet had dwelt on the grievances the bill was intended to remedy, and accurately explained them, and in that he quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet, and he supported the bill so far as it pulled down, but he totally disagreed with it as far as it attempted to build up. In the committee he should endeavour to reform the measure in this respect, and if it did not come out of committee a totally different measure he should think the House right in rejecting it altogether.
 Mr. Hume , amidst loud calls for a division, said he would support the bill, and on the same grounds on which it was opposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury. His hon. Friend opposed it, not because it was not good, but because it did not go far enough, but he would accept the benefit as far as it went. He was himself anxious for the abolition of all ecclesiastical law, for he did not see why they should not do in this country what had been done in Scotland. Fourteen years ago in that country the consistorial courts were abolished, and they had adjudicated on cases brought under the civil law with the utmost success. One of the first questions put to the right hon. Baronet on his taking office was, "Do you propose to do anything with respect to the ecclesiastical law, for we have left a bill behind us upon the subject?" Under such circumstances, he did not conceive that any of those persons could with consistency oppose the second reading of this bill.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  believed, that of all the courts instituted by ecclesiastical authority, there were none which gave greater dissatisfaction to the public than those over which the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, presided. The public had a right to expect that judges presiding in courts which decided questions affecting property of great value should be occasionally right, and that they should not get up in that House as Members for East Retford, or some such place, returned by some noble Duke, perhaps, or some other Member of the upper House, and say, to be sure, I may have decided right, or I may have decided wrong. This was a specimen of the judges of the ecclesiastical courts. He must join in what the Chancellor of the diocese of York was pleased to call the pitiful outcry of the hon. Member of the University of Oxford against this bill, although upon different grounds, for his reasons were in accordance with the views which the great body of the people out of the House entertained regarding this measure. The hon. Member said, that ninety-seven petitions, signed by 10,820 individuals, had been presented against this bill; and that no petition had been presented in favour of the bill up to the present time. He did not know whether the hon. Member attached great
 1077 l. l. 1078 viva voce 1079 Ecclesiastical Law, 1080 primâ facie
 Mr. Ewart  wished to call the attention of the Secretary fur the Home Department to a matter of great importance. By an act passed in the reign of William 4th, the inspectors of prisons were authorised to put inquiries to the officers of prisons, and to call for documents exhibiting the state of the prison. By the report which had recently been laid before the House, it appeared, that the chaplain and governor of Newgate were instructed by the gaol committee of the corporation of London not to answer the inquiries of the prison inspector. That was the first subject to which he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Another was this—that in the month of August last, a female had received sentence of death, but in consequence of some legal question, which which was to be determined by the judges, she remained in prison until the month of November. On Saturday, the 15th of November, at six o'clock in the evening, a pardon was received for the prisoner, and yet this fact was not made known to the unfortunate prisoner for nineteen boors afterwards. It was clearly the duty of the Government to see that such an interference should not take place in the exercise of the royal prerogative of mercy; and also that the committee of the corporation should not give directions which were clearly at variance with the enactments of the prison bill.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  having moved for a return relative to the emigrant ship  Barbadoes,
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  gave notice that when the hon. Member for Ipswich brought forward his motion relative to the repeal agitation in Ireland, he would move the following amendment:—
 "1. That on the 29th of April, 1834, this House did agree to an address to his late Majesty, which address concluded with the following paragraph:—' In expressing to your Majesty our resolution to maintain the Legislative union inviolate, we humbly beg leave to assure your Majesty that we shall persevere in applying our best attention to the removal of all just causes of complaint, and to the promotion of all well-considered measures of improvement.' "2. That it is incumbent on this House to inquire whether the increasing disposition which has been recently evinced to seek a domestic Legislature for Ireland may not be traced to a neglect on the part of Parliament adequately to fulfil the pledge then solemnly recorded; to its indisposition to listen to the well founded complaints of the Irish people; to the tardiness and reluctance with which it has acceded to measures acceptable to them; and to the overbearing, exclusive, and anti-national spirit in which the affairs of Ireland have been administered. "3. That this House will apply itself to an early consideration of measures calculated to soothe national animosities, to obliterate the distinctions founded upon a difference of religion, and to consolidate the union of the two kingdoms by the bonds of common rights, equal laws, and international justice."
 Sir Charles Napier  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, with reference to a plan for enabling officers to retire, which the hon. Baronet (Sir George Clerk) had mentioned, whether any measure of that kind would be brought forward this Session?
 Sir George Grey  wished to take the earliest opportunity briefly to state what was the course which he intended to take at the present stage of the bill. He entertained very strong and serious objections to portions of the bill. He thought, that it required very material modifications in its details, yet when he looked to the principle on which the bill was formed and the object which it professed to have in view,—namely, to carry into effect, with certain modifications, many recommendations of the ecclesiastical commissioners, and also to effect other alterations in the ecclesiastical law: and when he looked to the main provisions of the bill, and found that it was intended by them to abolish the inferior ecclesiastical jurisdictions scattered throughout the country, and to transfer the contentious jurisdiction exercised by those tribunals to one competent tribunal; he had no hesitation in voting for the bill in its present stage, in the earnest hope that it would be referred to a select committee, if it passed a second reading, as the only course likely to secure for a measure including such technical and professional details, that consideration which the importance of the subject demanded. He quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department in thinking that when they had so many great authorities all concurring in the recommendation to abolish inferior jurisdictions, and to transfer their power to one competent tribunal, the government was fully justified in bringing a bill before that House having that object in view. The objections, however that he entertained with respect to this bill arose from this, that while it professed to carry out the recommendations of the ecclesiastical commissioners, in some important points, it departed from those recommendations, as well as from those of other authorities
 1032 1033 "From very ancient times wills of real and personal estate have been decided upon by different tribunals, the courts of common law exercising exclusive jurisdiction over all testamentary devises of real estate; the ecclesiastical courts possessing a similar power over bequests of personal estate," "The consequence of this separation is, that the validity of wills is subjected to a different mode of trial according to the nature of the property intended to be conveyed—in a devise of land, a judge and a jury determine on  vivά voce "That the same solemnities should be required to render valid every testamentary disposition of every description of property without any distinction, so that the same formalities of execution and attestation shall be necessary whether the testamentary instrument disposes of real or personal estate." "The validity of wills of real and personal estate, or either, should be determined by trial in one and the same court, and the probate made final and conclusive evidence of title to real and personal estate." "That additional security will be afforded to titles of real property and some delay, doubt, litigation, and expense avoided." "With respect to conflicting decisions betwen a jury and the Ecclesiastical Court, the inconvenience has been rather in theory than practice; for, during the last quarter of a century, we are aware of but one
 1034 "That the possibility of conflicting decisions would cease, a very considerable saving of expense be effected, and uncertainty as to title to freehold estates would be diminished, by establishing one mode of proof in one and the same court." "That while the same questions are cognizable, so far as may regard personal estate, by the spiritual courts, and as to other subjects by courts of law and equity, there must always be danger of conflicting decisions, with respect to the validity of one and the same instrument, or as to one and the same question, (and they add), such conflicting decisions bring the administration of justice into discredit, have the effect of unsettling the law, and create serious embarrassments in titles." Suggestions with regard to the Laws of Real Property. "While all the other rights of property are determined according to the municipal law of this country, the validity of wills of personal estate is governed by the civil or Roman law, which differs essentially from the laws of England, and is but little understood by any counsel, except the advocates in Doctors' Commons. This peculiar jurisdiction in respect to wills, is an important cause of the insecurity of titles, and one of the most frequent and oppressive sources of expense in the alienation of real property." 1035 Attorney-General:  "That, in all cases, the validity of a will shall be tried by  viva voce 1036 "When two modes of innovation are proposed, the question to be tried between them must be, which offers a prospect of the best results? To us it appears that public utility will be better served by making use of the existing tribunals, than by constituting a new tribunal, or one which, though old in name, would in most of its principles and forms of practice be new; and we therefore think that the best coure will be, to transfer the whole of the contentious jurisdiction now exercised by the spiritual courts in matters testamentary to the courts of equity." 1037 1038 [Cheers.]  1039 "I think the profession has undergone great injury from being so close a profession, and being accessible to so few persons. On this subject, I will take the liberty of saying, that I must not, though a commissioner, be considered as bound by the Ecclesiastical Reports, for it must be remembered, that, at the conclusion of those reports, we state that some diversity of opinion would unavoidably exist among us, and this was one on which my own judgment was, and is, that it would be very desirable that the whole of the common law bar should have access to the bar in Doctors' Commons. I am of opinion, that the interests of the public ought always to be consulted, and the interest of the public can never be so well consulted as when there is the freest competition, as when it is open and free to the admission of persons who ought to be admitted to practise at any bar; for I can never understand why gentlemen, who may practise in the Court of Chancery, and courts of common law, ought to be excluded from Doctors' Commons; the effect of this rule would be to shut out such persons as Lord Brougham, Sir E. Sugden, and Sir S. Romilly." 1040
 Sir G. Strickland  said, that as a magistrate he could speak to the great grievances to which the ecclesiastical courts as at present constituted gave rise. If two persons in a country town fell out and used bad language to each other, one of them, if connected with an attorney, might be induced to make application to the ecclesiastical court, a process issued, and this was followed by a citation. Poor people understood nothing of these things and did not know when they should put in an appearence, or what was meant by such a proceeding. In a short time, however, their pigs, their cows, and their furniture were sold, under an order of the court. He greatly regretted that the worst part of the jurisdiction was to be preserved. This was a species of reform with which the people would not be satisfied. He must oppose the second reading of the bill.
 Mr. Elphinstone said , although I am ready to admit that many serious objections do exist with regard to certain clauses of this bill, yet, taking it as a whole, I shall vote for the second reading, because, after attentively considering the more important clauses, namely, those which relate to the proving of wills and to the granting of administrations, I am firmly convinced that if the principle on which they are founded be fairly and honestly carried into operation, the government will confer a considerable benefit on the public, and effect a real and substantial improvement in the administration of justice. Now, I understand the principle of these clauses to be, the utter and entire removal of all matters relating to wills from the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical authorities, and the placing them, for the future, under the control and authority of a new lay court, of which the judge is to be appointed by the responsible advisers of the Crown. I, for one, am of opinion that this will be a most desirable improvement in the law; for I think I shall have no difficulty in showing to the House that the best interests of the public are seriously injured by their having these matters—which do not in any way relate either to the discipline or the doctrines of the Church of England—adjudicated upon by the judges and registrars of ecclesiastical courts, a class of persons who, I must say, have generally been placed in their present situations neither on account of their knowledge of the law nor of their judicial fitness for the office which they hold. In regard to wills and administration, whatever may be said to the contrary by interested parties, the interests of the public require that one efficient court should be established in London, with a proper registry attached to it, where wills can be properly proved, and where they may afterwards be pro-
 1058 l. l. l 1059 "With respect to the contentious jurisdiction, it is wholly impossible that justice can be administered efficiently, and with satisfaction to the public. In the majority of the peculiar courts, and, perhaps, in all, there neither are nor can be efficient and experienced judges, officers, advocates, or practitioners. The emoluments are too small, and the number of causes too few, to ensure these requisites for the due administration of justice. Consequently no confidence is placed in these tribunals; and delay arises and expence is incurred, in applying for letters of request, or in resorting to other means of escaping the jurisdiction. In some cases, too, the grievance is enhanced by the multiplication of appeals. With regard to testamentary cases, the inconvenience is, perhaps, the" greatest. There cannot be expected, and, in fact, there are not to be found, safe places of custody for the wills to be deposited in the registries, and thereby the most important titles to real and personal estate may be endangered. In admitting testamentary papers to probate in common form, according to the existing state of the law, an accurate knowledge of the rules which ought to govern the practice is very essential; but where the opportunities of acquiring experience are few, such accuracy cannot be at-
 1060 bona notabilia, "Serious evils are occasioned by the existence of the numerous jurisdictions which we have described, in addition to the inconvenience arising from the frequent necessity of obtaining several probates of the same will. The number of the courts, and the extent of the jurisdiction of many of them, cannot be ascertained; the right to some is contested between superior and inferior, and between spiritual and lay parties. Many of them have not hesitated to grant probate of any wills which have been brought to them, without troubling themselves to inquire whether they were usurping a jurisdiction which did not belong to them. There is no uniformity in the practice or rules by which the various courts are governed Many of them are without competent judges and officers for
 1061 " Several of these courts are in a state of anarchy. In one, because the judge (the perpetual vicar) is beyond the seas, all business is suspended till his return; in another there is not any business transacted, because of the disability of the lord of the manor; and another because the chief estate is in Chancery; in a fourth, the judge avoids, a far as possible, all occasions of exercising his jurisdiction, though he has accepted the office. His peculiar is a 'lawless place,' and he knows of neither limit to, nor remedy for, his fees, nor of table or precedent. One of the late Parliamentary returns on ecclesiastical courts furnishes copies of the patent appointments in two dioceses, Norwich and Lincoln, which are probably a fair average sample of the whole. It therein appears, that in Norwich archdeaconry, a major-general, a son of the bishop, and his (the major-general's) son, both extra diocesan residents, are successive patentees for life of the office of commissary's register; and a rev, son of the bishop, archdeacon, and,
 1062 1063 l. l. l. 1064 1065 l. 1066
 Sir James Graham  replied, that the hon. Gentleman must be aware, that the report of the inspectors, which the hon. Gentleman had referred to, was of a very recent date, and had only come into his hands a very short time before the hon. Gentleman himself had received it. As to the first point, the interruption that had taken place, under the direction of the board of Aldermen, to the duties of the inspector—when his attention had been called to it, he had immediately communicated with the authorities of the City of London. In justice to those authorities, with which he had communicated, he was bound to say, that they showed every disposition to make the due arrangements to prevent such an interruption being offered to the due execution of the duties of the inspector. As to the second point, he
 1031
 Sir James Graham  explained, that the noble Lord was mistaken in supposing that he had thrown out any disrespectful insinuations as to the motions of hon. Members who did not agree with the principles of the measure. He would add, that he considered it preferable that the bill should be discussed in the House, rather than it should be referred to a committee up stairs.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the subject had been under consideration, but he was not pre-
 1030
 Sir R. Peel:  I scarcely recollect a bill which has had the misfortune, like the present bill, to meet with vehement opposition from Gentlemen who maintain such extremely discordant opinions; for the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down means to vote with the hon. Member for the University of Oxford in opposition to the bill, not only on different, but on precisely contrary grounds. It therefore becomes necessary for the supporters of the bill to address themselves to two classes of objections; and I venture to express the hope which I confidently feel, that the great majority of this House will consider whether this bill do not effect a great improvement in the law, or at least whether it do not give the opportunity of effecting improvement? and will not permit a union of men with discordant and contrary opinions to close the door against the possibility of improving the present system. What are the arguments of the hon. Gentleman who spoke last? He says, "Keep all these abuses; preserve them as you find them in existence, effect no reform on this account, because I entertain a confident opinion, that if you permit these peculiars and diocesan courts to remain with their powers intact, they will, at length, die from (as the hon. Gentleman says) their own iniquity." Why, they have survived a pretty long time. So long ago as the period of the Reformation—in the reign of Henry 8th—there was an attempt to reform these jurisdictions. In that reign there was a distinct recommendation to abolish these small local jurisdictions; in the reign of Elizabeth that recommendation was repeated; and in 1812 no incompetent judge—a man, indeed, of the highest authority,
 1081 1082 1083 v. " The case comes on here on the same evidence as in the court below. There have certainly been irregularities in the proceedings of the inferior court; but it has always been laid down by my predecessors that this court should endeavour in the best way it could to get at the substantial justice of the case, and not allow either party to be injured by the irregularities of the inferior jurisdiction." 1084 v. " In considering the proceedings of the inferior jurisdictions, this court endeavours to look to the justice of the case, and is not strict as to the proceedings; but there are some irregularities, such as appear in this case, which the court cannot overlook. Irregularities exist in many of the inferior courts, but they are conspicuous in the court from which this appeal is brought; there the proceedings are not carried on upon the same principles which guide us in Doctors' Commons. The error is, they have mistaken the answers for the plea, and examined upon them; great confusion of ecclesiastical proceedings in the country arises from solicitors acting as proctors, and knowing nothing of ecclesiastical law; when they come before the superior court, they must be set right and not allowed to proceed." v. "With respect to the other preliminary objection, it is the rule of the court, in all appeals from the country jurisdictions, to endeavour to get at the substantial justice of the case, at least in all questions which regard a civil right; in criminal cases it may be otherwise. If we were not to admit the irregularities which take place in the courts below, the plaintiff could hardly ever succeed in obtaining justice before this tribunal." 1085 l s d bona notabilia, 1086 1087
 Sir Robert Peel  found it inconsistent with his duty to answer the question of the hon. Member. He was required to assume that a certain message had been delivered; he was to assume that Prince Metternich had sent a certain despatch, which had arrived at Constantinople on a certain day, and that certain urgent measures had been adopted. The negotiation with respect to Servia would probably be brought to a close at an early period, and when brought to a close would be the proper time for her Majesty's Government to give it their attention. He declined entering into the subject now; the negotiation was still pending, and when it was brought to a close, and not earlier, it might be a subject of discussion.
  Lord J. Russell : It is not my intention
 1119 1120 1121 1122
 The Earl of Surrey  in the present stage of the bill, did not feel called upon to state his sentiments on the proposed modifications. He should reserve what he had to say for a future evening.
 Mr. O. Stanley  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not press the measure forward without giving full time to the country to consider it. If he did, he would be the cause of division between the Church and the Dissenters.
 Mr. G. Knight  was happy to find, from what had been said by the hon. Member for Dumfries, that in his opinion the education clauses had been greatly improved; in fact, that the sting had been taken out of the bill. But he had principally risen to protest against the inferences which the hon. Member for Bolton had allowed himself to draw from an expression which had dropped from the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. That hon. Baronet might desire that the proposed system of education might be made an instrument of conversion; but he must deny that the hon. Member for Bolton was at all justified in attempting to fasten that imputation on the bill itself, or on those who supported it. The clauses had been carefully altered on purpose to remove the slightest suspicion, and the right hon. Baronet who brought them forward had expressed himself most distinctly upon that subject. He was aware, that this was not the time to discuss the modifications proposed; in fact, the modifications were so numerous and so extensive as to render the bill a new bill, so far as the education clauses were concerned, so much so that the numerous petitions which had been presented could be no longer considered to apply to the bill as it now stood, or rather they exactly described it, for almost all the petitions desired a national education, upon comprehensive, just, and liberal
 1125 1126
 Sir R. Ferguson  said, as this was a bill of the deepest importance to Ireland, he hoped that it would be postponed until alter they had considered the measure respecting the amendment of the Poor-laws in that country, as it was in some degree connected with the subject.
 Mr. T. C. B. Smith  said, that this bill had received the concurrence of very many hon. Members on both sides of the House, and in the framing of it no attempt whatever was made to interfere with the principle of the Municipal Corporation Act in Ireland. Several remonstrances had been made by persons of all political opinions respecting the defects of the law in the practical working of its details. It became the duly of the Irish Government to listen to the suggestions that had been made on the subject, and to afford some remedy by which the principle of the law could be fully and fairly carried out, and the measure before the House was deemed necessary to effect those objects. Under these circumstances he could not see any reason why this bill should be postponed.
 Sir R. Ferguson  explained. He hoped that at any rate the committee would be postponed until after the House should be in committee on the Irish Poor-law Amendment Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he was reluctant to express any decided opinion on a law question without consulting the Law officers of the Crown; but his hon. Friend had stated that he had received their sanction to his motion. On a former occasion a question had been put to him with respect to some fees exacted by the clerks of assize in Somersetshire. He had since ascertained that the standard of fees ought to be fixed and signed by two Judges of assize, and that the fees complained of in that instance were no longer exacted. By the 5th George 3 d
 Lord Worsley  thought it extraordinary that these fees should be demanded, but he was not surprised that the parties should pay them, because they could not help themselves. The existence of this practice was only a proof that the clerks of assize and of magistrates should be paid by fixed salaries and not by fees.
 Mr. R. Scott  conceived the case alluded to by the hon. Member constituted a gross infringement on the liberty of the subject. They showed that 'parties were punished before they were convicted.
 Mr. Escott  said, that on looking over the returns he had received, he found that one poor unfortunate individual was charged a fee not only for his acquittal, but also for his discharge
 Lord Eliot  would not undertake to say that he would defer the committee on this bill until the Poor-law Bill should have passed through committee; but he could assure the hon. Baronet that ample time would be given before he proceeded in committee.
 Lord Eliot  said, there was no foundation whatever for the supposition that the Irish Government, or any person authorized by that Government, had interfered between the learned judge on the bench and the Poor-law commissioner in the matter of the Londonderry Union. He apprehended that the mistake had originated from some observations made by his hon. Friend near him in open court during the proceedings, when he appeared, not as counsel for the Grown, but for the Poor-law commissioner, and when he expressed a hope that the learned judge would not decide upon a question of so much importance without giving ample time for consideration, and the bench acquiesced.
 >Mr. Hawes  said, the object of the House that night ought to be to hear what alterations the right hon. Baronet intended to propose. They had heard them, and he (Mr. Hawes) should reserve his opinions on them for a future stage. The right hon. Gentleman had, no doubt, made great concessions; nevertheless, he (Mr. Hawes) apprehended that several points yet remained that would be liable to great objections. He still thought the constitution of the trusts objectionable, and in the same light he viewed the principle of taking the funds from the poor-rates. The power given to the Privy Council to value property he also thought was highly objectionable, and he saw no necessary connection between such a power and a scheme for the education of the people. In any scheme of national education, there ought to be perfect
 1127
 Mr. Hindley  regretted that the right hon. Baronet had not made, before Easter, the statement which he had that night made to the House. He felt convinced that the constitution of the boards of trustees would not give satisfaction out of doors.
 Mr. French  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, respecting a circumstance which had given some dissatisfaction to the parties concerned. It appeared that Mr. Nichols, the Poor-law Commissioner, had, contrary to the wish of the guardians of the Londonderry Union, insisted upon having a new workhouse erected at a cost of 1,200 l 1103
 Dr. Bowring  said the House was indebted to the hon. Baronet for calling on the right hon. Baronet to state the meaning of what he said. They all remembered how emphatically it had been asserted that the Established Church was to be the supreme instructress of the people—that it was the duty of all Members of the Church of England to endeavour to make converts. ["No, no."] He would repeat that the opinion was, that all members of that body were bound to use their best endeavours to church-of-Englandize the whole nation. On that ground the hon. Baronet opposite gave the bill his support, thinking that its tendency would be to advance the interests of the Church of England, and therefore he was right in putting the question which the House had heard. It was evident that with the authority which the bill gave to the master, he most feel that he would not be discharging his duty to society or to the Church of which he was a member unless he did that which the right hon. Baronet said would expose him to the chance of dismissal. The bill was one to which the Dissenters objected, as giving a preponderating power to the Establishment, and be felt satisfied that the people at large would never be satisfied with any system except that which kept the secular education of the people in the hands of the Government teachers, and their religious education in the hands of their respective pastors. In Holland grants were given respectively to Jews, Catholics, and various classes of Dissenters. With the hon. Baronet opposite the great recommendation of the measure was, that it would give a preponderating influence
 1124
 Mr. Borthwick  said, if those who petitioned against this measure were sincere in the wish to which they laid claim, of communicating religious instruction to their countrymen, he could not understand why they insisted so much on technical points of theology, by which they impeded the object they professed, in common with the Government, to have in view. Had the Church, in past days, fulfilled the duty of providing adequate religious instruction for the people, the
 1129
 Mr. P. Scrope  wished to see a good general system of education established. If rates were to be raised from the property of the country, the proficiency and the education ought to be as general as the rating. He thought it would be well to separate the education clauses from the remaining part of the bill, and mature them into a liberal and comprehensive plan, which might have some chance of being adopted in a future Session.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, this was the vote which had been postponed on a former occasion in consequence of the ina-
 1131 l l l l "Formed on an average of the last three years' expenditure, ended 31st March, 1842, which, owing to the state of the country, was of an unusually large amount." l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1132 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1133 l
 Mr. Milner Gibson  thought it would be fair to ask the right hon. Gentleman how many children he thought would be likely to receive education through the agency of this bill? Did not the right hon. Gentleman think, that by legislating in this way for four particular employments,—woollen, flax, silk, and cotton,—that the tendency of his measure would be to cause children to be withdrawn from those employments, and to cause them to be placed in others that were not liable to the control of the factory regulations? He was glad that a noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had it in contemplation to propose a more general plan of national education. The Government plan was involved in a multitude of difficulties, and would necessarily lead to a system of placing every species of employment under the control of inspectors. The same rule that was applied to one description of trade in which children were employed, would apply to farming and every other description of employment. And it was reasonable that the rule should be equally extended to all occupations in which children were engaged. It was for the right hon. Gentleman, however, to consider whether such a proposal would be tasteful to the people of this country. He (Mr. Milner Gibson) was informed on good authority, that there was not at the present moment one child in Glasgow that would come under the operation of this bill, as there was not a child under thirteen years of age employed in a factory there, and yet would any one say, that the children of such a town as Glasgow were not among those pointed at in the report before the House? The bill now before them would affect only those employments in which the children did already receive some kind of education, and from those employments, he was disposed to fear, the proposed bill would only have the effect of withdrawing the children. The religious point of complaint which he heard on every side was this: It is unfortunate that Parliament will meddle with religion. Let Parliament provide secular education, and leave it to the Church to provide for the religious instruction of those of its own
 1128
 Mr. Aldam  objected to those provisions of the bill which regulated the appointment of schoolmasters, as interfering with
 1130
 Mr. Ewart  thought that the best mode of proceeding would have been to increase the education vote of the present year so as to extend the benefit of education to all classes. The right hon. Baronet had interfered with the theological instruction of the people, and he therefore should oppose the bill. Perhaps under all circumstances, it might be better to postpone the measure until next Session, when, possibly, they might get a bill not open to the charge of partiality—not open, for example, to the charge of giving a double vote to the clerical trustee. The bill as it stood was one which he must strenuously oppose, as a measure adverse to religious freedom. He was afraid the plan proposed by the Government had deferred rather than accelerated the cause of education.
 Mr. Ewart  said, he felt himself bound, upon the present occasion, to give precedence to the right hon. Baronet, although he conceived that the course the Government had taken was not a judicious one. He agreed that he ought not to stand between the right hon. Gentleman and the country in respect to the explanation of the views of the Government upon this most vital question. But he conceded only upon the understanding, that he should stand exactly in the same situation with respect to the instructions of which he had given notice, as if the right hon. Baronet had not had precedence granted to him.
 Mr. Ewart  was [about to move one of the instructions of which he had given notice, when
 Mr. F. T. Baring  referred to the statement of law expenses which had been laid before the House, and wished to know how it was that the average amount of fees paid to counsel, had been incorrectly stated; that whereas the estimate of the expense of these special commissions was stated at 15,000 l l l
 Sir G. Clerk  quoted from the estimates for the last three years the exact sums expended for law expenses, upon which the average amount had been calculated in order to satisfy the right hon. Gentleman that that average was correct.
 Sir G. Clerk  denied, that the fees paid to counsel exceeded the fair and legitimate remuneration to gentlemen of such standing and eminence as those employed on behalf of the Government during the recent trials; nor would he admit, that the number of counsel engaged exceeded that employed on former occasions of a similar nature. On the contrary, he believed that it was smaller than the number engaged some years ago. It must be recollected, that the most eminent members of the profession had been sent down special, and the fees paid them were not more than a fair compensation for their services, and not more than they would have received in the ordinary course of their profession. He denied, that any Member of the bar, possessing a seat in that House, would allow his judgment to be biassed by any considerations with regard to the large amount of fees which he might have received for his exertions in the service of the Government, whatever might be his political opinions, and Member of the bar were surely entitled to hold as strong political opinions as any other Member of the House. The choice of counsel had been made without reference to political sentiments. He was ready to admit, that the expense incurred was considerable: but, then, the length of time which these proceedings occupied, and the great number of witnesses called, must be borne in mind. Taking these circumstances into consideration, he believed, that the expense would be found far from exorbitant. So far from being disposed to encourage excessive law expenses, the Government had been for some time engaged in effecting reductions in this branch of expenditure, and in the case of Ireland had effected a saving of one-third, besides discontinuing the services of the solicitor to the Home Department, by which 1,500 l 1134 l l
 Sir James Graham  said, it was certainly his intention to adhere to the clauses, the object of which was to limit the labour of children to six hours and a half, and to prohibit their working both morning and afternoon.
 Sir J. Graham  rose to assure the hon. Member and the House, that it was not his intention upon this occasion to move this bill should be discussed and decided, but that the bill should be committed,  pro formâ, 1104
 Sir James Graham : I have to thank the hon. Member for Dumfries for the courtesy with which he has acceded to my request, and I must be allowed to accept it as an omen that the temper in which this measure was discussed upon the evening on which I had the honour of first bringing it under the notice of the House, will prevail also on the present occasion, and that there will be manifested by the House, that earnest desire which characterised its former proceedings upon the subject—to deliberate with calmness and with patience upon a question of so much importance as the one which I have again to bring before it. I cannot dissemble for myself that although that spirit of calm forbearance prevails within these walls which is worthy of a deliberative assembly, much heat and excitement have arisen out of doors upon this very subject. The petitions which have been presented against those clauses of the Factories Bill to which I am about to advert have been numerous almost without a parallel. I might, if I thought it worth while, make some observations respecting the manner in which, in particular places, some of these petitions have been got up; I might point out the very gross misrepresentations which have been made out of doors, with respect to the scope, the objects, and the intentions of this measure; I might remark upon the means, that have been used to excite and stimulate opposition to it; but I shall abstain from all this. It is enough for me to know that these petitions are numerous, and have received the
 1105 1106 prima facie prima facie 1107 1108 "And be it enacted, that the master and such other persons as the clerical trustees may appoint shall, on Sundays, and on Christmas-day and Good Friday, at such times and under such regulations as the clerical trustee may direct, open, and attend such school for the purpose of affording religious instruction to the members of the Church of England according to the doctrines and principles thereof, and shall give such instruction to every young person who may wish to attend school at those times, and to every child whose parent shall desire such attendance, and such master shall cause every child and young person not prevented by any reasonable impediment, who shall receive the religious instruction of the said school, on such days as aforesaid, to attend under the care of the master the divine worship of the Church of England, at least once on every such day at the church or chapel which the clerical trustee may select, or at the said school if the clerical trustee cannot select any convenient church or chapel where there is adequate accommodation for such children and young persons, and will provide divine worship in such school for the benefit of such children and young persons." 1109 1110 "That if the parent of any scholar shall cer-
 1111 "And be it enacted, that the trustees of the school shall appoint a day in each week, to be approved by the committee of council on education, in which any scholar, whose parent desires he may not be present when such catechism and liturgy are taught as aforesaid, may, during three of the usual school hours, receive religious instruction from the licensed minister of the chapel in which such parent attends divine worship, or from any person whom such licensed minister may appoint; and any such scholar shall be permitted to attend such instruction whenever his parent shall notify to the trustee that such licensed minister, or the
 1112 1113 "Provided, that if the parent of any child, being a Roman Catholic, shall notify to the trustees, that on the ground of religious objection, he desires that such child may not be present at such teaching or reading of the Holy Scriptures, nor at such divine worship as aforesaid, he shall not be required to be present at such times, but shall be employed in any matter of instruction not religious in a room apart." Gisborne 1114 "And be it enacted, that when there shall be any number of persons, not less than twenty, who shall each have voluntarily subscribed a donation of 10 l l "That any person being assessed to the current poor-rate of any place wholly or partly within the district of the said school, in respect of property situated within such district, and whose assessment is among the first third of the assessments arranged according to the amounts of rental from the highest to the lowest, any person being usually resident within five miles of the school who shall have given the site thereof, or one tenth part of the entire original cost of the school buildings, or shall have given a sum of 20 l l. 1115 l G. Grey 1116 1117 1118
 Sir J. Graham : My hon. Friend has raised a question of the utmost difficulty which obviously presents itself on the reading of the clause, in which the phrase "teaching and reading of the Scriptures" occurs. On a former occasion, I stated distinctly the sense in which I used the word "teaching." I said, that I used the word exactly in the sense in which it is received by the British and Foreign School society, and to illustrate its meaning, I read a passage from the evidence given by Mr. Dunn the Secretary of that society, when examined on this point. I have not now Mr. Dunn's evidence before me, but I can repeat the substance of it. Mr. Dunn said, that the schoolmaster was bound to see, by questioning the children, that they received, not only words, but ideas. Mr. Dunn was then asked, whe-
 1123
 Sir R. H. Inglis  agreed with his right hon. Friend that it would be inexpedient prematurely to bring on a discussion upon the present measure; still he wished to ask his right hon. Friend a question. In the latter part of his right hon. Friend's speech he was understood to say, that if the master were unduly to bias the minds of any of the pupils attending the school by inculcating upon them his own religious opinions, he would be liable to be dismissed. When it was recollected, that the master was to be a Member of the Church of England, and when the House were told, that the master was not to teach the opinions which he believed to be true, it became important that he should inquire from his right hon. Friend, whether he correctly understood him to say, that the master was not to be at liberty to teach those opinions on religious subjects which he conscientiously entertained?
 Viscount Dungannon  expressed his admiration of the truly Christian address of the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Home Department. If the propositions which Government made for the purpose of obviating the objections brought against the measure were not met in a fair spirit, he should despair of seeing any efficient system of education established. As far as religious instruction was concerned, he thought it was not possible to devise means better calculated to give satisfaction to every class of the community. If any measure were calculated to do honour to her Majesty's Government, the present was. While the external power of the country was extending, it was lamentable to see so great a mass of its population at home sunk in ignorance, and abandoned to scepticism and infidelity. If difficulties were thrown in the way of this bill passing, the responsibility must rest on the heads of those who wished to impede a measure which would be a boon and blessing to the country.
 Captain Berkeley  wished to ask a question of the First Lord of the Treasury. A proposition had been made as to the retirement of old naval officers: he wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet would have any objection to have that scheme laid on the Table of the House?
 Captain Berkeley  rose to second the amendment. He observed, that when the hon. Member addressed the House on the subject of the Canada correspondence, he was derisively cheered by those Ministers who, on the present occasion, seemed to adopt him for their leader. He did not blame the hon. Member for making such a motion; on the contrary, he thought that, in so doing, he had acted quite consistently; but he was surprised that her Majesty's Government cheered such sentiments as the House had just heard, and supported the hon. Member's motion. A few more such negotiations as those which Lord Ashburton concluded, and the visions of the hon. Member for Montrose would be realized—the separation from Canada would be complete. He quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Commodore near him, that the name of Fort Blonder and Lord Ashburton would be
 1172
 Mr. Vernon Smith  would make but a few observations on what might justly be termed the monstrous proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose. Not that the subject did not offer abundant matter, but he applied that epithet to the motion, because of the total want of precedent as to any similar case, for as to those instances which the hon. Member was pleased to call precedents, they had about as much to do with a vote of thanks to an ambassador extraordinary or to any diplomatic envoy, as with any subject totally foreign from the matter. He was content to take the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman, the First Lord of the Treasury, as to a previous case analogous to the present. These were the words of the right hon. Gentleman when he was asked why Sir H. Pottinger was excluded from the vote of thanks on occasion of peace with China:—
 "I wish it had been consistent with usage to have included the name of Sir Henry Pottinger in the vote; but at the same time I think it of great importance to adhere in these matters strictly to precedent; because if we did not do so—if we did not strictly adhere to those precedents, which I think have been founded upon good sense, every omission that we happened to make in a vote of this nature would imply a censure. We avoid the risk of
 1178 Quarterly Review 1179 "The last subject to which I propose to advert is that which, under the designation of the "right of search," has already created so much excitement in the United States. I am persuaded that this excitement has in great measure been the consequence of misapprehension, and that when the real state of the question at issue shall have been fully explained and understood, it must necessarily subside, Undoubtedly it would be much more agreeable to her Majesty's Government, and, I must be permitted to think, more honourable to the United States, if the cabinet of Washington were now to enter into the league which has been formed by the great Powers of Europe, and by the mutual concession of a duly regulated right of search, to hold out to humanity the cheering prospect of the final extinction of the odious traffic in slaves. Your Lordship will constantly keep this object in view, and will not omit any seasonable opportunity to renew propositions tending to this result. With the example now happily afforded by all Europe. I am unwilling to doubt the ultimate success of our endeavours to include the American continent in these engagements. But whatever objections may exist in the United States to the right of search, properly so called, these are not applicable to the present case under discussion between the two governments."
 Mr. Everett  also said, writing to Mr. Webster,—
 "Lord Aberdeen rejoined, that it was more than an overture; that Lord Ashburton would go with full powers to make a definite arrangement on every point in discussion between the two countries. He was aware of the difficulty of some of them, particularly what had
 1180 1181 1182 Cheers. 1183 1184
 Lord Stanley  had been in hopes that some of those hon. Gentlemen who had on a former occasion been anxious to censure the conduct and proceedings of the noble Lord whose merits in reference to his negotiations with America were now under consideration, would have addressed the House after the able speech of the hon. Member for Liskeard; and that he should have had an opportunity of replying to attacks made in the course of the present
 1191 1192 1193 "With regard to the terms of the treaty, I do not find fault with them; I do not praise, but I am ready to accept them. On the whole, I think the arrangement may be good." Macaulay: 1194 Macaulay: 1195 1196 "This strip I have no power to give up, and I beg to add, that the refusal of my Government is founded simply on their objection to dispose arbitrarily of the persons and property of her Majesty's subjects living by preference under her authority, an objection which you are sensible applies with peculiar force to the inhabitants of this part of New Brunswick. I had hoped that the other equivalents which I had offered, combined with the sense Entertained by the government of the United Slates of the pressing importance of the case, on the ground of humanity, would have been sufficient for the purpose I so anxiously desired; but, perceiving from your note, as well as from personal conversation, that concession on this point is insisted upon, I might be disposed to consider whether my anxious desire to arrive at a friendly settlement would not justify me in yielding however reluctantly, if the latter part of your proposals did not, if finally persevered in, forbid all hope of any settlement whatever. The boundary you propose, supposing the British territory not to come over the St. John, is to run from the north side of that river three miles above its junction with the Madawaska, over an arbitrary line, which my map does not exactly permit me to follow, until it reaches somewhere the St. Francis. 1 need not examine this line in its precise details, because I am obliged frankly to state that it is inadmissible." 1197 "I cannot concur to your proposal, because that line may go to the north of the St. John's, and because you have told me already, that you cannot accept the award of the king of Holland because it is not according to the terms of the treaty." 1198 1199 Palmerston: Palmerston 1200 "Oh, yes; but I was surprised to find that these were part of the terms upon which Lord Ashburton was desired to negotiate in the instructions he received from Lord Aberdeen." 1201 "Although we will not recognise your right we will take steps, which we think most important steps, in the form of endeavours towards realising the object in view—namely, a combined effort for putting down the slave-trade; and, therefore, to avoid a case occurring in which one of your cruisers should stop an American vessel we will ourselves send a fleet to assist your vessels, and in the event of our meeting with a vessel suspected of falsely bearing American colours, on us and not upon you will be the task of satisfying ourselves as to that fact." "We will here only recommend one measure, to which America can offer no reasonable objection. It is, that a small force of brigs, brigantines, or schooners-of-war should be sent
 1202 "Cruising singly would have comparatively little effect, as the same vessel which would show American colours and papers to a British officer might show Portuguese or Spanish papers and colours to an American officer. The crews of such vessels are always composed of Spaniards, with the exception of one American, who in the presence of the British cruiser of his own nation would declare himself a passenger, and would probably produce a passenger's passport from Havannah. Cruising in couples, on the contrary, would remove the possibility of such evasion. If the American flags and pass were assumed by a slaver she would be taken charge of by the one, and if she declared herself, or if she could be proved to be, Spanish, Portuguese, or Brazilian, she would be a prize to the other man-of-war. At present, however, the coast swarms with vessels apparently American, and a rich harvest of prises would follow the arrival of a squadron of American cruisers armed with authority to capture on the ground of equipment. " "The undersigned earnestly invites the attention of the United States government to the remarks and suggestions of her Majesty's commissioners at Sierra Leone above cited. Those gentlemen possess a thorough knowledge of the frauds and devises resorted to by the miscreants who now carry on the illicit slave-trade; and they are the best possible judges of the means which ought to be employed to counteract them. The earnest wish of her Majesty's Government to obtain the concurrence of the government of the United States in an agreement for the exercise of a mutual right of search, under proper regulations, is sufficiently well known. If this concurrence cannot be obtained, the employment along the slave coast of a combined force of British and American cruisers upon the plan above suggested by the British commissioners would no doubt effect a speedy and material diminution of the trade." 1203 1204 "Read Lord Ashburton's language, when imputations were thrown out against the honour of this country by the state of Maine, and see how humbly he takes the imputations cast upon this country." "In answer to your Lordship's questions, towards the close of your note, I have to say, that the government of the United States holds itself, not only fully disposed, but fully competent, to carry into practice every principle which it avows or acknowledges, and to fulfil every duty and obligation which it owes to foreign governments, their citizens, or subjects." "I trust you will excuse my addressing to you an inquiry whether the government of the United States is now in a condition to secure
 1205 "We are ready, and willing, and able to give effect to law and justice." "It was a subject of regret that the release of M'Leod Was so long delayed." 1206
 Lord J. Russell : I must own, Sir, when I consider the noble Lord's speech, from its commencement to its termination, my surprise is not so great that the noble Lord should vote in favour of the motion for the approval of Lord Ashburton and of his treaty, as that none of the Members of her Majesty's Government should have thought proper to propose a vote so necessary as it would appear for the vindication of Lord Ashburton's honour. "What? Lord Ashburton's honour—your own negotiator—he who has made so successful a treaty, and he who has sacrificed so much to obey your commands, and who has brought so much credit to your Administration, wounded by unfounded slanders, and by men who had held high places in the service of the sovereign, and you never think of making a motion for his defence—of repairing his tarnished honour?
 1207 North Briton 1208 1209 1210 1211 "That if the claim to the right of search were insisted on by this country it would be considered as a trespass, and when attempted to be carried into execution force would be met by force." "Suppose," says he, "a vessel does not choose to be detained, and resists the attempt to visit her, what would be the consequence? If any such right existed condemnation would follow such resistance; but suppose the vessel resists, force is opposed to force, and persons were killed in the conflict, what description of offence would be committed." 1212 1213 1214 l s d l s d l s d 1215 1216
 Lord John Russell  inquired of the right hon. Gentleman, the First Lord of the Treasury, whether he should now object to his motion for a vote of thanks to Sir H. Pottinger?
 Lord John Russell  admitted the force of the latter objection, and stated that he should postpone his motion for a fortnight, and hoped, for Sir H. Pottinger's sake, that some one would be found, before the ratification reached this country, who would abuse that distinguished public officer.
 Mr. Escott : If the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir C. Napier) could answer the statements and arguments, instead of harping upon the jocular part of the speech of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, he would do good service to his party; but that speech had remained unanswered. If the principles of the hon. and gallant Members who proposed and seconded the amendment had been followed by Lord Ashburton, not only would the treaty not be concluded, but we should, in all probability, be at this moment at war with the United States. It was not by cavilling at stray expressions, but by viewing the treaty as a whole, that they could form a fair opinion of the conduct of Lord Ashburton. There were three great questions of retributive justice which had occupied Parliament during the present Session. The first was a vote of thanks to the Indian army; the second was a vote of censure upon the authors of the Indian war; and the third was the motion before the House. The first was carried with little or no opposition; the second would have been carried with quite as little trouble but for the forbearance of the Executive, who had acted on that occasion with as much magnanimity as wisdom. With respect to the motion before the House, there could not be a doubt of its passing, as it was but an act of justice to an individual. He, therefore, felt greatly rejoiced when the hon. Member for Montrose placed his motion on the order-book. The country had already virtually sanctioned it, and it was only for the House to carry the intentions of the country into effect. That was the cause why the motion of the no-
 1173
 Mr. C. Buller  regretted that, upon a subject he regarded with so much interest and upon which he so decidedly differed from many of his hon. Friends on his side of the House he should be prevented by indisposition from addressing the House so fully as he could wish. The House certainly would not be troubled by listening long to him, but he feared he should be obliged to confine himself to the expression of opinions which would have little weight, rather than to the offering to the House facts and arguments which would aid them in their discussion of the question. He was not only going to vote with the hon. Member for Montrose, but he was also glad that the hon. Member had thought proper to bring forward his motion. He would not undervalue precedents, no doubt wisely adopted; but, at the same time, he believed the diplomatic history of this country scarcely afforded an instance of services so important having been rendered: services which consisted, not in securing the greatest advantages from a war in which our arms were successful, nor in merely continuing the ordinary course of negotiation; but which had put an end to a dispute that threatened to a most dangerous extent the relations of this country with that with which of all others it was most desirable, both from feeling and policy, that Great Britain should maintain amicable relations. On these grounds he was disposed to overlook precedent in this instance. But there was another reason why he should be disposed to overlook precedent—it was because he thought the country placed in an unprecedented situation in respect to this treaty of Washington. There had been a debate upon the subject, in which there had been much ability and force of argument on both sides; but yet that debate, in the eyes of the country, had an appearance as if all who spoke on that (the Opposition) side of the House opposed the treaty, and its only supporters were the Ministers by whom it had been effected. It was most desirable that such an impression should be removed, and that the people of this country, and of the world at large, should be made aware that the treaty of Washington was not regarded as a party question. It was, therefore, incumbent on those in opposition who approved of the treaty to express their approbation of the conduct of the negotiator. The simple question then
 1185 1186 1187 1188 1189 1190
 Mr. E. Buller  was understood to say, that he was unacquainted with the motives which had induced the hon. Member for Montrose to bring forward this motion, but he deeply regretted that such a step had been taken. In his opinion the interests of the country required that the treaty of Washington should be made, as little as possible the subject of discussion, and that nothing should be done to disturb the minds of men either here or in America, and to cause either party to suppose that they had obtained an advantage. It was far better that each country should believe that it had made sacrifices, in order to avert the horrors of war. Surprised as he was that the present motion should have been made, he was still more astonished that it should receive the support of the government. He could not consider the proposition in any other light than as a motion of censure upon the administration; for if Lord Ashburton was deserving of thanks, and it was consistent with precedent and public interests, why had the ministers not proposed a vote of thanks to him long ago? It was incumbent on the Government to show that there were circumstances in Lord Ashburton's case which justified a departure from precedent. Before he could assent to the motion, he must be satisfied that Lord Ashburton's conduct had been, in all respects, unexceptionable; but at present the impression of his mind was decidedly adverse to that conclusion. In looking through the correspondence upon the Table of the House, he perceived that Lord Ashburton had, in more than one instance, pledged the honour of the country to a particular course, which he after wards abandoned. Nevertheless, after having considered the question, he was disposed to acquiesce in the terms of the treaty. It was a different question, however, whether he was prepared to say that it was advantageous to the country. In several passages of the correspondence Lord Ashburton himself declared the treaty was advantageous not to this country, but to the United States. Had the state of opinion in this country permitted, the late government would have had no difficulty in settling the question on the same basis as that of the late treaty, but looking at the decided opinions expressed by some of the leading reviews of the country in favour of the full extent of the British claim—by the Quarterly Review,
 1175 Westminster Review
 Dr. Bowring  said, he rose to second briefly the motion of his hon. Friend; and though on most occasions such a motion might be considered a work of Parliamentary supererogation, yet this treaty had been so violently, and in his judgment, so undeservedly attacked, that it appeared to him quite becoming in the Legislature to give it a hearty and an emphatic approval. He had read the correspondence through, and from beginning to end the negotiation had been conducted in a courteous, pacific, and dignified spirit. As became the representative of a country like this, the noble Lord had entered on the controversy in a tone and temper worthy of his important functions—the functions of a negotiator of peace. He might have exasperated the people to whom he was sent—he sought to con ciliate; but not by unworthy concessions. He might have created difficulties by a querulous and quarrelsome jactancy—he rather endeavoured to remove them; but by no sacrifice of the national honour.
 1169
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he did not think that some mode might be suggested by which the difficulties and inconveniencies of the present mode of giving notices and asking questions might be got rid of.
 Mr. Hume  in rising to move a resolution, conveying the thanks of the House to Lord Ashburton, for the manner in which he had conducted the negotiations which led to the recent treaty with the United States, for the settlement, of the north-eastern boundary question, and other matters in dispute between the two countries, said that he was the more induced to do so in consequence of the noble Lord's having been assailed in this House by a noble Lord, who had lately occupied the post of Foreign Secretary, for the manner in which he had settled these differences. He looked at the result of this negotiation as a most fortunate circumstance for this country, and he very much regretted, and highly disapproved of the manner in which the noble Lord had been attacked in some quarters for his conduct in those negotiations, and in which the treaty resulting there from had been complained of. He had come down on the second evening of the debate on the noble Lord's motion, in order to submit a few observations to the House in support of the conduct of Lord Ashburton; but, in consequence of that debate terminating, he was prevented from fulfilling his intention by recording his opinion on this important question. He thought that the noble Lord who conducted these negotiations, was entitled to the thanks of the House and of the country for having, under fair and honourable terms, brought to a conclusion the disputes and put an end to that state of excitement which had so long prevailed between the two nations, and which, though nominally in a state of peace, had placed us in a state of disturbance bordering on warfare, and had pre vented the English and the Americans alike from the advantage of securely colonizing their respective territories. The statement of the noble Lord the late Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in bringing forward his motion of censure upon Lord Ashburton, as far as the history of these transactions up to the period of Lord Ashburton's mission, was very clear and perspicuous; and he believed it to be strictly correct. But further than this he could not go, for he had been obliged, with feelings of deep regret, to differ from the
 1160 l 1161 1162 1163 "He looked upon the mission as one prompted by amicable intentions, and that it should be met with a corresponding feeling." 1164 1165 1166 1167 1168 "That this House, looking to the long-protracted and unsuccessful negotiations for the settlement of the north-eastern boundary between the United States of America and the British North American provinces; and taking into consideration the great importance of re moving the grounds of irritation between the inhabitants of the frontiers, is of opinion that the treaty of Washington, by which that boundary has been defined and settled, is alike honourable and advantageous; and that Lord Ashburton, who conducted the negociations which led to that treaty, deserves, for that service, the thanks of this House."
 Sir C. Napier  said, that he was not astonished that the noble and learned Lord in the other House of Parliament should have proposed a vote of thanks to the noble Lord who had been engaged in arranging the boundary question with the American government, for that noble and learned Lord bad for some time been coqueting with her Majesty's Government; but he must express his regret that the hon. Member for Montrose, whom he had always considered to be a plain, straightforward, honest, calculating Scotchman, should follow in that noble and learned Lord's footsteps, and bring forward such a motion for the approval of the House. Why did not her Majesty's Government, if they approved of the proceedings of Lord Ashburton, propose a motion of thanks? He had a right to infer, from their silence upon this point, that they disapproved of the conduct of that noble Lord in the negotiations with which he had been intrusted. With regard to the question of the right of search, the President of America had declared that we had abandoned that right. The right hon. Baronet had denied this statement: that denial was followed up by a despatch from the Earl of Aberdeen. He could not see how the Earl of
 1170 1171
 Captain Pechell  must ask the right hon. Baronet whether the limits on these coasts were to be further intruded upon.
 Captain Pechell  wished to know what was the state of negotiations with respect to the fishery question between England and France. He wished to know whether it were to be conceded to the French to anchor within those limits on the British coast from which hitherto they had been prohibited, and whether the negotiations with the commissioners had been concluded?
 Sir H. Douglas  expressed his cordial approval of the conduct of Lord Ashburton in not having insisted upon the retention of Rouse's Point, which was useless to us as a defensive position against attack from the United States, and only useful for an offensive movement. The gallant Commodore, the Member for Marylebone, had stated, that Rouse's Point ought to have been retained by us, because without the possession of that point, no attack or invasion of the United States could be made by us, in that quarter. The hon. and gallant Member thus admits what he (Sir H. Douglas), stated in a former debate, that the retention of Rouse's Point is not essential to the defence of Canada. He did hope we never should make a hostile inroad into the United States. If there was one thing more than another that he admired in the noble Lord who had been chosen to represent this country, it was, that he conducted the negotiation in a friendly spirit, and scorned to insist on the possession of any point not necessary for the defence and security of the British dominions in America, and willingly relinquished what would only be of use for offensive purposes. He hoped we should always remember Saratoga, and never forget Plattsburg. The maddest of all attempts would be an invasion of the United States, circuitously through Canada, from which we were shut out by climate for five months of the year, and in which every shot that was fired must be at enormous cost, from the difficulty of transport. If ever, unfortunately, which God forbid, war with the United States should be forced upon us, and operations—and he could here distinguish between desultory attacks and regular invasions—be undertaken, let these be carried on within the reach of that great
 1176 1177
 Sir J. Hanmer  attached quite as much value to the treaty as the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, or any other hon. Member, but he was most strongly opposed to the establishment of such a precedent as the motion of the hon. Member for Montrose would create, if it were agreed to; and the only reason why he felt it necessary to address a few sentences to the House was, lest it might be supposed, that in the vote which he intended to give, he indicated the slightest disrespect or want of esteem for the noble Lord who negotiated the treaty which was the subject of the motion. He could not support the motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, for he did not think that the establishment of such a precedent was a matter to be treated lightly, and he felt curious to know what arguments the Government would advance as inducing them to acquiesce in such a course. He should be inclined to set equal value on other treaties, for example, on a treaty with France, and did it follow, he would ask, in case a treaty were concluded with France, which they might all approve of, that they were in the House of Commons to pass a vote of thanks to the ambassador who negotiated that treaty? If they pursued that course, the effect of it would be to draw distinctions between the relative importance of treaties with different nations, which would be most inadvisable, He was not disposed to enter into the particular merits of the treaty, and he entreated the House to recollect that the advantages gained by it were quite beside the question. He objected to the establishment of the precedent as one which, if adopted, would produce the greatest possible inconvenience; and with that view, he protested against it, although he would yield to no man in the respect which he entertained for Lord Ashburton.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, when this question was previously under discussion, I had an opportunity of entering so fully into the subject of the negotiations which were begun and brought to a successful close by Lord Ashburton, that I shall feel myself relieved from the necessity of now going at length into the subject. The noble Lord who spoke last has made the important admission, that when the result of these negotiations first became generally known, there was in this country one feeling of almost universal satisfaction. I apprehend that satisfaction would not have been felt if any undue or discreditable concessions had been made by the Government. It is the character of the British people to be more ready to resent an affront than to tolerate undue acquiescence. But what the noble Lord says is perfectly true. The feeling of satisfaction at the termination of the long protracted discussions between the two countries was almost universal, and it afforded, as 1 conceive, the strongest possible testimony of the merits of the negotiation. The people of England concur in the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord towards the latter part of his speech, deprecating the commencement of hostilities with the country which had set the example of independence—they deprecate war and carnage with a country united to ours by a community of origin—a community of language and a community of religion; and I believe that the noble Lord will now find it a difficult task to persuade the people that they ought not at this time to be satisfied with an arrangement in which, on its first announcement, they were ready and willing to concur. The noble Lord says, and he says correctly, that the vote now proposed to this House is not strictly in conformity with precedents. For that reason I have declined to move the vote of thanks to Sir Henry Pottinger, of which the noble Lord has given notice for this night. Although I fully admit all the noble Lord can urge—although I fully agree that the greatest prudence, the greatest judgment, and the greatest moderation have been shown by that gallant Officer in the conduct of the negotiations entrusted to him; and al-
 1217 1218 1219 "That this House is satisfied, that his Majesty has, on the whole, wisely consulted the interests of his people in having concluded a definitive treaty, founded on the basis of these preliminaries." 1220 1221 "That the line of highlands (they say) claimed by the United States is, as the argument on the part of Great Britain has maintained it ought to be, in a mountainous region, while that proposed by Messrs. Featherstonehaugh and Mudge does not possess this character; that it is also, in the sense uniformly maintained by the United States, the height of land, which that of Messrs. Featherstonehaugh and Mudge is not; that it fulfils, in every sense, the conditions of the proclamation of 1763, the Quebec Act of 1774, and the treaty of 1783, which no other line that can possibly be drawn in the territory in question can perform." 1222 bona fide bonâ fide "The parties mutually stipulate, that each shall prepare, equip, and maintain in service, on the coast of Africa, a sufficient and adequate squadron, or naval force of vessels, of suitable numbers and descriptions, to carry in all not less than eighty guns, to enforce separately and respectively, the laws, rights, and obligations of each of the two countries for the suppression of the slave-trade; the said squadrons to be independent of each other, but the two Governments stipulating nevertheless to give such orders to the officers commanding their respective forces, as shall enable them most effectually to act in concert and co-operation, upon mutual consultation, as exigencies may arise, for the attainment of
 1223 1224 1225 Laughter
 Sir Robert Peel  in reply stated that he should decidedly object to such a motion, as Sir H. Pottinger had not yet been abused in the House, besides which the treaty had not been ratified.
 Sir Robert Peel : The abuse will not come from this side of the House.
 Sir R. Peel  had a decided objection to do so. A plan was proposed by one Member of the Government to another. Such a plan was not to be published. There would be an end to all confidence if such a proposition were to be agreed to.
 1159
 Sir R. Peel  would put it to the House whether, in the present stage of the proceedings, he ought to be required to give any further explanation. Arrangements had been made by the commissioners of the two countries. He had reason to believe that these would soon be laid on the Table of the House; but until he could state that they had been ratified by the French government, he should decline entering into any further explanation.
 Sir R. Peel  for himself could say, that the subject had attracted his attention. He considered that some new arrangement was necessary. He had also to state that the right hon. Gentleman (the Speaker) had mentioned to him that this matter had also occupied his attention, and had intimated to him his intention to communicate with him, for the purpose of making some more satisfactory arrangement.
 Sir R. Peel  replied, if notice had been given by the noble Lord of his intention to ask this question, his answer would be more complete than it could be at present. His impression was, that the consent of the Crown was to be given, and so far the Crown was bound by it; but to give effect to the consent of the Crown, the consent of Parliament would be necessary. He thought that the terms of the convention could hardly be fulfilled, unless by means of an act of Parliament.
 Sir Robert Peel , in answer to the hon. and gallant Gentleman had to state that commissioners had been appointed on behalf of the two countries, for the purpose of coming to an arrangement with respect to a fishery treaty. The regulations which those commissioners had agreed upon had not yet been satisfied; but he had every reason to believe that in a few days this would take place, and as soon as the ratification was received, these arrangements would be laid on the Table of the House; for it would be necessary, as he believed, to bring in a bill, for the purpose of giving these arrangements the force of law.
 Viscount Palmerston  was afraid the right hon. Baronet did not exactly see the purport of the question he had asked. He wished to know whether, on the regulations being laid before Parliament, it would be competent for a Member to object to any one of those regulations?
 Viscount Palmerston  understood the right hon. Baronet to state that Fishery Commissioners had been engaged on the part of the two countries, and that they had agreed to certain regulations, but that these regulations had not yet received the approbation of the two governments, and that the right hon. Baronet expected that he would be able to announce that approbation before the termination of the present week. He wished further to understand whether the approbation of her Majesty's Government was to be given in the same manner that regulated the acceptance of a treaty, that it was to be binding on the Government, so that when it was submitted to Parliament, it must either be adopted by Parliament, as agreed upon
 1158
 Viscount Palmerston  could not see that the right hon. Baronet had given any answer to the objections which had been urged by his noble Friend to the course which the Government had thought fit to adopt on this occasion, by departing from all former precedents. All the reasons stated, and all the precedents quoted by the right hon. Gentleman went to show that if the Government thought a vote of thanks proper at all, it was their duty to hare brought it forward themselves. The cases of Mr. Canning and of Lord Hawkesbury had been quoted; but each of these was the case of a Minister, who, when his measures were censured by Members of the House, called for a vote of the House in support of those measures. His noble Friend had alluded to certain opinions held by the hon. Member for Montrose, which rendered it peculiarly improper for the Government to follow in his wake on this occasion, and to adopt his motion. The right hon. Baronet asked—What have those opinions to do with the question? What matters it what opinions the hon. Gentleman may happen to have expressed as to the importance or unimportance of Canada to this country, or as to the value or worthlessness of our connection with that colony. But he would maintain that this was a matter bearing directly on the question, for if the hon. Member for Montrose thought the connection between this country and Canada of no value, and if he considered it desirable, on the contrary, to dissolve that connection as soon as possible, he might chance to think that this treaty was a good one, because it tended to accelerate the severance of that connection. He would, therefore, repeat that his noble
 1226 1227 "That it was a treaty of which many persons might be glad, but of which no man could be proud." 1228 1229 1230 1231 1232 1233 1234 1235 1236 1237 1238
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet opposite. As the Government had refused to postpone the second reading of this bill, he wished to know whether they would enforce the
 1243
 Dr. Nicholl  said, the hon. and learned Member had not stated any reason to induce the House to agree to his motion.
 Dr. Nicholl  said, the bill was in direct contradiction to the reports of the ecclesiastical commissioners. He had understood that the bill was not to extend to divorce a  vinculo matrimonii,
 Mr. Borthwick  had a question to put to the right hon. Baronet relative to the detention of Don Carlos in France. A question had been asked on this subject in the French Chambers, and the difference of treatment pointed out which Was experienced by Queen Christina and Don Carlos. From the answer of the French minister, it seemed to be implied that there was no intention on the part of the French government of liberating Don Carlos. The question he had now to put was, whether her Majesty's Government, observing the position of that illustrious personage, had the intention of interfering, by friendly mediation, to obtain his liberation.
 Mr. Ewart  seconded the motion with much pleasure; and did so because of the injustice and expense of the present system. The cost of a divorce  à vinculo matrimonii l l l 1245 l
 Mr. Elphinstone  moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Marriages and Divorces Bill.
 Mr. Elphinstone  said, the House was aware that at present suits for divorce were carried on in the various provincial courts, subject to appeal to the courts at York and Canterbury. Now, with the exception of London, those courts were totally unsuited to the trial of such questions. The judges were wholly unqualified; they were unassisted by a bar, and consequently there was little chance of justice being obtained. Then the expense of the present mode of proceeding was enormous. In one case, which was first tried at the Court of Wells, and in which the suitor was poor, the expense was upwards of 1,500 l a vinculo matrimonii,
 Sir James Graham  replied, that he had no power to enforce the production of those papers. In consequence of the motion that had been made, he had directed inquiries into the subject, and found that the Poor-law Commissioners were making every effort for the production of those papers, but the returns were most voluminous, and had not yet been completed. He assured the hon. Gentleman that there had been no intentional delay in any quarter.
 Sir Robert Peel  intended to answer the question without reference to what might have passed in the French Chambers, and of which he could have no cognisance. His answer was for the House of Commons. He had already given, about three weeks ago, all the information on this subject it was in his power to afford. He had undertaken to say, on the part of the British Government, that they had no wish that Don Carlos should be subject to any restraint whatever; but that considering what had passed relative to that prince, and what might be the consequence to Spain, they could not consent to an unlimited liberation of Don Carlos. What had passed and what might be apprehended, justified, he thought, the British Government and the French government
 1244
 Mr. Lane Fox  begged to say that when he gave the notice respecting the agitation in Ireland, and for a call of the House, his object was not to bring forward a question of such importance in the absence of the Irish Members. He was anxious to impress upon them his desire that they should be present. He was anxious to reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman opposite, because he saw that a question had been put to Mr. O'Connell in Ireland. A question had been put to the hon. and learned Member for Cork as to whether he intended to be present at the discussion, and his reply was that he would not attend without the call of the House being enforced. Now, he did not wish to proceed to that extremity, and,
 1275
 Mr. Shell  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet a question, which, he trusted, the right hon. Baronet would have the courtesy to answer, although he had not given any notice. He observed that very properly in the Spanish senate reference had been made to the supposed intention of the King of the French to interfere in a matter on which the Spanish nation and the Sovereign had, as it appeared to him, an exclusive right to decide. It was generally stated, that the King of the French insisted upon the Queen of Spain not marrying any person who was not of the house of Bourbon. The question he wished to put was, whether her Majesty's Government, through the British ambassador at Paris, or otherwise, had received any communication relative to the marriage of the Queen of Spain?
 Captain Bernal  observed, that at the present moment there was in the Church of England a very serious schism, and though we might not perhaps be aware of the fact, yet it formed a pretty close parallel to the existing state of the Church of Scotland, and when the right hon. Baronet told them that he intended to add to the number of clergymen giving instruction according to the doctrines of the Church of England, he should have informed them what the doctrines of the Church of England were. The public had frequently been told that some doctrines taught by some pastors of the Church of England were not only against the con-
 1296
 Mr. Campbell  rose to express his satisfaction with the measure of the Government, but at the same time he thought that the right hon. Baronet would do well to pay attention to what had been said by hon. Members, with respect to certain doctrines that now agitated the Church. It had been said that the House of Commons was not a fit place for the introduction of theological questions. If not there, where? In Scotland, in the General Assembly, the religious question that agitated the Church had been discussed on its principles and details, and the sentiments of the Church of Scotland were therefore known. Where were the means of effecting that result with regard to the Church of England? Where was the convocation of the Church of England? How and where were the new doctrines to be met face to face, so that it might be ascertained whether they were the sentiments of the whole church, or whether they were only those of the reformed Catholic Church, as they called themselves? He was convinced that those doctrines could not stand the test of discussion, and therefore it was that he desired to see them discussed. The time was coming, he was convinced, when theological questions would be actually forced on the House, and when that time came, it would be found that the doctrines to which he referred were a fester that was eating into the heart's core of the Church of England.
 Mr. Campbell  explained, that he held that the House of Commons had a right to interfere with the temporalities of the Church, but not with the spiritualities. He had never said, that there was no power in the Church of England that could decide spiritual points, but he said, there was no power which did decide them.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  alluded to the remark made by the hon. Member for East Kent (Mr. Plumptre) that the city churches were empty because the clergymen who filled them were the reverse of such men as Mr. Dale. He had heard it with great regret, and he was sure that the city clergy would hear the remark from no man with mare sorrow than from the hon. Member. The real reason why the churches were so thinly attended was, that the city was actually depopulated on Sundays.
 Mr. Acland  thought, that for that House to enter on questions of doctrine, could lead to nothing but idle discussions. He agreed with the suggestion thrown out, that the right place for such discussions was the Convocation. He held himself entitled, as a lay Member of the Church of England, to claim for her that right of which he believed all other religious communities in the world ware in possession—the right of expressing, in the proper and constitutional manner, her own doctrines—and he would go further, and say, on practical points relating to the management of the internal affairs of the Church. He should not object to the right hon. Gentleman's plan, because it had not been laid before Con vocation; but he must protest against the constitutional right of the Church of England to express her opinion on her internal affairs being questioned. He disapproved of the manner in which these questions were bandied about in that House, and hoped that Gentlemen on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, the depth of whose religious feeling he could not but respect, though he might differ from them on some points—would consider the injury of which the incautious handling of them might be productive to that faith which they held in common. If the time should ever come when the Church or its tribunals proved faithless to their trust, then it might be for the Ministers of the Crown
 1311
 Mr. Baring  had a question to put to the right hon. Gentleman as to the details of his plan. It was proposed to take an advance of 600,000 l. 1312
 The Attorney-General  for Ireland said he was sorry to see that the bill was met by such a feeling of disrespect, and even hostility, as had been evinced by hon. Members from Ireland on this occasion. He must deny that any insult was intended to Ireland by bringing forward the present bill at the hour of ten o'clock at night—a circumstance which had been so strongly commented on; for, during his own short experience, he had known—and he would
 1337 d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. d. l. s d. l. s. d. 1338 l. l. "He had forty-five summonses at the last Blessington sessions, some of them for 5 d. s. d. s. s. d. d. 1339 d. s. d. d. d. He had 186 names of rate-payers some were under 1 l. l.
 Robert Hopkins , late collector, stated that in one district of the Shillelagh union he had to apply to 134 ratepayers, their net annual value commencing at 10 s. l. 1340
 Colonel Acton  said, he had for many years been anxious to rescue the unfortunate and destitute hundreds and thousands of his fellow-countrymen from their long dependence on the casual charity of their fellow-countrymen—a charity too often exercised in the greatest extent by those but little removed from the state of destitution which they were called on to alleviate. He had gladly hailed the enactment of a legislative remedy for Irish distress—and he was happy to say, that, looking fairly at what had been achieved, he had not been disappointed in the expectations he had formed as to the results. He had been at great pains to ascertain the working of the measure—he had instituted personal inquiries, and through friends had extended those inquiries; and from the result he was enabled to congratulate the country on the amount of good that had been achieved. The commissioners had undoubtedly had a most arduous, harrassing, and discouraging duty to perform—they had in many instances been very severely, and as he thought, very roughly and unreasonably handled. Their difficulties had not been duly estimated—nor their exertions, with the single object of public benefit in view, sufficiently appreciated. From all he had seen, and from all he had been able to ascertain, they had accomplished all that could within the time be reasonably anticipated. Of the assistant commissioners generally he had heard most favourable mention—Of
 1347
 Lord Eliot  rose to move the second reading of the Poor Relief (Ireland) Bill. He trusted the House would allow him to make a short explanatory statement of its principal provisions, which he was sorry to say had been greatly, he would not say wilfully, misrepresented. He hoped he might also be permitted to say in passing, that he thought hon. Members would do better to state their objections to legislative measures in their places in Parliament, rather than abandon the position they had undertaken to occupy, and canvass them at public meetings, where there was no opportunity of meeting them. Great pains had been taken to collect opinions on the subject of the working of the Irish Poor-law, from gentlemen who were most conversant with the subject this bill was the result of a careful collation of those opinions, and he felt he might undertake to say, on the part of Ministers, that they would he prepared to give the fullest and fairest consi-
 1319 l. l. s. l. s. d. d. s. d. d. s. s. d. 1320 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1321 l. 1322 1323 ex officio ex officio ex officio ex officio ex officio ex officio ex officio ex officio 1324
 Lord J. Manners  said the hon. Member for Salford completely misunderstood him, if he thought that he said the House had no right to legislate on the temporalities of the Church. He said it was not the place for a discussion of the doctrines of the Church.
 Lord J. Manners  entirely agreed with the noble Lord near him, that this was no place for theological discussions, and therefore he should not enter on them. He had abstained from voting on the Church of Scotland question; he remembered that that course met with the approbation of the hon. Member for Argyle-shire, and he most sincerely regretted that the hon. Member had not imitated, on the present occasion, the course then taken by so humble an individual as himself. Any measure that would give a right to the state to interfere, more than it had hitherto done with the Church, would be fraught with the most dangerous consequences to the country. In former years, measures had been introduced into Parliament which created great alarm among the best friends of the Church; these related to ecclesiastical property, but however injurious they would have been to the temporal interests of the Church, they did not trench on her doctrines. But now it seemed that House was to be the arbiter of the doctrines of the Church. The hon. Member for Argyleshire said, it was fitting it should be so, because there was no other body in England which could decide on those doctrines; but the hon. Gentleman answered this argument almost in the same breath, by asking, where was the convocation? He agreed with the hon. Member on this point, and would ask, why should not the Convocation be called? As to the measure of the right hon. Gentleman, he had not a word to say against it. It seemed to give a permanent sanction to the constitution of the ecclesiastical commission, he regretted that that sanction
 1310
 Lord John Russell  could assure the noble Lord, the Member for Durham, that he was not at all reluctant to give his opinion of the plan propounded by the right hon. Baronet, at the head of the Government; but he had thought it right that his hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford, who seemed disposed to address the House on the subject, should have an opportunity of expressing his opinion immediately after the right hon. Baronet. As regarded the scheme itself, he was not disposed to bestow any extraordinary approbation upon it. It did not appear to be of vast extent or high principle, or to be likely to produce any extraordinary results. At the same time, he must confess, it appeared to be a step in the right direction, and it certainly would tend to the removal of a very great evil. By the scheme, as he understood it, the right hon. Baronet took the capital already belonging to the Church, and, by his mode of dealing with it, forestalled, to a certain degree, the amount of income which many years hence would accrue to the Church, by vacancies in dignities and sinecures, and which, by an act of the Legislature, was directed to be applied to the increase of the means of spiritual instruction. Before going further, he wished to say a few words as to the manner in which the church commissioners dealt, as far as he knew; but he confessed his information on the point was not very exact—with the funds already in their hands, which, he understood, amounted to 25,000 l. 1298 l. l. 1299 l. 1300 l.
 Mr. F. French  said, before he brought forward the amendment of which he had given notice, he thought it advisable to say that he was favourable to the principle of a poor law. He was one of those who thought that both humanity and policy called for a compulsory provision for the poor. Political economists, having solely in view the production and distribution of wealth, might be opposed to such enactments; but the House of Commons should take a more comprehensive range, and consider the nature, production, and distribution of human happiness. He contended that man should not be dealt with as a mere machine for the production of wealth, and that in no community, where there were means to prevent it, should their fellow-creatures be suffered to perish through want of the means of subsistence. Nature would vindicate her own rights if legislative enactments attempted to contravene them, and the inevitable result of leaving the great mass of the people to misery and destitution, must be disaffection, turbulence, and bloodshed. With the most benevolent intentions, and the most sincere desire to promote the welfare of the Irish people, he believed the present poor-law to have been introduced. It was, however, unfortunately founded on the mere assertion and on the inaccurate calculations of Mr. Nicholls—assertions so unfounded and calculations so inaccurate as, but for the ruin they had wrought, to be subjects only fit for derision. Under it the country had been covered with workhouses, many of them unnecessary-some without water, several without sewerage, all of them incommodious and unhealthy calculated from their formation,
 1325 l. "That in all probability the number of workhouses would not materially, if at all, exceed 80; that in aid of this number the houses of industry, mendicity, and other establishments, would become available at probably a small expense." l. l. l. l. 1326 l. l. l. "Our experience of workhouse administration in England would warrant the adoption
 1327 l. l. l. s. l. s. d. s. d. s. s. l. l. l. l. 1328 1329 "That the present system of Poor-laws had utterly failed as a measure for the relief of pauperism, and seemed rather calculated to aggravate the evils, and still further to depress the social condition of the poor; that it was introduced contrary to the report of commissioners of high character and ability; that the present law was obnoxious to all classes of the community, because the relief afforded bore no proportion to the amount of the tax, and even if economically administered, it would be inadequate to meet the evils it professed to remedy, while it tended to the gradual extinction of those charitable and domestic virtues for which the Irish people had been remarkable." "That the commissioners had forfeited the confidence of the public by their wasteful expenditure, and by their disregard of all reasonable remonstrances; by the undecided and evasive character of their communications, and by the unsatisfactory manner in which they had discharged the important duties confided to them." "The law is so irremediably faulty that it ought to be entirely repealed." "That they viewed with great alarm the excitement resulting from the operation of the Poor-law, and stated, from the experience of two years, their conviction that the beneficial objects intended by the Legislature to the poor had not been realised, and that its continuance would, in their opinion, endanger the peace of the country." "The present Poor-law was totally inadequate to heal or diminish the evils of destitution in Ireland—that in place of providing for the distress of the necessitous poor, it was calculated to aggravate the hardships of that class, and that the universal discontent, as far as it had worked, was an incontrovertible proof of the entire unfitness of the present system to the condition of Ireland." "That it was a measure inapplicable to the country, and unpalatable to the people; that it would retard and ultimately paralyse the industry of the country, and was fraught with countless evils both of a temporal and spiritual nature." 1330 "The present Poor-law to be quite inapplicable to Ireland, and unsuited to the habits and religious principles of the people, which led them to aid the mendicant as a sacred duty law could not abolish." "That the present Poor-law was not suited to the stale of society in that country, and that it was highly expedient that it should either be greatly modified or repealed altogether." "That the present Poor-law system evinced on the part of those by whom it was framed a profound ignorance of the habits and of the moral and social character of the Irish poor, and a total disregard of their strong domestic affections." "The law had already excited the discontent of all classes; and that unless repealed, the peace and tranquillity of the country would be endangered."  "Ready and willing to support the poor of their own parish, as recommended by Doctor Doyle, and the only way in which the principle of a Poor-law can be rendered applicable to Ireland." "That the union workhouse should be pulled down, and the materials sold, to save them from being involved in a ruinous and useless expenditure; and in this case they declared themselves willing to submit their lands to an assessment sufficient to cover the difference between the sum received from the sale of the materials, and that laid out in building the workhouse." l. l. l. 1331 "The commissioners had proved by their conduct in various places, as well as in that union, that no confidence could be placed in them. They gave pledges they did not hesitate to violate—no reliance could be placed on a word their assistant-commissioner said; he had lost all credit with the Poor-law guardians—no trust or credit was placed in him by them." Edinburgh Review "It is impossible to deny that in this matter the rate-payers of Ireland have been treated with injustice. They have been induced, on false pretences, to erect workhouses and levy rates. They were told by all who in Parliament brought forward or supported the law, that it was to be a measure of economy. The same doctrine was repeated to them by the commissioners, by the assistant-commissioners—in short, by all who recommended or even defended the measure. If this statement is found to be only partially true in any of the unions, and wholly unfounded in the great majority; if the rates are in general a mere addition to the alms; if mendicancy is in general altered only by the substitution of a new crowd of beggars, can we wonder that the law should become odious, or that the collection of rates should be opposed by tumult, or by the more effectual machinery of passive resistance?" 1332 l. l. s. d. d. s. l. l. d. s. l. l. s. d. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. s. 1333 l. l. 1334 l. ex officio
 Mr. Shaw  would make but a very few observations on that stage of the measure. The House, he was persuaded, would not refuse a second reading to a bill brought forward by her Majesty's Government for the amendment of the Irish Poor-law, and although there were parts of the amended bill to which he objected, and amendments omitted which he thought should be introduced—as the committee would be the proper occasion For discussing those points—he would not dwell upon them then. His hon. Friend the
 1341 1342 1343
 Mr. Curteis  wished to make an observation respecting the appointment of the right hon. Baronet of the right rev. Dean of Westminster. He had seen a paragraph stating, that when the Prime Minister gave the right rev. Dean his appointment, he stipulated that the Dean should give every facility to the public of entering the abbey, and visiting it at all times. He (Mr. Curteis) understood the right hon. Baronet to confirm that, and the fact gave him very great satisfaction, as he had no doubt it would also give to the public generally. He hoped, that every facility would be afforded to the public for visiting
 1309
 Mr. Colquhoun  was understood to say, that the hon. and gallant Member must be aware that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government was not the proper person to answer the question which he had asked. He was aware that the indiscretion and violence of the parties to whom the hon. and gallant Member had alluded had alienated some of the best friends of the Church. An instance of this had come under his observation. A Church had been erected in a large manufacturing town, in order to meet a case of great moral destitution, and the proceeding was sanctioned by the strongest sympathies of the people. The clergyman who was appointed to the Church professed the doctrines which had been adverted to, and he seemed to suppose that the simple reading of the services of the Church of England would be sufficient to attract an alienated and ignorant population to his Church. The result was as might have been predicted: those who attended at first from motives of curiosity were disgusted by the fierce tone of denunciation which the clergyman assumed, and the Church was now almost entirely deserted. He was happy to express his belief that the new doctrines, which were so injurious to the Church, would not prevail to any great extent in the country. Clergymen of the Church of England were beginning to see that in the discharge of their sacred duty it was not incumbent on them to press unduly doctrines and discipline on people who were utterly ignorant of even the first elements of moral truth, but rather to point out to them the necessity of reclaimed conduct and improved life. That was a service which it ought to be the highest honour of the Church of England to perform, and which the Legislature had a right to expect from it. The plan announced by the right hon. Baronet would operate most beneficially in many instances with which he himself was
 1297 l.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he had no.reason whatever to disapprove of the proposal now made by the right hon. Baronet towards the affording of endowments for ministers in populous districts, and he begged to add, that he had been very highly gratified by the tone and language employed by the right hon. Gentleman in bringing this proposal before the House. It was most pleasing to him to hear the Prime Minister of this great country speaking of the application of religion as the main remedy for the many social evils that are to be found amongst us. Everything was to be hoped for if this great remedy could, under God's blessing, be brought to bear upon the population of the laud. The hon. and gallant Member for Wycombe had referred, in the discussion of the subject before the House, to certain opinions introduced of late years by certain members of the Church, and had said that these opinions ought to be guarded against. He quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member; and as the hon. and gallant Member had introduced the subject, he would say that he believed that the holders of these opinions, the Tractarians, were inflicting an injury of no common amount on the Church of which they are members. They were giving the utmost offence in many quarters, and when, in language almost as unintelligible, as, in his opinion, it was altogether unscriptural ad uncharitable, they ventured to consign to "the uncovenanted mercies of God," members of any other Church than their own, they were creating disgust, and driving from their churches very many by whom such exclusive opinions could not be tolerated. The hon. Member for Montrose had alluded to the empty state of many churches in the City. He had beard of this state of things, and he believed he might venture a general opinion that the extent of congregations very much depended on the character of the preaching employed before them. He remembered a saying of Rowland Hill, "that the place where a cannon-ball might be fired with the least
 1305
 Mr. Brotherton  said, the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Manners) seemed to think that House had no right to interfere with the temporalities of the Church. If they had no right to interfere with these temporalities, they had no right to take them from the Roman Catholic clergy; but he conceived that Church property was public property, and ought to be under the control of Parliament in every respect. He could not but wish that measures had been taken to relieve the Dissenters from the payment of Church-rates; but this measure would be useful, and produce great benefit to the community. In order to turn the property of the Church to greater account, he would recommend that the very large livings in the gift of the Crown should be divided. He knew an instance of a living in the gift of the Crown which had become vacant not more than a month ago. It was worth 1,600 l. l.
 Mr. Brotherton  wished to know if the living to which he alluded, which was in a parish in Derbyshire, had been filled up.
 Mr. Hume  had no doubt but that a pious clergymen being planted in any district would do good, but he very much doubted whether the mere providing of funds would effect the desired object. The right hon. Baronet in making his statement, had said that there were some districts in England in which the word of God had never been heard. What a shame that was to those who for so long a time had been receiving wages for enlightening the people! Compare the sums which were spent on religion in England with all that was given for its use throughout all the rest of Europe, and it would be found to be nearly double, yet there was no other country with so vilely ignorant a population as we had. The neglect shown by the Church heretofore induced him to doubt whether the mere granting of money would produce those pious men who were so much wanted. ["Oh."] He would
 1301 "Men in such a stale of poverty as to be unable to provide food for themselves and their families—who had not the means of obtaining a comfortable habitation—who were covered with rags in place of clothing—that men in such a state of abject poverty and consequent discontent were prepared to receive religious instruction, was a fallacy—the condition of the people must be bettered, and their minds prepared by sound moral education." 1302
 Mr. Hume  asked whether it were the intention of the Government to ask for any public money, because in that case he should oppose the Speaker leaving the chair.
 Mr. Borthwick  agreed with those who preceded him in approving of those parts of the plan which provided in the first instance for clergymen rather than for churches. There was a large amount of Church power now in the country not employed in the Church service. Within a few yards of where they now stood there had been provision made in early times for Divine service in a cathedral the finest in Europe; yet if you entered there on a Sunday, you saw only a small space set apart for fee public service, and the rest of the building appropriated as a show-room in a manner the most unbecoming and inconsistent with the objects and character of that sacred edifice. Whatever might be the attendance in the churches in the city, he could say, from his own personal observation, that as much of that church as the public had admission to was fully occupied, and that he himself frequently stood during the whole service, and found many of both sexes obliged to stand also. He knew it was said that you must not admit the people of England into your
 1306 d. 1307
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  said, that if, by supporting the second reading of the bill, he should be subjecting himself to the conclusion that he was favourable to the measure in all its details, he should certainly find himself constrained to vote for the amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Roscommon. To the bill now before the House he could not give unqualified assent. Such assent he had not given to the measure originally introduced. He had been strongly opposed to the Irish poor-law bill on its first introduction to that House, and with all his humble but strenuous efforts had sought to prevent its imposition on the country. He had then ventured to predict some evil consequences from its enactment, and he now much regretted to see that he had been too true a prophet, and that almost all those evils which he had foreseen and predicted had ensued. He must, in strict justice, say, that in his opinion the failure of the act in its very outset was attributable, not so much to the provisions of the bill itself, as to the means and management by which those provisions had been sought to be carried into practical effect. While he felt it but just to say that the larger portion of blame was, in the first instance, to be ascribed to the commissioners, he must, in fairness, admit that they had acted in the best spirit, and with the best intentions. Their inexperience, their want of acquaintance with the country, and their conse-
 1344 1345 1346
 Mr. Gisborne  said it was impossible that any one could be more opposed than he should have been to a grant of public money, and for that very reason he felt the more inclined to thank the right hon. Gentlemen for the moderation of the plan which he had that evening developed. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had indeed spoken of Queen Anne's bounty as public money, inasmuch as the fund was one that had been formed by parliamentary grants, but surely the hon. Member had no expectation of ever getting any portion of those grants back again. He (Mr. Gisborne) certainly felt some doubts whether it would not have been a better plan to dispose of some of the livings in the gift of Government, rather than to borrow money. The ecclesiastical commissioners, he believed, made it a practice to exclude from all participation in the funds under their control all cases of private patronage. ["No, no."] They certainly did so in his parish. The parish was Chapel-en-le-Frith, in Derbyshire, with 4,000 inhabitants, and every rate-payer in the parish had a vote in the election of the clergyman, and on this ground the ecclesiastical commissioners
 1304 l.
 Mr. Wyse  said, the instances of defective working in the Poor-law, brought for- ward by the Attorney-general for Ireland, sufficiently indicated that the time was come for an alteration. He thought, that no poor-law would be effective for either England or Ireland, but more especially Ireland, which did not first provide employment for the large mass of unemployed able-bodied poor. He should not oppose the bill going into committee.
 Mr. Ewart  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of the Home Department, as to whether any regulations had been made with respect to the management of the Gaol of Newgate. It appeared, that the gaol committee of Newgate had interdicted their chaplain from giving information to the prison inspectors. He had already called the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the conduct of the governor of Newgate, who, when a pardon had been received for a female under sentence of death, had not, until nineteen hours afterwards, communicated with her on the subject. The right hon. Baronet had stated that it was his intention to direct an inquiry into the subject. He now asked him whether any measures had been adopted which would enforce for the future a due obedience to the authority of the law, and prevent for the future such an interference with law, mercy, and justice?
 Mr. O'Brien  said, as the hon. Gentleman had withdrawn his motion, he should move the amendment of which he had given notice as a substantive motion on the 31st May.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  begged to ask the hon. Member for Ipswich whether he intended to bring forward his motion on the subject of the repeal agitation, and whether he intended to move a call of the House on that occasion.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, he was not prepared to give his sanction to this bill, because he believed it would be no improvement upon the present law. One of his chief objections to the measure was, that it would have the effect of diminishing popular control, by the alteration intended to be made in the number of guardians. In the second place, the general feeling in Ireland was, that the commissioners had already too much power, and that this measure extended it. If the Government would refer the bill to a select committee after the second reading, he would support it in this stage.
 Mr. S. Crawford  seconded the motion. He felt himself compelled to oppose the second reading of this bill, and be did so with reluctance, because he was sure the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland would not willingly introduce a measure
 1335 ex officio in limine 1336 "Our conviction is, that the ablebodied in general and their families would endure any misery rather than make a workhouse their domicile. We see that the labouring classes are eager for work, that work is not for them, and that they are therefore, and not from any fault of their own, in permanent want. As, then, actual relief is required by the able-bodied in general in Ireland, the workhouse system, as applied to them, must prove illusory; and if it were established, we are persuaded that it would be regarded by the bulk of the population as a stratagem for debarring them of that right of employment and support with which the law professed to invest them. We are persuaded, if want should send some of the labouring class into them, that the strict discipline, separation of families, and so forth, would produce resistance; that tumults would ensue, and that after much trouble, expense, and mischief, the system would necessarily be abandoned altogether. We cannot, therefore, recommend the present workhouse system of England as at all suited to Ireland." "We are satisfied that enactments calculated to promote the improvement of the country, and d so to extend the demand for free and profitable labour, should make essential parts of any law for ameliorating the condition of the poor."
 Sir J. Graham  said he had stated on a former evening the grounds upon which he entertained a confident expectation that the order referring to the chaplain or governor of the gaol of Newgate not volunteering information to the inspectors of prisons would be revised. He had been in communication with the Lord Mayor on the subject, and he had much pleasure in saying, not only that what he had anticipated had occurred, and that before he entered into that communication the Lord Mayor had, on behalf of the Court of Aldermen, made a notification which was entirely satisfactory. On the point with respect to the delay of nineteen hours by the governor of Newgate in communicating to a female prisoner under sentence of death the commutation of her sentence of capital punishment. The Lord Mayor had instituted an inquiry, evidence was taken, and that evidence had been transmitted to him only within the last twenty-four hours, and he had not yet had an opportunity of fully examining it.
 Mr. Pakington  agreed with the noble Lord, the Member for London, that he plan of the right hon. Baronet was, at all events, a step, and a most important step,
 1303
 Sir R. H. Inglis  felt confident, that knowing, as they must, the part he had taken upon this question on former occasions, the committee would not consider that he was improperly intruding himself on their attention if he addressed to them a few observations on the speech they had just heard. His right hon. Friend had done him the honour to refer to the opinion which he might personally form upon the subject of this bill. Certainly he would not say that he felt any disappointment about it, because when he came down to the House that evening, he was not uninformed of the nature of the proposition
 1293 1294 delendaest Carthago 1295
 Sir R. Peel  said—I will give to the question of the hon. Member for Salford the best answer I am enabled to give at this moment. It is true that there is a living in the gift of the Crown which has recently become vacant, and it is nearly the first living which has fallen to my disposal since I have been Prime Minister. It is the living of Eckington and Killamash, in which two parishes are united. I am sorry to say that the spiritual concerns of that parish have been neglected. The living is nearly 1,400 l. l. l. l. l. 1313 l. l. l. Gisborne: 1314 l. l. 1315 l. 1316 l. l. 1317 l. l. l. l. 1318 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, as there was no mention in the motion of a vote of public money, and as the hon. Gentleman must know that the Queen's consent to a grant of money must be signified, he might infer that it was not intended to propose any such vote; but if the hon. Gentleman wished for a more explicit declaration, he had no objection to state that the motion with which he should conclude, involved no vote of public money.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, I will now proceed, in conformity with the notice I have given to call the attention of the committee to the measures which her Majesty's Government are disposed to recommend to the consideration of Parliament for the purpose of supplying the deficiency which exists in the means of attending divine worship, and of receiving the benefits of pastoral instruction and superintendence, according to the doctrines of the church of England, in many of the populous districts of this country. I believe it will be wholly unnecessary for me to adduce any proof of the extent to which such deficiency exists, or of the evil which necessarily arises in consequence. The House will probably recollect that the deficiency has been stated to them in reports of unquestionable authority—that there are at the present moment, or, at least, there were at the period of these reports, which were made in the year 1836, not less than 3,600 parishes In which the income of the incumbent is less than 150 l. 1278 "In the diocese of Chester, there are thirty-eight parishes or districts in Lancashire, each with a population exceeding 10,000, containing an aggregate of 816,000 souls, with church room for 97,700, or about one-eighth; the proportions varying in the different parishes from one-sixth to one twenty-third." "In the diocese of York there are twenty parishes or districts, each with a population exceeding 10,000, and with an aggregate of 402,000, while the church accommodation is for 48,000; the proportions varying from one-sixth to one-thirtieth. In the diocese of Lichfield and Coventry, there are sixteen parishes or districts, each having a population above 10,000, the aggregate being 235,000, with church room for about 29,000; the proportions varying from one-sixth to one-fourteenth." "The evils which flow from this deficiency in the means of religious instruction and pastoral superintendence greatly outweigh all other inconveniences, resulting from any defects or anomalies in our ecclesiastical institutions; and it unfortunately happens, that while these evils are the most urgent of all, and most require the application of an effectual remedy, they are precisely those for which a remedy can be least easily found." 1279 1280 l. l. 1281 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. 1282 l. l. 1283 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1284 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1285 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1286 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1287 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1288 l. l. Member: 1289 1290 l. 1291 
 
 Churches consecrated. churches consecrated. 
 1801 2 1835 26 
 1802 1 1836 41 
 1803 2 1837 60 
 1804 3 1838 76 
 1805 3 1839 69 
 1806 2 1840 81 
 1807 5 1841 98 
 1808 2 1842 74 
 Total  20 Total  525 l. 1292
 Sir R. Peel  said, in reference to the question of the right hon. Gentleman, he had to state that no formal or official communication had passed between the government of France and that of this country respecting the marriage of the Queen of Spain; at the same time, he did not think it was necessary to conceal the opinion of her Majesty's Government upon a subject of so much importance. He knew no reason whatever why he should avoid stating publicly what that opinion was. They considered that Spain was entitled to every right and privilege which belonged to an independent state. They considered, that it was one of the rights and privileges of an independent country to determine for itself what alli-
 1276
 Viscount Dungannon  thought the proposition made by the right hon. Gentleman was a highly creditable one, and worthy of a great enlightened Minister. He (Lord Dungannon) agreed however, with his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford that if a direct Parliamentary grant were proposed, it would meet with support—that the feeling of the country was in favour of the Church, and that the influence of the clergymen was conducive to the best interests of the people. The right hon. Baronet was right in thinking that the first thing to be considered was to secure support for the minister, and the proposal before the House was framed with a view to remedying the evil arising from excessively inadequate incomes. He (Lord Dungannon) having been lately to take the deposition of a dying person in a very populous district, was astonished and horror-struck at hearing that the word of God was scarcely known in the immense mass of population around. In this very district a new church had been built within a few years, but there were no funds for the maintenance of a minister, and the Church was vacant. He was sorry that the subject seemed to excite so little interest among hon. Members opposite, and that no leading person amongst them came forward to express his acquiescence in the proposal. The measure would do lasting benefit, and he hoped would lead from one good to another and that the day was not far distant when the right hon. Gentleman would ask for a Parliamentary grant of money in furtherance of the most important of all possible objects.
 Viscount Sandon  entirely agreed with the hon. Member who had last spoken, that the House of Commons was not the place to enter into discussion on conflicting theological opinions, whatever they might individually think on the subject of those opinions. He rose for the purpose of expressing his gratification at the plan of the right hon Baronet, and the manner in which it had been received. He looked on it as the germ of a great principle. He was also glad to observe, that neither the right hon. Baronet nor the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell), had said anything that would prevent them from hereafter going further if occasion required. At present be was satisfied with the plan as proposed, and he would not call on the House to force on any abstract principle of church extension. The measure was really one for the advancement of the temporal comforts of the people, for those temporal comforts were never more effectually secured than by the presence of a good resident minister among them. Half their evils arose from the want of a proper knowledge of their moral and religious duties. In this respect the services of the clergy had been great. From the farmer or the 'squire the people could get nothing in the way of education, while the minister was to be found devoting his time and his talents to the spiritual and temporal interests of his parishioners. If the clergy could inspire the laity with their own zeal on behalf of education little assistance in the way of funds would be required from the State. He was glad, too, to perceive that the plan included such a remuneration to the new clergyman as would enable them to discharge in a manner befitting their station the duties attached to their office. It was not the mere stipend of a curate fresh from a college, who looked on himself as merely passing through a parish to a better pro-
 1308
 Viscount Hawick  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman, as he had said he could not afford to make a large reduction, if he meant to make no reduction at all in taxation.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the right hon. Gentleman had, in defending his own financial administration, made some assertions with respect to the past on which he could not refrain from giving an opinion very different from that pronounced by the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman said, that if the propositions of the late Government in 1841 had been
 1438 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1439 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1440 s. 1441
 Mr. S. Wortley  believed the diminution of the revenue was attributable to other causes than those stated by the noble Lord who had just sat down, and by other hon. Members who had spoken from the noble Lord's side of the House. With respect to the Income-tax, unwelcome as that impost had always been to the great bulk of the people, his belief was, that its unpopularity in the present day was surprisingly small, and that fact was partly to be attributed to the strong conviction in the mind of the people that the occasion on which it had been imposed was one which justified the tax, and which exhibited a necessity for its imposition On that occasion he should pursue the course recommended by previous speakers, and apply himself only to the general tenor of the financial statement without discussing any of the means of taxation or the sources of revenue which hereafter might be brought under the consideration of the House. But though he had no wish to occupy the time or attention of the House on this occasion, he could not help expressing his deep regret that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not even now think it was in his power to concede the repeal of the import duties on a raw material for manufacture, which might be urged upon grounds well worthy of his consideration and that of the House when dealing with commercial legislation. The duty to which he alluded was that now imposed upon the importation of foreign wools. The parties engaged in the manufacture of that material and in that trade had, he must say, been very unfairly dealt with. After the declared intention of the Government to reduce all taxes upon raw materials for manufacture, in some cases to a nominal duty, and in none ex-
 1442 l. 1443
 Mr. Bell  could corroborate the statement made by the noble Lord (Viscount Howick) and his hon. Friend (Mr. Liddell) as to the injurious effects of the coal-tax, and was perfectly satisfied, if it were not repealed, the foreign coal trade would be destroyed. It would be impossible for the coal-owner to compete with the foreign producer in foreign markets, unless the tax were taken off; and the carrying trade, as far as that, article of commerce was concerned, would be irreparably ruined. The exports had fallen off to the extent of 202,108 tons, in the year 1842, as compared with 1841, a proof of the injurious effects produced by the imposition of the tax, and he was quite satisfied if it was persevered in, that the annual falling-off would be still greater every year. The tax, however, pressed not alone on the coal-owner; it also pressed heavily on the ship-owner. The reduction in freight between England and foreign ports was enormous, since the imposition of the duty, all of which fell directly on the ship-owner, and indirectly on every branch of trade with which the ship-owner was connected. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Baronet would not persevere HI the tax upon exported coal.
 Sir Robert Ferguson  would detain the committee a very short time, while referring, as briefly as possible, to the question of the additional duty on Irish spirits, from which the Government had expected an increase to the revenue of 250,000 l. l. l. l. l. :l. .s. s. d. l. l. l. 1456 l.
 Mr. Gladstone  replied that that matter had been referred by the Government to the law officers of the Crown, under whose consideration it now was. The pending treaty with Russia was postponed until their decision was known.
 Mr. Liddell  could not refrain from reminding the House and the noble Lord who had just spoken of the reason which had induced himself, and others connected with the coal-trade, to give their support to the Government in the imposition of the export tax on coal. The first proposition of the Government had been to impose a tax of double the amount to that eventually agreed upon, and the coal owners and those interested in the trade had been prepared to resist that proposal. But when the Government had stated its intention to concede one-half of the proposal, it had been determined to case opposition to the proposition, and after a conference with the Members of the Government to adopt the modified measure. With respect to the tax itself, his opinion remained the same as it was originally. He believed it to be an injudicious and impolitic tax; and that the effects of it fell on the shipping interest. As far as his information went, the receipts from the tax were not more than one-half the sum expected, and the detriment accruing from it was greater perhaps than was imagined. With regard to the post-office arrangements, he hoped that the benefit of them would be extended to the rural districts. In the county he represented, large bodies of people had been called into existence in remote spots by the sinking of mines, and he trusted that they would be enabled to receive the advantages accruing from improved post-office arrangements. With regard to the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he derived more hopes from it than hon. Gentlemen opposite. The defalcation in the Excise had been adverted to; but a large proportion of that arose from a deficiency in the malt-duty; and, he believed, from what had been stated, there was no likelihood of the recurrence of such a deficiency. Another cause of deficiency was the strike and suspension of labour in the manufacturing districts, but the improved prospects in the manufacturing districts afforded a well-founded hope of an increased revenue from the manufacturing population.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted that he had not been sufficiently explicit on that, and he was glad the right hon. Gentleman had called his attention to the omission. If he understood the right hon. Gentleman right, he wished for information as to the 870,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1417
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Gentleman had put to him a question which he could not have anticipated, and it was one which, of course, could not be answered satisfactorily at that moment. He should feel himself bound to reserve to himself his own opinion, and perfect freedom of action according to the circumstances of the country; but it was impossible for him to answer a question as to what might be contemplated, or, indeed, what might be possible on such a subject. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Baring) had put to him incidentally a question with respect to rural posts. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that the subject was not one which had escaped the attention of Government, or with respect to which they were not disposed gradually to introduce considerable improvements. It was perfectly true, that when the right hon. Gentleman quitted office, he left behind him a minute stating in general the propriety of adopting rural posts. The first step, taken in consequence of this minute, and be believed before the right hon. Gentle-
 1452
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, no reduction whatever was in contemplation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the hon. Gentleman that the commissioners of the Property-tax performed their duties very carefully, and, obtaining no remuneration for their labour, were generally anxious to despatch their business as quickly as possible.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose and said: As the resolution which I am about to place in your hands may be almost considered a matter of form (being a vote of the surplus ways and means of former years to make good the supplies to be granted in the present year), it will probably not give rise to any discussion or opposition; but I am happy to avail myself of this opportunity, in conformity with what may be considered the expressed wish of the House, to enter into the annual financial statement which is usually made at this period of the Session. The statement which I shall have to make to the House is one of a mixed character. The committee is aware that at the commencement of the Session, it was stated in her Majesty's Speech that there had been a diminished receipt in many of the sources of the revenue, and that that diminished receipt had arisen from that depressed state of the manufacturing interest, which all so sincerely deplore. At the same time, her Majesty expressed a confident hope—which 1 can, I think, con firm—that the revenue of the country would be ultimately found adequate to meet every exigency of the public service. In discharging the duty now imposed on me, I shall pursue the course usual on similar occasions, of dealing first with the expenditure and income of the year which has elapsed, and then call on the House to examine in detail the estimates we have made as to the income and expenditure of the present year. First, with respect to the income and expenditure of the year which has just passed. Before I enter into the details of that, I may be permitted to call the attention of the committee to the circumstances in which this House and the Government were placed at the commencement of the last. Session. We had then to deal with a state of things not of ordinary occurrence. It happened that for a succession of years,
 1392 1393 1394 l. l. l. l. l. 1395 l. l. l. l. l. 1396 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1397 l. 1398 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1399 l. l. s. 1400 d. d. s. l. 1401 d. d. d. d. 1402 1403 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1404 l. l. l. 
 
 £ 
 Under schedule A, comprising the charge on land and property of that description, the estimated produce of the tax is 2,233,000 
 Under schedule B, which is the charge on the tenantry of land, the estimated produce is 330,000 
 Under schedule C, Which includes the charge on funded properly, the estimated produce is 800,000 
 Under schedule D, containing the charge on profits of trade, the estimated produce is 1,496,000 
 Under schedule E, which comprises the charge on official incomes, the estimated produce is 248,000 l. l. 1405 l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. 1406 1407 l. l. l. 1408 l. l. l. l. 1409 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. vice versâ. l. 1410 may enjoy l. l. l. l. Member: l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1411 l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. 1412 1413 "The germs of improvement in the internal state of the country which were visible last month are in the course of very satisfactory development. Lancashire keeps the lead; its banking was never in a sounder state, and the prices of most goods yield a fair profit. In some descriptions, indeed, the returns are very advantageous. Another branch of manufacture which has been very much depressed has also been improved. Flax has fallen 25 per cent., it can be manufactured at a price which brings demand from Germany and other parts; and the Germans are now actually taking yarn from England instead of our importing it from them, so that notwithstanding the high tariffs of France and the United States, the linen trade is somewhat overcoming its depression. The accounts from the Scotch manufacturing districts, and from Nottingham and Derby, are also cheering, and Yorkshire shows some increased activity. In Leeds the woollen manufactures are now working full time, which they had not done for six months previously " "The improved condition of the trade in this district, noticed in our last circular, has continued without interruption to the present time. Our goods market has assumed a tone and firmness indicating that confidence is established in the general improvement of the country, and in the more favourable position of most foreign markets; our mills are in full work, our manufacturers are obtaining remu-
 1414 "The extent of operations in our markets for goods and yarns during the past month, and the prices obtained, have been generally satisfactory and encouraging; so much so, indeed, as to have restored the districts of our cotton manufactures to our usual state of cheerful industry. Notwithstanding there is a considerable increase of production, still the reduced price of the raw material, and the cheapness of all kinds of food, have enabled us to overcome all foreign competition, and to find full employment for our operatives at remunerating wages, without having to pay any increased price for labour, except only in the case of our handloom weavers, who have received some small advance." 1415 l. l. "That, towards making good the Supply granted to her Majesty, there be issued and applied to the service of the year 1843, the sum of 47,994 l. s. d.
  The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that there was no such intention.
  Mr. Labouchere  begged to ask, as he understood that there was to be no reduction of taxation, whether there was to be any alteration in the duties on sugar?
 Mr. Labouchere  was glad that Gentlemen connected with the coal trade had taken up the subject of the tax on coals, and he fully concurred in the observations that had been made against it. He hoped
 1453 1454 1455
 Mr. Wawn  wished to ask whether Russian vessels loading coals in this country and carrying them to Russian ports, were chargeable with the same duty as our own vessels?
  Mr. Hume  said, he had listened with great attention to the state men is made y the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and although it seemed promising, he thought it would not be fund so favourable on examination. The House must bear in mind the statement made by the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government last year, and he thought the House would hardly consider it realised. In fact, it was a failure to the extent of 2,500,000 l. l. l. 1418 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1419 l. 1420
 Captain Jones  called the attention of the House to the fact, that they had gained 10,000 l. s. d.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, it had been the habit of some right hon. Gentlemen to take advantage of the slightest indications of delusive prosperity in the manufacturing districts, to paint too highly the state of those districts, as a reason for making no further changes in the import duties of the country. He would allude to what had been made by the hon. Member for Yorkshire (Mr. S. Wortley), on the great importance of taking off the cumbrous duties, which now acted as
 1457 1458
 Mr. Ewart  wished to know whether the
 1459
 Mr. Baring  said, he did not mean to compare himself, as his hon. Friend seemed to expect, with the right hon. Gentleman opposite. So far as regarded all those calculations which the right hon. Gentleman, the First Lord of the Treasury, had made, he should be very far from being inclined to compare the actual result of them with that which had been anticipated, if it were a mere question of party mistakes in forming an estimate of the revenue of the country; but he did think, that it became a matter of some importance on the present occasion. It should be recollected, that last year we made some great alterations in our financial policy; a very heavy and onerous tax was imposed on the country, and the House was told by the right hon. Gentleman, that the advantages to be gained by the revision of taxation, which the imposition of the new tax enabled him to accomplish, would be of such a nature as to counterbalance any inconvenience resulting from the nature of the tax itself. This was the first time they had been enabled to see what those advantages would be; the day of proof was come, and it was now for them to see how their pudding eat. It would be necessary to go through some of the
 1421 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1422 l. l. l. l. bonâ fide. 1423 R. Peel l. l. 1424 l. l. l. l. 1425 Graham: l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1426 l. l. l. 1427 l. l. d. 1428 l. l. l. l. l. 1429 l. l. 1430
 Mr. F. T. Baring  wished to ask for some explanation relative to the repayment of the Chinese money. He saw that the right hon. Gentleman took credit for a sum of money received from China under the treaty of 1842, and while he proposed to repay 2,000,000 l. 1416 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, Sir, the right hon. Gentleman has given notice that an opportunity will arise for entering into a detailed discussion with respect to several of the matters connected with the trade of the country; and I think it more consistent with the public interest and the usage which hat been generally observed upon similar occasions, to avoid entering into a discussion upon particular articles until that opportunity shall present itself. I must say, I think the temper and general tone of the right hon. Gentleman were worthy of the situation he formerly held, and his determination to uphold the revenue in its present state, and not to hazard it by an undue reduction of taxation, were such as might be expected from his public character. The right hon. Gentleman says, that last year I was particularly severe with respect to the failure of the produce of the 5 per cent, additional duty upon the Customs and Excise. I cannot say I think the right hon. Gentleman is borne out by the facts of the case. The estimates of persons making financial statements are liable to error—their expectations may be disappointed-—they profess, in short, only to give estimates, and are not to be severely blamed if the estimates are not perfectly true. The right hon. Gentleman expected a considerable sum from the addition of 5 per cent, to the Customs and Excise duties, and in that he was disappointed. But when I commented upon it, the circumstances out of which my comments;
 1431 "I must here observe, that I am now merely exhausting the different means by which men might contemplate the supplying of the deficiency, and trying to show that increased taxation upon any articles of consumption will not afford relief. I wish to carry your judgment along with me. I said that the net produce of the Customs and Excise in the year ending the 5th of January, 1840, was 37,91 1,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1432 l. "I propose that the income of this country should bear a charge not exceeding 7 d. l. s. d. 1. s. d. l. l. l. .s. d. l. l. l. l. 1433 l. l. s. d. l. 1434 1435 l. l. l. l. l. 1436 l. 1437 l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought it was better to reserve all discussion on the sugar duties till the subject came regularly before the House, when the Government would state its views. It was impossible for him to state to the House what propositions had been made to different coun-
 1460
  Mr. Hutt  was glad to find, that his opinion with regard to the impolicy of
 1451 l.
 Viscount Howick  could not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had spoken as to the nature of the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer this evening; on the contrary, he thought, that statement was one calculated to excite very great apprehension and anxiety in the minds of all those who took a serious and deliberate view of the present state of our finances. He confessed he had been rather prepared for such a statement, when he observed the change of performers which had taken place since. Last year, the First Lord of the Treasury, with a great flourish of trumpets, brought forward the financial statement before the House; but this year the task was assigned to the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and not undertaken by the right hon. Baronet himself. This circumstance alone had prepared him to expect that there would be nothing very cheering—nothing which would be very satisfactory to tell in the statement to be made to Parliament, and now that they had heard it, this anticipation proved to have been too well
 1444 1445 l. 1446 l. l. l. 1447 1448 l. l. d. 1449 .s s. s. 1450
 Captain Bernal:  As the right hon. Baronet has referred to one declaration of Lord Althorp, I wish to know whether he will abide by another declaration of that noble Lord, namely, that if all the Members for Ireland should be in favour of repeal, he would consider it his bounden duty to grant it.
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  seconded the motion. He was aware that there were many advantages possessed by the landlords, said he could wish to find a disinterested witness from some other part of the world, and ask his opinion with respect to the effect of the Corn-law; but there would be much difficulty in doing so, for if he looked to Europe he should be told that all the agriculturists of the Continent were interested in the supply of grain. Again, if he turned to America the same would be said. He would, therefore, go further off, and suppose that in consequence of our new relations with China some lord high commissioner were to be sent from there to this country, and, in his anxiety to become acquainted with our affairs, he were to look over our tariff and find a particular legislation laid down to make the entry into the country of a particular article called corn as difficult as possible. It would not be at all surprising if this high commissioner were to come to the conclusion that the state of things produced by that regulation was a just retribution upon the country of the "barbarian eye" for their attempt to deluge China with the noxious poison called opium. It might be imagined that the commissioner, upon finding this law was intended to keep out an undesirable commodity, would feel disposed to recommend the adoption of some such "sliding-scale" to his own sovereign, with a view to keeping out opium. Well knowing, however, that his imperial master had a way of summarily punishing the projector of an unsuccessful experiment, the commissioner would inquire particularly what had been the practical effect of this law for keeping out corn; he would doubtless apply to the Vice-President of the Board of Trade for information; and then would he find, much to his disappointment, that
 58
 Mr. Gladstone:  Sir, I am aware that there are many Gentlemen on this side of the House who are anxious to address the House upon the important subject now submitted to it; but I trust I shall find apology with those Gentlemen, and with the House, for interposing between them and the delivery of their sentiments, on account of the anxiety I feel to avail myself of the first opportunity that offers itself in this debate for the purpose of declaring, on the part of my right hon. Friend, the course which the Government think it necessary to take with respect to a subject of this importance; for, upon a motion in which so many interests and feelings are involved, a motion in which considerations of such vital moment are included, not the slightest doubt should be
 59 60 61 Hume 62 63
 Mr. Villiers:  Sir, I rise to propose the motion of which I have given notice. It is the same that I have proposed before to this House; and, but for this circumstance, believe that I should have shrunk from the task now. I always feel myself incompetent to the task, and I never felt more conscious than I do at present that there are persons in the House more fitted for the purpose than myself. I know the subject is distasteful to the House, I fear, indeed, offensive to the majority from the question of their own interest which it involves. It is not, however, on that account, rendered attractive to me; I had rather propitiate than offend this assembly if I could; but I fear that at present this is to be done rather by diverting than attracting the public attention to this subject. My object in moving in this matter, however, is the same now that it has always been—namely, a deep conviction in my own mind, that in the whole range of public question that can engage the attention of the House, there is not one of equal importance with that which it is the object of this motion to decide. It is like the ground-work of a building. If that is unsound, the whole structure raised upon it must be unstable. With this feeling, I have at different times brought it under the consideration of the House, when others have been indisposed to do so, and during an interval when the public were complaining less of its effects; and now, when millions are expressing their interest in it, I regret that one abler than myself to represent their feelings, is not the mover of the question. Indeed, I could hardly have undertaken the task, had I not felt that there are those around me who have the talent and knowledge requi-
 27 28 29 30 s. s. s. s. 31 32 33 s 34 s. s. 35 36 "The Poor-law preserves them from death, but it does not, it cannot preserve them from gnawing anxiety and destructive toil, from exposure to the weather, whilst seeking far from home for work—from suffering cold from insufficient clothes, the best having been sold or pawned for bread—from crowding several families into one small dwelling to save expense of rent—from choking up every avenue for air to obtain warmth without expense of fuel. Nothing can preserve the infant from unwholesome milk, when its mother is harassed by care, and stinting herself of food that her little ones may eat. Nothing can save men from disease and death with insufficient and unwholesome food—with garbage to stay the cravings of hunger, and seeking, in the excitement of gin as a brief respite from despair. Such are means by which the Corn-law kills." Vital Statistics. James Graham: "The price of corn has a most remarkable influence on the movements of population and of disease. We have not a sufficient number of data to enable us to estimate the exact amount of its influence, but we shall assuredly not be mistaken in classing it among the most energetic causes which press upon the operations of life. This influence extends not only upon deaths but upon births; it affects also the number of marriages, of diseases, and even crimes. Variations in the price of food, then, form one of the most serious changes that can occur on the surface of a state; they may insensibly lead to the most unexpected, the most formidable result! and we may affirm with confidence, that one of the most important duties of a Government is to temper, and to diminish as far as possible, all the circumstances which promote these fluctuations in the price of the most necessary article which man can produce." 37 l l l l l, l, l 38
 Mr. Roebuck:  at that late hour of the night did not mean to address the House at any length; and what he had to say, he feared would be agreeable neither to one side nor the other. Though he meant to vote with that party which declared for free-trade, still what he had to address to them would please neither party; and he was sorry to see that any party matter should be introduced into such a topic; for he could not divest himself of the feeling, that where there was much of party there was also much of error. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had unintentionally let out the views of his party on this subject; and in so saying he did not attribute to him the views he meant to ascribe to him, in any
 96 97 98 s s 99 onus 100
 Mr. Trelawney  said, that in delivering a few remarks on the question before the House—a question of the greatest magnitude, and more deeply interesting than any other (at the present time) to every class in the community—it was his desire to evince as little as possible of the spirit of a partisan; for he thought that every one who desired the establishment of some private right, and still more the success of a measure on which he considered the ultimate good of the state depended, ought especially to beware lest the interests of his cause were compromised by any indiscretion in the conduct of its advocate. He should first observe, that whilst he was a decided advocate for a
 86 87 s 88 89 90
 Mr. Hume  wished the complete treaties to be laid upon the Table.
 Mr. Christopher  would briefly state the reasons which induced him to oppose this motion. He did not complain of a great part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Wolverhampton, or of the tone and temper with which
 91 s s 92 s d. s s s d 93 "All that the Crown could do in such a case, would be to continue a restriction where another power declined to act upon a system of reciprocity, or to impose a duty upon vessels belonging to another power, in retaliation for a similar duty imposed by that power. He knew that it was intended by the king of Prussia to abate his retaliation when England relaxed her regulations. Indeed, he had the best authority, that of the Prussian minister in this country, for knowing that such was the intention. That minister had stated, in his note, the principle of his Prussian majesty to be, an admission, that reciprocal commercial restrictions were reciprocal nuisances, prejudicial to all nations having reciprocal interests, and particularly to those engaged in extensive commerce; and that the policy of Prussia was, to substitute, in the place of reciprocal prohibitions, reciprocal facilities." "With respect to the present tariff, he would say to Ministers, do not be hasty to deter, mine: look at the various bearings of the question, with a view to your interests, your character, and your trade. But if, after such deliberation, they were forced to adopt a * 94 course of retaliation, all he would enjoin them, was, that when once they had adopted the course, they should adhere to it with firmness. He would say, proceed with circumspection, but remember, there are limits to forbearance itself; because, as new interests grow up, the difficulties iucreased in the way of altering the system: so that they were bound in common policy to take care that the time should not be too long contracted, nor the difficulties allowed to grow too great, before they proceeded to legislate in the spirit which might be rendered necessary." 95
 Sir C. Napier  asked whether the Government had any objection to lay upon the Table copies of the instructions issued to American and British cruisers engaged in the slave-trade on the coast of Africa?
 Sir R. Peel  said, it would be very convenient to slave-traders to know what those instructions were, but for that reason he must decline producing them.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he would lay upon the Table a copy of the firman, and though it was not usual to produce treaties to which this country was not a party, he would lay upon the Table all the articles of the treaties referred to by the noble Lord which bore upon the subject.
 Sir R. Peel  thought, that course would
 26
 Sir R. Peel:  I do not recollect that Lord Althorp ever made any such declaration as that which the hon. and gallant Member attributes to him, but if he did I am not prepared to abide by it.
 Sir R. Peel:  I rejoice that my noble Friend has given me an opportunity of making, on the part of the Government, a public declaration on the important subject to which he has called the attention of the House; and I think it necessary, on this occasion, to remind the House of what has been, within no very distant period, the publicly recorded opinion and engagements of the Crown and both Houses of Parliament with respect to the legislative union of Great Britain and Ireland. In 1834 the Sovereign of this country, in addressing the Parliament, used these expressions:—
 "I have seen with feelings of deep regret and just indignation, the continuance of attempts to excite the people of that country to demand
 24 "We consider to be essential to the strength and stability of the empire, to the continuance of the connection between the two countries, and to the peace and security and happiness of all classes of your Majesty's subjects." 25
 Viscount Jocelyn:  I rise for the purpose of asking my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government whether the Government is aware of the fearful excitement which has prevailed for some weeks past in Ireland on the subject of the Repeal of the Union; and, if so, whether the Government is determined to take any steps for its repression? I likewise wish to know whether my right hon. Friend has any objection to state, for the satisfaction of the loyal people of Ireland, whether or not the Government is determined to maintain, at all risks and hazards, the inviolability of the legislative union between Great Britain and Ireland?
 Viscount Palmerston  asked, whether the Government had any objection to lay upon the Table a copy of the firman issued by the Porte for regulating the affairs of Servia, together with copies of the treaties of Bucharest, Adrianople, and Ackerman, with which the firman was connected?
 Mr. Miles  felt himself bound to follow the tone adopted by the hon. Member for Bath, which was one of great moderation, and he trusted it would be followed to the close of the debate. Notwithstanding all the attacks which had been made on the landed interest, from different quarters, he should confine himself to the ground taken by that hon. Member. The question now under discussion was one of the greatest importance; it was not one between this or that duty—between a sliding-scale or a fixed duty; it was a question of the expediency of a total repeal of all duties on corn. He should address himself to that question, although he despaired of throwing any new light on so exhausted a subject. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton was the able and consistent advocate of the abolition of those laws. The hon. Gentleman was a Member of a society which advocated free-trade principles; and what he should have done was to move a resolution to do away with all import duties, instead of a resolution to take into consideration the expediency of the abolition of the Corn-laws. The hon. and learned Member for Bath had, on the previous evening, while voting for the hon. Member's motion, advocated total repeal, but he had been rejoiced to hear the hon. and learned Member admit at the same time that he did not think that such repeal would be a panacea for the evils under which the country laboured. The hon. Member had said, that considering the wretched state of our population, and that repeal was called a remedy, he thought the House would be justified in taking it into consideration. Having heard such a
 104 105 50s. 106 l l l l " I see no use in ruining the farmer when there is no necessity for doing so. If the Legislature should agree to take off the duties altogether upon the import of foreign corn, without adopting other measures with which such a great change ought to be connected, I foresee that it will ruin one-half the farmers, half the landowners, and plunge the greater portion of those dependent upon these two classes for employment into difficulties and possibly poverty." 107
 Mr. H. J. Baillie  had observed that one of the favourite arguments or assertions of the hon. Member for Stockport was that the manufacturers of this country did not ask or look for protection; and that if the agriculturists were to bring to bear corresponding improvements in agriculture, which the manufacturers had made in machinery, there would be no necessity for protection. Now, he believed that the landed proprietors and the manufacturers of this kingdom were not, and could not be, on an equality, as far as regarded their respective capabilities of sustaining competition. It was well known that England possessed the greatest advantages for the production of manufactures, greater than any other of the countries of Europe, because she possessed coal and iron in immense quantities, and therefore it was not surprising that our manufacturers were able to compete with those of other countries. But what was the fact as to the productions of the land  1 140 l 141 142
 Mr. Borthnick  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 Mr. Campbell  said, that having been so pointedly referred to by the hon. Member for Greenock, I feel I am called upon to interpose for a moment, merely to say that I do not know, neither do I care, who the Argyllshire laird is who made the remarks to which the hon. Member had alluded. For my part, I can only say, that I am glad that any tenantry of mine should judge for themselves on these subjects. I will state what is the impression amongst my constituents on the question of free-trade. I may tell the House that mine is peculiarly a breeding county. When the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government brought forward his tariff, my constituents, who rear black cattle in great numbers, expressed much alarm, and requested I would oppose the Government proposition. I felt assured the tariff would not have the effect anticipated, and being so persuaded, I answered the appeal of my constituents by saying, that I could not vote according to their opinions. But this year, these very men admitted they were wrong, and that I was right. They now acknowledge that the success of commerce is the best security for agricultural prosperity. I cordially supported the right hon. Baronet in the measure which he brought forward—my only regret being, that he did not go further. I say the price of cattle was quite enormous. It was a crying shame to this country. I looked upon it as a stain upon a Christian
 173 d. 9d.
 Captain Fitzmaurice,  with permission of the House, wished to offer a few observations on the subject now before it; common justice required that he should refute some of the various calumnies which had been heaped upon that portion of the community which he had the honour to represent. He was not about to retaliate for all this in kind. It was by union, and not by discord, that we could hope to see the vast resources of this great country developed with advantage to the community at large. Hen. Members opposite had endeavoured to make out that the agriculturists were not only monopolists, but that they were anxious to separate their interests from those of the commercial world. Now, he did not believe that any agriculturist of common sense, if they could conceive such an animal, ever dreamt of anything of the kind. For his own part, he believed the two to be as identical as the soul was with the human body, and as well might they expect the corporeal functions to be carried on with vigour and effect after the soul had winged its long flight into the regions of eternity, as to suppose that this country would not have received a death-blow to its energies the moment these two interests were separated. He had far greater reason to tax the opposite side of the House with a wish for this separation. He had been a constant resident in the manufacturing districts, and he had frequently heard manufacturers say, that they hoped ere long to ride rough-shod over the landed interests of this country; and when they
 126 "During the interval from 1815 to 1822, the farmer experienced the most extraordinary fluctuations in the price of his merchandise— fluctuations arising from the variations of the seasons, but aggravated by the state of the law, which either rigorously prohibited, or indiscriminately admitted foreign corn.…In the spring of 1817 wheat sold at 120s. a quarter; in the winter of 1821-2 it sold at less than 40s. a quarter; the average of the year 1817 being 94s., and that of 1822 being 43s.…The insolvency of tenants at this period was unparalleled in the history of the agricultural classes." " From the month of June, 1839, to the
 127 s d Ad. "vires acquirit eundo 128 129
 Mr. B. Cochrane  said, that the question before the House had been so often discussed at length, and all that could be said on the subject had been so completely exhausted, that it was almost impossible to put forward any new argument on one side or other, or to propound any original views. But it was, notwithstanding, a
 132 s 133 134 " United, what might not the landed interest effect? The ancient nobility inheriting strong attachment to the soil which their forefathers transmitted as the shield to the family honours, constitutes still an immense majority in the House of Lords, notwithstanding the more recent infusion of less noble blood. In the House of Commons the landed proprietors form a phalanx which no Minister could resist if they could be brought to act in concert, and move on one attainable object." [laughter.] 135 136 Morning Chronicle. s in media tutissimus ibis. 137
 Mr. Turner  said, he held in his hand a letter which he had received from two gentlemen engaged in the wine-trade. It detailed the particulars of an interview with the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, oft the subject of the present state of the trade. It appeared from that tetter, that the right hon. Baronet and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had declared themselves ready to accede to some preposition which would have the effect of somewhat relieving the trade with respect to the stock on hand. What he
 102
 Sir W. Barron  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government whether it were the intention of Ministers to introduce any measure in the present Session to facilitate the undertaking of railroads in Ireland?
 Sir W. Barron;  Am I to understand then, Sir, that there is not any measure under the consideration of the Government the object of which is to facilitate the making of railroads in Ireland—I mean any measure for that purpose founded on the reports on that subject made to the late Government?
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, that with respect to the observations of the hon. Gentleman on the present slate of agriculture, he should content himself with offering a few facts to the consideration of the House. When the hon. Gentleman said that agriculture was in the same state with respect to production as thirty years ago, the hon. Gentleman must account for this fact: at present 27,000,000 of people were fed on the soil of great Britain and Ireland — thirty years ago only 16,000,000 were supported on the same surface. Now, the quantity of corn imported was very nearly the same at both periods; therefore the quantity now produced was sufficient to feed 11,000,000 of additional people; and was it possible that this could be done by the agency of that rude agriculture and those barbarous processes which the hon. Gentleman denounced so vehemently? Unquestionably there must have been some change in the processes of agriculture, and some additional quantity of corn sown. But he would add one or two facts from a statistical authority who ranked high among hon. Gentlemen opposite, an authority whom he was sure the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Gisborne) would recognize, he meant Mr. Porter. Mr. Porter told us that there had been added no less than 3,000,000 acres to the cultivation of land within about the same period as the hon. Gentleman spoke of. He also said that in 1801, 10,000 acres fed 4,300 persons; but that in 1836 the same amount fed 5,500 persons. How were they to account for that fact. [Mr.  Wallace 154 155 156 157
 Mr. Wallace  had heard with much surprise the Speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down; it was a manly and a true speech, such as he had never heard from the Tory side of the House before. At last they had got a true and manly Speech from that (the Ministerial) side of
 172
 Mr. Gisborne  wished the hon. Member for Lincolnshire had been in his place, because that hon. Gentleman last night asked whether, if a farmer when calculating his profits found a deficiency in his crops, must he not look to the stock which he kept on his farm in order to realise his expenses. Now, as a practical farmer himself, and having long watched the progress of agriculture in this country, he (Mr. Gisborne) would say, he had always found that every improvement in agriculture had been attended by the devotion of a reduced and restricted breadth of land for the growth of corn. Every improvement in agriculture had led to the substitution of other crops for crops of corn. It might sound strange to some ears, but he would venture to assert that the growth of corn was the rudest and most barbarous product of agriculture. It was the product which was first resorted to in breaking up of waste lands, and the first adopted in the occupation of a new country. In every country, as improvements took place, as greater skill was introduced, and greater labour employed in the cultivation of the soil, the consequence always had been that a smaller portion of the land was devoted to the production of corn. It had been the case in this country in every improvement in agriculture; and every increase in the riches of a country had the same tendency. He had no doubt that in the time of Julius Cæsar corn was grown in Marylebone; and that in the days of Elizabeth they grew corn at Pad dington; but now, by the increase of wealth and of populaion, the growth of corn was expelled to a greater distance,
 143 ; 144 145 146 " That the industry of this country had nothing to fear from a steady and gradual increase of importation of all commodities from abroad which could be produced at less cost of human labour and capital than among ourselves." 147 148 s d exigeante, 149 150 "Suppose that, under the free-trade system, you greatly diminish prices, can you continue to pay the interest of your debt, and the expenses of your establishments?" 151 152 153
 Mr. Blackstone  said, that seeing the difference of opinion which existed amongst the various speakers who had supported
 168 l l 169 " It is said that in making these reductions and inviting competition, we are beginning at the wrong end. My answer is, in the first place, we have reduced in a material degree the prices of the necessaries of life; and if any man will compare the duties this day payable on foreign oats, wheat, and barley, with those payable if the old law was still in force, he must admit that there has been a very great diminution." 170 s Manchester Guardian " Now, supposing a million of acres of land were thrown out of cultivation, a tax of  id. Brotherton, 171
 Sir C. Napier  would not have been inclined to trouble the House at all, but for the circumstance that he represented so large a constituency, which would not feel well satisfied with a silent vote. Last Session he had voted for the motion of his hon. Friend, and had stated his reasons for doing so. He thought it right on the present occasion also to state his reasons for the vote he intended to give in favour of the motion now brought forward. He was not himself an advocate for the total and immediate repeal of the Corn-laws, because he believed that such a measure would derange to a great extent the agricultural interest, and also, he thought, very much affect the labouring classes. If any hon. Gentleman had brought forward a motion for a fixed duty he should certainly have given his support to it in preference to a motion for a total repeal; but if no Member made a proposition for a fixed duty, he should certainly vote for
 130 s 5s. 5d. d d (no s d s d s d s 6 d .; d d 6d.  131
 Sir C. Napier  wished to know, as the right hon. Baronet had objected to laying on the Table a copy of the instructions sent to our cruisers on the African coast, what should be done in a supposed case: —For instance, an American and a British man-of-war are cruising in company on the coast of Africa; a very suspicious-looking sail heaves in sight and both vessels make towards her. It happens that the British man-of-war is a far better sailer than the American and comes up with the strange sail long before her; the stranger then hoists American colours. Now, he wished to know whether the British vessel would be bound to wait until the American came up?
 Sir G. Strickland  said, it was with diffidence that he approached this great question—one which had been the object of his own reflection for thirty years, and which was now discussed with so much ardour, that it seemed impossible to throw a new light upon it. He, however, represented a number of persons who were deeply interested in the question, and he felt it his duty to offer a few observations. Every man was now watching the progress of this question with the utmost eagerness,
 138 139
 Mr. H. G. Ward  had never heard a speech so difficult to answer, as that of the hon. Gentleman, who had just sat down;—not from the strength of his arguments, but from the singular want of connexion between his conclusions and his facts. He gave that hon. Gentleman credit for all the disinterestedness asserted by Mr. Robinson in 1815. He was sure, that neither he, nor the Gentlemen, with whom he acted, were influenced by any unworthy motives. He did not doubt their sincerity, when they said, that if the Corn-law were proved to them to be disadvantageous to the great mass of the population, they would consent to alter it; and he thought, that they placed the question upon a perfectly sound basis, when they admitted, that it must be argued with reference to the interests of the whole people, and not to those of a particular class. But still, he must ask, how could he hope, or how could any body else hope, to produce the slightest impression on the mind of the hon. Gentleman and his party, when the hon. Gentleman's own arguments had failed to convince himself? The hon. Gentleman had proved the case of those who were the advocates of free-trade, although he was utterly unconscious of having done so. This was the state of mind of the hon. Gentleman:—this the state of mind, of that independent party, which the hon. Gentleman led, last year, during the tariff panic, and in whose name he had given a
 * 108 I 109 110 1 111 "In 1834, 1835, and 1836, the whole cost of wheat to the community, calculating the
 112 
 
 1834 £36,933,333. 
 1835 31,400,000. 
 1836 38,800,000. 
 Total £107,133,333. While in three following years, by the same calculation, the cost was— 
 
 1837 £44,666,666. 
 1838 51,666,666. 
 1839 56,533,333. 
 Total £152,866,665. Showing a difference, in the cost of wheat alone, of upwards of forty-five millions, during the latter three years, as compared with the former, which sum must, necessarily, have been abstracted from the channels of expenditure, in which it had previously flowed, and, by diminishing the demand for all other articles to the same amount, at once embarrassed, and curtailed, Commerce, and Manufactures, and diminished the revenue derivable therefrom." 5s. s l s d 113 Blackstone's Commentaries, Foreign and Colonial Review;" 114 " 1st—As it related to the then recent ex tension and improvement of agriculture: 2dly —As to the then present expense of cultivation, including the rent: and, 3dly—the price necessary to remunerate tha grower." s 6d. s 5 l d 115 s 72s. s 116 117 " That the petitioners had suffered greatly from the interference of the Legislature with their food, and their work.—That their trade was upon the verge of ruin;—the health of thousands injured by insufficient food;—their homes without furniture,—their wives and children without clothing,—and great numbers reduced to the condition of paupers." " I do not know what encouragement I can send you, as regards the prospects for next season's orders. This country is scarce of goods, but unfortunately the farmers have not the means to buy, having no market for their produce. Flour of the best description is selling in the West, at 9 s d s d s 118 " It has been well observed, that long periods of general suffering make far less impression on our minds, than the short, sharp struggle, in which a few distinguished individuals perish. Not, that we can over-estimate the horror, and guilt, of times of open blood-shedding; but we are much too patient of the greater misery, and greater sin, of periods of quiet, legalised oppression;—of that most deadly of all evils, when Law, and even Religion herself, are false to their divine origin, and their voice is no longer the voice of God, but of his enemy. No pen can record, no volume can contain, the details of the daily, and hourly, suffering of a whole people, endured, without intermission, from the cradle to the grave. The mind itself can scarcely comprehend the wide range of the mischief. How constant poverty, and insult long endured as the natural portion of a degraded caste, bear with them to the sufferers something yet worse than pain, whether of the body, or the feelings; how they dull the understanding, and poison the morals; how ignorance, and ill-treatment, are the parents of universal suspicion; how they, whose condition denies them all noble enjoyments, and to whom looking forward, is only despair, plunge themselves, with a brute's recklessness, into the grossest sensual pleasures." 119 " In order that certain Members of your honourable House, and their out-door supporters, may revel on double rents, and corrupt churchmen receive a higher value for their tithe." " Your petitioners ask not to be fed upon charity; they care nothing about poor-laws, or ten hours bills, when they cannot get one hour's work. They want bread — untaxed bread—and the means of earning it, without the interference of a selfish legislation." 120 9 1 4 1 121 James Graham, " Never was a more pitiable sight witnessed in Sheffield, than the meeting in Paradise-square, on Wednesday last. Who ever heard before of paupers convening a meeting to state their grievances, and ask the aid of the rate-payers? From 400 to 500 men, most of them in the prime of life, and many of them husbands, and fathers of families, assembled to say, that they had reduced themselves quietly to the starvation point, beyond which they could not go." 122 123 124 125
 Sir R. Peel:  Sir, the House I am sure will agree with me, that it is a matter of great difficulty, if not of impossibility, for me, or for any one else holding the office I have the honour to fill, to come down here daily and without notice to answer off-hand questions put to me on matters
 103
 Sir R. Peel  must assume, from what the hon. Member said, that the communication was genuine, but tinder the circumstances he must say that its publication was unwarranted. It was true that he and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had had an inter view with some gentlemen connected with; the wine-trade, as they had had with deputations representing the interests of other commercial bodies. They had listened to the statements made in this case, but had not pledged themselves to anything except to the fact that they would give the subject their best consideration. Now, under such circumstances, he must say that the publication of what occurred at that interview was altogether unjustifiable; and still more so, when he and his right hon. Friend were represented as assenting to a particular proposition, respecting which they had only promised that they would give the subject their best consideration. It was greatly discouraging to Members of the Government, in consenting to interviews affecting particular interests, to have accounts i of them prematurely laid before the public, and that in a manner which might lead to very erroneous conclusions respecting them.
 Sir R. Peel : How far an improved communication with Ireland from this country may tend to facilitate the introduction of railroads in the former, 1 am not prepared to say. I have only to repeat, that the subject of communication between this country arid Ireland with a view to its improvement is under the consideration of Government. If the question of the hon. Baronet refers to any advance of public money for the purpose of facilitating the formation of railroads in Ireland, I am not prepared to give him any answer now.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that inquiries had been directed and were still in progress, the object of which, however, was rather to facilitate the communication between England and Ireland than to aid in the construction of railways in the latter country.
 Viscount Howick:  I have so frequently had occasion to address this House on the subject now under discussion, that it would be an unwarrantable demand, Sir, on your patience if I now entered upon a general inquiry upon the policy of the Corn-laws, and repeated the arguments which I have more than once had occasion to press upon the attention of the House. I shall confine myself in the few observations which I shall make, on this occasion, almost exclusively to two points—first, the form of the motion—the form in which the question is now brought under our notice; next to the peculiar circumstances of the times, on which we are now called upon to pronounce judgment. First, as to the form of the motion. I confess that the form of the motion is not such as I should have adopted myself. I adhere to the opinion, which I have already frequently expressed in this House, that the best course which we can take on this difficult subject, is to impose on the importation of foreign corn a small
 158 159 160 161 pro tanto 162 163 164 [Cheers.] 165 166 ? 167 5s.,
 Mr T. B. C. Smith (Attorney-General for Ireland) said, that although the Government could not be considered bound by the decision of a committee, there were two cases, the Cork and Car-low election petitions, in which it had been decided, that by the provisions of the Reform Act the oath wag unnecessary, and that fact of itself might be considered a sufficient justification of the hon. Member in his attempt to introduce this bill. He should not oppose the motion, but reserve to himself the right of giving his opinion upon it hereafter, when he had taken its several clauses into his consideration.
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy recommended his hon. Friend to withdraw his motion; and, adverting to the trials at Lancaster, said he was authorised by the individuals whom he defended, and many other defendants, to express the highest admiration and gratitude for the manner in which the law had been administered, both by the Attorney-general and by the learned Judge who presided on the occasion. The charge against Mr. Baron Gurney, in the present instance, seemed to be of a very flimsy character.
 The Attorney- General spoke from the general assurance of more than one of the counsel who were present at the trial, that the learned Judge received the prisoner's thanks for the mode in which he presided over the proceedings. As the motion, however, was not likely to be persevered in, he would only take the liberty of leading some remarks on the case published in a local paper, which, on account of its political tendency, was more likely to sympathize with the prisoner than the judge. He had come down fully prepared to go into the question; and he held in his hand a newspaper, the Leicester Chronicle, which was published in the town of Leicester, advocating politics corresponding with those of the Chartists, and which distinctly stated,—
 "It was with considerable surprise that we perused the reports of this trial which appeared in the  Times and Morning Chronicle "The prisoner, both in his cross-examination of the two witnesses Marshall and Agar and in his defence, introduced a very great deal of matter wholly irrelevant to the charge brought against him; and Baron Gurney, therefore, had to remind him, as he would have reminded any other prisoner, that such a course could not be allowed. This was done decidedly, but not harshly, as the reports in the  Times and Chronicle 203  It is well known that at the time of Jones's apprehension and committal we called in question the (to say the least) expediency of such a procedure, and that because we thought too much importance was thus attached to the somewhat extravagant harangues of an itinerant lecturer; we did this, too, because we are as jealous as any person can be of the slightest invasion of the right of the subject to speak his mind openly and honestly on matters concerning the common weal; but, thinking thus, and even though we may also differ with the learned judge as to the right of a person to denounce the Government as tyrannical, or as to the poor man's labour being equally protected by the law with the rich man's property, we feel bound to declare that we think the prisoner was fairly dealt with by the judge as a judge; wherever he was checked, or not allowed to proceed, it was in accordance with law; and the only point where we could have wished his lordship to have acted otherwise than he did, was his not allowing Jones to challenge one or some of the jury—Jones alleging he had been informed that one or more jurymen were pre-determined to find him guilty; but for this he gave a legal reason. However unfavourable the summing-up may have been to the prisoner, he himself was the cause of it; whatever evidence was wanting as to the tendency and intention of his language at the meeting in question, his cross-examination and defence supplied; and, despite the ability he displayed as an orator, he added another to the many recent proofs that, ' he who is his own counsel, has often a very foolish client.'" " The report of this trial, as published in the London newspapers, continues to excite comments, more or less unfair, upon the conduct of the judge; we therefore again take the opportunity to assert that the defendant was fairly tried and indulgently treated. " Every person who has witnessed the direct and straight-to-the-point manner of Mr. Baron Gurney—his dislike to the introduction of irrelevant matters, and the impartial constancy of his rebukes to counsel with reference to their irregularities—must admit that his patience and endurance in Jones's case were I extraordinary. His interruptions have been
 204 " Having made these observations as to the impartiality of the judge, we may be allowed to say, that in our opinion he was somewhat in error in point of law when he refused to allow the defendant to quote to the jury from speeches made at public meetings by persons of authority and station. In all the defences with which we are acquainted, in cases of seditious libels or seditious words, it has been usual to allow such quotations to be made, and we are sure that numerous instances are to be found in the published speeches of the most eminent of our advocates. It is true that they may not be evidence in a technical sense, but surely the published records of speeches are sometimes pertinent by way of comparison, when the quality and tendency of particular expressions form the tendency. " It was, however, well for defendant that the quotations were disallowed, because, on carefully looking at the speeches referred to, we can imagine nothing more certain to have procured his conviction than the contrast of his speeches with those. They were the speeches of townsmen at town meetings, assembled for the purpose of discussing special or general grievances, or of celebrating the triumph of freedom over despotism in a neighbouring nation. We defy the most perverted ingenuity to point out the most remote analogy in the language of the speakers, or in the circumstances of the meetings at which these speeches were delivered. The learned counsel in particular, whose speech was alluded to, was really the person most entitled to complain of their exclusion; for, on reference to his address, no single expression can be found of which the most fastidious stickler for propriety need be ashamed. "There is one other point upon which Mr. Baron Gurney has been, as we believe, misunderstood. We by no means allow it to be a great crime, in discussions or arguments at public meetings, to speak of particular acts of the Government as 'tyrannical;' and we do not think the judge intended to convey that impression; we believe he intended merely to assert it to be an offence to incite the people
 205 " With reference to the defendant's challenges of the jury, the judge had no power, as we are informed, to allow them, without cause being shown, there being a difference between felonies and misdemeanours in this respect."
 Mr. R. Palmer— No one could for a moment suppose that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down intended to attribute to those who differed from him improper motives as to the course which they might think proper to adopt on this occasion. He could assure him that, though he differed from the hon. Gentleman as to the conclusions to which he had come, he would not support protection to the agriculturists, if he did not think that protection to that interest was essential to the welfare of the country. The hon. Gentleman's speech referred chiefly to the different Corn-laws which had been passed by the Legislature, and the question was, not as to the degree of protection to be given to agriculture, but whether, upon the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, any protection at all was to be given. He therefore thought that the question at issue came within small compass, without the necessity of entering into the merits or demerits of the Corn-law. Whatever might be the opinion of Mr. Pitt, it was certain that all eminent statesmen since the year 1815 had adopted as a principle that protection to the agriculturists was their right and was necessary. But if hon. Gentlemen opposite quoted Mr. Pitt's authority he would quote that of the late Mr. Huskisson in the year 1814, which said,
 " Let the bread which is eaten be the produce of our home growth. I care not how cheap it is—the cheaper it is the better—it is cheap now. I rejoice at it, because there is a sufficiency of our own corn; but to ensure the continuance of that sufficiency you must ensure to the home-grower a protection from the produce of the foreign grower." 214 " If foreign corn were admitted, and the farmer was even subject to scarcely any taxation, he would not be able, having to live in a certain state of respectability, to compete with the lords of Poland and Russia, whose vassals and serfs are unacquainted with the wants of civilised life." l l. 215 l. l l l. 216 217 218
 Lord John Russell continued to think, after the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, that what he had already stated fully agreed with that explanation. It was the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman that after marriage settlements had been made by landowners, an injustice would be done to them, unless Parliament provided by its measures the means of fulfilling their obligations. He thought that what was meant by this was, not that the Corn-law ought to remain, but that if it were removed, then it would be the duty of Parliament to consider what was the amount of compensation to be given to the noblemen and gentlemen who were interested in maintaining the Corn-law. If the hon. Member for Wolverhampton should carry his motion, he supposed they would hear a similar proposition to that made in the great case of compensation to slaveholders, on the passing of the Slave Emancipation Bill, and that the right hon. Member would then state the amount at which he rated the compensation to be given to the landholders. There was, however, another question upon which the right hon. Gentleman had stated his opinion, and that was upon the speech of the hon. Member for Wallingford. Never had he heard advice given in a more impressive manner than by the right hon. Gentleman to the hon. Member for Wallingford. Never
 228 s 229 230 " If the measures that had formerly been adopted for the protection of trade and manufactures were right, let them be continued; if wrong, let them be abrogated; not suddenly, but with that caution with which all practices, however erroneous, engrafted into our usages by time, should be changed." 231 " Move, move." 232 233
 Lord John Russell observed, that he had upon many former occasions expressed his opinion that a duty ought to he imposed upon the importation of foreign corn, and yet, he must confess, entertaining that opinion, that he looked with considerable alarm upon the course that was taken in this debate, because he found that those who had. upon a former occasion, most strongly defended the Corn-law, had abandoned their former arguments, and had taken up a new and an unsafe position. He found, that Members who defended the imposition of a duty on foreign corn, and especially those Members who were the Ministers of the Crown, placed their defence upon grounds that were utterly untenable. The right hon. Gentleman who began this discussion on the part of the Government had described the landowners of this country, who hitherto had represented themselves, and were considered by many writers and speakers on this subject, as the great and central body upon whom mainly all other classes depended, and by whom, in a great degree, the welfare of the country was sustained, the right hon. Gentleman had described them as mere sinecurists, to whom a short time to turn themselves should be allowed, and to whom some compensation should be made when the advantages they possessed by law were done away with. And now, another Member of the Cabinet, the right hon. Baronet the Paymaster of the Forces, came forward and told them that one of the reasons for keeping up this law was to keep up prices in order to enable the landed gentry to provide for the obligations which they had entered into by their marriage settlements and by their settlements on the younger branches of their families. He certainly thought that there were different grounds for believing that a duty might be imposed upon corn, as upon other articles of raw produce, or manufacture, introduced into this country; that a fixed duty of a moderate amount might be imposed upon it, as upon other merchandise, that the importer might know what he had to pay, and that the trade in this article might not be unduly embarrassed by the imposition. He considered, that when they had made an amended tariff, imposing light duties on
 227
 Mr. Hawes also thought that the charge against Mr. Baron Gurney was not substantiated. He had learned from three
 202
 Mr. Ross (adverting to a suggestion made by Sir R. Peel, that hon. Members who had notices of motion on the paper should give way, in order to allow the adjourned debate on the Corn-laws to be resumed), said, that he would propose a course by which much time might be saved, and his object gained. He would propose, that the House should give him leave to lay his bill on the Table, and let the discussion be taken on the second reading. The hon. Member then proceeded to move for leave to bring in a bill for the release of her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in Ireland from obligation to take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the act 10 George 4th, commonly called the " Catholic oath." He said the oath was found to be productive of much delay, annoyance, and injustice during the progress of elections in Ireland, opposing parties being in the habit of demanding that voters should produce a certifi-
 189
 Mr. Darby observed, that the speeches of the two noble Lords, the Members for London and Sunderland, were full of inconsistencies and misrepresentations, and, as an example of this, the former had first proposed an 8 s s 234 235
 Sir H. W. Barron  said, he had witnessed the vexatious use to which the oath had been turned at elections in Ireland. He had known agents to make opposition to every man who had not or could not be proved at the moment to have taken that oath.
 Mr. H. Marsland said, he thought those who were favourable to the repeal of the Corn-laws had no reason for despondency. The mist of ignorance which for a long period had overspread the minds of those who were previously favourable to monopoly had been dispelled by the vast extent of information on this subject which had been disseminated throughout the country, and the principles of free-trade had been recognised by her Majesty's Government, by whom they were formerly repudiated. Every succeeding Session they went still further in their abandonment of their anti-free-trade principles, and that which was formerly a question of principle had now become merely a question of time. He
 219 220 221
 Dr. Bowring: Has any account been received of Captain Harris having left Shoa?
 Dr. Bowring said, that some months ago a mission had left Egypt for the court of Shoa, for the purpose of entering into negotiations with the Government there, the object of which was to facilitate the intercourse of British subjects with, and the introduction of British produce into that country. What he wished to know was, whether the object of the commission had been accomplished?
 Mr. Hume was ready to admit, so far as his own experience went, that the right hon. Gentleman had always attended to applications of this kind, and it certainly appeared that of this case the right hon. Baronet had taken a merciful view. But he thought the circumstance of the
 201
 Mr. Borthwick expressed extreme surprise at the very thin attendance of Members on an occasion of so much importance. The present motion had been ushered in by an agitation unconstitutional in its nature and dangerous in its consequences. He protested against the transference of the debates of that House to the boards of Drury-lane theatre. He believed hon. Gentlemen opposite were impressed with the importance of this question; but they would better testify their sense of it by attending to their duties in the House than by taking part in an agitation which engendered a spirit of discontent and disaffection among the inhabitants of the towns, and also arrayed the tenantry against their landlords. The petitions which had been presented for the repeal of the Corn-laws could not be looked upon as the spontaneous and heartfelt expression of the sentiments of the people, but as the products of an agitation which had commenced in that House. A circular, addressed to the fears of the electors, had been forwarded to him from the Anti-Corn-law League which he could not too much condemn, and which, in effect, told the electors that if they refused to take a side on this party question, they could not be included within the limits of possible salvation. In another of the pamphlets issued by the League, which enumerated the authorities who were favourable to an alteration of the Corn-laws, the name of her Majesty was introduced, on the ground of the speech from the throne, delivered in the autumn of 1841. He said that the Anti-Corn-law League were, in thus deluding the people, practising a deceit on them in the name of religion, and in the name of their Queen, for the sake of inducing the people to side with them in a party and political contest. In his opinion, this question ought not to be argued by those who sat
 207 fiat justitia, ruat cœlum 208 " Who rave, recite, and madden through the land,
Fire in each eye, and papers in each hand." ergo, 209
 Mr. Sheil observed, that there could be no doubt of the oath having been made the instrument of annoyance and delay to serve the purpose of the objectors, and might he used by Roman Catholic candidates, as it had been used by Protestant candidates. Sometimes magistrates had been induced to keep out of the way for three or four hours, during which time not a single Roman Catholic elector was permitted to vote.
 Mr. T. Duncombe rose, in accordance with his notice, to call the attention of the House to the petition of William Jones, a prisoner in the Leicester county gaol, complaining of the conduct of Baron Gurney during his trial at the late Leicester assizes, and to move that an humble address be presented to her Majesty,
 190 "That your petitioner is now a prisoner in the borough gaol of Leicester, to which place of confinement he was sentenced for six months at the last assizes held before Baron Gurney. That your petitioner having been arraigned on a charge of uttering a seditious speech tending to excite the people against the police force and the array, could have shown to the jury that the charge was false, but was interrupted, as your petitioner believes, most unconstitutionally, by his judge, and was thus prevented from establishing his innocence. That under these circumstances, which your petitioner conceives to be a violation of the sacred right of trial by jury, inasmuch as he was prevented from making a successful appeal to his jurors, your petitioner humbly entreats your honourable House to take measures for securing him a legal and constitutional trial. That your petitioner feels the more urgent in his desire to be dealt with according to the constitutional customs he has ever been taught to hold sacred, inasmuch as he has been appointed by Baron Gurney to the second class of misdemeanants, and is only allowed a very restricted and meagre diet, which he feels to be unequal to the support of health. Your petitioner, therefore, prays for the immediate attention of your honourable House to his case." " It is true I am a judge made by my sovereign, yet it is known, by the known laws of this land, my duty to be indifferent and free from partiality betwixt my master and you the prisoner, and I am specially bound to it by my oath. You shall have, therefore, the utmost privileges of the law of England, which is a law of mercy. It is also the duty of a judge, by law, to be of counsel with the prisoner, wherein, by his ignorance, he falls short of making use of the benefit of the law, and to exhort him if he perceive him daunted or amazed by the presence of the court. Yea, it
 191 192 " The people were orderly. He meant by that there was no actual breach of the peace; there was no disturbance, but the people were elevated. Meant by elevated, that they were wrought upon by your expressions. There was injury done to the policeman before you came, and not since." " Why, they took you up, you see; that's the way they quieted you. If you turn a dog down the street, and cry out ' Mad dog.' there's no need to tell the people to knock him on the head. There's no occasion for it, it is not necessary, they will do it without." " Then you have done wrong; you had no right to say anything of the sort. We know nothing of you here except what is charged against you; and there is no need that you should give yourself a bad character." 193 " Mr. Baron Gurney then proceeded to sum up the evidence, and expressed his opinion of the case in no very equivocal terms." "He was so cowed that he was unable to proceed with his address, (and of which he also complained, and very fairly,) that the judge so narrowed his path that he really knew not where to put his foot." " We find the prisoner guilty of using the language imputed to him, but we are of opinion that he used it whilst labouring under great excitement." 194 lb. per diem. 195 196
 Mr. T. Duncombe said, that Jones denied that he had ever thanked the judge. It was to the jury he returned his thanks, and this was confirmed by his friends. The right hon. Baronet referred to a memorial which he (Mr. Duncombe) had sent in on the part of Jones. That memorial referred to the treatment of the prisoner, and till that moment he (Mr. Duncombe) had never known the result of his application. He had acted in this case upon the principle by which he was generally guided. When a grievance was placed in his hand, if he believed that the grievance could be proved, he held it to be his duty to bring it before the House to the best of his ability, nor would he allow himself to be deterred by any Secretary of State from doing what he thought himself bound to do, though he would be very glad if people would place their grievances in any hands rather than his. He had so much respect for the legal abilities of the learned sergeant, that he should at once accede to his suggestion, and withdraw the motion. But as to the learned judge's friends complaining of what he (Mr. Duncombe) had done, he really could not see upon what ground they could rest their complaints. On the contrary, the learned judge and
 206
 Mr. S. Crawford having seconded the motion,
 Mr. Wrightson said, that an argument in favour of the Corn-law had been, that this country from time immemorial had been accustomed to a Corn-law, and that for the last 25 years the Government and the Ministers had been on the look out for some opportunity of relaxing the stringency of our commercial code. Though he would not deny that for a long time Corn-laws had existed, yet he could not see on what ground it was considered that anything like an improvement in their stringency had taken place during the last 25 years. The Corn-law of 1774 he considered the best Corn-law that ever stood upon our statute book, and the only one that worked in a satisfactory manner. All interests seemed to have flourished under it, and most particularly the agricultural interest. If any Gentleman entertained a doubt upon that point, it was easily removed by recalling to mind what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-president of the Board of Trade, who quoted tables showing that from the year 1771 to the year 1791 the agriculturists enjoyed a higher price of corn than that which was enjoyed even at the present moment. Unfortunately, in 1791 there was a body of gentlemen who composed a third party in the House of Commons, to whom it occurred that the im-
 210 s. s. s. s. d. s. s. 211 s s s s d s s s d s s s s s s s 212 " That the great landowners would all work together; they were all determined to adhere to prohibition; no compromise would please them; the Lords were more violent than the Commons, and they were all pledged to each other."
 Sir Edward Knatchbull said, that the best claim he could prefer for the indulgence of the House, was to assure them his words should be but few; he rose only to declare his intention to vote in direct opposition to the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, and to give his unqualified support to the law as it now stood. But, before he addressed himself to the subject of debate, he might be allowed, indeed it would probably be expected of him, to offer an observation on what had fallen from the hon. Member for Wallingford last night respecting himself. Having been so pointedly referred to by the hon. Member, he should not be acting respectfully to the hon. Member if he neglected to reply to him; and the hon. Member must allow him (Sir E. Knatchbull) to express his unfeigned regret, that the hon. Member did not hear the able reply which had been made to him by the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. R. Palmer). The hon. Member for Wallingford had certainly used such terms with reference to the hon. Member for Berkshire, as he bad hardly ever heard used in that House by one Member to another, whom he professed to call his friend; but all that had been so fully answered by the hon. Member for Berkshire, that any remarks of his (Sir E. Knatchbull's) would be uncalled for. With respect to himself (Sir Edward Knatchbull) the hon. Member accused him of having deserted the cause he had heretofore supported, and added, that formerly he would not have taken that course. It was a matter of regret to him that the hon. Member had made that observation; he did not deny the hon. Member's influence in that part of the county with which he was connected, and where he took a decided lead; but he hoped that the hon. Member would not mislead those with whom he was now acting. He hoped that they would not be misled, for he appeared to be a convert to principles which he had hitherto opposed. [Mr. Blackstone: "No."] What the hon. Member had done had tended most to further the views of those to whom the hon. Member had been opposed. The
 222 223 l. l l l. l. 224 225 226
 Sir E. Knatchbull rose, in explanation, and begged to say that all he had intended to affirm was this, that obligations were entered into under the existing law, that these obligations were sometimes in the form of marriage settlements, and that, undoubtedly, if they were now about to deprive those who had entered into such obligations of the means of fulfilling them, then they would do a great injustice, unless they accompanied the act of abolition, with some other measures.
 Sir James Graham said, he rose, in the strict discharge of a public duty, to answer an accusation made by the hon. Member for Finsbury, which was immediately connected with that important subject, the administration of justice. He spoke correctly when he said that on the present occasion he was acting strictly in the discharge of a public duty; because, although he entertained the highest respect for the public character of the learned judge whose conduct had been alluded to, he had not the honour of more than a casual acquaintance with him. Upon this occasion the hon. Member for Finsbury appeared once more before the House labouring in his usual vocation—he having, as it were, adopted the character of public prosecutor of the judges. The hon. Member being self-constituted censor of vituperative language, it would become him to be a little more guarded as to the expressions which he applied to venerable judges on the bench—men of the highest reputation, whose fair fame had remained unsullied up to the evening of their life. He knew the hon. Member for Finsbury so well that he was sure, if the hon. Member bestowed a moment's reflection on the matter, that not even the consciousness of acting in the discharge of a public duty could compensate for inflicting upon persons of such high character and occupying so eminent a position needless pain by the use of unguarded expressions. He complained of nothing which the hon. Member had said respecting the public conduct of Mr. Baron Gurney, and, leaving his many friends and relatives to defend any part of his private character which they might believe to have been assailed, he would merely, in passing, express his regret that the hon. Member had considered it necessary to refer to Baron Gurney's political opinions in early life. Now, with respect to the public conduct of Baron Gurney, he could assure the hon. Member and the House, that he did not neglect to make inquiry respecting the language and conduct attributed in the public journals to that learned person. As soon as he was acquainted with what was alleged to have occurred, he addressed a letter to Baron Gurney, requesting to be
 197 198 199 200
 Sir R. Peel:  Yes.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the mission to
 188
 Captain Bernal  said, he took the earliest opportunity to set himself right with respect to some remarks that had fallen from him a few evenings ago. It was probably in the recollection of the House that he had asked the right hon. Baronet whether he were prepared to abide by the declaration of Lord Althorp, that if all the members for Ireland were to join in asking for repeal, he should not be prepared to resist it. A contradiction to this statement had since been given in another place, on the authority of the noble Lord himself, by a noble individual distinguished for a spirit of chivalry that seemed to make him extremely careful of the characters of others, whatever he might be of his own. When a Noble individual like Earl Spencer denied the statement imputed to him, he (Captain Bernal) at once thought it his duty to express his earnest regret for any misrepresentation of which he might have been guilty. At the same time he had to state that he made his statements on the authority of several hon. Members present at the debate, all of whom laboured under the same misapprehension.
 Mr. James   did not approve of the present sliding-scale, the evils of which had been so fully demonstrated, that it was unnecessary for him to detain the House by discussing it. He wished, however, to mention one fact, that a great part, indeed nearly the whole of his agricultural constituents, had repudiated the system of the sliding-scale, and were prepared for a change, finding that that system had been of no value to them. He could not vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, because it would be tantamount to a total and immediate repeal of the Corn-laws, to which extremity he was not prepared to go. He was, however, prepared to vote for the proposition made by the noble Lord, for a fixed duty of 3 s s.
 Captain Gladstone  must vote against the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He denied that the landed gentry were so imbued with prejudice and ignorance as had been stated, that arguments had no effect upon them. It had been alleged against them also that they supported the Corn-laws to keep up their rents, and that they had no feeling of sympathy with the manufacturers, but he believed that the landed proprietors were as well convinced as the manufacturers themselves of the connection be-
 262 Adam Smith
 Sir John Tyrrell  said, that if ever there were a question on which the House would have been justified in coming to a division four nights ago without further argument, it was the question now before the House. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), in common with other Gentlemen who had addressed the House, had repeated over and over again every description of argument on both sides of the question; but in his humble opinion had failed to show that the distress which all persons in the House admitted was at all attributable to the present Corn-laws. He was a somewhat old Member of the House, though he seldom addressed them, but he never remembered a period when the hon. Member for Montrose, notwithstanding the variety of constituencies he had represented, had not stated that the period in which he happened to be addressing them was one of extraordinary and excruciating distress. The hon. Gentleman described the distress as universal; but he hoped this was not the case, though he deeply deplored that which unquestionably existed. But his principal object in rising was that the hon. Members for Wolverhampton and Stockport should not go off triumphantly with the impression that their opinion of the repeal of the Corn-laws as a remedy for the distress of the country was a growing and prevailing opinion, for he thought he should be able to prove the contrary on no less authority than that of the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Gisborne), who was a jewel of the first water on the Liberal side of the House. That hon. Member had the other night exhibited to them the picture of an old farmer on his old mare; and, copying the hon. Member for Stockport, had described his ride from Birmingham to Liverpool, and the miserable state of the farms in that locality, which he attributed to nothing else than the idleness of the farmers, and the want of that stimulation which he proposed to administer to them. He confessed that he had come to another
 276 277 278 s. s Blue Books, 279
 Mr. Henry Berkeley  said, when it was considered the number of petitions he had laid on the Table, and the active part which his constituents had taken for the abolition of the Corn-laws, by various important public meetings, he trusted hon. Members would grant him but a few moments. When it was considered, too, the little regard paid to petitions laid upon that Table, he felt it to be incumbent upon the representatives of the people, to express the sentiments of their constituents on occasions so important as the present. It was true the great city he had the honour to represent did not feel that misery which more manufacturing districts presented, yet the depression of trade, the discharge of operatives, and the labour of those who could find work, reduced to half price—the ship yards closed, or only partially in operation, the broom at the mast-head of merchant ships, the manufactory of machinery, on which Britain once prided itself, hourly declining—all this with the increases of rates, all inadequate to meet the increase of pauperism, presented a picture harrowing to contemplate. Yet, under these circumstances, hon. Members opposite schooled them on their behaviour— insisted upon those who, in and out of that House, advocated the abolition of the Corn-laws, using courtly and holiday expressions. It was true he did not advocate violence of language— far from it. He knew that no cause gained any thing by intemperance of expression; yet it was difficult for the representatives of a starving population, all relief denied to them, to preserve perfect equanimity. The hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Gladstone) had remarked upon observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Salford. He rebuked the hon. Gentlemen for saying that the agriculturists kept up the price of bread, in order to keep up their rents; nay, they all on the opposite side abused the Corn-law League for their tracts; they would not endure to hear of a conspiracy of the rich to defraud the poor. Did hon. Gentlemen think that such accusations were new? Did they think they originated with the advocates for the abolition of the Corn-law? Far from it. Such things were
 280 "Therefore, when I consider and weigh in my mind all these Commonwealths, which now a-dayes any where do flourish, so God help me, I can perceive nothing but a certaine conspiracy of rich men procuring their own commodities, under the name and title of the Commonwealth. They invent and devise all meanes and crafts first how to keep safely, without fear of losing, that they have unjustly gathered together. And next, how to hire and abuse the worke and labour of the poore, for as little money as may be. These devices, when the rich men have decreed to be kept and observed under colour of the commonalty, that is to say, also of the poore people then— they be made lawes. And that you may perceive this the more plainly— consider with yourselves, some barraine and unfruitful yeare, wherein many thousands of people have starved for hunger. I dare be bold to say, that in the end of that penury, so much corne or graine might have been found in rich men's barnes, if they had been searched, as being divided among them whom famine and pestilence then consumed, no man at all should have felt that plague and penury."
 Mr. O. Stanley  moved, that the debate be now adjourned.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman wished last year to put an end to the discussion after it had lasted a certain number of nights, he called on the House not to concur with the right hon. Gentleman, as several hon. Members, who ought to be heard, had not spoken. Now, however, that the question had been so long and so often debated, he did not believe, that either for the purpose of enabling the House to form a deliberate opinion on the subject, or enabling their constituents throughout the country to understand the grounds on which they voted, it was necessary that the debate should be again adjourned. Of course the right hon. Baronet was prepared to listen to any reply which hon. Members might think proper to make. If hon. Members behind him persisted in moving the adjournment of the debate, he should vote against the motion.
 Lord J. Russell  hoped the hon. Member for Hull (Sir J. Hanmer) would withdraw his motion.
 Captain Berkeley  said, be represented a great commercial city, but owed his seat to the popularity and influence of a great landowner, therefore his views of the question were impartial, for self, after all, was a great motive. The hon. Member for Somersetshire had said, the agriculturists should yield no more concessions, while the hon. Member for Stockport on the other side cried out, "No surrender." Under such circumstances, how could there be any satisfactory settlement except by a compromise? He should vote for the motion, not as approving of immediate and total repeal, but as expressing an opinion that the existing law must be altered.
 Mr. M.J. O'Connell  said, that his constituents were in a state of great depression, and believed it was caused by the fallacious system of so-called protection. Although he would have preferred the adoption of the course suggested by the noble Lord, the Member for Sunderland (Lord Howick), he would, under present circumstances, give his support to the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton.
 Captain Bernal:  Of course, it was un parliamentary; but if the right hon. Gentleman would allow him to take a word from the vocabulary of the other noble Lord, he would say it was uncalled for. And now he was prepared to sit even an hour longer than proposed by the noble Lord, and would willingly sit till nine o'clock.
 Lord C. Hamilton  said, that the noble Lord had left the House because he was disgusted with the course that had been taken.
 Captain Bernal  said, an hon. Member opposite had termed the conduct of hon. Gentlemen on his (the Opposition) side of the House, disgusting. He must say that he thought the course adopted on the opposite side was most unconciliatory and insulting.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, that as they were deserted by their leaders on both sides (Sir R. Peel, Lord J. Russell, Sir J. Graham, and others, had left the House,) they must consider what was best for their own dignity and for the interests of the country. He hoped he should not appeal in vain to the common sense of the House. If the motion of the noble Lord were to be carried the hon. Member for Wolverhampton could renew the discussion on the plea that the discussion of the question had been got rid of in a most unjustifiable manner; and if those on his (Mr. O'Connells) side of the House pressed that motion to a division, they would be also in the wrong. He hoped, therefore, that the motion would be allowed to be withdrawn, and that mutual concession would be made by both parties.
 Mr. E. Ellice  appealed to the Vice-president of the Board of Trade to endeavour to put a stop to the scene that had been going on for the last three hours. He thought there was no one who wished well to the dignity and authority of the House of Commons who would not lament the violence that had been exhibited on that occasion.
 Mr. Mackenzie  rose to move the exclusion of strangers.
 Mr. E. Ellice  thought it would have been better for the credit of the House had the hon. Member moved to exclude strangers some hours before. The public out of doors would not then have been made aware of what had been going on, and which he very much feared would not tend to raise the character of the House in their estimation. He must again entreat the Vice-president of the Board of Trade, who was the sole representative of the Government then present, to interfere. It seemed to him a matter of astonishment that her Majesty's Ministers should have left the House, considering the excitement which they saw prevailing among their own supporters, and which they made no attempt to allay.
 Dr. Bowriny  deemed it most unwise to engage in such a controversy. The right hon. Baronet had admitted, in the course of last Session, that in such a contest the minority must inevitably prevail.
 Captain Bernal  thought that these proceedings on the part of the hon. Member who moved to exclude strangers, were sufficient to show that this was in reality a question of rent. Hon. Members were convinced of the iniquity of the law, and were afraid of allowing their proceedings to go forth. He had received a requisition from his constituents, chiefly farmers, who were convinced of the futile and inane arguments of the majority, and had called on him to support the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. The scene which had been enacted would satisfy the world that the proceedings of that House were a mere farce.
 Captain Bernal  was willing to retract the expression if it were unparliamentary. He might at least say that their proceedings strongly resembled low comedy. He put it to the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford whether these were proceedings, which in his opinion, would be likely to benefit the cause of the high Church party of which he was the prominent supporter in that House! The hon. Member concluded by moving as an amendment, that the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill be now read.
 Lord Worsley  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the
 282 " Her Majesty's Government did not intend to make any alteration in the Corn-law this Session; that the Canada Corn-bill was, in fact, no alteration of the Corn-bill of last year, because it was announced at the time." 283 l. l.
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  again moved that the debate be now adjourned.
 Lord J. Manners:  Though on the ground stated by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton I should not think of withdrawing the motion, yet at the request of the hon. Gentleman I shall —
 Lord J. Manners  moved, as an amendment on the motion, that the House do now adjourn.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Treasury, and the noble Lord, the Member for the City of of London, had both left the House, and he thought in their absence no satisfactory decision could be come to.
 Mr. Hawes  observed, that they had now lost an hour and twenty minutes (it was now past two o'clock) discussing whether they should adjourn. In that time they might have finished the debate.
 Mr. Hindley  entreated the House to show some respect to the Speaker, who had already been twelve hours in the chair.
 The Speaker  called upon the hon. Member to retract an expression which must be deemed disrespectful to the House.
 The Speaker  having put the question,
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member was not justified in using such language in that House.
 Mr. C. Villiers  opposed this amendment. This was a most indecent and improper mode of disposing of this question. He believed that this mode of disposing of a question would not be adopted in any other case: It was notorious that the majority of the House had a direct interest in this question.  [Continued interruption]
 Mr. Villiers  said, the right hon. Baronet who opposed the adjournment, did not finish his speech till a quarter to one o'clock, and it was hardly fair to expect hon. Members then, to answer him, particularly as there was little probablity of their speeches being faithfully reported. It was only just that the representatives of the people should be heard.
 Mr. French:  I beg to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether the Government is aware of the dangerous excitement which now exists in various parts of the country on the subject of the repeal of the Corn-laws; of the large assemblages who are collected together and addressed by demagogues in dangerous and inflammatory language on that subject; and whether it is the intention of Government to take any measures to suppress such dangerous meetings.
 Mr. Muntz  said, he represented a large community, who were suffering severely and who attributed their sufferings to the Corn-laws. He had risen three times last night, to state his views, and seven times this night, but he had not been fortunate enough to catch the Speaker's eye.
 Sir H. Barron  asked whether a survey had been ordered by the Government respecting a more expeditious mode of conveying the mails through Wales to Ireland, and, if so, when it would be completed; or whether the Government thought that they had sufficient evidence already before them on this subject?
 Sir H. Barron:  The right hon. Baronet had not stated whether he considered a survey necessary.
 Sir H. Barron  said, that was what he meant.
 Mr. Benett  considered the present motion to be in effect a motion for the total repeal of the Corn-laws. That being the proposition, it was incumbent on those who supported it to show that the people of this country employed in agriculture could live as cheaply as persons engaged in the same pursuit on the continent. If this could not be shown, then free-trade in corn would be an injustice to the English farmer. The people of this country could not live so cheaply as in other countries, because the taxes were heavier; and the taxes were heavier because the people of this country had to pay a great amount on account of the national debt. This evil was aggravated by the change in the system of currency, by the bill of 1819, and the country was now suffering from the alteration which that measure effected in our monetary system. Before the country could be in a right condition, some great measure must be adopted. If they were not disposed to attack the monetary system which they had so unwisely established, then they must do some other "great thing" before they could have free-trade. Were they unwilling to subscribe their property to pay off the national debt? That was a great measure, no doubt. But the debt was a mortgage, which they were bound to pay. Had they courage enough to seize upon the property of the country, and pay off that debt? He knew they had not. Then were they inclined to abolish all other taxes and adopt a property and income-tax? Would they follow out the income-tax which the right hon. Baronet had introduced? He was ready for that, and he thought it was the only honest and prudent mode of raising a revenue for the country. Why should not the right hon. Baronet continue the property-tax which he had established, and which he (Mr. Benett) had no conception would ever be repealed. Why not repeal the malt-tax and substitute a property-tax? That would be a bold measure; but not too bold for the right hon. Baronet, since he had the power of carrying it. Let such measures be adopted, and then
 269 l. l. l. 270
 Mr. Ricardo  seconded the motion, remarking that the Speaker had been in the Chair ten hours.
 Mr. Brotherton  in resuming the debate, denied that he had ever expressed an opinion that a fixed duty was preferable to a total repeal of the Corn-laws. Suppose a duty of 8 s. l. s l. l. s s. s 250 s. s.
 Mr. Hume  was quite satisfied that his hon. Friend the Member for Wilts did not mean to rob one party for the sake of enriching another; but his argument in favour of upholding the Corn-law, if successful, would inevitably produce that result. He was convinced that the country was hastening fast to ruin, unless some steps were immediately taken to stay the downward progress. It was the duty of the Government to watch over the various interests of the State, and to adopt a course calculated to avert the impending evil. The right hon. Baronet began a new course last year; he had so far propounded and acted upon sound principles; but why were not those sound principles to be carried further, and to be carried out? From month to month distress had increased, and difficulties had multiplied, and was it fit for those who had the direction of affairs to remain quietly at their posts, to observe the progress of calamity, and to make no attempt at relief? He wished to place before the House the real state of the country, to which sufficient regard had not been yet paid. No branch of trade was conducted so ill and so irregularly as the trade in corn. By a paper on the Table it appeared, that there were no fewer than forty acts of Parliament to regulate the import, and thirty-four acts to regulate the export of grain. All these
 271 272 273 l. l. Peel;" l. l. l s. d. 274 l Member l l s. s. 275
 Mr. Hume  said, in support of the
 304 Loud cries of "Go on," "Adjourn," and "Divide.
 Mr. Hume  would ask what was the object of the other side; was it to stop all further discussion. He appealed to the ministry, whether they could consistently persist in this course  [Muck confusion.]
 Mr. Hume  thought that if it was to
 315
 Mr. Hume  said, that after the course which her Majesty's Government had taken upon this occasion, he should protest against any public business going on until the question was settled. The responsibility of these proceedings would fall upon the Government.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, the real reason why the continuance of the debate was thus pertinaciously resisted was, that it was desired to carry the powerful speech of the right hon. Baronet to some agitating "convention," for the purpose of attempting at leisure, and with the aid of a hundred heads, to dissect, and if possible, damage, the arguments which none of the boasted advocates of free-trade in the House dared now endeavour to answer; to try to torture and twist it, with the hope of extracting some points of imputation, or some appearances of admission, and to exercise upon it all the tricks and arts of an insidious and disingenuous criticism. To defeat so unworthy an object on the part of men who had thrown away repeated opportunities of speaking, had they been only sincerely desirous of expressing their own opinions, he would lend his most earnest aid.
 Mr. Hampden  said, the theories propounded by the Gentlemen opposite may be very plausible, nevertheless they are but theories, and considering the magnitude and importance of the interests affected by this motion, I think the House should be slow
 251 post hoc ergo propter hoc, bonâ fide bonâ fide 252 253 254 255 256 l l 257 "Looking as we all do to our industry as the means of livelihood for ourselves and our children, can we consent that such a great object as the protection of domestic industry shall be identified with the success of a particular party rising as the party rises, and sinking to the grave when the party goes down. It is a public national question. A tariff, a sensible and moderate tariff should be inwrought into the politics of all parties, because although I desire the success of the Whig principles, I wish to take a bond and security for the protection of industry, more durable even than the permanence of Whig power. The tariff has accomplished much. I honor the men who passed it," 258 259 "'With modest doubt assign each likely cause, "'But dare to dictate no decisive laws.' coute qui coute. 260 "He did not think it right to give free admission to foreign sugar, without reference to the consideration whether or not it was the produce of slave labour. He stated this opinion in opposition; he stated it last year and he entertained it still. We ought to show to the world that we will not relax, for any pecuniary advantage to ourselves, those principles which we have hitherto maintained with regard to slavery." "I think it would abate our moral influence if, for the sake of a free-trade in sugar, we were lightly to abandon our former principles." 261 "The proposal of any new law or regulation of commerce which comes from this order ought always to be listened to with great precaution and ought never to be adopted till after having been long considered, not only with the most scrupulous but with the most suspicious attention. It comes from an order of men whose interest is never exactly the same with that of the public."  of "It comes from an order of men who have generally an interest to deceive, and even to oppress, the public, and who, accordingly, on many occasions have both deceived and oppressed them.
 Mr. Cobden;  If he entertained any doubt as to the propriety of adjourning the debate at that time of the night (a quarter to one o'clock) the inhuman noises which proceeded from hon. Members would dispel that doubt. The course which hon. Members had taken satisfied him as to the necessity of an adjournment. [ Cries of " Go on," "No adjournment.
 Mr. Cobden  said, that the noble Lord (Lord Sandon) had not very charitably said he was unable to answer the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. The fact was, that there was not an argument in the speech of the right hon. Baronet that he had not answered fifty times.
 Mr. Christopher  hoped the noble Lord would withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. R. Palmer  expressed his regret that he should have misunderstood what had fallen from the hon. Member for Wallingford. He was glad that he had afforded the hon. Member an opportunity
 249
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that the phrase was used by the judge, when the prisoner was cross-examining the witness. The right hon. Baronet's explanation was quite satisfactory.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  objected to the amendment being withdrawn
 Mr. T. Duncombe  urged the necessity of mutual concession. If such a course were not adopted, the result might be that on future occasions public business might be impeded. Hon. Members might well exclude the reporters, for they were ashamed of their own proceedings.
 Mr. M. Gibson  would submit to the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department, whether he would not answer the question of the hon. Member for Montrose. Was it not a tyrannical exercise of power to refuse to hear the minority at their own convenience. Public business was not so pressing as to require the debate to be terminated that night.
 Mr. M. Gibson  did not understand what the right hon. Gentleman meant by saying that the debate did not begin until ten o'clock. He (Mr. Gibson) thought it had gone on throughout the night without cessation. Many hon. Gentlemen on his side the House were desirous of explaining the vote which they should give, and he therefore thought the motion for adjourning the debate a very judicious one.
 Mr. M. Gibson  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Gisborne:  Yes.
 Mr. Gisborne  begged to ask whether the royal assent had been given to the bill passed by the Canadian legislature, and reserved by Sir C. Bagot for the consideration of the home Government?
 Mr. Aldam  said, much had been heard during the course of the debate of the distress of the farmers, and, he believed, without exaggeration—but this very distress was the effect of the Corn-laws, which, by maintaining the price of corn unnaturally high, had caused an excessive production. Under this prices were now depressed. A series of years had expired characterised by deficient harvests, high prices and commercial disaster. If they could judge from the experience of the last twenty years, they might now expect some years of abundance and low prices, in which the farmer must be a severe sufferer; but had the deficiency of past years been supplied from abroad, prices would have been moderate; the farmer would
not have extended his growth, and when years of abundance came, he would have benefitted by them, instead of feeling them as at present, a misfortune. Suppose that they should have the same recurrence of
 263 264 265 266 l. 267 268
 Mr. Blackstone  rose for the purpose of referring to a statement made to the House last evening by one of the hon. Members for the county of Berks. That hon. Member, in alluding to some observations which had fallen from him, had said, "The hon. Member for Wallingford had said that the farmers felt that they had been deserted by those to whom they had naturally been accustomed to look up whenever any measure was in progress calculated to injure their interests— namely, the resident nobility and gentry of the country, from whom they now met, in their hour of destitution, not only with no support, but with every kind of hostility. He considered the assertion of the hon. Member for Wallingford was a libel upon the nobility and gentry of the country."
 Mr. Ewart  was understood to ask whether our minister at Buenos Ayres had been instructed to use his exertions to put an end to the hostilities now being carried on between that state and Monte Video?
 Mr. Ewart,  who spoke amidst great confusion, said, there were many hon. Members representing large manufacturing towns, he referred particularly to the hon. Members for Stockport and Manchester, who were anxious to address the House upon the important question under its consideration. These were the very men whom the House ought to hear, as they represented the movement for total repeal. [ Continued cries of "Adjourn," "Divide," "Order."
 Mr. Ewart  moved, that the debate be now adjourned.
 Sir C. Napier  said, that the right hon. Baronet ought to hare spoken sooner.
 Mr. Ward  said, that it would be impos-
 313
 Mr. Ward  obtained a hearing after some further confusion, and said, it would be inconsistent with the character and dignity of the House not to dispose of the present question. He must be allowed to say, that if her Majesty's Government attempted in this way to stifle the voices of those who represented large towns, they could expect no other result from their conduct than this, that their measures would in turn be opposed and thwarted by those whom they thus sought to deprive of an opportunity of expressing the sentiments of their constituents. He would ask the hon. Member for Hull whether he
 305
 Sir J. Graham  begged to be allowed to address a few words to the House upon a matter personal to himself. It was most material that every statement made by a Member in that House, but more especially by a Minister of the Crown, should be strictly accurate. In the discussion which took place last night on the case of Jones, who was tried before Baron Gurney,
 246
 Sir J. Graham  left the House.
 Sir J. Hanmer  said, there was the greatest possible disposition to hear hon. Members. What practical result would be obtained from the divison? Four nights had already been wasted. As hon. Members persisted in moving the adjournment of the debate, he begged to move as an amendment that the House do now adjourn.
 Sir J. Hanmer  said, he had only one object in moving an adjournment of the House, namely, to protest, in the most forcible way, against the motion for adjourning the debate. Gentlemen around him were ready to remain there till daylight, in order to briing the debate to a close. If the hon. Gentleman opposite would withdraw his motion for adjourning the debate, he would be quite ready to withdraw his amendment.
 Sir J. Hanmer  said, that after the appeals that had been made to him, he should certainly not persist.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he should give his vote against the motion that this debate be adjourned, because he thought it had been sufficiently discussed. At the same time, he did not think it would be a satisfactory way of disposing of the question by a motion for the adjournment of the House, because it was important that the House should pronounce an opinion oh the main question, and that opinion would not be pronounced if an adjournment of the House was agreed to. The motion was of such importance that the country ought to know the sense of the House upon it. He (Sir R. Peel), hoped, therefore, that the hon. Baronet would not seek to dispose of the motion in a manner unsatisfactory to all parties— to those favourable, and to those adverse to repeal. If, therefore, the motion to adjourn the House was persisted in, he would vote against it.
 Sir R. Peel  disclaimed having delayed his speech for the purpose of preventing a reply. He would beg to be excused taking part in this renewed discussion on the adjournment.
 Sir R. Peel  hoped the debate would be brought to a close that night. The subject had been already fully discussed. The course which the House had adopted, of not beginning the debate until about ten o'clock, up to which time the House was comparatively empty, left so short a time for discussion, that if they were to continue such a course and persist in adjournments, the debate could not be brought to a close within any resonable period, while the public business would be greatly impeded, He hoped that the House would not consent to any further adjournment. [ Cheers and cries of " Divide."]
 Sir R. Peel:  The progress of this debate has confirmed the impression which I had before it commenced, that almost all the arguments which it was possible to adduce on each side of the House had been exhausted, and that it was not probable that any ingenuity on the part of any speaker could present either side of the question in a new point of view. I repeat, that what has passed in the course of this debate has confirmed that impression. In the course of this discussion, I have heard little that is new; I have heard little more than a repetition of former arguments. As for myself, having frequently been called upon to discuss this question— having had frequent opportunities of delivering my opinions upon it,
 284 285 286 287 Villiers: " 288 289 [Hear, hear.] [Interruption.'] 290 l l. l. l l 291 292 s. Howick: s s s s 293 294 s. 295 s. " The First Lord of the Treasury promised that you should have a remunerating price of from 54 s. s. s. 1" 296 s. s. s s s. s. s. " Nothing can be more difficult than to attempt to determine the amount of protection required for the home producer. I am almost afraid even to mention the term ' remunerating price,' because I know how vague must be the idea which is attached to it. The price requisite in order to remunerate the home-grower must necessarily vary; a thousand circumstances must be taken into account before you can determine whether a certain price will be a sufficient remuneration or not." " Now, if we take the average price of wheat which determines the commutation of tithes, the principle on which the Tithe Bill passed, taking the average of seven years, we find the price of wheat during those seven years to have been 56 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s s 297 s s. d. 298 299 s. s. s. s. "I venture to predict that if Parliament does not meet before November the Government will have to let out the bonded corn," bonâ fide 300 s. s. s. seriatim. 301 s. C. Villiers: " 302
 Sir R. Peel  said, the Government had not ordered any survey. The evidence was conclusive in favour of the line from Chester by Bangor to some port. Then the question arose which should be the port, and the commissioners decided in favour of Holyhead; and he thought they decided judiciously. The details of the arrangement were still under consideration.
 Sir R. Peel  said that nothing had been more unremitting and zealous than the exertions of the British minister to prevent what he must call the insane hostilities which had been entered upon. He could assure the hon. Member that our minister had pushed his intervention to the utmost limits short of committing the country which he represented as a party to the war. In all that he had done the British minister had acted in concert with, and received the cordial co-operation of, the minister of France. Before the hostile advance was made, the ministers of the two countries made the strongest remonstrances to the Buenos Ayres government against the proceeding. On the 19th of February a party of marines, both French and English, were landed from vessels in the river Plate, to defend a certain building, in which the property of the French and English merchants was placed. At present there were five ships in the river Plate, and he could assure the hon. Member our minister would continue his exertions to bring about a cessation of hostilities.
 Sir R. Peel  said that the hon. Member was as competent to form an opinion, as to the extent of the danger and excitement arising from the Cause to which he had referred, as he was, for he had access to the same channels of communication. With respect to dangerous associations which were likely to lead to an interruption of the public peace, the course taken by his right hon. Friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, last autumn, a course marked by extreme moderation, combined with great vigour and firmness, when necessary, is a proof that when he believes dangerous associations exist, he will not hesitate to call in the aid of the law for their suppression. Even when Government was certain that meetings were illegal, it must always exercise its discretion as to the propriety of interfering with them. He should be sorry to undertake that at all times the extreme power of the law, as respected illegal meetings, should be carried into effect, without reference to circumstances. With respect to the future course which hon. Gentlemen might pursue, to which the hon. Member's interrogatory applied, until he knew the precise character of those meetings, the circumstances under which they took place, and other matters, a full knowledge of which was essential to the formation of a sound judgment on this point, he must decline giving an answer to the question.
 Sir R. Peel  said, Government would lend its assistance to solve any doubts which might exist as to the port to be selected, but he would not commit himself to the expenditure of any of the public money.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he thought it was not. The only survey which could be necessary was a naval survey.
 Sir R. Peel:  I presume that the hon. Member alludes to the bill respecting American corn?
 Sir R. Peel:  The royal assent has not been given to that bill.
 Sir Walter James  said, that this was a question of great importance, although much might be said on both sides. There were certain maxims of free-trade, which were so clear and distinct as to carry conviction to all minds, and among them was that free-trade was only barter, and that we ought to sell in the dearest and buy in the cheapest market. It appeared to him that corn was the standard of all value, and that in legislating upon this subject, they must legislate not only with regard to landed property, but with reference to every species of property. The question of Corn-laws was described to be one, on which the fundholders were ranged on one side and the landed proprietors on the other. Protection had been given to the interests of both, but that in favour of the fundholder he believed predominated. He spoke as a person whose whole properly was vested in the public credit of the country, but being thus situated, he was prepared to throw himself into the same boat with the landowners, and was willing to share any sacrifices which they might be called upon to make. He could not blind himself to the state of the country; it presented many uncomfortable symptoms, but he did not attribute these misfortunes to any particular party. He was fully prepared to assist her Majesty's Government in any means which they might adopt to get rid of the existing difficulties, and he was confident that there were means by which this country might be restored to a condition of the greatest prosperity. He looked to emigration and to an extension of trade as affording in themselves the ingredients of such a restoration. He believed that it was essential that the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) should go on with those measures which he had commenced, so much to his credit, last year. Under all circumstances, the right hon. Baronet ought to proceed with the removal of commercial restrictions, and he believed that another most important effort for him to make would be to reduce the charge of the public debt, so far as was consistent with the public credit. He had no idea of voting in favour of the present motion, but he should qualify his vote by saying, that he was prepared to enter to the fullest extent into the causes of, with a view to remedy the existing distresses of the country.
 Lord Barrington  was convinced that such proceedings would lower the House in the estimation of the country.
 Viscount Dungannon  said, he would be sorry to see this question got rid of by a side-wind. He thought ample opportunity had been afforded to all hon. Gentlemen who were desirous of speaking on this question. The House had, on several important occasions, sat until six or seven o'clock in the morning before a division took place, and as he thought the course taken by hon. Gentlemen opposite was wholly uncalled for, he was determined to remain till eight o'clock in the morning, if necessary, in order to resist their proceedings.
 Viscount Dungannon  asserted that he had done nothing which was not entirely in accordance with the forms of the House. He should vote against the adjournment of the debate.
 Viscount Dungannon  protested against this course as most unjustifiable.
 Viscount Ebrington  said, that if the noble Lord was not out of order, neither were Members on that side of the House.
 Viscount Howick,  in explanation, assured the right hon, Baronet that nothing was farther from his intention than to cast any imputation on his motives. What he said was, that the right hon. Gentle-
 303
 Viscount Sandon  said, the hon. Member for Stockport had had every opportunity to answer his right hon. Friend, and that he had not done so was because he felt himself unable. He protested against this new doctrine, that the leaders of a party, by holding back their speeches, should be able to protract a debate indefinitely. He was disposed to show that they were not to be trifled with; and all they could do was to mark their sense of this conduct by persisting in their opposition to the motion of the adjournment.
 Viscount Sandon  rose and said, that when this discussion had commenced, he was convinced that the minority must succeed. He was content, for his own part, that they should carry their object, for he was sure such a result would have its due weight with the House, and the country. They had now gone far enough. He was content with their present position, and was willing that the opposition to the minority should no longer prevail, but in retiring he believed he carried with him the trophies of victory.
 Lord Clements :I wish to ask the right hon. Baronet under what head of measures for the amelioration of Ireland does the right hon. Gentleman class the Arms Bill.
 Colonel Wood  said, that if he did not sincerely believe the Corn-laws were calculated to promote the interest of the manufactures of this country as much as the interest of the agriculturists, he would not for a moment vote for their continuance. But if hon. Gentlemen opposite were advocates for free-trade, he presumed they were also advocates for free cultivation. Now, it was well known that a farmer could not put a sickle into his corn without paying a duty on the malt of which the beer of his labourers was brewed. Was that the case in Poland, Prussia, and America? The farmer was prohibited from growing tobacco. The year before that prohibition was passed, a nobleman directed his steward in Ireland to confine the growth of tobacco to one acre, and the produce of that acre yielded him 500 l. M. Gibson: 1. 360 "After duly weighing both sides of the question, he wished to state it to the House. The question lay between two evils: and although in the abstract he was friendly to a free trade, yet in this case, as it would not depend upon ourselves alone, he was inclined to favour a measure, the object of which was to render us independent of foreign assistance. He could bear witness, from his own personal experience, to the severe distresses of the labourers in husbandry, to whom the cheapness of corn (so much wished for by those who argued on the other side), was a disadvantage, because that very circumstance threw them out of work; he was informed that in the Bedford Level half the population were receiving parochial relief. Although the adoption of this bill might be partially disadvantageous, he was convinced it would be generally beneficial, and without it he thought that the farmer would be ruined and the labourer starved." "In a small village near Hull, where a number of labouring poor resided, he inquired what was the reason of their distress, now that the corn was at such reduced prices? ' Why, Sir, said some of the poor people, ' it is very true that corn can be purchased cheaper than at any former period; but then this is of no importance to us, for we can get no work, and, consequently, have not the means of buying it.' When he asked the cause of this, they said, ' the farmers have no money, and cannot pay us for our labour." 361 362 1st. That it is the opinion of this committee that it is expedient that the exportation of corn, grain, meal, malt and flour, from any part of the united kingdom should be permitted at all times without the payment of any duty and without receiving any bounty whatever; 2nd, that it is expedient that the several duties now payable in respect of all corn, grain, meal, and flour, imported into the United Kingdom should cease and determine; and that the several duties in the following schedule shall be paid in lieu thereof." s s s. s s " That it is the opinion of this committee, that it is expedient that all foreign corn, grain, meal, and flour, should at all times be imported and warehoused free of all duty until taken out for home consumption, and should at all times be exported free of all duty." 363 s. s. s. s. s. "If I were not fully convinced that the consumer in general, but more especially that class of consumers whose subsistence depends on their own industry, would be benefitted by the proposed alteration, it would not have had my support. My sole object is to prevent (as far as human means can prevent) bread-corn from ever again reaching the late extravagant prices. Can any man have witnessed the scarcities and consequent privations of the people during six or seven different seasons of the last twenty years, without feeling anxious to guard the country against the return of such severe distress? But if we wish to cure an evil of this alarming magnitude, we must first trace it to its source. What is that source? Obviously this, that until now we did not, even in good years, grow corn enough for our own consumption. Habitually depending on foreign supply, that supply was interrupted by war or by bad seasons abroad. The present war, it is true, is now at an end; but peace is, at all times, too precarious not to induce us to guard against the repetition of similar calamities whenever hostilities may be renewed. But, even in peace, the habitual dependence on foreign supply is dangerous. We place the subsistence of our own population not only at the mercy of foreign powers, but also on their being able to spare as much corn as we may want to buy. Suppose, as it frequently happens, the harvest in the same year to be a short one, not only in this country, but in the foreign countries from which we are fed— what follows? The habitually exporting country, France for instance, stops the export of its corn, and feeds its people without any great pressure. The habitually importing country, England, which, even in a good season, has hitherto depended on the aid of foreign corn, deprived of that aid, in a year of scarcity, is driven to distress bordering upon famine. There is, therefore, no effectual security, either in peace or war, against the frequent return of scarcity approaching to starvation, such as of late years we have so frequently experienced,
 364 365
 Mr. W. 0. Stanley  said, it would be necessary for him, in the first place, to say a few words with regard to the part he took on Saturday morning. He was sorry that a large portion of the House differed from him with regard to the propriety of adjourning the debate till this day, as several Members had not an opportunity of expressing their opinions and feelings on a question of such great and mighty importance as the Corn-laws. He felt the question had not, during the four nights it was before the House, been fully debated, and he was surprised that so few of those connected with the great agricultural interests of Great Britain had expressed their opinions upon it. He was himself one of those who thought that agriculture was entitled to protection, and that peculiar burthens were imposed upon the land, but he thought that a fixed duty was preferable to a sliding-scale. It was evident that Gentlemen on the other side were not convinced that the right hon. Baronet did not contemplate a further change in the Corn-laws, should expediency require it. They looked upon the proceedings of the right hon. Baronet with suspicion. With respect to the Corn-laws themselves, he was bound to say, that representing an agricultural county, the prosperity of which depended upon agricultural produce, he believed that the present low prices—which were lower than at any other period since the year 1822—were owing not merely to the Corn-laws, but to the distressed condition of the operatives, who were not able to purchase food, from the restrictions which shackled the commerce of the country. So long as the Corn-laws were allowed to remain in their present state, there could be little hope of the revival of trade. He feared that as long as the sliding-scale continued in operation they would be obliged to purchase whatever food they might require from abroad by exporting bullion instead of paying for it in manufactures. He was not in the habit of trespassing upon the House, but he felt it important to explain his sentiments on this important question, because, although
 334
 Captain Layard  said, that the last time this measure had been brought forward by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, he had not given it his support, neither had he voted against it, believing, as he then did, that a fixed duty would be more beneficial to the country; and that by a small fixed duty the revenue might be improved, trade and manufacture benefited, and some protection given to the agriculturist interest. Another reason he had for not then voting in favour of this measure was, that he believed the alteration in the Corn-law brought forward by the right hon. Baronet would give great dissatisfaction to the agricultural interest, and would prove to that body the uncertain support which Government was likely to afford; and that such being the case, it would oblige the right hon. Baronet to bring forward a small fixed duty; and by this compromise to allay the feverish anxiety which now pervaded the country. In the first part of that supposition he believed he had been correct. If any hon. Gentleman denied that to be the fact, and denied that the farmers were greatly discontented; if they were not convinced by the meetings that had taken place throughout the country, he felt that the speech made by the
 344 345 "See yonder poor o'erlaboured wight So abject, mean, and vile, Who begs his brother of the earth, To give him leave to toil; And see his lordly brother worm, The poor petition scorn; Unmindful, though a weeping wife, And helpless children mourn." 346
 Colonel Sibthorp  spoke amidst cries of " Divide." He was understood to say that he had no wish to waste the time of the House, but he had a few words to say in reply to the hon. Member who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the prices paid for land in the county of Lincoln, and he saw by a local paper that the hon. Member threatened to pay a visit to the city which he had the honour to represent. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that he had better make himself much better acquainted with facts before he presumed to go before the intelligent people he would meet there. He had the good fortune to possess property in five different counties, and he could assure the
 402 l. [Cries of " Divide."]
 Mr. Villiers  in reply, stated, that he was glad that he had brought on the discussion and that it had lasted so long. The question was exciting an increasing interest in the public, and an increasing portion of the community was looking to that House, to see what defence could be offered for the Corn-law. The Gentlemen opposite were assailed in very strong terms—and their own organs reproached them with not annihilating their opponents. The world was anxious to see the mode in which this
 405 * 406 407
 Mr. E. Buller  said, though he intended to support the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, he was not of opinion that the time was come when it would be safe or expedient to remove all duty on the importation of grain. Still less, however, could he vote with hon. Gentlemen opposite, if, by so doing, he was to be supposed to express approbation of the existing law. Hon. Gentlemen opposite said, that the principles of free trade were sound and true, but that those sound and true principles were not applicable to a country so burthened with debt as our own; but how could it be argued that a course would be impolitic for a country to pursue when out of debt, and yet that the country would grow rich by pursuing that course when in debt? The way to grow rich, is the way to pay debts. An enormous debt required a large revenue, and that revenue must be derived from various sources. There was no source from which revenue could be derived in a less oppressive manner than from the customs, if levied upon a reasonable, regular, and fair principle. But the present law at one time prohibits importation, at another sacrifices revenue. Much had been said
 347 reduclio ad absurdum, s. 348 annus mirabilis. s. s. s. s. d. 349 "Nec conjugis unquam, "Prætendi tædas aut hæc in fœdera veni." "—Ipse Deum manifesto in lumine vidi Intrantem muros, vocemque his auribus hausi." "Desine, meque tuis mcendere: teque querelis: Italiam non sponte sequor." 350 "My affections—my attachments are with you; but—cease your complainings —hard fate and necessity compel me to change!"
 Mr. Strutt  must say, in reply to the hon. Baronet, the Member for Shoreham (Sir C. Burrell), that the silk trade was not actuated by selfish or exclusive motives in their opposition to the Corn-laws. He had the honour to represent the town where the silk manufacture was first introduced, a century ago; and though, for several years, he had presented petitions from his constituents for the abolition of these laws, not one of them, he believed, failed to pray that the same measure might be dealt out to the manufacturers as to the corn-growers, all they asked being fair play. He had been the more anxious to state the grounds on which he supported the motion, because the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had made a powerful and earnest appeal to the House not to give their assent to so precipitate and sweeping fa motion, which must lead to the total abolition of the Corn-laws, and compared the conduct of the House, if they should do so, to the conduct of the French National Assembly on the 4th of August,
 369 370 371 372
 Mr. Muntz  said, the hon. Baronet (Sir H. Douglas) was right. We did want confidence and stability, but the hon* Gentleman had not condescended to tell where that confidence and stability were to come from. Was it from a starving population Was it from an unprofitable trade and a sinking revenue? He could
 379 380 381 382 seriatim, 1. l 383 384 l. l. l. 385 386
 Dr. Bowring  said, he could not but think that the friends of free-trade had great reason for congratulating themselves on the progress of that debate. When the right hon. Gentleman, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, was put forward as the representative of the Government, and to give a character to the discussion, he (Dr. Bowring) certainly did expect from the right hon. Gentleman — from his great intelligence, and from his high position—the House would have been enabled to discern the course meant to be taken with respect to this question. But the views of the Government, however clear in principle, were clouded in practice. What they had a right to calculate on from the right hon. Gentleman, was the production of some reason why one—the most important of all important articles—was to be excluded from the application of that great principle which the House had often heard from the lips of the right hon. Baronet opposite—the principle that individuals as well as nations had a right to buy in the cheapest markets, and to sell in the dearest. It did appear to him perfectly clear, that with regard to the article of corn, which was the subsistence of the multitude, that this, if anything, was above all entitled to the application of that
 335 "Do not carry out the principle of free-trade, for you do not know the consequences it may lead to." 336 " If I were the Conservative party of England, I would not for 100,000 l. 337 338
 Mr. Childers  said, that in the present state of the country he did not think the Corn-laws could be with safety repealed. At the same time, he thought that when the laws were repealed the measure would very much disappoint the expectations both of its opponents and its supporters. Prices would not be altered by a system of free-trade to anything like the extent that some people supposed: foreign corn would assimilate itself in price to English corn, rather than English to foreign. In this opinion he was strengthened by the manner in which he saw the prices of corn in Jersey follow the prices in London; and yet in Jersey there existed a perfect free-trade in corn. At the same time, he must maintain that the sliding-scale had completely failed in its object, and could not long be maintained. The measure of last year might struggle through this Session, but it could not exist much longer.
 Mr. P. Scrope  trusted the House would
 354 355 l l 356 357 l l 358 E. Knatchbull
 Mr. P. Scrope : It was said that the landowners had mortgaged their estates, and had executed a variety of family settlements. Now what was the value of that argument, unless it was considered that it was not the interest of the landowners to repeal the Corn-law— that they had a deep pecuniary interest in maintaining that law, and that they could not pay the charges effected by their family settlements, unless the law was maintained? The people out of doors would believe that the law was maintained for that purpose. That was a most dangerous feeling to exist. It was a feeling which might not have existed a year ago; but he believed that public opinion had now denounced the law so strongly that it was most dangerous to the peace of the country to allow such an argument any longer to be put forth. These were not new opinions taken up by him, in consequence of the strong feeling
 359
 Mr. Cobden   said: I think we may fairly consider the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham as an episode in this debate. I was going to remark that by hon. Gentlemen opposite, and by many upon this side of the House, although we have had five nights' debate, the question proposed by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton has been scarcely touched, that is, how far you are justified in maintaining a law, which restricts the supply of food to the people of this country. In supporting the present Corn-law, you support a law which inflicts scarcity on the people. You do that, or you do nothing. You cannot operate in any way by this law, but by inflicting scarcity on the people. Entertain that proposition, and you cannot escape it, and if it is true, how many of you will dare to vote for the continuance of the present law? You cannot enhance the price of corn, or any other article, but by restricting the supply. Are you justified in doing this, for the purpose of raising your prices? Without attributing motives to hon. Gentlemen opposite, I tell them, and they may rely upon it as being true, that they are in a false position when they have to deprecate the imputation of motives. We never hear of a just judge on the bench fearing the imputation of motives. But I will not impute motives, although they have been imputed by hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite. Dowries, settlements, mortgages have all been avowed as motives from the benches opposite; but I will take things as I find them. Upon what ground do you raise the price of corn? For the benefit of the agricultural interest? You have not, in the whole course of the debate, touched upon the farmers' or agricultural labourers' interest in this question? No; hon. Gentlemen opposite, who represent counties, instead of taking up the old theme and showing the benefit of this law to farmers and to farmers' labourers, have been smitten with a new light. They have taken the statistics of commerce and the cotton trade to argue from. Will the hon. Member for Shoreham, who took the statistics which the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), four years ago, cast aside, tell the House how it is you do not take the agricultural view of the question, and show the farmers' interest in it? There is something ominous in your course.
 387 [Cries of" No."] No, no."] No, no."] d. 388 No, no."'] Wyndham; s s. s 389 s. s No, no."] s s. s. s. s. s. s. 390 s. 391 392 Oh, oh [Laughter.] 393 [Hear.'] hear Sibthorp.—" 394 [Cries of par excellence.  395 [Cries of " Question."] s [No.] Sibthorp: Sibthorp: 396 vice versa. It is not true."] "I have been in Yorkshire, and the worst land there produces as much as the best in this country." " You must no longer sit before your doors with your pipes in your mouths, and drinking your ale, but you must at once bestir yourselves." 397 "In Scotland they have double our crops, and that this might be secured in this country by improved husbandry." 398 l. 399 l. l. l 400 401
 Mr. M. Gibson  would not occupy the time of the House for more than a few moments. His object in rising was to express the earnest wish of his constituents at Manchester, the metropolis of the manufacturing district, that Parliament would agree to abolish the system of protection, both as regarded manufactures and agriculture. He could make every allowance for the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government declining to carry into practice the free-trade principles which he had professed. If he wanted any excuse for the right hon. Baronet he should find it in what had occurred that night. Who could blame the right hon. Baronet for not carrying out free-trade principles when the great commercial town of Liverpool returned to that House a representative professing such anti-commercial sentiments as the hon. and gallant General (Sir H. Douglas)? Those sentiments struck at the very root of industry. He, however, could tell the hon. and gallant Member, that a feeling in
 403 Times Times 404 [Cries of " Divide."]
 Mr. Redington  said, that he had taken the passage with reference to the "just causes of complaint," from the answer to the address as read by the Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords.
 Mr. Redington  seeing the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government in his place, wished to ask him two questions. On Tuesday last, in reply to a question put to him by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn Regis, the right hon. Gentleman repeated to the House a declaration of the ruling Sovereign, in the year 1834, with
 331 " This bond of our national strength and safety I have already declared my fixed and unalterable resolution, under the blessing of Divine Providence, to maintain, inviolate, by all the means in my power." " I shall at all times be anxious to afford my best assistance in removing all just causes of complaint, and in sanctioning all well considered measures of improvement."
 Mr. Thornely  said, he wished to make a few observations as to the influence of the present Corn-laws upon our commercial intercourse with foreign countries. He believed that if the subject were carefully investigated, it would be found, that the hostile tariffs of foreign nations had been adopted mainly in consequence of the Corn-laws and other commercial restrictions established by Great Britain. Reference had been made to the tariff adopted last year by the legislature of the United States of America, which had produced a most extensive and injurious effect upon our exports, and it had been stated that large imports of bullion were now taking place from this country to the United States. He had last autumn visited the United States, and he arrived in that country just at the period when the Congress had adopted the high tariff to which he had alluded. On several occasions he informed Americans that we had reduced the duty upon numerous articles of their export, but their invariable answer was, " That may be the case; but look at your Corn-laws." In the month of October last he visited Washington, and paid his respect to the President of the United States, and he took the opportunity of presenting to that Gentleman a statement of the reduction effected by our new tariff in the duties on the importation of many articles of American produce, and expressed a hope that this reduction would tend to increase the commercial intercourse between the two countries. Mr. Tyler replied—
 "I value this document, but I do not see how we can trade largely with your country, while your present Corn-law exists." ad valorem. 366 l. l. "The movement on your side, in relation to lower duties, is too late; besides, our people know from the discussions on the subject that an admission of corn, timber, SEC., at more favourable rates, is a policy forced upon you by
 367 "Now is the time for England to act; the longer the delay the greater the difficulties to contend with; and bear in mind the future greatness of a country that must, if undisturbed by civil wars, continue to double her population every twenty-four years, for at least three-fourths of a century, and probably longer, and having wealth so great and so equally distributed, as to render a commerce with us twice as much per head as a nation like France and Germany, and five times as much per head as with an equal number of Spaniards, Portuguese, or Russians." 368
 Mr. Ewart  said, he could not but regret that this question had been treated as a question between two classes; not, like what it was, as a great national question. It was not a question if the privileges, however long existing, of the landed interest were to be maintained because of the burthens or condition of that class; but whether by the change proposed, the whole nation would be benefited. This was the view taken out of the House, whatever might be the view taken within its walls. In fact, it was without the House, not within, that the question was really debated; and it was without the House that the question could be virtually, however, it might not be nominally, settled. He complained of the mode in which the question had been treated; he complained of the errors in fact, and in argument on the other side. They were, he repeated, misstatements of facts, and fallacies in argument. Mis-statements of fact, because, in the first place, it was averred, and that too by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) that the advocates of free-trade aimed at " wild prospects of universal good." On the contrary (said Mr. Ewart) they aimed at a steady and firm system of commerce. It was no visionary object, but solid, practical, steady trade. This could only be obtained by a final settlement of the question before them. Then came misstatement the second. This, too, from the right hon. Gentleman. They were told that the
 339 340 341 342 " In painted pomp the gilded vessel goes, Uncertain of the whirlwind's sweepy sway"— "Give me the erect, the firm, the manly foe; Calm I may meet, perhaps avert the blow; But, of all curses angry Heaven can send, Save, save, O save me, from the candid friend!" 343
 Sir C. Burrell  said, nobody could regret having heard the speech of the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Buller), whose clever speech must have sufficiently shown the incorrectness of the idea that country gentlemen were ill-educated and ill-informed persons. Nothing could be more pleasing than the hon. Member's classical allusions, but his arguments had not been so convincing as his quotations had been happy. The land-tax, which had been called a composition for the old feudal services, had not been imposed till the reign of William 3rd, while the feudal burthens had been finally abolished in the time of Charles 2nd. So long as the national debt remained, we could not have free-trade. He believed, that if they took from agriculture its fair protection, they would injure the home trade to a degree they could hardly conceive; and on that ground he should certainly vote against the motion. The hon. Member who pre-ceded him had drawn also wrong conclusions as to the amount of the land-tax being greater in France than in England, forgetting, or perhaps, as an Irish Member, not being aware, from Ireland being free from land-tax, that it was a very heavy and productive tax, wholly resting on land in England, but which, by the sacrifice of much capital for its redemption, had been much reduced in annual amount, the redemption money having been applied to the purposes of the nation. And it was not to be forgotten that the Ministry of that day, to induce redemption of the land-tax to a certain amount, gave to the parties the right of voting for Members of Parliament, the same as it possessed of land or tenements,—a right guaranteed by Parliament, but which, without regard to such enactments, the Reform Act had swept away. Casting aside the obloquy which, with much illiberality and injustice, some persons had tried to attach to the landowners, endeavouring to make it appear that the land occupiers had wholly separate interests
 351 * 352
 Sir E. Knatchbull  interposed, and was understood to say that his argument was, that the repeal of the Corn-law would work considerable injury to persons having made engagements for marriage settlements and other pecuniary obligations, on their faith in the continuance of the present law.
 Sir Howard Douglas,  Sir, it was not my intention to trouble the House on this occasion, but the hon. Member for Dumfries has put a question to me, which it is not my intention to evade. Previously, however, to answering that question, I beg the permission of the House to make a few observations. I shall not take up the time of the House by going into the intricate questions, which, more or less govern the relations between the price of labour and the price of food, the effects of depression in the value of farm produce, on rent, agricultural improvement, and home production. I shall only assert, what no one can dispute, that a total repeal of the Corn-laws would displace, to an unlimited extent, British grown corn in the home market. This, the free-traders must admit, for if repeal did not act thus, it would not, as according to their theory, induce, or as they assert, compel, foreign governments to displace the productions of their manufacturing industry in their own markets, by admitting freely the productions of British manufacturing industry, in exchange for their surplus agricultural productions. If the total repeal, is not to displace British grown corn, by foreign grown corn, in the home market, what becomes of the theory of contemporaneous and coextensive exchange, even if this should be reciprocated by foreigners; and if this displacement be effected, whether reciprocated or unreciprocated, what is to become of British agriculture? I have, on former occasions, asserted, and no one will now attempt to dispute this, that foreign nations will not receive, freely, British manufactures, in exchange for their surplus agricultural produce, even if we were to receive it free, as the repeal proposes. Under these circumstances, the repeal of the Corn-laws, would doubly defraud British labour; it would displace the productions of British labour, in the home market, by the absence of protection; and it would exclude British productions from foreign markets, by the existence of protection there. There are not two sorts of free-trade. There cannot be a perfectly free foreign trade, and, at the same time, a protected home and colonial trade. We must make our election which to prefer. We cannot deprive the home producer of food, of the benefit of protection, by the repeal of the Corn-laws, to reduce the price
 373 374 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 375 l. l. l. l. l. l. 376 377 " It cannot be too often repeated, that no system of legislation can be wise which is fluctuating and uncertain. Fitful profits, however high, if threatened with a ruinous reduction by a vacillating policy on the part of Government, will scarcely tempt the capitalist to trust the money which he has acquired by a life of labour upon the uncertain adventure." 378 "And what had the people been doing? They, too, had been digging under the basis of the mountain mass of monopoly. There were many magnificent sights in nature—the heaving of the sea, the rise of the sun—but in his view, nothing was so great, nothing so noble, nothing so exalting, as the heaving of the popular mind; and here he witnessed one of its noblest efforts."
 Sir Robert Peel:  The words which I
 332 " It is with the greatest satisfaction that I have received this solemn and united expression of the determination of both Houses of Parliament, to maintain, inviolate, the Legislative union between Great Britain and Ireland." " I shall, at all times, be most anxious to afford my best assistance in removing all just causes of complaint, and in sanctioning all well considered measures of improvement."
 Sir R. Peel:  Sir, I consider that measure calculated to preserve the personal safety of those who reside in Ireland, and to prevent the commission of such terrible crimes as have taken place within the last
 333
 Sir R. Peel:  The declaration which I made upon Tuesday last, was in reference to an express question put to me by the noble Lord behind me. The hon. Gentleman asks me whether I am authorised to make a corresponding declaration to that made by the late King, with reference to the particular matter to which the hon. Gentleman has called the attention of the House. I presume upon the accuracy of the hon. Gentleman as to the words which 1 quoted, being from the answer returned by King William to the joint address, I thought that these words formed a passage, which by my advice had been inserted in the speech from the Throne in 1835.
 Mr. Gladstone : The hon. Gentleman had correctly stated the provisions of the law as it at present stood. No Canadian wheat could be imported into this country at present without a certificate that it was the produce of the colony; and all he had to say, in answer to the hon. Gentleman was, that it was not intended to make any alteration in the law in that respect; therefore wheat imported into Canada could not be entered into this country. With respect to the second question, he had merely to observe, that the resolutions of which notice had been given, referred only to the case of Canada; and the bill to be founded upon them must therefore be confined to Canada.
 Mr. Gladstone  replied, it was not intended to make any change in the law with respect to the certificates of produce.
 Mr. Lockart  said, that in the county which he represented (Lanarkshire) there was a general impression, that if the noble Lord, the Member for Dorsetshire (Lord Ashley) had been aware of the manner in which his measure of last Session would have operated, he would have adopted some such course as that now proposed by the hon. Member for Elginshire. In order to show the feeling which prevailed in the county of Lanark he might state, that a meeting held on the 1st of May attention was called to the late act, excluding females from working in collieries, and it was resolved, that in the opinion of the meeting, it was most inexpedient that females above the age of twenty, who had hitherto been employed in mines, should be excluded therefrom, and thereby thrown out of employment; and the meeting agreed to request the representatives of the county to support in Parliament some modifications of the law. The Presbytery of the same county, also, had on the 5th of April adopted a resolution to the same effect. He had himself made careful inquiries on this subject, and he was surprised at the respectable appearance of many of the persons who were employed in collieries. He found many of them intelligent and well-educated, and they all declared themselves anxious to remain in their employment.
 478
 Lord J. Russell  did not rise to address himself to any of the professional arguments, but he thought it might not be ill-timed to consider whether in such cases as these the House of Commons ought to agree to prescribe any course of action to the Crown? When he held office, he had frequently found that officers of the navy, army, and marines made propositions to the House, which, being supported by much professional knowledge, found favour with Members, and in more than one instance were adopted in opposition to the wishes of the Government. It was clear to him, that such occurrences as these could not but be prejudicial to the public service. The House, by pursuing such a course, was putting itself in the position of the Executive, was taking on itself to advise the Crown, and was very frequently causing great inconvenience to the Government of the day. It was in consequence of his experience of such inconvenience that the commission was appointed, to whose report the right hon. Gentleman had referred. The Duke of Wellington, with that public spirit which, without re-
 488 l
 Captain Berkeley  was obliged to the hon. and gallant Member who had brought forward this motion, and thought he had done good service to his profession. After what had passed, however, he could not
 489
 Captain Plumridge  said, with reference to the expense complained of, that officers of twenty years' standing on the list of service received a mere pittance of 10 s. d.
 Mr. Sidney Herbert  vindicated the conduct of the noble Lord who so efficiently performed his duties at the head of the Admiralty, and denied that appointments were guided by political considerations. As to the charge of employment not being given to naval men and sailors, he begged to call attention to the number of employments connected with the navy and the public establishments, such as masons, shipwrights, armourers, shoe makers, labourers, &c, which could not be filled by sailors. The appointments in China and the other cases referred to, had been made without reference to political considerations. With respect to the noble Lord the First Lord of the Admiralty he should quote a very good authority, namely, that of the hon. and gallant Officer (Sir C. Napier) himself, who, when he made a motion for placing a naval instead of a civil officer at the head of the Board, said—
 "Least of all could his motion be construed into an expression of disrespect to the noble Lord at the head of the Board, for the right
 490
 Lord Ashley  said, so general and vigorous an attack had been made upon the act which he had originated, that the House would see the necessity of his occupying some little of their time in defending it, and he trusted for their indulgence while he enumerated the many beneficial effects which had resulted from it already, and pointed out what other results might be expected from it if it was allowed fairly to run its course. He did not think any case had been made out for the interference of the House with the act. Why was Scotland to enjoy an exemption which was not to be extended to England or to Wales? He had received complaints from many parts of the country, saying that Scotland was to enjoy an advantage which was denied to them. Surely the law which was good for regulating the mines in England was equally good for Scotland. They had heard a great deal of the hardships which the females had suffered by being thrown out of employment; but was nothing to be said in favour of the males who had been excluded from labour by the employment of the females. Let the people of Scotland observe the enactments of the law as well as was done in England, and then as good results would follow in the one country as in the other. In order to show what had been done in England he would read an extract of a letter from Dewsbury:—
 "The young girls have all been drawn out of the pits, and their places supplied by men and boys. [learn that in the neighbourhood of Barnsley and Silkstone, where you saw so many miserable scenes, it has done a great deal to bring about a more beneficial state of things. In some instances the poor weavers, who had nothing else to do, have gone to work instead of the girls." " I have just witnessed the emancipation of about thirty young girls and boys from the pits, and they seemed highly delighted, especially the girls, who expressed themselves, This is one of the best acts that ever were
 458 " The parents are taking the children out quite willingly, and say they have been long grieved to see their daughters made the slaves of a few over-grown unfeeling men. Boys at ten years of age are to take the place of the girls." " I find that the working of the Colliery Act is producing all the good you contemplated. I fell in with four girls, who have been taken into families as domestic servants, and the mistresses say they find them quite willing to learn, and regret that such clever females should have been so debased by so disgraceful an employment. I find also that the places in the pits occupied by the girls are filled up by men who are out of work." " I find it impossible to detail a tithe of the good resulting from the Colliery Act. One female, the wife of a collier, and mother of two girls who worked in pits, told me that she knew not how to give expression to her joy. The husband formerly spent the earnings of the two girls in intoxicating drink, about 9s. a-week, and while in a state of drunkenness he frequently beat her most unmercifully; but being thrown on his own earnings he was led to reflection, and the consequence is that he has become sober in his habits, and also a churchgoer,—a place he never before frequented. A lady has taken one of the girls and sent her to school, where she is to remain for two years. The home, which was formerly like a hell, is now a paradise. This is not a solitary instance; there are many. The girls are going into service, and becoming useful members of society." " It gives me great pleasure to congratulate you on the improved condition of the poor children already emancipated from the trammels of slavery, ignorance, and disease, many of whom are now placed at the charity schools, receiving an education suitable to their humble circumstances, which in after-life will fit them for situations more congenial to their feelings, and more useful to society. Although females taken from the mines may find some difficulty in obtaining suitable employment, in consequence of their ignorance of household affairs,
 459 " Worsley, February, 1843.—Of any practical operation in the particular objects of the measure, it is, of course, too early too speak. When a barbarising and demoralising system has been pursued almost from infancy, we cannot expect perceptible effects in an instant, from the mere abrogation of that system. In some respects your measure has had and will have to contend with greater difficulties in this district than in others. Female labour in our pits was a moral evil of the first magnitude. Its physical evils were not in my opinion felt here as they must have been felt in Scotland and elsewhere. Of course at this period of general depression and distress, parents are disposed to count the cost of any measure which cuts off for the moment an addition to their scanty means. In spite of these circumstances, I have met with no parents who did not at once admit that the occupation was unfit for wenches, as they call them here, and I do believe that most of them are glad to have the temptation romoved of subjecting their female offspring to degradation, however lucrative. With regard to the young females themselves, I could wish you no better reward for your labours than to see something of their deportment in the school which Lady F. has
 460 " With some rare exceptions,  few of " The colliers are in many places a most barbarous and degraded class; and the employment of females in mines has done more to destroy the colliers, physically, morally, and intellectually, than any other thing that I know of." " In the parish of the women and children used to be wrought in a shameful manner, as I have witnessed. I was an assistant in that parish.'" " I can bear personal testimony to the horrible effects of the system." " That the women worked up to their knees in water; always did the hardest work, and were treated hardly as human." 461 "Tell Queen Victoria," said she, " That the poor coal-women will feel grateful to her if she will take them from the coal-pits, and give them a better sort of work." " Selfish and most mercenary plans of certain coal-masters and iron-masters to overthrow that most benevolent act." (Again)—" A disgraceful movement." (Again),—" These lamentations for the destitute females are crocodile's tears." " Slavery, oppression, love of gold." " The opposition to Lord Ashley's measure might not appear to much advantage if clothed in the garb of pounds, shillings, and pence; and accordingly we find its opponents lamenting the injustice that will be done to poor females, their want and destitution, and so on. Of course, we are all aware that no great change like that contemplated by Lord Ashley's act can take place without causing some inconvenience." " From the knowledge I have of the coal-masters," said a correspondent, " I cannot but say, that such attempts proceed, not from any desire to promote the welfare and comfort of the female miners, but with the view of advancing their own interests and pecuniary gains." " You will at once see by the despicable and unmanly correspondence, that the movement was not by the poor females; they were dragooned by their masters, and this I know for a fact—I heard the females of an extensive colliery heartily bless you in very affectionate
 462 " They (the getters up of petitions) waited on the clergy of several parishes where mines abounded, and terrified them by the threat of sending over all and sundry persons discharged under your Lordship's act to their several parishes, a burthen on the scanty means they possess to distribute to the needy. Many of our clergy, who at first rejoiced in the emancipation of the females, have now been dragooned to espouse the cause of the unfeeling mine-masters." " It is a bill," says one, " infringing on the freedom of the subject. My present feeling is, that those who employ females underground should cause those females to petition Parliament in separate bodies." " My own opinion," says another, " is that each work which employs females under ground should get those females to petition both Houses of Parliament." " I fear," says one coal-owner, " that the heritors in parishes petitioning Parliament would rather be injurious, as their petitioning would evidently be for the purpose of saving themselves, as many of the females
 463 " I have received a letter from the coal-manager of my land; and from his letter, and all that I can learn, the colliers in Clackmannan and Fife are in a state of mutiny, and I understand they all belong to the colliers' union. If such is the case, you may rest satisfied they will not allow the females working in pits to sign any petition by (by what did the House suppose—persuasion?) No; by intimidation." " Those whom lace and velvet bless With all the soft solicitudes of dress." 464 465 " Female labour in these horribly dangerous places is attended with greater evils than I had formed any conception of; hardships which, above-ground, would not be imposed by the hardest masters, but under-ground females are submitted to labour which would be considered barbarous by any nation under the sun." " The hurrying is done by females on all-fours, harnessed like animals; their limbs bear tokens of their barbarous employment, from the cuts of the ragged rocks and tramways through which they thrust their heavy burthens." " The colliers of the Carron Company's pits complained to me of the threats which had been resorted to as an inducement to make the colliers sign a petition." " It lay at the office of the butty; the employment of females being offensive to them, as husbands and fathers, and moreover a cause of loss, as their wages are thereby diminished." " There," said the writer, " the abominable custom of coal-bearing by females is still continued." " Descending a pit a few weeks since, in the neighbourhood of Tranent, I never was more shocked at the degradation of a human being, while the toil and suffering which this labour inflicts are unequalled. Dragging like
 466 " Are subject to the severest bruises and cuts while harnessed to their heavy pads, which they pull to exhaustion over the tramways, sometimes many inches deep in water." " A woman told me the other day that often when in harness her shoulders were so lacerated that the blood oozed through her garments at the sides of the leathern belt." " I am happy in being able to assure you there is but one opinion among the disinterested of Scotland—that the enactment of last Session for prohibiting the employment of women and children in the coal-pits is the greatest possible boon to this portion of the community." 467
 Mr. Gumming Bruce  said it had been his anxious wish to have called the attention of the House to the subject of the petitions for the collieries in Scotland before the recess. He had given notice of this intention so far back as February last, and had renewed that notice at least a dozen times before Easter without success. At one time adjourned debates came in the way—at another the neglect by the Lords of her Majesty's Treasury in the discharge of their peculiar function of "making a House," was fatal to him—at another, the mysterious attraction by which, between the witching hours of seven and eight, ton. Members were apt to be drawn away from the House, so as not to leave a sufficeint number to keep Mr. Speaker in the Chair,—all these various causes, and no want of exertion on his part, as the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire would bear him witness, had forced him to submit to the delay. He rejoiced, that at length—thanks to the activity and superior skill of his hon. Friend the Member for Lanarkshire—he had obtained the opportunity of submitting the grievances of these poor petitioners to the House; He was
 430 The Times, The Chronicle, lucus a non lucendo, The Herald par excellence en comite de salut publique,'' " That at next meeting he would bring under the attention of the Presbytery the proposal in Parliament to interfere with the provisions of Lord Ashley's bill, in so far as respected the employment of females under ground; if such were persevered in in Parliament, he would bring the matter under the notice of the Presbytery." 431 " tantœnc animis cœlestibus irœ 432 433 434 "That though many were still living on their own resources, those resources must soon be exhausted, and the number of claimants on the funds raised by voluntary charity, be greatly increased." 435 " Helen Weir—began to work when nine years old; wrought three years at a factory, and four years in the Elgin colliery. I left the factory work as the stour (dust in a state of motion) mademehoarse, and my legs swelled with the long standing—sister who works with me below tried the factory after me, and left it for the same reason. We have taken to the pit as the hours are not so long nor confining
 436 s 4 d d " I always thought the prohibition of female labour in mines a hasty measure, and that regulations would be more efficient for the benefit of the poor themselves. Your paper confirms this belief; still it is of great importance to find the Legislature acknowledging the principle of acting for the protection of the lives and health of the community, as well as for the protection of property and wealth." " I have no objection to your making any use you please of the opinion I gave you on the employment of females in mines, provided only you give the whole sentence, in which I say something of the importance of the Legislature recognising the health and comfort of the people as a fit object of its care. It is not easy to get persons who do not know the practical condition of the poor to understand, that the greatest of their evils is poverty, and want of employment the worst form of poverty." 437 "The meeting examined several of the work-people, both men and women, and were satisfied that none of the abuses had prevailed which had given occasion to the passing of the act. Two of the females who appeared before it had been employed as domestic servants before they went to work in the pits, but said they much preferred the latter as not such hard work, and all of them considered it easier than field labour, and more healthy as being less exposed to the vicissitudes and inclemencies of the weather. This statement as to the healthiness of the employment was confirmed by others not immediately connected with the works, among others by the parish minister, who also gave the strongest testimony in favor of the state of morals among them." "Thus the drawing, though occasionally hard work, admits of frequent periods of rest and refreshment. I heard of no complaints from the children of over-fatigue, or of being oppressed by the workmen for whom they draw, who are usually the father, elder brother, or nearest relation, nor do medical men attribute any physical injury to drawing." 438 439 "The sub-commissioner, Mr. Franks, reports pretty accurately the evidence he received from the young persons with whom he came in contact; they were seven in number, of whom only one was a person of any experience. He did not go down our pits, nor see any of the females actually at their employments. He only remained a short time at the pit-head, and saw a few females ascending and descending the shaft; and I have been informed by the managers of Wellwood, Town-hill, Halbeath, Fordell, and Donnibristle collieries, that he did not descend any of their pits, nor see the women at their employment; and to the want of personal inspection I am led to conclude that several inaccuracies have occurred in the general report with regard to the height of the roads, &c. that the females are employed in, and their positions when at work. The height of the road is frequently stated at the height of the seam, but though it may be very thin, the roads for conveying the coal are always made high for the convenience of the Putters." " Mr. Franks, who visited our collieries, appears to have had little to find fault with, though there are many inaccuracies in his report. He did not go down our pits, nor see the people at their work; but got all his information by making enquiries above ground." 440 " The workings in the narrow seams are sometimes 100 to 200 yards from the main roads, so that the females have to crawl backwards and forwards with their small carts, in seams, in many cases, not exceeding twenty-two to twenty-eight inches in height. This will be found illustrated in the case of Margaret Heaps, coal-putter, numbered 231 in the evidence." " The danger and the difficulty of dragging on roads, dipping from one in three to one in six feet, may be more easily conceived than explained; and the state in which the females are after pulling like horses through these holes—their perspiration, their exhaustion, and very frequently their tears, it is painful in the extreme to witness." "My employment is, after reaching the
 441 " In the evidence regarding Standrigg colliery, Mr. Franks has given a very erroneous account of the nature of the work of females, and has made a gross caricature of a female drawing coals in it.—(Report, p. 95; App. P. 1, p. 383). Alexander Borrowman, who was overseer of that colliery when Mr. Franks visited it, is now overseer at Kinnaird, and on my showing him Mr. Franks account of the evidence of Margaret Heaps, at once pronounced it very incorrect, and has written a letter to you giving the real state of the pit, and of the work performed by Margaret Heaps, which I now inclose. If you can understand Borrowman's letter, and compare it with the evidence, you will find that Mr. Franks is altogether incorrect in the principal points. He describes her as drawing a bogie or slype from 200 to 400 yards through the seam, where the height of the coal was from twenty-six to twenty-eight inches. Borrowman says, she seldom drew any coals in the height of the seam, which was from twenty-eight to thirty inches, the bogie she used had four wheels, which ran on a good hard pavement, and that at most she could not have drawn it more than ten yards, instead of from 200 to 400, ten yards being the greatest distance that any of the colliers could possibly have to draw in the height of the seam on each side of the road leading to the pit bottom. Mr. Franks made another great mistake in stating the distance the coals were drawn on the tubs or carts from the wall-face to the pit bottom at 500 yards. Borrowman says, it was only about 110 yards. I have every reason to believe, that Borrow-
 442 " I sometime ago attended a meeting at Larhert along with Sir Michael Brace, the rev. Mr. Bonar, Mr. Stirling of Glenbervie, and the manager for Carron company, in order to receive a deputation from the women formerly employed in the coal-works at Kinnaird and Carron-hall, who gave an account of the great wretchedness and want occasioned amongst them by being against their own inclinations prevented from working, and being satisfied of the unjustness of the act which has so materially injured the condition of these women, I have since taken a deep interest in the matter. " I could put little confidence in Mr. Franks's report, and notes of evidence as he seems to me to have acted only on one side of the question. " There is an important fact, and which in my opinion, goes far to vitiate Mr. Franks's report, that he did not in this quarter go down a single pit, without doing which any thing like an idea of the state of the work-people while under ground could not be got. " I learned that the witness, Margaret Heaps, denied that her evidence had been accurately reported. I sent for her, and she came down to-day along with her father, and I inclose a declaration made by her, which speaks for itself and shows the inaccuracy of Mr. Franks's notes of evidence. You will observe, that she has signed her declaration with her own hand. " Margaret Heaps' father being able to work, she is not in want; but there are few cases where the women are removed which has not been attended with very detrimental
 443 " That the side roads, instead of 400 did not exceed nine yards; that the work in them was done by her brothers, the family consisting of ten children; that she never worked in those low roads except occasionally, and of her own accord, to forward the work. That it was not true that the road on which she worked was wet; it was hard and dry, and from four to six feet high. That it was not true that time was not allowed for meals, as an hour was allowed for breakfast, and one for dinner. That she preferred the work to field labour. That their food was nutritious and sufficient; and not such as was described in the report. That of her own accord she sometimes worked an extra shift, that she might get money to purchase better clothes to enable her to attend church, which she did regularly, not being absent above twice in the year. That she attended the communion; and knew that the other colliers attended church as regularly as any class, and perhaps more so." 444 motu proprio, 445 446 "In the enumeration of the leading characteristics of the collier community, it would be wrong to pass over the state of crime as it exists among them, such being generally considered as a tolerably good test of the condition and character of a people; and in the pursuit of my inquiry it has often struck me as
 447 "Alloa, Clackmannanshire: Only 1 prisoner—1 above the average.—Clackmannanshire; No murder or highway robbery during the year, and no heinous offence of any kind; —a good deal of petty crime.—Stirlingshire: Many offences of a petty kind; none serious. —Bothkonnar is particularly noticed as free from crime.—Haddingtonshire: Greatest number of prisoners 22; lowest 5; population 36,000.—Linlithgowshire: 44 prisoners during the year, out of a population of about 27,000. —Dunfermline: Greatest number of prisoners at one time; lowest 2; no serious crime. " Section 105.—For Stirling the borough gaol of Falkirk returns 57 as the number of prisoners, out of which 2 are colliers.—For Stirling county, no colliers.—In Haddingtonshire 34, out of which 4 are colliers.—In Dunfermline, 25; of whom 9 are colliers. "Section 106.—Now, when it is considered that this return extends over at least 5,000 heads of families, who are engaged as hewers, out of a collier population of nearly 30,000, the state of crime must be looked upon as very favourable (non meus hie sermo), and this view of the subject is in perfect accordance with the general opinion of those gentlemen, who being thoroughly acquainted with the character and bent of the colliers, both individually, and as a class, have favoured me with the result of their observations." " That the average amount of illegitimate children born in the course of a year is about one in forty, which when the want of education in the people, and the unrestricted intercourse of the sexes, in consequence of their labouring together in the same pits, are taken into the account, is, by no means, high." " The district, and objects over which this inquiry extended, presented the aspect of a laborious, uneducated, and uncomplaining population—a population of few vices." 448 "They are always respectful, and sometimes warmly attached to their employers, and exhibit none of the pert and discourteous behaviour of the manufacturer; they listen with cheerfulness and much seriousness to the ministers of the gospel who come amongst them; they show, and probably feel less jealousy of their superiors in rank and fortune than is generally shown by other artizans, and they intermeddle not with politics." " A population including 7,000 or 8,000 heads of families, leading a mere animal existence, without religious character, without political bias, without political representation, in short, without political status whatever— such and so simple is the character of the people amongst whom my labours have been pursued.'' 449 "Without political bias, without political representation, in short (the master-evil) without political status whatever." 450 451 s d Ex uno disce omnes. s l l s 452 s l s s s .d 1 1 2 1 s s s s s s l s 453 "There is in connexion with the works a school, with two well appointed teachers, who have free dwelling houses and coals found them. By a regulation in the management of this work, every person who receives full men's wages is compelled to contribute 1 d d d l s l " These reductions on the incomes of the collier families will farther have a most injurious effect upon the morals of the rising generation. The small pittance exacted for school fees, which were the only guarantee for the children attending the school, cannot now be spared, all and more being required for their sustenance. The children will be allowed to
 454 d s d l l 455 " Our colliers go to church on the Sabbath just as regularly as to their work on week days. Mr. Guthrie has got it so imbibed in them; he sets them the example." 456 very 457
 Mr. C. Bruce,  in reply, expressed his regret, that at the time he brought forward this motion, so few hon. Members were present in the House. He must say that he thought the statements he had made to the House had not been shaken; and he begged the House to remember, that while he had adduced facts on the authority of persons whom he named, for many of the statements on the other side no authority had been mentioned. He believed that from 6,000 to 7,000 persons would be affected in various parts of Scotland by the provisions of the bill to which his motion referred. His object was to save them from suffering. With respect to the principle which had been stated by the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck), it was not, he would frankly state, on that principle that he had asked the support of the House. On the contrary, he had said, that though political economists might differ from the principle of his motion, he was no political economist, and that the Legislature in his opinion had a right to interfere in favour of females in this case. In many of the remarks of the noble Lord, the Member for South Lancashire (Lord F. Egerton), he entirely concurred; but he wished the House to follow the practice of the noble Lord in his own collieries. He had made preparation some years ago for carrying into effect his benevolent designs in favour of females on his own property, and what he asked the House to do was, to make the same kind of preparation. The noble
 480
 Lord F. Egerton  said, that he could well understand how persons viewing only the present transition state of society, occasioned by this measure, should see some difficulty in its being carried out to its fullest extent. He could understand the feelings which had led to the present motion, but he could not support it. Though the evil was only alleged to exist in Scotland the bill of the hon. Mover, he perceived, was to extend to Lancashire, and upon that ground he should object to its comprehensiveness. The hon. Member did not pretend to interfere with the principle of the Bill of last year; but his argument went to the extent of showing that there were few better employments for females than this occupation in collieries. His name had been mentioned in relation to this subject with very undeserved praise. If honour were due to any individuals for advancing this improved system, it was due to those who, like the Duke of Buccleuch, in Scotland, and others whom he should mention, in Lancashire, who had years ago voluntarily introduced the system upon their own property. In Lancashire, Mr. William Hulton had perfected, many years ago, that system of exclusion of females, the foundation of which he had only laid a very short time ago, when his noble Friend came forward to assist them by legislation on the subject. The same system had also been pursued in other parts of Lancashire many years [since. The hon. Mover had said, that
 471
 Mr. Hindley  said, he had heard with great astonishment one statement of the hon. Member who had just sat down— that he was told by a female, that she never enjoyed good health until she went to work in a coal-pit. He thought, that statement would enable hon. Gentlemen to estimate the character of this motion, which he hoped they would reject. Although it was right that men should prosecute to the utmost extent any state of manufacture, yet if in so doing they produced a moral or physical nuisance, it was the duty of that House to interfere for its prevention. He must say, that he thought a moral and physical nuisance was produced by the employment of women in coal-pits, and that the House ought to interpose to put down such a nuisance. That had been done already, by the measure introduced by the noble Lord, the Member for Dorsetshire (Lord Ashley) last Session, and he hoped the House would not adopt any retrograde movement. He conceived, that the effect of the motion of the hon. Member for Elginshire would be to restore the abuses and evils which formerly existed; and he was glad that the noble Lord, the Member for South Lancashire, and other hon. Members had supported the hon. Member for Dorsetshire in his opposition to this motion. He hoped the motion would be withdrawn; for he thought the hon. Member for Elginshire must perceive, that however advantageous his proposal might prove to certain proprietors, it could not fail to operate very prejudicially for the working classes. It had been said, that great distress had been produced in consequence of a number of the females who formerly laboured in the collieries having been thrown out of employment; but if the services of these females had been dispensed with, other persons must, be supposed, be employed in their place. He contended, therefore, that while by the measure of last Session they had conferred great advantages on the females, they had also benefited other individuals who obtained the employment
 479
 The Speaker : I wish to call the attention of the House to the circumstances attending their proceedings on the " Schoolmasters' Widows' Fund (Scotland) Bill," which passed the Commons on the 25th of April last. It was returned by the Lords, with amendments, on the 2d of May. These amendments were submitted to me, and were perfectly unobjectionable. It appears from an entry in the minutes of proceedings of the House of Lords of the 5th of May, that this bill was returned from the Commons on that day, with the amendments agreed to; but there is no record in the votes of the House of their ever having been considered; and upon an examination of the bill, it appears that it has not been signed by the clerk in the usual manner, which certifies that the amendments have been agreed to. It must, therefore, have been inadvertently and by mistake taken up to the Lords, and afterwards placed in the commission, as it received the Royal Assent on the 9lh of
 428
 Colonel Dawson Damer  appeared at the bar, and said: " I have had the honour of waiting on her Majesty with two addresses of this House, and I beg to present her Majesty's answers thereto. The answer to the address of condolence on account of the death of the Duke of Sussex was as follows:—
 " I have received with satisfaction, the loyal and dutiful Address of Condolence which the House of Commons has presented to me, on the late melancholy death of my beloved Uncle, the Duke of Sussex, as a gratifying proof of their constant attachment to my Person, Family, and Government."
 Mr. Labouchere intended to put another question to the right hon. Gentleman opposite. As the law now stood, wheat flour, imported from Canada must bring] with it a certificate of having been ground in Canada? He wished to know if it was intended to do away with this restriction, and enable flour, ground in the United Stales, after it had crossed the Canadian border, and had thus become in a manner naturalised, to be imported into this country at the colonial duty.
 Mr. Curteis  said, that he should certainly vote with the noble Lord on that occasion, so strong was his feeling against? the continuance of this degrading underground employment of women.
 Mr. Roebuck  felt, that this was a question of the greatest difficulty; it was a question whether the labourer, being  sui generis, 472 sui juris; Member: 473 Curteis:
 Mr. Brotherton  said, it appeared to him, that the object of the motion of the hon. Member for Elginshire (Mr. C. Bruce) was to effect the repeal of the act adopted last Session. He found, from the evidence which had been given on this subject that persons of all classes, agents of collieries, surveyors, and masters, who had devoted their attention to the question, bore testimony to the nature of the employment pursued in these collieries. It had been shown, that the physical effects of the work were most injurious—that it was especially unsuited to females—that it was of a most demoralising tendency, and that it had no countervailing advantages. He considered it, for many reasons, highly desirable that females should be prevented from working in mines and collieries. The hon. Member for Bath had laid down this principle, that it was the duty of the House to legislate with respect to children who were unable to judge for themselves, but that they ought not to legislate for women, who should be regarded as free agents, and who might, if they chose, abstain from the labour. Now he would ask hon. Gentlemen why it was necessary to pass laws at all? If all persons were actuated by proper motives and principles no legislation would be needed; but they had to legislate against self-interest, against dispositions opposed to the general welfare of the community. The noble Lord the Member for South
 477
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the noble Lord as to the principle that property and station had their duties as well as their rights; but the hon. Member for Elginshire had laid before the House as harrowing details as the noble Lord. It would give him satisfaction to see females removed in every part of the country from that degrading system to which they had been subject previous to the act of the noble Lord, and he wished to see industry so rewarded that a man might by his labour alone be able to support his wife and family. But he blamed the noble Lord for using such language as he had done towards those who were advocates of humanity as well as himself. The noble Lord seemed to speak as if no other man than himself had a desire to see the sufferings of these unfortunate creatures relieved. He blamed the noble Lord also for not taking the trouble to ascertain the state of things in the parts alluded to by the hon. mover. He seemed to have industry enough to ascertain particulars in some localities, but what had the proceedings at Dewsbury to do with what
 468 Bruce:
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  said, the misery and distress which existed in many parts of Scotland had been considerably augmented by this measure, and in the county of Stirling alone nearly 500 families had been added to the number of unemployed. He was during his residence in Scotland, waited upon by a deputation of the husbands and relatives of the women who had been deprived of employment in consequence of the act passed last Session, who were desirous that they should again have the opportunity of obtaining employment. He made personal inquiries on the subject and found that the statements of these parties were not exaggerated; the females were in a state of great destitution, they were deprived of an employment with which they were perfectly satisfied, and were reduced to a state of idleness and misery. They spoke, invariably, of the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire (Lord Ashley) with great respect and gratitude; but they said,
 " Pray induce the noble Lord, who has endeavoured to legislate for our welfare, to postpone the period at which we are to be deprived of employment, and not to plunge us into destitution when the country is suffering such severe distress," 475
 Mr. Thornely  had a question to put to the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, with respect to the intended alterations of duty on the importation of wheat and flour from Canada. As the law at present stood, wheat was admitted into Canada and the British possessions in North America free of duty, and if ground to flour, it was admitted into the United Kingdom at a duty varying according to a sliding-scale from 1 s s s
 Mr. Forbes  said, he had supported the measure with reference to this subject introduced last Session by the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire, but he must say, from what he had since learned, that he had acted somewhat rashly in doing so. His attention was called to the subject during his residence in Scotland, after the close of the last Session; and such representations had been pressed upon him by the magistrates and clergy that he felt it his duty to entreat the House to agree to the motion of his hon. Friend. He
 476
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that in South Wales, with which district he was connected, the practice of employing females in mines and collieries was wholly unknown, and he believed that the people in that part of the country would submit to ten times the amount of difficulty and distress under which they now laboured, rather than permit their wives and daughters to engage in such labour. Any hon. Members of that House who were practically acquainted with the system of working in coal mines must be fully aware that the employment of females in such labour was most injurious to them, physically and morally. He implored the House, then, not to hesitate in rejecting the proposition of the hon. Member for Elginshire.
 Sir C. Napier  rose to bring the state of the Navy List under the consideration of the House, and said, that as this was not a party question, he hoped hon. Members would judge for themselves and not be guided by their leaders on either side of the House It
 482 483 "That a humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty to give directions that a certain number of old officers shall be allowed to retire on a separate list, with increase of pay, with the view of bringing forward young and active officers." l 484 Galatea, l
 Sir C. Napier  in reply contended, that notwithstanding what had been said on the opposite side, the adoption of his suggestion would effect a great improvement.
 Captain Pechell  was surprised that no reply had been made to the charges against the Government as to the distribution of patronage. It was now said throughout the service that the hustings were the best sort of quarter-deck for promotion. All the appointments of the Government, indeed, were made on political grounds. [" No, no."] Would they dare him to come to book? Well, then, what did they say to the unappoinment of Sir Thomas Cochrane, or to that of the hon. Member for Stafford (Captain Carnegie)? This Government was congratulated on their system of manning the navy, but who had unmanned it? Why, their Tory predecessor, Lord Melville. They might depend that they would do much better to promote officers according to merit, and until that was done they could never expect to give satisfaction to the service.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he was by no means disposed to question either the ability or the motives of his hon. Friend who had brought forward the motion; but he must say he thought his hon. Friend
 469 470
 Sir R. Peel : I think it will be the unanimous opinion of the House that this circumstance should not be permitted to pass over without some notice. Here is a bill, with respect to which, some amendments have been made by the House of Lords' and with respect to which a final opinion has not been pronounced by this House. It has been inserted in a commission, and may now have the effect of a law. The amendments introduced may not be of much importance, but still I think it would be a dangerous precedent, if you should permit amendments to have the force of law, to which we have not given our assent, without an express record of all the circumstances under which the transaction took place. I should therefore, propose a select committee to inquire into the circumstances under which the Schoolmasters' Widows' Fund (Scotland) Bill was returned to the House of Lords and received the Royal assent, the amendments which the bill had received not having been agreed to by the House of Commons.
 Sir R. Peel  had no wish to revive the discussion which had taken place last year on the motion of the hon. and gallant Member opposite, with reference to a restriction upon the Crown as to the employment of naval officers in the station of First Lord of the Admiralty. He should be very sorry to imply that any naval officer was disqualified to discharge the important functions, or to lay down a rule for the selection of the First Lord of the Admiralty; but what he objected to was, that the Crown should be restricted in the exercise of its pleasure with reference to that appointment. Indeed, when it was stated that wherever naval officers were called upon to perform civil duties they distinguished themselves for their good conduct and discretion—when he heard these compliments paid he could not think the constitution of the Board of Admiralty so very defective. He thought there were many great advantages from the bringing into the head of the Admiralty an unprofessional man. With respect to the motion, of which the hon. and gallant Officer opposite had given no notice, it was neither more nor less than to ask, according to his own showing, a grant of public money to the amount of 20,000 l C. Napier: 486 l l s d / l l l s d " Upon full consideration, we confess that the impression on our minds is, that the distinction between the active and retired list of officers is productive of little, if any, real ail-vantage to the public; whilst it operates most disastrously, in some instances, on the feelings
 487 "It does not occur to us to suggest to your Majesty the adoption of any other changes in regard to captains' pay on allowances. Various propositions were made to us to recommend the establishment of a retired list for officers of this rank, as well as other ranks in the navy, the particulars of which will be found in the evidence given in the appendix. The whole of those propositions had reference rather to claims arising out of seniority on the prospective list than on service performed, and do not appear to us calculated to advance the public interest to an extent commensurate with the change which they would entail on the public revenue. We, therefore, in full consideration of those suggestions, have refrained from offering a recommendation to your Majesty to extend the principle of the retired list beyond the present practice, except in the cases of mates and commanders, for the reasons explained in the observations on those classes."
 Viscount Dungannon  thought there was much plausibility in the motion brought forward by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Bruce), particularly after the very able and ingenious speech of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. Every class of the community was most deeply indebted to the noble Lord (Lord Ashley) for his exertions on this subject, and the measure he had introduced ought to be carried out, but with as little concomitant inconvenience as possible, particularly where many might be thrown out of employment. The danger to which married women were exposed in mines operated most strongly upon his mind in coming to the conclusion that
 474
 Lord Ingestre  seconded the motion. He entirely concurred in the views of the
 485
 Mr. Bingham Baring  was not prepared to afford all the information wished for. It was reported that a second engagement had taken place, and they had no reason to doubt but that her Majesty's troops had been successful. They were not as yet, however in full possession of the circumstances, and they could not, therefore, lay the documents connected with them before the House. As soon, however, as these transactions should have been completed, such information would be produced as
 499
 Mr. Blewit  referred to the question which he had asked the other night, with reference to a certain sum of money said to have been paid by the authorities of Ningpo for the ransom of that town. He begged to ask what was done with it, and also what was to be the destination of the treasure said to have been taken at Hyderabad.
 General Johnson  said it appeared the argument was to be all on one side, but he could assure them that the feeling excited on this question out of the House was very different from that manifested within its walls; and he believed the House acted most unwisely in not taking a more serious view of this matter. The Reform Bill had given the people a worse House of Commons than they had before the passing of that bill. The present House paid much less attention to the wishes of the people than did the uniformed House. The hon. Member for Coventry had noticed the great increase of taxation, but he had adverted to the great reduction in the price of all commodities which had also taken place. While the amount of taxation had increased, the value of all produce which enabled the people to pay taxes, had fallen one-third, or in some cases a half. That made the present taxation unbearable. Some years ago, a petition praying for much the same thing as was now contemplated, and bearing upwards of a million of signatures, was presented by the hon. Member for Birmingham. Did they suppose the people were satisfied with the rejection of their petitions? He was as fully convinced as of his own existence, that sooner or later the House must come to all the points of the bill now proposed; the people were determined to have these changes made; they were suffering the greatest distress, and they saw that that House had done nothing to relieve them. All that was now asked was for leave to bring in a bill to secure the full representation of the people. Objection had been taken to the word " full"—but had not the people a right to be fully represented? and were they so represented? That was the whole question. Entertaining the opinions which he did he should cordially support the motion.
 Sir W. James  felt all the responsibility of addressing the House on such a question in the present state of the country. He was a decided opponent of all organic changes in the constitution, and was, moveover, of opinion that all such attempts, as far as they had been carried, had hitherto proved failures. It was thought by many hon. Members that the Reform Bill, at the time when it became law, would prove a remedy for all abuses; and it was little short of heresy, at that time, to venture a suspicion as to its perfection. Yet how many had since confessed it to be an utter and complete failure. It was thought by the lower orders that that measure was to improve their condition and give them cheap bread; but it had failed, as he believed every further experiment on the side of democracy would fail. The hon. Member's motion, if successful, must overturn the institutions of the country before the lapse of many years; for one of its first effects must be to stir up a conflict between the upper and the lower branches of the legislature, in which the humiliation of one was certain, a state of things which had resulted from a former measure in its early operation. If the present motion were carried, what would the Sovereign become but the chief magistrate of a republic? From the time of Henry VII. to the treaty of Vienna there had been a constant struggle between the House of Commons and the Crown; but since the latter period the struggle had been between a certain portion of the House of Commons and the democratic principle out of doors. It was said by Lord Chatham, on undertaking the Government at a very critical period, that he could save the country, and no one else could. He wished to see this feeling animate the right hon. Baronet opposite. He thought the measures of the past year were all in a right direction, and that the worst consequences would have ensued if they had not been adopted. He hoped all the upper classes would see that the time was come when they must make sacrifices to set the labourer free from the consequences of the competition now going on. The simultaneous increase
 528
 Lord Ashley  seconded the motion, and cordially concurred in the praises which his right hon. Friend had bestowed on the missionaries. They had achieved, he
 568
 Lord J. Manners  did not think that a debate of so much importance could well be closed without some further observations being made on his (the Ministerial) side of the House. He opposed the motion, not because he differed from the hon. Gentleman on trivial grounds of expediency. If his difference of opinion were merely one of time or circumstances, he should not vote against it; but differing, as he did, on the abstract principles on which he conceived the motion to be founded,—denying altogether the position
 526 "They tell thee in their dreaming school, "Of power from old dominion hurled, "When rich and poor with juster rule, "Shall share the altered world. "Alas! since time itself began, "That fable has but fooled the hour, "Each age that ripens power in man "But subjects man to power."
 Lord John Russell  said, that as his hon. Friend's explanation ([Mr. Hawes had said a few words which the House would not attend to.] had not been fully heard, he was anxious to say a few words in ex planation of the vote he meant to give —that though there was nothing in the words of the motion before the House to show that peculiar religious opinions meant more than differences between various denominations of Christians, ye' as the hon. and learned Member had intended to move this resolution as are amendment upon the third, fourth, and fifth of those of which he had given notice, the first of which three stated that the Holy Scriptures ought to be read in schools, it became impossible not to conclude, that though according to the hon. and learned Gentleman's speed extracts might be allowed to be read from the strictly historical parts of the Old and New Testament, yet that in fact the motion before the House went to prevent the Bible from being read as a school-book.
 Lord John Russell  said, that there was a report that certain treaties had been concluded with the Ameers of Scinde, but that after they were signed certain other demands, not contained in these treaties were made upon our part, and not complied with by the Ameers. Now the mere production of these treaties, without other documents, would not show whether that report was true or false, and if it were true, whether the circumstance to which it referred had been the cause of the war. If there were any papers connected with this matter in the possession of Government, he thought that they should be produced; and he did not see how their production could interfere with any military operations.
 Mr. Hawes:  as he could not give his vote in favour of the motion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, wished to state shortly his views upon this subject. In the first place, he must confess that what had been said by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and by the right, hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, in reference to the conduct of the Dissenters on this subject, had a little surprised him. All that could be said of the Dissenters was, that they had refused to accept the particular plan which had been proposed by the right hon. Baronet. They had not been asked to propose any measure of their own, and because they had not offered any such, they were accused of intolerance and impracticability. On the subject of education, he maintained that the Dissenters were entitled to tolerance and equality. There were, undoubtedly, some matters in which the Church of England was, entitled to peculiar privileges, but, in the matter of education, Dissenters were entitled to perfect equality. The hon. and learned Member for Bath contended, that because of the difficulty of teaching peculiar religious opinions, without involving an increase of religious animosities, that the instruction of the public should be of a purely secular nature. He was not prepared to come to this conclusion. Whilst he admitted the first part of the premises, namely, the difficulties which would attach to any attempt to teach peculiar religious opinions, he still thought that the Bible ought to be the basis of any national system of education. He was glad to hear from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department a contradiction of the impression which had very generally prevailed, that the national system of education in Ireland had entirely failed. Upon this subject he would beg to refer to the report of the commission on schools in Ireland, published in 1812, which stated that they had,
 559 "Applied their best efforts to frame a system which would afford the opportunities of education to every description of the lower classes, keeping clear of any interference with the peculiar tenets of any particular sect, and induce them all to join as one undivided body in the same establishment." 560
 Mr. Hindley  rose amid cries of " Divide," and said, that after the observations made by the hon. Baronet who had last addressed the House, he was surprised that the hon. Gentleman had not voted the other evening in favour of the motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers). He was glad to hear the hon. Baronet express so much anxiety for the improvement of the condition of the labouring classes. He must at the same time observe, that he thought there was some inconsistency in the conduct of the hon. Gentleman, who, professing great anxiety for the welfare of the people, still opposed the repeal of the Corn-laws. They had been told that having demanded " the bill, the whole bill, and nothing but the bill," and having obtained their request, they ought to be satisfied; but the question was—had they got what they had demanded? They had got the bill and something more. Two clauses had been subsequently introduced, which completely swamped the rest of the bill, and but for those clauses hon. Gentlemen opposite had never enjoyed their majority. He certainly thought that one class of the community ought not to have the power of imposing taxes which another class was compelled to pay. He believed that if the people had justice done them, they would not seek for further reforms, as he believed if the legislature had done justice to the people of Ireland, the agitation which now prevailed in that country on the subject of repeal would never have arisen.
 Mr. Hindley  expressed a hope that the French might not be allowed to take possession of all the islands.
 Mr. Ross  said, that he was in the manufacturing districts in the north of Eng-
 514
 Mr. E. Buller  referred to the reports relative to the excesses said to have been committed by our troops in Afghanistan. He wished to know whether Government had received any information as to these alleged proceedings.
 Mr. Muntz  denied that he had advocated an unlimited increase of paper circulation with the view of obtaining a temporary prosperity. He had never recommended anything of the kind. He complained that the value of money did not bear a proper relation to the price of corn, and that they must, either alter the money value or the corn laws. With respect to the present motion, he was favourable to a considerable extension of the suffrage; he believed it to be due to the people and absolutely necessary; but, although he wished the duration of Parliaments to be much abridged, he could not support the proposition to make them annual. If Parliaments were annual, then legislation would be nothing but a system of electioneering. He had the deepest sympathy with the people in the privations, the sufferings, and the miseries they now bore so patiently, and he knew that many attributed them entirely to the want of fair representation in Parliament. If the petitions of the people were properly attended to—if justice were done—he felt assured they would give up political agitation altogether.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that a ransom had been paid for Ningpo. Such was not the case. Upon the occupation of that place it was proposed that certain imposts should be levied upon the merchants. They offered a million of dollars to be relieved from that impost, but that amount was never paid, and so there was an end' to the matter. As to Hyderabad? He had made
 500
 Sir H. Hardinge  had no specific information to answer the charge. He had, however, received a letter from the Governor-general, in which that noble Lord stated, that he had been in correspondence with between thirty and forty intelligent gentlemen in the military and civil service in India, all of whom stated that they had never heard anything of the excesses said by the press of this country to have been committed.
 Mr. Curteis  was not prepared to carry the franchise to such an extent as the hon. Member advocated in the present state of the people; but he had seen so much corruption, and so much intimidation, that he had become a convert to the ballot. He was also in favour of shortening the duration of Parliaments, although on that point he thought the people had not much
 511
 Dr. Bowring  thought that neither ignor-
 524
 Mr. Fielden  was understood to deprecate inattention to the prayers of the people on these and other subjects, considered by them as important to their welfare. The character of the measures which emanated from the Legislature as at present constituted, was not likely to recommend it to the people. He alluded particularly to Ireland, emphatically condemned the injudicious imposition of a poor law on that country akin to that which had caused so much dissatisfaction in this country. The operation of that law was most distressing, and tended to excite the utmost hostility on the part of the people. As to this country, the distressed position of the manufacturing population, and the apathy with which their distress was regarded by a Legislature which had voted 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to know, whether he was to understand that no information would be granted until all the transactions now in progress should have been completed.
 Mr. Roebuck  asked if Government were prepared to lay before the House any information or extracts connected with the late transactions in Scinde.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to bring forward the motion which he was now about to submit to the House in consequence of the measure which had been introduced by the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department (Sir J. Graham) relating to the Education of the people. He would ask the House to consider this question calmly and deliberately; and he would promise the right hon. Baronet, that in discussing the subject he would give him (Sir J. Graham) full credit for the intentions with which he had introduced his measure. He would abstain from imitating the conduct of parties out of doors, who in discussing this question had evinced an utter absence of charity. His object in bringing forward this motion was not to introduce a discussion which might give occasion for the display of any asperity or bitterness. He would be the last person in the world to excite any ill-feeling on a subject of such vast importance—one which involved the rescue of a vast portion of our fellow-countrymen from the thraldom of ignorance. If he
 531 532 533 534 535 536 537 538 539 "That in no plan of education maintained and enforced by the State, should any attempt be made to inculcate peculiar religious opin-
 540
 Mr. Roebuck  objected in reply to the
 563 564
 Mr. Trelawny  would not support a motion for annual Parliaments and universal suffrage, but he was favourable to a considerable extension of the suffrage and triennial Parliaments. The noble Lord who had just sat down talked of "that abstract something or nothing, the people"; and he could not help thinking
 527
 Mr. M. Milnes  regretted that the present discussion had taken place, as he did not conceive that it was calculated to promote the object which they all ought to have in view. The right hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House had adopted a most unfounded and mistaken opinion as to the view taken by the Church of England on this subject. As an humble Member of that Church, he would say that the Church had no thought or notion of wishing to obtain power by supporting this or any other political measure. While the Dissenters had expressed their opinions so loudly, as to this measure, the opinion of the Church had been given passively, and passively only—and this was because the Church conceived that this was a measure with which it had no right to interfere. It was a measure brought forward as one of State policy, and only on this ground he supported it. He was sure that the only object of the Government in bringing forward this bill, and in giving power to the Church under it, was because the Government was convinced that that body alone could successfully work it out in consequence of the superior organisation of the Church. If this were not to be done what was the use of a Church establishment at all. He did not understand what the right hon. Gentleman meant by some peculiar and internal change in the structure of the Church of England. He really could not contemplate, in his imagination, what the right hon. Gentleman alluded to. All that could here be meant was, that there had been a revival in the energies of the Church of England, and that it had reestablished some of its ceremonies, and brought forward some of its doctrines, which had laid for some time, historically speaking, dormant. No doubt the new energies which had shown themselves in the Church, had been accompanied in their development with a certain degree of violence and exaggeration, which it could be wished had been avoided; but these temporary incidents could not affect the utility of the general result. There had been this internal change in the Church of England; a change such as Wesley and Whitfield would have been delighted to see. There had been an advance made by its members, not only in personal piety but in historical learning; a great advance also in many matters that involved great hopes and schemes of public good. This was the change, the only change which he
 557 558
 Mr. Sheil:  The Roman Catholic population of this country is already so considerable, the Irish immigration into the factory districts is so great, that being a member of that Church, to which there exists in this country a tendency to revert, I think myself not unauthorised to take part in a discussion, with which the merits of the Factory Bill are so intimately connected, I frankly acknowledge, that considering the difficulties with which the Government have to contend in reference to all questions relating to the Roman Catholic religion, a concession by no means unimportant has been made to us. It is not rendered imperative on Catholic children to read and to learn the authorised version of the Scriptures, as we entertain the opinion that the sacred writings ought not to be used as a school book, that the rudiments of literature ought not to be taught through its intervention, that an irreverent familiarity with holy writ may lead to its degradation; that the perusal of the bill, unaccompanied with that interpretation which our Church has from the earliest foundation of Christianity, as we conceive, put upon passages which are either obscure or doubtful, is not judicious, and that the unqualified exercise of the right of private judgment must conduce to error, as we hold besides, that facts are recorded in the history of an exceedingly carnal people, which it can answer no useful purpose to bring within the cognizance of childhood, and from which modesty should instinctively turn away,— these, I say, being our sentiments upon a question of much controversy, though differing from our view, you have been sufficiently just to make allowance for what you consider to be our mistake in this regard; and notwithstanding that in this country there prevails a very opposite
 548 549 fortiori 550 551 552 553 554 "Without unspotted, innocent within, "She feared no danger, for she knew no sin." 555 " sur-sum corda,"
 Mr. T. Duncombe  could not allow the aspersions which the hon. Member for Belfast had thrown on the working classes, especially those in the manufacing districts, to go altogether unnoticed, and he must give them the most unqualified contradiction. Where his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale had introduced the hon. Member for Belfast it was impossible for him to say; but he could say he had seen very large assemblages of the working classes in the manufacturing districts and no sentiments of the character attributed to them by the hon. Member had he ever on any occasion heard. The rights of property he had always heard them respect and profess their readiness to uphold. What they claimed for themselves was equality of
 522 523 l l l
 Mr. Ewart  thought, although he should vote for the motion, that the course adopted by the hon. and learned Member for Bath was not the most judicious that could have been adopted. He objected to the phraseology of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham), which was not such as was likely to conciliate the dissenters and dispose them favourably towards his measure. The founder of the Wesleyans had been alluded to, but he knew that that body would be the last persons to agree to the right hon. Baronet's bill. The schism at present existing in the Church of England had awakened a feeling of distrust on the part of the Wesleyans towards the establishment, which it would be impossible to allay. He would not, however, enter into the question of the educational clauses; the time for that would be when the right hon. Baronet brought on his amended bill. The dissenters would maintain the position which they held; it was a defensive, not an offensive one, against the aggressive principle of the Government education scheme.
 Mr. Ferrand  entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham. If that House paid more attention to the real grievances and petitions of the working classes there would be no more agitation for universal suffrage. During the last Session of Parliament a select committee was appointed to inquire into the injurious effects of the truck system; and the witnesses who were examined before it proved that the working classes were most cruelly treated by their roasters in many parts of the country. The evidence taken had
 525
 Mr. S. Crawford,  in reply, said that his hon. Friend the Member for Belfast (Mr. Ross) had alluded to a meeting at which he (Mr. Crawford) was present, and
 529
 Mr. S. Crawford rose,  pursuant to notice, to ask leave to introduce to the House a " bill to secure the full representation of the people, and to shorten the duration of Parliament." He was aware of the difficulties with which he should have to contend in bringing such a question under the consideration of the House. He was conscious of the opposition which would be offered to his motion. The great basis of political liberty was the right construction of the suffrage, and the right mode of bringing the power of the suffrage into practical operation; that was what he wanted by the bill which he desired permission to introduce. In the first place, he would wish to draw the attention of the House to the extent and regulation of the suffrage, and the laws of election in the ancient periods of the constitution. The great extent of the suffrage, previous to the first limiting statute, that of 8th of Henry 6th, c. 7, could be proved by a reference to that act, which, whilst it endeavours to cast unjust opprobrium on the people, is a lasting record of the rights which they before enjoyed. The preamble states, first, that whereas elections of the knights of the shire, have been made by very great, excessive, and outrageous numbers, most part of people of small substance and no value, pretending an equal voice with the most worthy knights and esquires; the
 501 "That elections shall take place in full county court, where all shall attend, as well suitors duly summoned, as others in pleno comitatu; "By common right every inhabitant and commoner of each county, had a voice in the election of knights, whether he were a freeholder or not." Brevia Parliamentaria Rediviva, Page 186. 502 "Every Englishman is intended to be present in Parliament, either in person or by procuration and attorney, of what pre-eminence, state, dignity, or quality soever he be, from the prince to the lowest person of England, and the consent of Parliament is taken to be every man's consent." "The construction of Parliaments as consisting of the King and three estates, viz., the Lords Spiritual and Lords Temporal, who sit in one House, and the Commons who sit by themselves in the other. The King and the three estates form the great body politic of the kingdom." "And herein indeed consists the true excellence of the English Government, that all the parts of it form a mutual check upon each other. … Like three distinct powers in mechanics, they check and counter-check each other, impelling the whole in a direction different from what each would have taken separately, but forming out of all a direction which constitutes the true line of the liberty and happiness of the community." "A law to bind all must be assented to by all." 503 504 505 "Because it tended to a continuance of this present Parliament longer than, as we apprehend, is agreeable to the constitution of England." "As the fundamental constitution of this kingdom. That representatives who continue themselves by their own power are not the representatives of the people. That foreign powers have never objected (as alleged in the act) to make treaties with us, on the grounds of our relations being uncertain in consequence of short Parliaments; they say, on the contrary, that it cannot be expected that any prince or state can rely upon a people to defend their liberties or interests who shall be thought to have given up so great a part of their own. That by making the seat an object of greater value it will tend to increase expenses and corruption. That it will be a greater object to a Ministry wishing to maintain itself against the people to purchase the members when they have so long a term of their trust; and that they will have a greater opportunity of exerting corrupt influence over these members by means of that prolongation; and that therefore the ancient and primitive constitution of frequent and short Parliaments should be adhered to." 506 "It is just that the English people should ever remain as free as their own thoughts;" 'and in an assembly of Parliament he enacted this for a perpetual custom,' that a Parliament should be called together twice every year, or oftener, in times of peace, to keep the people of God from sin, and that they might live in peace, and receive right by certain usages and holy customs." "That those chosen should be esquires of the county able to be knights, and no man to be such knight as standeth under the rank of yeoman." "No manner of property qualification was required of citizens and burgesses." 507 508
 Mr. Stansfield  opposed the motion. Without a great improvement in the education and morals of the people at large the advantages which the hon. Member for Rochdale contemplated by the success of his motion never could be realized. It would only create hopes to disappoint them.
 Mr. W. Williams  seconded the motion. He thought that, from the manner in which his hon. Friend had submitted his proposition to the House, no hon. Member who felt the necessity of amending the present system of representation could object to record his vote for it. He would vote for the motion, but he
 509 l l l l 510
 Sir G. Grey  rose to move for certain papers respecting the French occupation of Tahiti. He understood that his motion would not be opposed, and the papers it related to went only to show what were the recent proceedings of the French government, and what was more important, to calm the feelings of just apprehension entertained by many in this country for the fate of the British missionaries on the island. It would not be necessary for him to trouble the House at any length, but he could not move for these papers without bearing his testimony to the invaluable labours of these estimable men, who for fifty years had been labouring for the promotion of Christianity. These men had been supported by the voluntary contributions of Christians in this country, who took a deep interest in their welfare, and who looked with considerable apprehension to the establishment of French sovereignty in Tahiti. He trusted these apprehensions were without foundation, but he thought it material they should bear in mind the changes which had been effected by these missionaries. The following was the testimony of Admiral Duperre, who visited the island in 1819, and said, in a letter addressed to the then Minister of Marine: —
 "The state of the island of Tahiti is now very different from what it was in the days of Cook. The missionaries of the society of London have entirely changed the manners and customs of the inhabitants. Idolatry exists no longer; they profess generally the Christian religion; the women no longer come on board the vessels, and they are very reserved on all occasions. Their marriages are celebrated in the same manner as in Europe, and the King confines himself to one wife.
 567 "Copies or Extracts of a Letter addressed in 1827 by Pomare, Chief of Tahiti, to King George 4th, and of Mr. Canning's reply thereto." "Copies or Extracts of any Correspondence which may have taken place between her Majesty's Consul at Tahiti, and her Majesty's Government since 1835, relative to the proceedings of the French in Tahiti." "Copies or Extracts of any Correspondence which may have taken place between her Majesty's Ambassador at Paris and her Majesty's Government, or the French Government, relative to the recent proceedings of the French in Tahiti."
 Mr. Ward  considered the proposition
 512 513
 Sir James Graham  said; I know not that under any circumstances, or on any occasion, I should be competent to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just resumed his seat, through the philosophical disquisition in which he has brought before the House, with that perspicuity which he so remarkably exhibits, the subject of education; but, at present I am placed under an additional disadvantage, for, I must confess to the hon. and learned Member, that I did not altogether expect that his motion would come on this evening; and I must frankly tell the House, that my various pressing avocations have prevented me from bestowing that attention on this proposition which the vast importance of the subject requires. The hon. and learned Gentleman at the commencement of what he addressed to the House, made two important admissions. He said, that this was an abstract resolution, and that the matter which it contained, was surrounded with great practical difficulties. Now, an abstract resolution of this nature necessarily carries with it, if adopted, consequences of vast importance, and I shall consider it my duty to resist the resolution which is proposed. I am bound to believe from the assurance which the hon. and learned Gentleman gave to the House, that it is far from his intention by the present resolution, to prejudice a practical measure which 1 have submitted to the House, which is now on the Table which has been partly considered, the principle of which has been adopted, and the details of which only remain for discussion. I am satisfied that whatever may be the intention of the hon. and learned Gentleman, yet the House not being to-night prepared for the discussion of that measure I should do infinite injustice to the subject, which has hitherto been treated with remarkable forbearance, if I proceeded prematurely to the defence of its provisions. Therefore, I shall not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through all
 541 542 543 544 545 546 "There is a politic use of religion. Men fearing God are thereby a great deal more effectually than by positive laws, restrained from doing evil, for these laws have no further power than over our outward actions only: whereas unto men's inward cogitations, unto the privy intents and motions of their hearts, religion serveth for a bridle. What more savage, wild, and cruel than man, if he see himself able either by fraud to over-reach, or by power to overbear the laws whereunto he should be subject? Wherefore, in so great boldness to offend, it behoveth that the world should be held in awe, not by a vain surmise, but by a true apprehension of somewhat, which no man may think himself able to withstand; and this is the politic use of religion." 547
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said he could not shrink from the challenge cast at him by the right hon. Member for Dungarvon [Mr. Shell.] Whatever other faults might be attributed to him (Sir R. H. Inglis), at least it could not be said that he had ever shrunk from an open declaration of his opinion, or from his openly recording his vote, whenever any question came legitimately before him in that House. But whilst he was always prepared to do this, he would resist any attempt to interrogate him as to his private opinions upon religious subjects. The right hon. Member for Dungarvon himself, he dare say, would not allow him (Sir R. H. Inglis) to ask
 561 562
 Sir R. Peel  was ready, on the part of the Government, to confirm by his testimony all the praise which had been given to the missionaries. Their exertions had been very great, and very meritorious. The Government, he could say, had not neglected the opportunity of obtaining from the French government assurances of its intentions, and they were obtained in writing, so that they might be placed on the records of their country. They were to this effect,
 "The French Government remains faithful to the three great principles it has ever professed and upheld; first, to afford perfect liberty of worship; secondly, to give all the protection that is due to the subjects of a friendly power; and, lastly, to favour the labours of all those bodies who are extending the benefits of Christianity."
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had not assigned a very satisfactory reason for the course he intended to take. The hon. Gentleman objected to the proposition of the hon. Member because he thought the tendency of the bill was to introduce a republican form of Government in the place of that limited monarchy to which he said he had the deepest and warmest attachment; but yet he would not make such a demonstration of his attachment as to give a vote against the motion. He thought if the hon. Gentleman's attachment to our limited monarchy was so warm, he might, in its support, make the sacrifice which would be involved in his walking out with
 515 516 517 >voice "See what the estimates were in 1792: you had then an army of only 36,000 men, moderate establishments, the taxes limited, and the military force not beyond the exigencies of the country." 518 519 l "See what the late Parliament has done; it has increased the paper currency, and laid the foundation of joint-stock banks, which gave facilities for extending it, the tendency of which, he said, was to diminish the rights and liberties of the people." l l 520 521
 Sir R. Peel  had no objection to lay before the House copies of all treaties already formed and ratified. At the very earliest period consistent with his public duty, the House would be put in possession of full information upon the subject.
 Sir Robert Peel  had no objection to the production of signed and ratified treaties; and he repeated that, on the earliest opportunity consistent with public duty, full information would be given to the House.
 Viscount Palmerston  said the circumstances of the case required that a clear understanding should be come to with the French government. The differences between that government and the Queen of Tahiti begun by a difference between the missionaries of the two religions. The French sent Catholic missionaries to Tahiti, which missionaries were expelled from Tahiti by the native government. The French government thought that the banishment was caused by our missionaries, and the difference arose between the French and the native government in consequence of the differences between the missionaries. He thought, therefore, it would be right to procure a pledge from the French government that the Protestant ministers should not be disturbed.
  Lord Stanley  spoke to the following effect:—Sir, under ordinary circumstances I should have requested the indulgence of the House in order to enable you at once to leave the Chair, and to permit me to make in Committee the statement with which it is my duty, on the part of the Government, to preface the resolutions which I shall eventually have to propose. But the motion of which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Taunton has given notice is one which, according to the rules of the House, cannot be submitted when the House has resolved itself into committee; and I therefore deem it more satisfactory to the House, and more fair towards the right hon. Gentleman, that I should give him the opportunity of moving his amendment after he shall have heard my statement, rather than leave him to propose it without any previous explanation on our part as to our objects and intentions. And, Sir, I must confess that I am the more desirous of giving such an explanation, and have thought it desirable, to place on record the grounds and motives of the Government, more fully than is usual in a merely preliminary resolution, on account of the very general misapprehensions which exist, and the gross misrepresentations which have been made with regard to the intent and scope of our measure — misapprehensions which have been probably increased by the sensitive condition of the agricultural interest at this moment, which have produced, and no
 578 [Cheers.] 579 580 s s s s s. d. s s 581 582 "That flour made in Canada from wheat, the produce of the United States, was to be deemed the produce of Canada, and was entitled to enter this country as the produce of a colony, upon the production of the inspector's certificate applying to colonial produce, and required by the Act of Parliament." [Cheers.] s s s 583 s s s Roebuck: 584 s s s s s s [Cheers.] 4s. s s s s s s s s s s s d s d s s C. Napier: " 585 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 586 s s s s s s s s 587 s
  Lord Stanley:  Be it so; but that is not the district in which the wheat is produced. Above Kingston comes Lake Ontario, about 150 miles long; it is united by the Niagara River to Lake Erie, a lake 200 miles in length, both of these lakes varying from sixty to seventy miles in breadth. There is, therefore, a distance of from 350 to 400 miles, connected only by a river for the space of twenty miles, that river including the rapids above, and the whirlpools below, the falls of Niagara being perfectly impracticable. The wheat-growing districts are, in the first place, the Canadian districts on the north of Lake Erie, and the great American districts to the south-west. These are the districts— Indiana, Ohio, and Illinois, from which corn is brought to Cleveland, the principal shipping port of Ohio, and thence the trade is carried on partly in steamers, but principally in large schooners built for carrying cargoes of this nature; passing through the Welland Canal and a success-
 588 s s s s 589 s s s s bona fide s s bonâfide 590 bonâ fide s s s 591 s s s s * s s
 Mr. Miles  could not help contrasting the principles that were advocating last year by the noble Lord on this subject with those that were advanced by him on this occasion. The noble Lord then stated broadly, that it was notorious to all that every atom of Canadian flour sent to this
 623 624
 Lord Stanley  thought he distinctly said, that no part of this measure was to increase the transit trade as it now existed.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that it would be a most difficult task to endeavour to reconcile the various arguments and inconsistencies which had been urged against his noble Friend's proposition in the course of this evening; and certainly he thought that it might vie in this respect with any discussion which had taken place for many years. Gentlemen who had spoken in opposition to the measure had literally fulfilled their pledges to oppose it, and no two of them appeared to agree together in their grounds of objection. He would proceed to deal with some of the objections that had been urged against this measure of her Majesty's Government. And, first, with respect to what fell from the right hon. Member for Taunton, who commenced his speech with an observation which, if well-founded, involved a most serious charge against the government which introduced this measure. The right hon. Gentleman said, that his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies had represented that the Parliament were not free agents in this matter, but that its hands were tied and fettered, by the government arrangement which had already been made. His noble Friend was much misappre-
 650 651 s 652 l l 653 l d l l s s s s 654 s s s s 655 656 s s s s 657 s s s s 658 s 659 "There can be no doubt of the great effect that would be produced in these colonies, if Parliament could be prevailed upon to admit the agricultural produce of the Canadas free of duty for consumption in the United Kingdom." 660 "The real means of affording advantage to Upper Canada would be to permit the importation of its produce free of duty into the United Kingdom, and the opinion that prevails among them certainly renders it a measure at this moment of the utmost importance." " Those who have the object of exciting alarm among the agricultural interests of this country, and wish to show how unsafe it is to trust the Government, exclaim against the dangerous and new schemes they are introducing, as being unfavourable to the agricultural interests of the country." s s s d 661 s s s 662 l 663
  Mr. Liddell  said that the interest which this question had excited was not greater than its' own intrinsic importance demanded. He supported it, in the first instance, because Government had introduced a system of colonial policy which was in many respects new and which, in the same proportion that it had excited the opposition of the noble Lord, secured his support. The right, hon. Gentlemen, a late Member of the Government, in arguing against the measure, had given a. number of reasons why he considered the proposition of the noble Lord objectionable. It might be sufficient to say in answer that the Legislative Assembly of Canada had passed, by unanimous vote, a bill in compliance with the wishes expressed by Government, and had called on the Government at home to confirm the vote by a measure similar to that now brought forward. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton, in speaking of opening a free-trade with America, and throwing aside the protection which it was proposed to extend to the colonies, often expressed a desire to see the corn of America brought here in American vessels,, Now he owned that the employment of the shipping interest actuated him powerfully in his support of this measure. If there were a considerable trade by American ships, it would, to that extent, diminish the trade of the ports of England. "He held in his hand a return, from which it appealed that the number,
 636
 Mr. W. D. Stanley  said, that presuming that the gates of Somnauth were of no great use in India, and that they could not well be employed to adorn the temple to which they had originally belonged, he wished to know if the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had any objections to their being brought home and deposited in the British Museum.
 Lord John Russell  said, that what the right hon. Baronet meant with respect to the royal declaration relative to the repeal of the union was, that the declaration of the Sovereign was made by the right hon. Baronet's advice, because any personal act or declaration of the Sovereign ought not to be introduced into that place. With respect to the repeal of the Union, the subject was open to amendment or
 577
 Mr. C. Buller  said it could not be de-
 640 s s s 641 s s s s "After the completion of our communications a reduction will be made in the transit, of 2 s d s d s s s s s s s 642 s s d s s d s d s s s 643 Oh"]; 644 s 645
 The Speaker  : The hon. Member himself was irregular in the course he had pursued, in referring to words spoken in debate on a former evening. If the hon. Member was of opinion that anything said by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury was irregular, he ought to have taken exception to it at the time, and not allowed many days to elapse before calling the attention of the House to it. His opinion was, that there was nothing inconsistent with the practice of the House in using the name of the Sovereign in the manner in which the right hon. Baronet had used it. It was quite true that it would be highly out of order to use the name of the Sovereign in that House so as to endeavour to influence its decision, or that of any of its Members, upon any question under its consideration; but he apprehended that no expression which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman could be supposed to bear such a construction.
 The Speaker : The hon. Member had undoubtedly a right to give such explanation as might make his question intelligible to the House.
 The Speaker:  The hon. Member must be aware that in making such observations he was himself quite out of order.
 The Speaker,  interrupting the hon, Member, said, the hon. Member had a right to put a question, but not to make a speech when there was no motion before the House.
 Mr. G. Bankes  had no objection to state to the principles enunciated by the noble Lord, the Secretary to the Colonies, and acquiesced in by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the more especially as they were principles which deeply affected the interests of one of our most important colonies. Agreeing in those principles, he could not offer any objection to the preliminary motion of the noble Lord. It was difficult for him to understand why the right hon. Gentleman had offered his amendment to the House, because it appeared to him to be inconsistent with the affection and respect due to so important a colony, to move in that House that her Majesty should withhold her consent to the first important measure which had been passed by the united Legislature. He could not have any hesitation, whatever his opinion of the measure might be, in giving a negative to the amendment of the right hon. Gentleman. He could not join in any address to the Crown, praying her Majesty to withhold her royal sanction from a measure which had passed the Colonial United Assembly almost, as he understood, with unanimity. He should feel hesitation in taking that course, even if there were no other mode in which he might offer his opposition; but should his duty require him to oppose the measure of the noble Lord, plenty of opportunities must necessarily be afforded to him, and he would give it in conformity will the rules and usages of the House, and in a regular manner. Like the right hon. Gentleman, he regretted to hear some of the observations of the noble Lord, and he must take leave to say, when the noble Lord complained of the exaggeration and clamour which prevailed in the country respecting the measure, that the chief origin of that exaggeration and clamour
 616 617 "Referring to a despatch of the 11th of November, in which I stated, that I was desirous of hearing further, especially with regard to the Wheat Duty Bill, and urging you to obtain such information as would assist the Government in forming an opinion, I am aware that the state of your health has been an impediment to your proceedings; but as the time for decision is now rapidly passing away, and I cannot proceed without the in. formation I was led to expect, I must ask you to request the Executive Council to enter on the duty, and furnish me with information, and particularly with reference to the exemption from wheat duty, and how far it has affected the question of frauds on the revenue." s 618 s d s s s d s 619 s s s
 Mr. G. Heathcote did not believe, that such mistaken notions had been entertained of the bill among agriculturists as the Government appeared to imagine. It was known, that American grain could not come into this country, but in the shape of flour after having been ground in Canada. The bill was, however, objected to on general and important grounds. A great measure had passed last Session which had been represented as a "settlement" of the Corn-law question, and it was too bad, after so short an interval,
 620 621 s Stanley: " 622 Stanley.
 Mr. Labouchere:  In any observations, Sir, which I may feel it my duty to submit to the House, I shall endeavour to imitate the calm tone which distinguished the greater part of the speech of the noble Lord who has just addressed you. I agree with the noble Lord that much misrepre-
 601 602 " The greatest advantage which results from it, however, in my opinion is, that by the arrangement respecting the admission of flour and salt provisions, duty free, into the northern colonies, we destroy the whole range of custom-houses on the St. Lawrence, and open at once that vast outlet to the productions of the states of Maine and Ohio. I need scarcely dwell upon the advantages which must result, in a political point of view, from rendering these fertile provinces, daily increasing in cultivation, dependent on us for an outlet for their produce. Any one who will reflect on the subject for a moment must be aware of this." 603 s 604 s s 605 s s 606 607 608 609 s s s 610 s 611 612 s s 613 " An humble address be presented to her Majesty, humbly praying her Majesty to withhold her assent from an Act passed in the last Session of the Provincial Parliament of Canada for the imposition of a duty on the importation of foreign corn."
 Mr.Roebuck:  There is not a single rapid from Prescott to Kingston. I know the place well. I have gone up the river in a canoe hundreds of times.
  Mr. Roebuck   said, "that the House had already been treated with the peculiarities of hon. Members; but be should emulate all In peculiarity, for he not only differed in Opinion from his Mi. and learned Friend Who had just sat down, as that hon. Gentleman differed from all who had preceded him, but he differed also from all others at the same time. This question as it now stood had assumed, he thought, a constitutional character. On this occasion he should vote against the motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Taunton; though hereafter he should also oppose the motion of the noble Lord (Lord
 646 647 s d s d s s s Member: Mr. Hume made an observation]. s d s s s s s s s s d 648 649
  Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  observed, that the declaration made by the late King was made in a perfectly constitutional shape, in answer to an address of the House, or by means of a message brought down to Parliament, and not in the shape in which the late announcement had been made— an announcement which, under all the circumstances of the case, coming from a Minister of the Crown in his place in Parliament, he considered as being not merely irregular, but more than ordinarily so.
  Mr. Borthwick  wished to repeat the question which he had put about a fortnight ago, with reference to the Poor-laws—namely, whether Govern-
 574
 Mr. Blewitt:  If he put a question he must first explain what he had to complain of, and he could not do that unless he was allowed to state the circumstances. ["  Order, order," and Laughter.] [Cries of Order."]
 Mr. Blewitt submitted to the Chair. He wished to ask the Speaker and the House whether the conduct of the right hon. Baronet opposite, in mixing up unnecessarily and gratuitously the name of the Sovereign with his answer to a question put to him, was or was not irregular, and whether it was or was not consistent with the practice and usages of the House.
  Mr. Blewitt:  On the 10th of May last, the noble Lord the Member for Lynn
 575 "He would ask why the name of the King should be introduced into this discussion When a measure like this was introduced, to?which it was to be presumed that the King's consent had been given—when that fact was not called in question—was it necessary, day after day, to stale, both in the House and through the public press, that the measure possessed the approbation of his Majesty? But he regretted that such a course had been pursued upon other grounds. He would not then discuss the merits of the main question, but it was a measure of great harshness towards incorporated bodies, who had often proved their loyalty, to call upon them to sacrifice the privileges which they possessed, and why—he would ask them—why needlessly hold out to these bodies the consideration that the King approved of the plan by which their privileges were to be abolished? Such conduct, he thought, showed that the Ministry shrunk from their proper share of the responsibility and odium of the measure. Such conduct was neither proper nor decent." 576 Loud Cries of " Order, order."
 Mr. Blewitt  rose pursuant to notice, to " call the attention of the House to the irregular manner in which certain royal declarations or messages relating to Ireland were lately communicated to this House by the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government, and to take the opinion of Mr. Speaker and the House thereon." If a due observance of the rules and regulations of this House had any value in the estimation of hon. Members, they would not be disposed to find fault with him for bringing under their notice a very great irregularity on the part of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. He wished to call the serious attention of the House to the subject.
 Mr. Thornely  was so entirely opposed to the scheme of the noble Lord, that he had not the least hesitation in rising to second the motion of the right hon. Gentleman. He was aware it might have a very ungracious appearance to oppose an act passed by the people of Canada, and if they had come to that House to complain of restrictions on their trade he would have been one of the first to give them his aid in removing these restrictions; But the object' now sought was that wheat might be brought from Canada to this country at a very trifling duty, and in order to that he was asked to assent to, a duty of 3 s 614 s 615
  Sir James Graham  said, that in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, he must repeat the answer which he had given to a similar question upon a former occasion. It was his intention to bring in a bill for the amendment of the Poor-laws, but he was not prepared to say at what time he should be able to introduce it, nor could he give any information as to its provisions.
  Sir Robert Peel  said, that knowing the interest which the hon. Gentleman had taken in the subject, he was not at all surprised at his anxiety to procure "for the public these valuable relics. The hon. Gentleman would, however, understand that the people of India might have similar notions to those which he himself possessed, and might feel great pride and satisfaction at possessing the memorials in question. He would, however, give the hon. Member all the information which he himself possessed upon the subject of the gates. It was contained in an official letter of Lord Ellenborough's, and although it was not usual to submit such documents to the House, he would read that part of it referring to the matter in hand. The right hon Baronet then proceeded to read the letter. It stated that it was satisfactory that no other feeling than that of gratitude to the Government, for having restored the gates, prevailed among the inhabitants of Hindostan. No religious feelings had been excited by the removal, upon the part of the Mussulmen; but that, on the contrary, the general feeling was that a triumph had been achieved. The gates had not been carried further than Agra, owing to the advanced period of the season, and there they would remain for the present. The right hon. Baronet continued: he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would permit the gates to remain where they are, and the more particularly inasmuch as they were regarded with great interest and admiration by the people of Hindostan.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he had merely stated that the late King had declared that he would maintain, with the utmost power of the Sovereign, the connection between the two countries. He had stated also, that her Majesty approved of, and would abide by that resolution; but with respect to any special announcement upon the part of her Majesty he had never dared to make any.
 Sir Robert Peel  had merely confirmed, on the part of her Majesty, by the advice of the Government, the declaration made by the former Sovereign.
 Viscount Howick:  The object was not to increase the present transit trade. Then, if Canada did not grow enough for her consumption, and that was admitted on the face of the papers before the House and by his noble Friend.  [No, no.] " All the grain grown in Canada would not supply the consumption of British North America." " Lower Canada produces little or no wheat and clearly less than her own consumption." Stanley: " 626 s s s s [No, no.] s s s s s s s s 627 s s s s s 628 l l s s s s 629 s d s s 630 631 "Looking back to the proceedings of last Session, I find that such an impost was considered, and ultimately rejected." "If you tax American corn, we will let yours in free to England. "One of the sterling advantages which this measure confers on the Canadian grower is, that though he cannot, for reasons already assigned, compete successfully with the growers in England, still, he would realize the home market as well as that of British North America, from which he has hitherto been too successfully excluded by his more fortunate rivals." 632 633 634 s "We will take the earliest opportunity of recommending the removal of all duties at present imposed upon the manufactures of the mother country when admitted into Canada." 635
 Viscount Howick  was anxious to take the first opportunity of stating to the House what his opinion was upon this subject. He differed entirely from the last three hon. Gentlemen who had spoken because he believed that two of them only were going to vote against the motion, and that the third, although his vote would be in favour of it, had spoken very strongly against it. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Dorsetshire, seemed to be in a dilemma, for which he very sincerely pitied him, and from which he was afraid he could not congratulate him upon extricating himself, even after the great ingenuity he had shown in attempting to do so. The hon. and learned Gentleman found, on the one hand, a very strong feeling on the part of his constituents against the motion, and, on the other hand, the hon. and learned Gentleman had an extreme desire not to abandon his Friends on the Treasury Bench. Therefore, although the noble Lord said, that the Canadian act and the English act were, in fact, one measure, to stand or fall together, yet the hon. Gentleman would not vote against the Canadian act, but reserved his opposition to a future stage, when he expected his opposition might be fully understood. He had no
 625
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that the question of the hon. Gentleman was the first intimation he had of such a bill being passed. Her Majesty's Government could not, therefore, have considered the subject.
 Mr. Ellice  said, if he were to follow his hon. Friend he should have to enter into a discussion on the general question of the Corn-laws. The opportunity of doing so was certainly rather tempting to him, inasmuch as during the recent debates on that question he had—as he thought he ought to do—given way to younger Members representing large constituencies, who were anxious to address the House, instead of reiterating the opinions which he had declared on many former occasions. He had lately given what might be considered a strong vote on the subject of the Corn-laws. He had given that vote because it was his conscientious opinion that of all taxes which could be devised, the worst was a tax on the food of the people. He had given that vote also in the belief, founded
 692 693 694 695 696 s. s 697 698
 Lord J. Russell : Before addressing myself to the proposal now before the House, I must remark that I heard with considerable pain the declaration of the right hon. Baronet, that he considered Ca nada that part of the British empire which was most in danger.
 Lord J. Russell   If such was the pur-
 739 740 "That with respect to any new duties and customs the Imperial Parliament shall have all the powers it hitherto had, provided only, that the amount of any custom duties that may hereafter be levied upon Canada shall not be paid into the Treasury of this country, but form part of the revenue of Canada." 741 s. s s s s s s 742 743 744 s. s. s. s. s. s s s s s "That Canadian wheat from the reduction to 1 s 745 746 "I have made such alterations in the customs, and so lowered the price of living in consequence, that many persons tell me they can pay the income-tax very easily out of the savings they make through the operation of the measures of last year. Such is the effect of my measures that you will see the income-tax can be well afforded." 747 s.
 Sir Andrew Leith Hay : I beg to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he have received official information as to the extent of secession which has already taken place from the Church of Scotland? Secondly, I wish to ask whether it be the intention of Ministers to follow up the declaration contained in her Majesty's letter presented by her commissioner to the General Assembly, stating (when too late) the readiness of the Government to legislate for the settlement of the church question; and if so, whether it be contemplated to introduce the bill formerly proposed by Lord Aberdeen, or any measure of a similar tendency? I do this in order that the people of Scotland may be aware of what they have to expect, and be prepared to resist the same to the last extremity.
 Mr. Hawes  did not believe, that the Friends of the noble Lord opposite would desert him on this occasion, and therefore he attached no importance to the intimation of the noble Lord, that the proposal of the scheme might probably be his last official act, should Parliament advise the Crown to withhold its assent from the Colonial Bill. The only question they had to consider was, whether they should or should not give their consent to the Colonial Act. He contended, that they were not interfering with the colonial legislature in the course proposed by his right hon. Friend, for they were acting in accordance with the usual practice observed on similar occasions. The act had passed the colonial legislature clearly in contemplation of a discussion upon the subject in this House, and of course the Canadian legislature were aware they must abide the consequences. He particularly wished, as a free-trader, to address himself to the free-traders in that House, and he would ask them whether they could by any possibility, consistently with their own views, support that act? What was the preamble of the act? An assertion of the principle of the English Corn-laws. He would distinctly state, that the object of that act was to give protection to the native agriculturists. Now, he understood his hon. Friends around him stoutly to object to the enunciation of that principle, directly or indirectly. If, therefore, they voted against his right hon. Friend in support of the
 704 s s. s. d s s. 705 s s 706 s. d s. d 707
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  could not throw any additional light upon this subject, which had already been so amply discussed; but he was very desirous of stating to the House the nature of the vote he intended to give, his reasons for that vote, and the peculiar circumstances under which he gave it. At Easter last he attended an annual meeting of the county which he had the honour to represent, and at that meeting a resolution was proposed deprecating any alteration in the law respecting corn, as regarded Canada; and, also, another resolution condemnatory of the extent to which the Government had already carried free-trade principles. This last resolution, at his suggestion, was withdrawn; but the resolution deprecating any alteration in the Canada duties was unanimously agreed to. A petition, grounded upon this resolution, was proposed and signed by most of the resident proprietors, farmers, and tenants in the county. He was asked to support the petition, and he promised to do so, and he had since presented the petition to the House. Since then, however, the speeches he had heard in that House, and other information which he had received, convinced him that he was mistaken on the question when he promised to support the petition of his constituents. He found that, instead of lessening the protection to the home grower, the proposition of her Majesty's Government was calculated to increase that protection—as it went to establish a fixed duty of 4 s. s 722
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that the only apology he could make for intruding himself on the House on so important a question, was the fact of finding himself opposed to a Government similar in principle to those Governments which for four and twenty years he had supported. The noble Lord the Secretary for the colonies had said, that the measure was simply a boon to the Canadians; he wished he could look upon it in that light, the more particularly as he understood that on its success rested the existence of the present Government, or at least the retention of office by the noble Lord. The noble Lord should recollect that he belonged to a Government which belonged to the world, and the world could not afford to hare its interests circumscribed within the narrow limits of personal honour. No matter how personal honour might be engaged, he believed that the measure now proposed would be detrimental to national interests, and holding that opinion he felt bound to declare it, and to ratify his opinion by his vote. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had stated,
 690 "I have only to add that, had there been no restriction on the importation of foreign corn into Great Britain, the tariff never would have passed here." "I have only to add, that had no restrictions on the importation of foreign grain existed in Europe, generally and especially in Great Britain, these tariffs never would have passed." 691
 Mr. Darby,  alluding to the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Taunton, asked whether it were to be expected that a Member of the Government which had carried the union between the two pro-
 708 709 s. s s.
 Dr. Bowring  begged to know from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade whether, having seen in the public journals that the legislature of Prince Edward's Island levied a duty of 4 s d
 Mr. Trotter,  as an extensive agriculturist himself, and representative of an agricultural constituency, thought the fixed duty of 4 s. s s., s d.
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to condole with the hon. Member for North Devon (Mr. Buck), who had told the House that the agriculturists had been in a state of perplexity and uncertainty for three years, and were now in distress, which they could no longer submit to Now, it
 710 s. s s. s. 711 s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. d., s. d s. d s. d s. d., In 1841, the price was 64 s d., s d., 712 s d d s d s. d s s d s d. s., s d s d s s d. s d d d s * † P. P., No. 218, of 1843. 713 s d s d s s s s s 714 s s 715 s s "That he was opposed to every species of protective duty, as these duties were on all occasions imposed at the expence of some part of the community; but, as the Imperial Government had conceded to the House of Assembly the right of legislating for Canada in matters relating to its commerce, and had declared that it was desirous to extend the further boon of admitting all Canadian agricultural produce into England free of duty, he (Mr. Viger) could not see any objection to the imposition of a duty on corn coming into Canada from foreign countries to which Great Britain had not yet extended that privilege. It was not (said Mr. Viger) for the House of Assembly to say what the mother country ought to do with respect to the importation of foreign corn, it was sufficient for them to know that Canada was favoured by the mother country, not only by the proposition of admitting its agricultural produce at a shilling duty into England; but also by the declaration of Sir Robert Peel that he was desirous that Canada should become as a new county added to England." 716 s s s s. s s s s 717 " Sir R. Peel, it was said, is not accustomed to waste words, still less to use very expressive words without regard to their meaning. On the 23rd March last, during a debate on the tariff, Sir R. Peel declared that he thought we ought ' to consider our colonies as an integral part of this country.' Another report of his speech gives the words, 'to consider them as English counties.' It is, however, certain, that in one or other form of words the Prime Minister made the remarkable declaration that in his opinion the principle of protection ought not to be applied against colonies—that these portions of the empire ought to be as free of the home market as Ireland or an English county." 718 "Whereas the chief objection to the free admission of wheat and wheat-flour to the said United Kingdom from Canada arises from the free admission of foreign wheat into Canada;" s s * "That the commercial interests of the province are now depressed and suffering to an unprecedented extent, chiefly in consequence of the measures lately adopted by the Imperial Parliament, withdrawing or greatly limiting that protection which its principal products formerly enjoyed, in competing with foreigners in the markets of the mother country and your Majesty's other colonies. That, in consequence of these measures, your Majesty's subjects in this province, from their greater distance from these markets, can only now successfully compete with foreigners therein under the most favourable and rare circumstances; and should your Majesty assent to the said act of the Legislative Council and Assembly of Canada, without at the same time conferring on your Majesty's subjects in this * 719 free "That the flour hitherto exported from Canada, has been chiefly made from wheat the growth of the United States." s d. 720 s [Hear, hear.]  721 s
 Mr. Buck  said, that when the right hon. Baronet had last year brought forward his scale of duties, be had lent him his support, in the belief that the measure then proposed would have the effect of settling the question, and he must regret that the result had not realised the expectations of the right hon. Baronet and the country by securing for corn a price of 56 s. s. s. s. s. 701 702
 Mr. Blewitt  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet as to the irregular mode in which the Factories Bill had been introduced. By a Standing Order of the House, passed in 1772, it was laid down that no bill relating to religious matters could be brought on without a resolution in committee of the whole House. This Standing Order was acted on in a bill brought in in 1780, and he contended, that this bill as much related to religion as the one then introduced. If the right hon. Baronet felt any doubt on the subject, he ought to have given the benefit of that doubt to the immense number of petitioners who complained of the bill. There was also another objection. By one of the Standing Orders of the House, no bill imposing any charge upon the people, could be introduced except in a committee of the whole House. Now, by the 74th clause of the bill, the trustees were empowered to borrow money for the purpose of building these schools, and by another clause the trustees and overseers of the poor were authorised to discharge the expenses incurred in the maintenance of the schools out of the parochial rates.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  was anxious to state the grounds of the vote which he intended to give. When the Corn-bill was under discussion last year, he proposed a clause to allow colonial wheat to come in at a duty of 1 s 699 s. 700 s. s.
 Sir C. Napier  had never seen a plain, simple, straightforward matter, so completely misunderstood as the present. Parties were now placed in an extraordinary position. Gentlemen opposite complained of the noble Lord for giving them an additional duty on Canadian corn, and Gentlemen on that side were praising the noble Lord for putting on a higher duty than before. He thought it impossible to misunderstand what the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) said. The noble Lord distinctly declared that he was not going on the road of free-trade, but that he meant to give protection to the agricultural interest of Canada. More than that, the noble Lord warned hon. Gentlemen on that side, if they were friends to free-trade, to vote against the motion, and he for one intended to take that advice. The duty proposed by the noble Lord was one of 4 s. s d s d. s. d
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that the most important point in the argument of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley), and that on which the whole measure of the Government rested, seemed to him to be the question of good faith. The noble Lord had applied a considerable portion of his declamation to that point, and endeavoured to prove that the good faith of the House was pledged by having raised expectations in Canada which it would not be consistent with the honour of the House to abandon; and if he believed with the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), that the House was a party to the pledges given by the Government, he
 723 s. d. s s s s., s 724 s " With respect to the question which had been alluded to, he believed that no one in that House would contend that Soy regulation ought to be adopted in the new Corn-law which should raise a new barrier as against our trade with the United States. He had proposed laying a duty of 3 s s s s s 725 s s s 726 727 s 728
 Sir J. Graham  would allude to the last portion of the hon. Gentleman's queries
 689
 Sir James Graham:  The concluding observation of the hon. Gentleman has taken me by surprise. The first question was, whether the Government had received official information as to the extent of the secession from the Church of Scotland? I have only received this morning from the high commissioner the answer of the General Assembly to her Majesty's address. That was accompanied with an official statement, and with a protest, which has already appeared in the ordinary channels. I cannot collect from the protest a declaration of absolute secession from the church; I collect from it only a secession from the General Assembly. The commissioners statement is to the effect that ninety-three endowed ministers of the Established Church have
 688 quoad sacra
 Sir R. Peel:  Judging from the notices upon the paper, I apprehend that future opportunities will offer themselves of going more fully into the general question. I shall not, therefore, trouble the House, at the present time, by entering into details and figures, but shall confine my observations to two points; first, to that just adverted to by the right hon. Gentleman, namely, the character and object of this particular motion; and, secondly, to the circumstances under which the Government have thought it their duty to bring this question under the consideration of Parliament. I say I shall apply myself to these two points, reserving all details for future discussion. In these cases it is always of importance, instead of travelling over the collateral facts, to come at once to the consideration of the motion before us. In this case the question is, shall we present an address to the Crown, praying her Majesty to withhold her sanction to the Act passed in the last Session of the Provincial Parliament of Canada? Now reserve your opinion of that measure if you please—offer it, if you like, your firmest opposition when the proper period
 729 730 F. T. Baring s 731 s "My right hon. Friend," he said," has distinctly told the House that he will not press for a duty on American corn imported into Canada." "My right hon. Friend has distinctly told the House that he will not press for a duty on American corn imported into Canada. If we thought fit to remove the duty levied upon the importation of Canadian corn into this country, it is not just to call upon us, under the plausible argument of giving encouragement to Canadian agriculture, to relieve from the burthen of duty all the corn and flour which passes from America through Canada, taking, at the same time, no means to prevent our being inundated with American corn. This is the ground on which I, for one, cannot
 732 "If there was any alteration of the law which regulates the importation of wheat into Canada—if there was such a restriction on wheat going into Canada as would free this country from competition with American corn under the name of Canadian corn—then I think the Canadians would be entitled to a greater relief; but if you do not choose to do this—or if you do not wish to set free the trade both of American and Canadian grain, then I cannot see any reason why we should do that indirectly which you have refused to do directly." "The Canadian people are the best judges of the benefit which they will gain from such a measure, and their own colonial reprentatives should decide as to its advantages or disadvantages. I will not assert, that it will not be right for the Government to confirm this act, if they agree to the measure. Upon that point I will express no opinion; but I do contend, that the Legislature of England has no right to meddle with a plan, the effects of which are supposed exclusively to be confined to one of her colonies." 733 [Cheers.'] 734 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. " So much of this resolution shall be omitted as refers to' an act agreed to by the Legislature
 735 736 l 737 s. s. s. s. 738 s. s.
 Sir R. Peel:  The purport of my observation was, that without the good-will of the people the colony might be in danger.
 Viscount Sandon  said the noble Lord near him had made a statement as to the expense of conveying com from America to England, which, if correct, was quite sufficient to remove from the mind of even the most sensitive agriculturist any alarm he might feet as to the probability of an inundation of Canadian wheat and flour. Doubts had been thrown on that statement, but he bad referred to a very intelligent merchant, unconnected with the North American colonies, and had found that the noble Lord's statements were rather under than over the mark. It was impossible that any very great quantity of corn or flour could be introduced into this
 703
 Lord Stanley  was sorry that he and his hon. Friends bad obtained the benefit of the vote of the hon. Member—[Mr.  Hume 806
 Mr. Gladstone  intended to revive the select committee of 1841, relating to such companies. The subject to which the second question referred was one involving very complicated details, many of which were already under consideration. As to the course which it might be advisable to adopt, he was unwilling at present to pledge himself to any particular measure,
 Dr. Lushington  said, in fact, that the British Crown, having obtained by this act—whether rightly or wrongly, I do not now inquire—more property than the subjects of the Crown had lost, the subjects of the Crown might fairly look to that fund or compensation. I hope, therefore, the Solicitor-general will not now oppose a motion which in 1836 he thought fairly entitled to the equitable consideration of the House. Now, Sir, before I conclude my case, I must refer the House to one or two of the names of Members who voted for those claims. A very large number of the Gentlemen opposite voted for their liquidation, and it will not now, I am sure, be considered a party question. It is one which I trust will be decided on equitable considerations, and without reference to parties. On former occasions such was the intermingling of parties, that it was impossible for any one to know beforehand what the decision of the House would be from the party in power. So I trust it will be on the present occasion, and I hope that hon. Gentlemen opposite will recollect the voles they gave on former occasions, and will not alter their opinions from the imperfect manner in which 1 have stated the case. There were seventy five members who voted for the liquidation of these claims, and amongst them I find the name of the hon. and learned Member for Woodstock, whom I specially name, because his vote was given after the question had been legally argued. J also find the name of Mr. Freshfield, also a lawyer of great experience, and if 1 mention these only, it is because they as lawyers were called upon to vote, and did vote upon a question which involved legal
 815 " That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the report of the Commissioners for the investigation of Danish claims, dated 12th May, 1840, to whom it was referred, to examine and adjudicate upon the claims of cer-
 816
 Mr. Tracy  described this as " harsh language," but he believed the House would agree with him that it was a most brutal speech. The report afterwards proceeded:
 " The chaplain also deposes, that on the 5th of December the governor met him in the prison yard, and apparently under considerable irritation, addressed him in these words; ' Fairhurst, and some of these Chartists, have been complaining about their beef;' and further said, ' Damn these Chartists, I'll give them their belly-full before I have done with them.'" Egerton hear"]. "Knutsford, March, "Sir—After perusing your remarks lately made in the House of Commons relative to the House of Correction at Knutsford, I beg leave to state that Burgess, who is the head gaoler, has in the most unfeeling manner publicly boasted in the midst of a promiscuous company, in the bar of the George Inn, where he occasionally goes to pass his evenings,' of the short time in which by his prison discipline he can break down (as he expressed himself) the constitutions of prisoners,' who unfortunately by their misdeeds placed themselves under his tender mercies; such is this man's boast, his favourite theme; no person of any respectability will in the most distant manner associate with him. He had orders from the hostess of the George Inn to take a room whenever he came there, as people who frequent the inn retire with horror from his presence on account of the merciless remarks he habitually indulges in, relative to the treatment of his prisoners." 820 " It is alleged that certain of the prisoners were, on Thursday, the 20th of October, in the sessions week, placed upon the tread-wheel, out of their regular turn, for the purpose of showing it working to strangers visiting the house of correction. It appears to be customary for the grand jury at every sessions and adjourned sessions, to go through the house of correction previous to their discharge, and that they are occasionally accompanied by females; that at such times if the tread-wheel is not at work, prisoners are called out from their wards and placed upon it for a short time, to show the manner of its working. The complaint made by the prisoners of having on one occasion been placed on the wheel for such purpose in the sessions week, is I consider, just, and that the practice is at all times objectionable." "It appears to the court that the practice has prevailed upon the occasions of the visits of the grand jury, and, as Captain Williams alleges, on some other occasions; but, as the latter instances appear to have occurred always in the presence of a magistrate, this court considers the governor to be exonerated." " It appears to the court that a prisoner convicted of felony has been appointed by the governor to instruct misdemeanants in the weaving, but he had no authority over them, and was never with them, unless he was called for by them to fetch materials or to instruct
 821 " I have the honour to transmit to you a copy of the report of the inspector of prisons for the northern district, on an inquiry into the treatment of prisoners in the Knutsford House of Correction. It is unnecessary for me to enclose a copy of the report which I received from the visiting justices soon after the termination of the inquiry, as they will doubtless already have transmitted to you a copy for the information of the magistrates; but I enclose a copy of the inspector's remarks en the latter part of that report, relating to certain particulars which were not con
 822 " This court remarks, that it would be very convenient and conducive to the discipline of the prison, if the inspector would report to the visiting magistrates any misconduct in the officers, or any other matter requiring their notice, as soon as it came to his knowledge, to which the magistrates will pay immediate attention. This court concludes by saying, that after a careful investigation of the charges referred to its consideration, it is of opinion, that with the exception of the case of the boy Trainer (which has already been adjudicated upon), such charges are in themselves not of much importance, and their recurrence provided against, and are not such as to deprive the governor of the confidence which the magistrates have hitherto reposed in him, and which his general good conduct, and the discipline which he has maintained in the prison have appeared to deserve." 823 d. d., s. Member 824 825 " That it appearing to this House that the Secretary of State for the Home Department, after inquiry made under his authority into certain circumstances connected with the discipline and management of the Knutsford House of Correction, in the county of Chester, has thought it right to advise that the governor of the said House of Correction should be removed; and it also appearing, that the magistrates, in sessions assembled, have, after an alleged careful examination, deemed the charges referred to them by the Secretary of State, with one exception, not of much importance, nor such as to deprive the governor of the confidence reposed in him, and which, as they allege, his general good conduct, and the discipline he had maintained, appeared to deserve; and, therefore, that such governor, contrary to the recommendation of the Secretary of State, has been continued in his office; and it being alledged by the rev, William Browne, in his petition presented to this
 826
 Mr. Tatton Egerton  said, there was the greatest anxiety on the part of the magistrates of the county to meet fairly and openly the charges of the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman had attempted to carry the House from the consideration of the real question, which was, the conduct of the chaplain of the gaol. The hon. Gentleman had said scarcely one word upon that subject, and all his arguments went to the conduct of the magistrates and the governor of the gaol. He did not appear there as the apologist of the governor. The hon. Gentleman said the governor possessed the confidence of the magistrates. He did not entirely agree with that, for the governor did not enjoy his confidence. But the magistrates did not shrink from the consideration of this subject. They might have erred in judgment as to the conduct of the governor; but the hon. Gentleman had alleged against them no one single corrupt or unworthy motive. He regretted their decision; but in justice to a very large body, consisting of thirty-four gentleman actuated by no political motives residing on the spot and accurately acquainted with the whole circumstances of the case, having minutely investigated it two or three times, he must say, with all deference, that they were better judges than that House might be what was the real state of the question. They might have been led away by a feeling of attachment to the governor from his long service, and he gave them credit for the best mo-
 827 828 " Was warned by one of the magistrates (an entire stranger to him) that if his politics were as reported, different from those of the chairman of quarter sessions and a great majority of the magistrates, he must keep them to himself if he wished to retain his situation, for from what transpired at his appointment, no doubt the first opportunity would be taken to get rid of him." l. l 829 " That your petitioner, according to his duty, reported the keeper's continued absence from divine service, for which he was reprimanded by the chairman of the quarter sessions, who told him that prayers were not divine service, and he must not report them as such in future. That he was desired by the chairman on this occasion (April, l840) to confine himself solely to his spiritual duties, and not interfere; that he (the chairman) would not have an  imperium in imperio)." " The attention of the gaoler is called to the prison rule requiring his attendance at the chapel at the performance of divine service. He states to the committee that he attends service only on the Sunday, and says he makes a distinction between prayers only and divine service, and that he complies with the prison rule by attending chapel when full service, and not prayers only, is performed. The committee are of opinion that the gaoler's construction of the rule is not correct, but that he is bound in pursuance of it to attend the chapel whenever a public and general service is performed, whether that service consist of prayers only or of the full service of the Church, unless he has good cause for his absence, to be entered on the journal, and he is therefore enjoined to observe the prison rule according to the committee's construction of it." " In consequence of the chaplain having interfered in a case of the conviction of a female at the sessions, and also in the case of the sentence of a court-martial, under which a soldier was confined in the house of correction, an inquiry was directed by the quarter sessions, and the chairman was desired to reprimand the chaplain; in the course of which he told him that he ought to have reported any circumstances which might have come to his knowledge to the visiting magistrates, whose province it was to consider them and act thereon; his province was to attend to his spiritual duties. In the course of this examination it was proved that the chaplain was constantly interfering in the interior management of the gaol; so much so, that when the governor offered to punish a prisoner, he was
 830 " In consequence of the chaplain having made incorrect entries in his journal respecting the surgeon, and altering and erasing original entries in the journal submitted to and signed by the quarter sessions, he apologised to the visiting justices, and the minute on the report was read to him, and he was directed in future to report each meeting of the gaol committee on the state of the gaol, and any observations he had to make on the discipline of the gaol." " That your petitioner afterwards reported the keeper for employing prisoners to his own profit and to their detriment, emptying the sewers of the gaol, and in withdrawing thirteen prisoners, on one occasion (December 13th, 1842) from prayers, to fill carts with the ordure from behind the solitary cells, where it had been deposited and mixed; that this entry on his journal remained unnoticed by the visiting justices." " Two services at chapel at nine o'clock a. m.; present, taskmasters, warders, thirteen felons detained to fill the carts with dung from the heap behind the solitary cells. Service at half-past twelve; present, female warders and one male; thirteen felons detained from morning service present." " I am inclined to this recommendation by observing certain entries, calculated to produce unfavourable impressions of the officers, of whom, if complaints were necessary, they should have been made at the time personally to the justices. It should be recollected, that  ex parte 831 " That the governor employed prisoners to empty the main sewer, and that its contents were deposited behind the solitary cells, and mixed up by prisoners into a large heap during the hot weather, in the month of August last. The smell was very offensive, these cells being used both for punishment and sleeping cells. That on December the 13th, 1842, thirteen felons were detained from chapel to fill dung-carts from the heap behind the solitary cells; that your petitioner had made an entry of this transaction on his journal, and no notice had been taken of this entry; that prisoners were constantly employed in cleaning at the governor's house, and that the petitioner had seen one of the governor's female servants one morning tap at the window to a felon on the opposite side of the yard, when the prisoners were going to chapel, and that he went into the governor's house, and that your petitioner sent for him to come to chapel; also that prisoners were often employed in cleaning at the houses of the subordinate officers, all contrary to the statute and gaol regulations." Member: " The chaplain visits the hospital daily; he never remains there above seven or eight minutes. He has never spoken to one of the sick on any religious subject, nor inquired of what religion they are. To a prisoner who died of a lingering disease, during the whole time he was ill the chaplain never offered any spiritual consolation till requested to do so. On Friday he reads prayers on the landing-place of the stairs, that he may be heard in all the three rooms; these prayers, with an exhortation upon a text, never last above ten minutes altogether. His visits have been more
 832
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  regretted the imputations which had been thrown out, and the language which had been used by the hon. Member for North Cheshire, in reference to one of the parties principally implicated. If the hon. Member had only remembered that the evidence of that individual had been given on oath, he was sure that the hon. Member would not have thought of using such expressions. The speech of that hon. Member had certainly done much to confirm his impression that inquiry into this case was highly necessary, and he thought it was only on receiving the assurance of the Home Secretary that he Would not let this matter rest where it was; but would vindicate the authority of the Home-office, that they ought to consent to forego a division on the present motion. He should not go into the facts of this case, but he could not help observing, that he thought there was no sufficient cause for the dismissal of the chaplain. With respect to one fact connected with that officer, he wished to correct what he believed to be an erroneous impression. He believed that the chaplain had never been shown the minute of the magistrates; and that he had never been called upon by them to send in any monthly report. He rejoiced that the question had been calmly considered; and he hoped the magistrates would derive a lesson from what had been said, and that the whole discussion would tend to a beneficial alteration of the present system. He hoped, too, that if would not be without its good effect upon the Government, by teaching them the advisability of instituting a better system of gaol discipline.
 Mr. Hawes:  Sir, when I recollect how often the subject of the Danish claims has been brought under the consideration of the House in the interval from 1808 to the present time, and how often it has been discussed by many of its most distinguished Members, I own I wish it had fallen to the lot of some one, whose learning and authority would give weight to his argument in advocating these just claims, again to solicit the attention of the House to the subject; but, Sir, being requested by those who are deeply interested in the question to bring it once more before the House, and believing as I do that these claims are founded in justice, I have yielded to their wish. Sir, there are two points of view in which I shall regard this subject. First of all, I shall review the proceedings of the House with regard to these claims; and next, I shall briefly allude to the peculiar circumstances of the case, and the principles of justice and of equity upon which, without any reference to the proceedings of the House, I believe these claims to be founded. Sir, I might rest my case upon the proceedings of the House alone, but if I did it would restrain me from urging those claims of justice, on which it might be said it ought to rest; and though I cannot therefore avoid reopening the whole case, yet it has but so recently been powerfully argued as to demand but a brief recapitulation of the
 807 808 l 809 810 811 812 813 l " It appears to me that the claimants for losses by the seizure of their ships and cargoes make out a very strong case for the equitable consideration of the Government." 814 "The retention of Danish property, without compensating the British sufferers, is not consistent with my notions of justice. The ground upon which the claimants rest is that it is a great hardship for British subjects to lose their property by Acts of the Crown, when those very Acts of the Crown brought to the country a much greater properly than it lost,"
 The Speaker  said, that by a standing Order of the House, no Address could be voted to her Majesty for a grant of money except in a committee of the whole House; and that the House could not resolve itself into a committee of the whole House on a motion by an hon. Member, without that hon. Member giving notice of his motion previously.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had come down upon that, as upon all former occasions, to support the claims of men who had, he considered, been refused common justice. He should much regret that the hon. Member should be prevented upon a point of form from taking the sense of the House
 817
 Mr. Legh  wished, before this discussion
 839 " Ever since my appointment as surgeon to the gaol, I have noticed with regret the gradual falling away of the men sentenced to long terms of imprisonment and I have endeavoured by various means to obviate this. 1 have exempted them from the ordinary gaol labour, employed them in irregular labour in the yards, increased and varied their food, but without any very satisfactory results. My conviction after fifteen years' experience is, that it is impossible to keep men under long sentences of imprisonment in robust health; it is not that they fall actually sick, but that they become pallid, care-worn, and enfeebled, and loose all their energy and exertion. This is not the effect of the diet or the labour, the locality or discipline of the gaol, but arises I believe solely from their being in confinement, and the depressing circumstances attending that confinement." "Mr. Dean stated, that having seen the entry in the journal, he wrote to Mr. Browne complaining of it, but Mr. Browne had not replied to that note, but had shown it in the town, and the subject had been freely canvassed. The chaplain's journal was produced, and, an erasure appearing in the entry of the 16th of June last, he was asked whether that erasure was made previous to the journal being submitted to the court of quarter sessions on the 29th of June last, to which he answered that he believed it was. The chaplain stated, that in making the entry, he had done on the 16th of June last, he had no intention to make any charge against Mr. Dean, or to reflect on his conduct as surgeon. The chaplain apologized to the visiting justices and to the surgeon for the entry made in his journal on the 10th of June last. The committee are of opinion, that the chaplain should in future report to each meeting of the gaol committee on the state of the gaol, and any observation he has to make on the discipline." 840
  The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he thought it of the utmost importance that the House should strictly adhere to the rules laid down for the conduct of its proceedings. The hon. Gentleman was clearly acting in violation of those rules. He was ready to discuss the question, but he felt so strongly the necessity of supporting the rules of the House that he would not take any other course than that which he conceived in accordance with those rules.
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone) what was the particular course he intended to pursue with respect to bubble companies? He should also like to know whether Government intended to adopt any measure with respect to the mal-administration of the merchant seamen's fund?
 Mr. Curteis  had listened to the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury with some degree of prejudice, thinking that it might have been made the vehicle of some wit and pleasantry, and a little of party spirit, but after having heard the speech of the hon. Member, and having also heard the reply made by the hon. Member for North Cheshire, he had come to the conclusion that the House ought to grant the committee asked for. He bore willing testimony to the excellence of the letters written by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and if full effect were given to them, they would, in his opinion, prove of great benefit to the community. The real secret of the matter appeared to him to be this—the magistrates did not like to be interfered with by the Secretary of State. But in his opinion, the Secretary of State was a very proper person to interfere and arbitrate between the chaplain and the gaoler. If the House shrunk from an investigation into this case, he was firmly of opinion it would do great damage to the character and reputation of the magistracy of the country. This was no party question, and he therefore called upon hon. Members on both sides of the House to assist in giving effect to the admirable principles laid down in the letters of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 Mr. Henley  said, that Millbank Penitentiary was extremely unhealthy. Some years since epidemics arose there from shortness of food. What had occurred in it showed that we were not sure to escape great mischief because a prison was under the control of Government. Yet, this
 842
 Mr. Henley  wished to say a few words lest his silence should be construed into an acquiescence in principles and proceedings to which he altogether objected. In the first place, he wished to express his full conviction that the subject of prison discipline must undergo a complete revision, and be subjected to an entire change. He was fully persuaded, that no patch work system ever would do. Again, he could not help noticing the operation of the various new rules and new practices which had been introduced into prisons. The chaplain was independent of the gaoler, and the gaoler of the chaplain. The duties of those parties might clash, and then the inspectors might come down and interfere with either, being independent of both. The governors might have their view of improvement, and the inspectors might have theirs — one man might have one crotchet, and one might have another, and each might labour in opposite directions for the accomplishment of the objects which they had severally in view. This was surely a state of things which could not be allowed to continue. He had recently seen the report respecting the prison at Northleach. The statements made with respect to that place of confinement, showed very clearly that it was by no means the best conducted of all the prisons. There was no one who read the report, and who took a view more or less accurate of the statements which it contained, but must be struck with the fact that there existed no competent local authority—nothing to make the parties concerned to act in unison. The justices possessed no authority—every official person connected with the system was independent of every other, and no means existed to make them work harmoniously together.
 Mr. Hume  wished to call the attention of the House to a circumstance which occurred relating to the resolutions as to Canada corn on which the House had decided last night. In the resolutions as they had been agreed to last night, were the words, " duties imposed upon wheat and wheat flour;" but in the same resolution as published in the votes of to-day were interpolated the words, " the produce of." Now, it appeared to him that these words limited the concession to flour from corn grown in Canada, but that was not the sense in which he had voted for the resolution. He hoped the noble Lord would give some explanation of the circumstance.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  in reply, observed, that from the beginning he stated that he went far beyond the dismissal of Mr. Browne. There were several points in the case—that was one of them; but it did not constitute the whole of the case. Mr. Browne did not dispute the power of the magistrates to dismiss him; all that
 841
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that those persons who had become insane in consequence of their confinement were by this bill to be removed to a lunatic asylum. It was also provided, that if a cure should be effected in the asylum before the term of imprisonment had expired, they should then be removed back to the prison. Now that was a cruel provision in any Act of Parliament, for it was very likely, he thought, that in such cases the insanity would return. Such a clause, in his opinion, ought not to be continued in the bill.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that in rising to call the attention of the House to the motion of which he had given notice, he might be allowed to explain how one so totally unconnected with the county of Chester, came to be mixed up in a question apparently of a local character. When, on the 22d of February, he rose to call the attention of the House to the conduct of the Lord Chief Baron (Lord Abinger), at the special commission, held last October, while he (Mr. T. Duncombe) found fault with some of the sentences passed by that noble and learned Lord, he said that the severity, of these sentences was much aggravated by the severity, with which the prisoners were treated in the gaol at Knutsford. On the following day the hon. Member for Cheshire asked why he had not given him notice of his intention to allude to the discipline enforced at Knutsford, and at the same time the hon. Member said that he had been altogether misinformed on the subject. He immediately wrote to his informant to say that his statements were likely to be disputed. The statements which he had made relative to the treatment of the prisoners at Knutsford, amounted to this; that the Chartist prisoners complained that on their arrival at the prison, they
 818 " Now, you special commission men, you were sent here to be punished, and you shall be punished. The discipline of this prison is so rigorously enforced, and the laws so strict, that if I have to punish any of you, it will have
 819
 Sir G. Strickland  said the hon. Gentleman seemed to desire a full investigation; so did he, and the public too would expect it. The public were under great obligation to the hon. Member for Finsbury for having brought this question forward in so fearless a manner. During the ten or twelve years he had been a Member of that House, he had never lost an opportunity of defending the " great unpaid" magistrates, and sometimes when it was not at all a popular course to take. The case of Knutsford gaol was this,—that there had been gross mismanagement by the gaoler; that there had been corruption; that he had misapplied the public property, having used iron and manure that was not his own; that he had deprived the prisoners in an injudicious, if not in an illegal manner, of their quantities of food. But, after all, there was that case of punishment of the boy who was flogged in such a manner that the surgeon said it ought to be stopped, but it was not stopped. What was the statement of the surgeon? That if the boy had died, the gaoler must have been tried for murder. But though the boy survived, ought the gaoler to escape punishment? Ought he not to be tried for a most gross act of injustice and cruelty? Was he to escape altogether, because the extreme consequence of his act had not followed? It was quite obvious, that the magistrates dismissed the chaplain because he thought proper to speak of that subject. An attempt had been made to inculpate the chaplain; but ten of those very magistrates had given the chaplain a good character. The matter could not, rest where
 833 " The responsibility of these proceedings at the general quarter sessions is upon those magistrates who recommended and adopted that decision."
 Sir J. Graham  said, the hon. Gentle man was mistaken if he supposed that this provision was peculiar to this bill. It was part of the general law of the land. When a prisoner was proved to the satisfaction of the medical officers of the prison to be lunatic, the Secretary of State for the Home Department had power to remove him to a lunatic asylum; and, again, when the officers of the lunatic asylum certified that he was recovered, to send Rim back to prison and let the law resume its force; unless in the exercise of his discretion he should advise the Crown to exercise its prerogative of mercy and to remit the rest of the punishment. He had every day to advise the Crown in such cases. He was not prepared to alter this general principle of the law. It worked well and safely, and its enforcement might with propriety be left to the judgment of the advisers of the Crown.
 Sir J. Graham  hoped, after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, that the House would allow him to explain the real intent and object of this measure. The hon. Gentleman was right in stating that Millbank Prison was generally unhealthy. It was now quite clear that long confinement there on low diet was fatal to the constitution. Since the alteration of the diet experience had proved that, from the site of the prison, long confinement there with even the fullest diet could not be consistent with health. This was the unanimous opinion of the medical authorities and others who had been consulted. As, therefore, the idea of using this prison as a penitentiary was abandoned, the next thing which the Government had to consider was, what use might be made of it; for it was a large building and had many conveniences as a prison. He had on a former occasion stated to the House the earnest endeavours made by him and his colleagues for the classification of prisoners. For juvenile offenders there was the prison at Parkhurst, where they would remain till they were eighteen years of age, before which age it was not considered desirable that they should be sent to Pentonville, which was to be appropriated to adults; and for older offenders there were the penal colonies. They had lately introduced a complete system of classification which was known to the judges. Speaking generally of sentences of transportation at the sessions or assizes, the general rule was that the sentence was to be carried into execution. But the criminals were to be divided into three classes. The first was to consist of those who could get tickets of leave on their arrival on account of their general good conduct. The second class was to consist of those whose reformation was certain, and to whom tickets of leave would be granted after some probation in the colony, if their conduct should be satisfactory. The third class was to consist of those who were completely depraved, and who would suffer the utmost punishment awarded to them. It was desirable, with a view to classification, that there should be a term of probation before the
 843
 Sir J. Graham  was happy to say that
 834 835 836 T. Egerton 837
 Sir R. Peel  said, that his experience with respect to grants of money made by the House of Commons, convinced him that it was advisable strictly to adhere to the forms of the House upon such subjects. The hon. Gentleman had not adduced any instance of a departure on the part of the House from the course usually adopted with respect to money grants, and which had been laid down by the Speaker. The hon. Gentleman might give a notice for another day of a particular mode in which the grant should be made. That was the course which had been adopted by Mr. Cresswell, and to which he thought the hon. Gentleman ought to conform. He should repeat, that his experience convinced him that it would be wise, in all cases of money grants, to adhere to the strict and technical rules of the House.
 Sir T. Wilde,  who was suffering under a severe cold, was understood to say, that, however much had been made known to the House of the conduct and management of the gaol at Chester, yet there was much more that the House did not know. He was quite content with the remedy which had been suggested by the right hon. Gentleman—that of giving a concurrent power of dismissal to the Secretary of State, because that power would be exercised under a sense of responsibility, and he was sure it would not be administered with any feeling of fear of offending the magistrates. The facts brought before the House formed the most overwhelming case he had ever read or heard of in his life, and unless the House had full confidence that it was a matter which would receive ample atten-
 838
 Mr. Hutt  said that the late Chancellor of the Exchequr had, when the subject was previously before the House, stated that in consequence of the repeated decisions of the House of Commons in favour of the claim of Mr. Palmer, he did not think it proper or becoming to come forward and stand between the feelings of the House and the subject, and that although be was personally opposed to the claims, he thought it his duty to signify his assent to the motion. Now, as the present case was precisely similar to that one, he could not believe that the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would wish to throw over the question on a mere point of technicality. That precedent being so completely in point, he trusted the right hon. Gentleman opposite would come forward and imitate the example of his predecessor.
 The Attorney-General  had long been of opinion that some large and compre-
 845 l
 Mr. T. C. Smith  (Attorney-general for Ireland) said it was perfectly true that, from the time of passing the Roman Catholic Relief Bill down to the passing of the Irish Reform Bill, every voter was bound to take that oath; but the question was now as to the construction of the Irish Reform Act, and whether the oath required by the 10th of George 4th was repealed by that act. And, first, upon this there arose a question of construction upon the English Act. According to that act, registration was to be conclusive, and certain questions only were to be put, as to whether the voter held the same qualification, whether he was the party registered, and whether he had already voted. That act was open to the same question as to Roman Catholic voters as the Irish Reform Bill; but since the passing that act he did not find that a single Roman Catholic voter had been called upon to take the Roman Catholic oath in England. In the Irish Reform Bill, in the
 848
 Colonel Sibthorp  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman below him (Sir James Graham) would bring in some measure on this subject, as there could be no doubt that the funds of these trusts were grossly mal-appropriated for election purposes. He regretted to hear that nothing would be done on so important a subject in the present Session, and he thought the House ought not to allow Parliament to be prorogued before a bill was passed and received the royal assent.
 Mr. Ross  moved the second reading of the Roman Catholic Oaths (Ireland) Bill.
 Mr. Brotherton  approved highly of any general system by which the public could be made acquainted with the annual income and expenditure of those trusts, for he thought an exposition of their nature and extent would tend to prevent their misappropriation.
 Mr. Hume  did not rise to offer any ob
 844 l
 Mr. Wyse said,  the only objection which he entertained to the measure was on account of its incompleteness; he thought it fell short of the necessities of the case. The Legislature should, no doubt, be cautious in departing from the objects of the founders of those trusts; but it should also be borne in mind that a different state of society required different institutions. Many of the most valuable establishments on the continent were old establishments which had been remodelled.
 Mr. Ewart  thought it would be very desirable that the Government should introduce a measure with respect to the administration of those trusts before the prorogation of Parliament, which might be considered in a future Session.
 Sir G. Grey  could not consent to abandon the bill altogether. He was gratified at hearing from the Attorney-general that the subject had engaged the attention of the Government, and relying on his pledge that some measure would be brought forward by the Government during the course of the present Session, he would withdraw his bill for the present, and place it on the paper for this day three weeks. He should be sorry to abandon the hope that the bill would pass during the course of the present Session. He hoped the House would consent to the second reading of the bill, and he would postpone the further consideration of it to this day three weeks.
 Sir G. Grey  moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Charitable Trusts Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  desired to guard the right hon. Gentleman against any misconstruction of what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Attorney-general. The subject was one of great magnitude and importance, and had engaged the serious attention of the Government. The Lord Chancellor had devoted a considerable portion of attention to the subject, which
 846
 Sir R. H. Inglis  thought, the bill too general and sweeping in its enactments. It was most important to know whether the bill was to apply to 100 or 500 or 1,000 charitable trusts: but he feared that, for good or for evil, more than that number of trusts would be affected by it. He would admit that it was most desirable that for any abuse arising in any trust there should be a cheaper remedy than that which could be afforded by a Chancery suit, which, however amicably conducted, would swallow up the entire funds of many of those trusts. On another ground, he thought the bill too general, for it gave power to the Attorney-general to visit every charitable trust, no matter whether the trustees were found capable of managing the trust or not. With these views of the bill, he had great doubts whether he could support its further progress.
 Sir R. Inglis  opposed the bill. The oaths imposed on Roman Catholics had been framed as a certain security to be taken prior to voting at elections, and was tendered as such security at the passing of the Catholic Relief Bill. It appeared, according to the hon. Member, that conflicting decisions had been given since the passing the Reform Bill, whether the oath should be taken or not. Prior to the passing of the Reform Bill, there could be no doubt that the oath was to be taken. The doubt, therefore, might as easily be resolved in the affirmative as the negative. The bill resolved it in the negative, Now he should propose to resolve it in the affirmative, and require that every person professing the Roman Catholic religion should take the oath prior to voting at elections. Before dividing the House he waited to hear what decision her Majesty's Government had come to.
  Lord Stanley  was induced to offer himself to the notice of the House, by having been pointedly alluded to both by the hon. Gentleman who introduced the motion, and also by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Waterford. The subject, he must admit, was of extreme importance, and he acknowledged the civility with which the hon. Gentleman had referred to the opinions he expressed in 1834. Although he should be compelled to give his vote in op-
 898 W. Barron: 899 900 901 902 903 904
 Sir E. Peel  said, that previous to the accession of the present Government to office, in the month of August, 1841, the late President of the Board of Control had signified to the Governor-general of India the wish of her Majesty's Government that all connexion between the officers of the East India Company and the ceremonies and worship in mosques and pagodas should cease, and also that all interference on the part of those officers in the management of the landed and other revenues of those mosques and pagodas should be discontinued. Orders to that effect were issued, and inquiries were directed to be made as to the facility with which the connexion referred to might be severed. From the reports of the collectors of eight revenue districts in the Madras presidency, he had the satisfaction of saying that it was their concurrent opinion that there would be no difficulty whatever in separating the connexion between the company's officers and the worship of the natives in the mosques and pagodas, and at the present moment he believed that in consequence of directions from the Home Government, the personal service of the company's officers at those places of worship had been dispensed with. As to the management of the estates destined for the support of those places of Hindoo and Mussulman worship, it was evident that some time must elapse before that management could be transferred to native officers, and some general and uniform arrangement devised, by which the management being left to Hindoos and Mussulmans themselves the connection of the company's officers with them would be completely at an end. With respect to the payment of the annual sum of 60,000 rupees for the
 851
 Lord Stanley  said, that if his hon. Friend who had put the question would refer to the returns which were on the Table, he would find that the only colony interested in this matter was Canada, as it was the only colony which had a surplus produce of corn to export. Canada had for years been petitioning for this boon. It was for this, that the present bill was introduced, namely, to fulfil the engagement made by the Government with Canada, and with Canada alone. He might add, that the discussion of the whole Corn-law turned on this one point, and the consequence to which it led afforded another proof of the inconvenience of entering into the whole question on a matter so little affecting it. The engagement of the Government was, he repeated, with Canada, and Canada only. It had made
 852
 Lord Stanley  I wish it to be distinctly understood that he course the Government has taken is in accordance with the engagements entered into with Canada, and is not intended to justify other colonies in saying, " we have complied with the same conditions, and we call on you to give us similar advantages.'' It is our desire, that we should not be called upon to disturb existing arrangements, on the ground of what we have done with respect to Canada; and it is our opinion, that if we should be so called upon, such a course would merely tend to disturb an extensive settlement for an unimportant object.
 Lord Stanley : If the right hon. Gentleman will refer to the returns obtained on the motion of the hon. Member for Bristol, he will see, that, of all the corn imported from our colonies, Canada supplies nine-tenths. I don't say that this is altogether the produce of Canada; but, so far as we have an opportunity of knowing, it is Canadian. New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia notoriously are deficient in the supply necessary for home consumption. 
 Lord Stanley  said, the hon. Member's question assumed that the legislature of Prince Edward's Island had laid a duty on foreign corn heavier than heretofore, but he bad no official report of any such act having been passed. He had, however, reason to believe that certain resolutions had been passed, imposing a duty on foreign wheat, as a means of increasing the revenue of this year. The resolutions, however, had not yet been passed into a law, but even if they had it would be only for a single year.
 Mr. V. Smith  wished to ask the noble Lord, whether any divisions had taken place in the legislative assembly of Canada upon the resolution to impose a duty of 3 s
 Lord Stanley  said, the hon. Member for Montrose had already referred him to some divisions which had taken place on the 29tb of September last, with respect to the duty on American corn, and had read some extracts from a Canadian newspaper on the subject. But he bad at that moment copies of the journals of the House of Assembly before him, and he could find no mention of the divisions to which the hon. Member referred. There had, however, been a division upon a motion to lay an additional tax upon agricultural produce coming from America. That motion was negatived. There had also been a division on the question that the bill should not pass until a corresponding measure should have passed the Parliament of this country, and that motion had been negatived. There had been no division on the general principle of the bill, for the second and third reading were passed without any. He thought therefore, that he was justified in saying that the bill had the general assent of the Canadian Legislature. 
 SEES OF ST. ASAPH AND BANGOR. Mr. Clive : I beg to ask my hon Friend
 854
 Mr. W. O. Stanley. —In answer to the question put to me by my hon. Friend the Member for South Shropshire, I can assure him I have but one common object with him—namely, the advancement of the spiritual welfare of the principality. I should be most unwilling to put myself forward in opposition to the feelings of those hon. Friends with whom I have been acting so long and so cordially; and should be most sorry to bring forward the motion that stands on the votes of the House for this evening, if it were considered that my doing so would prejudice the cause we were advocating in common- I would most willingly postpone that motion provided I could obtain some assurance from the right hon. Baronet the Prime Minister, that he will apply any surplus funds to be derived from episcopal revenues in the dioceses of St. Asaph and Bangor to the augmentation of poor and populous vicarages and curacies in the principality?
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  said, that after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, he should best consult the interest of those whom he represented by not bringing forward his motion.
 Lord John Russell  differed so little from the noble Lord, that he could not refrain from expressing his surprise that they should not be found voting together in favour of the motion. The single ground of the objection of the noble Lord to the introduction of the bill was, that, since 1834, another university had been established, at which degrees by those who were not members of the Church of England might be obtained. If it were wrong that Dissenters should enjoy the opportunity of taking degrees, that opinion must stand on its own merits; if it were right that they should be allowed to take degrees, it was no sufficient answer to say that there was one university from which they were not excluded. No doubt that was a mitigation of the grievance; but if it were a grievance, as the necessity for mitigation seemed to admit, why ought it not to be removed entirely? The Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, had argued this question entirely on the principle of the proposition contained in the motion; but it seemed to him that, in a country like this, so divided in religious opinions, persons of all persuasions ought to be admitted, as far as possible, to the benefits to be derived from the universities, unless the principles of the Established Church entirely precluded such a course. Offices immediately connected with the Church certainly could be held by Dissenters; and although there might be difficulties in the way of an arrangement, he was inclined to approve of the principle laid down by the noble Lord, that the general rule ought to be instruction according to the doctrines of the Church, but that those who differed from the doctrines ought to be able to obtain the instruction there given, and the honours there bestowed. If there were no paramount objection to that, it was obvious that the benefits of education would be extended to those who did not now enjoy
 905 onus 906 Chancellor of the Exchequer: 907 908 909
  Mr. Shaw  said, that as the hon. Baronet had made such pointed reference to him and the University he had the honour to represent, the House would allow him to
 896 in loco parentis, 897
 Mr. Darby  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Colonial Secretary, connected with the measure for allowing corn and flour to come into this country from Canada. He saw a notice given by the hon. Member for Bolton, the object of which was, the extension of the same boon to some others of our colonial possessions. He also learnt, that it was the opinion of others that the same privilege should be extended to Prince Edward's Island, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia. What he wished to know was, whether it were the intention of Government to extend to any of our other colonial possessions the measure applied to Canada?
 Mr. G. W. Wood  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to exempt scientific and literary institutions from the payment of parochial and municipal rates and taxes, for such parts of their buildings as are used exclusively for scientific and literary purposes. He believed this exemption would have the most salutary effects upon the population, by encouraging the dissemination of scientific, moral, and religious instruction in all places where institutions literary or scientific, were already or might hereafter be established. It would, in effect, be equivalen to a vote by that House of so much public money, without being felt by any one. As this was an object in which all who wished to disseminate sound knowledge throughout the nation must feel a deep interest, he anticipated that there would be no indisposition to assist institutions so meritorious, and which, nevertheless, he regretted he was compelled to say were in too many instances, so deficient in means as to require all possible aid from the well wishers of science.
 Sir Winston Barron  said, that the arguments of the Roman Catholics having endowed these colleges for Roman Catholic purposes had not been grappled with by those who opposed the introduction of this bill. It was a serious injustice to the Roman Catholics to tell them they were not to participate in the advantages of the education as afforded by the universities, although the emoluments given by them had been taken away. It was an injustice to the Roman Catholics of former times, and yet those who opposed this bill sought to perpetuate it upon the Roman Catholics of the present day. The con-
 893 Chancellor of the Exchequer. 894 895
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that although he differed entirely from the views taken by the hon. Gentleman on the subject of the present motion, yet he followed him with peculiar pleasure.
 874 875 876 877 Cheers. 878 ad gloriam Dei 879 880
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, a sum of 50,000 l l l l l
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to know whether he understood the noble Lord correctly in this,—that it was not the intention of the Government in this Session to extend the boon given to Canada to Prince Edward's Island, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick? Did the noble Lord mean to say, that under no circumstances he would extend the principle of the Canadian measure to the colonies he had named, even should they earnestly desire it—and place a duty on foreign wheat as high as on that of Canada?
 Mr. H. R. Yorke  said, amidst loud cries of " question," that he did not intend to detain the House more than one minute; but if he was interrupted, he should move the adjournment. The important question before the House was, whether or not it would consent to abolish the oaths on entrance to the universities. He thought that in his own person he could afford a practical illustration of the absurdity of these oaths. He had gone to Christ College, Cambridge. ["  Question. 916 Question. l l l.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that as the subject was now before the House, he might, perhaps, save time, if he were allowed to put a question which stood as a notice for to-morrow. He had been informed, that the Legislature of Prince Edward's Island had lately imposed a duty on the importation of corn much heavier than
 853
  Mr. Roebuck  looked at this question as a legislator for the whole kingdom. He did not know why there should be any distinctions between the different universities, nor why any university should be possessed of exclusive civil rights. When a man entered Oxford he was obliged to swear to the thirty-nine articles. [Sir  R. Inglis: R. Inglis [No, no]. Oh, oh," 912 913 914 [Hear, hear]. 915
 Mr. T. M. Gibson  said the right hon. Gentleman had commenced his speech by paying a well-deserved compliment to his hon. Friend for the ability with which he had brought this subject forward. The right hon. Gentleman had also paid a compliment to the acuteness of his hon. Friend and the weight of his arguments, by not having replied to them. He must say, with all respect, that he did not think the right hon. Gentleman had given any sufficient answer to his hon. Friend's reasoning. His hon. Friend claimed, on behalf of dissenters, the privilege of admission to degrees in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge; and the right hon. Gentleman said they had already the opportunity of taking degrees in the University of London. His hon. Friend's argument was, that bringing persons of different creeds and persuasions together in the same seminaries tended to put down sectarianism, and knit men together in one universal spirit of Christian brotherhood, while by forcing a necessity of educating all Dissenters in one university, and all the churchmen in another, you perpetuate sectarianism and all the evils which his hon. Friend had brought forward this measure with a view to obviate. He must observe, however, that there was considerable force in the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the question of emoluments. He would say that Dissenters had a rightful and just claim to share in the emoluments as well as in the honours of universities. Were there not lay professorships and fellowships unconnected with divinity and theology? Were there not appointments which were conferred on men eminent for scientific attainments or the depth of classical learning? And in these days, when we had fully recognised the spirit of religious liberty, and admitted members of all religious persuasions into that House, to
 881 l l l 882 bonâ fide 883
 Mr. Redington  was one of those who were compelled to undergo the degradation of being refused to graduate because he professed the ancient faith of those by whom the establishments were founded. He belonged to a college founded by the Countess of Richmond (Christ's) in which, though the privilege to graduate was nominally granted, it was so hedged round with provisions that it was virtually of no use. He considered the proposition then before the House a moderate and a fair one, though the right hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House could not see any injustice in the present instance. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer argued that the evil complained of was not so great now as it was ten years ago, because the London University was established in the interim. Did the right hon. Gentleman deem so lightly of his own college? He did not mean to disparage the London University, but did the right hon. Gentleman mean to speak so lightly of his own college, as to compare the London University with Cambridge? The right hon. Gentleman boasted of the men edu-
 911
 Mr. Redington  wished to know whether it were true that communication had been made to the Board of Public Works in
 849
  Mr. Wyse  said, that in the University of Dublin, during the time he was in residence there, there were forty or fifty Roman Catholic members of the university, but so far as he was aware no quarrel took place between them and any of their Protestant fellow-students on theological subjects. He believed that their intercourse tended to remove the prejudices which existed both in the minds of Catholics and Protestants; and he must say, that some of the most valuable friendships he had formed, had been among his Protestant fellow-students at the university. With regard to the doctrine of the non-interference of the State, he could say, that in 1792 the Irish legislature interfered with the charter of Trinity College, Dublin, for the admission of Catholics, and persons of that persuasion were now legally entitled to become professors. He would admit, that one of the objects of the universities was the extension of religion; but another object was, to extend secular information to the fullest extent to which it could be rendered useful. Why should the restrictive system be so stedfastly adhered to with respect to these? Surely there was greater danger (if any was at all to be apprehended) in admission to the Legislature than in ad mission to the universities. He did not think that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had furnished sufficient reasons for the change in his opinion, which it appeared had taken place since 1835. With respect to Trinity College, Dublin, though concessions had been made in 1798, he did not consider them by any means sufficient. A people who had grown from 1,000,000 to 8,000,000 should not only be allowed to share in the education, but also to permitted to participate in the emoluments. He was satisfied that, however it might be delayed, the principle of the motion must eventually prove successful, and the universities of this country, taught by the practice of those of other nations, would at last discover that to support their character they must extend their liberality.
 Mr. Wyse  seconded the motion. This bill was free from objections which had been made to bills of a similar kind. There were many buildings of a similar kind, and of a public nature, which were exempted from taxation in the manner proposed by this bill, and he saw no reason why the exemption should not be applied
 921
 Mr. William D. Christie : I rise to move for leave to bring in the Bill, of which I have given notice, " to abolish certain oaths and subscriptions in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and to extend education in the Universities to persons who are not members of the Church of England;" and if I do not take up the time of the House by apologies for putting myself forward in a question which has so many important bearings, and affects such old and powerful interests, I trust I shall not therefore be supposed insensible to the importance of the task which I have undertaken, and the performance of which, self-imposed though it has been, I now approach with unaffected diffidence. This, I trust, it will be permitted to say, that I have thought, from the time which has been suffered to elapse since this question was last agitated, that those who might be looked to in this House to move for the redress of any religious grievance have probably been deterred from this particular question by the many technical details and difficulties which embarrass it, and I have thought also that my own comparatively recent residence in one of the Universities might so far give me an advantage for dealing with the technicalities of this question. Be this, however, as it may, I may at least hope that the freshness of my recollection of one University, and of my feelings towards her, will secure me from adopting any tone towards the Universities that might prejudice my purpose, or any argument
 * 856 857 Edinburgh Review, 858 859 bonâ fide 860 861 " Subscription is not required from all the members of the Church, but only from the ministers of the Church." * 862 " I consider indeed an objection to attach to the subscription to the articles, either at matriculation or at our degrees, quite independent of all consideration of the amount of knowledge, or exact accordance of opinion of the persons called upon to subscribe. In the first place, as subscription to the articles is made the solemn test of the opinions of those who are admitted into holy orders, the attaching the same obligation to other less sacred circumstances, tends to lessen the serious sense in which it is viewed at ordination. But besides this, the subscription to the articles is an obligation which our Church in no case imposes upon its lay members. Laymen are admitted to the highest acts of Church-member ship—to participation in the sacraments— without being required to sign the articles at all. Assent to the creed and the catechism is all that is necessary in order to confirmation. Confirmation is the due preparation for the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Though our Church requires a declaration of full assent to all its articles from those who are admitted to the sacred functions of the ministry, it does not seem to have intended to institute so rigid a scrutiny into the opinions of its lay members. All it requires of them is, that they be willing to use its liturgy and join in its communion. And it seems on this ground not reasonable to impose on laymen, as a test of fitness for our degrees, a more scrupulous and definite conformity of opinion than our Church requires, in order to admission to its most sacred rites." * 863 " The Act of Uniformity prescribes the use of the morning and evening prayers of the Church, without addition or diminution, in our college chapels, and its injunctions are almost universally obeyed. But it may be seriously doubted, whether the use of shorter forms of prayer, except on Sundays and festivals, such as have been sanctioned by the Bishop of London at the East India College, Haileybury, and in King's College, London, so as to make those services approximate in their character to family worship, might not be advantageous to the cause of religion and good order. It is quite true that the public worship of the Church is nowhere more decorously or more solemnly performed than in our college chapels; but those persons who have been most intimately concerned with the superintendance of young men at the university will be best able to appreciate the painful measures which are not unfrequently necessary to secure regularity of attendance. There is little doubt but that the substitution of a shorter service would remedy many evils of a very embarrassing nature. We are quite aware that the subject which we have ventured to touch upon is one of great delicacy and difficulty, and that the change which we have recommended may be more safely adopted than discussed. But the question is one of great practical importance, both as regards the maintenance of discipline and the development in the minds and habits of students of feelings of respect and reverence for religion, and for the beautiful and comprehensive public services of our Church; we feel satisfied that the proposed change would be found to be favourable to both." * * 864 " Every undergraduate, being a pensioner and sizar, shall not be absent from chapel more than three mornings and two evenings in the same week. Every fellow-commoner being
 865 866 867 868 " Both as a Member of his Majesty's Government, and also as a Member most anxious to consult and support what I deem the real and true interests of the Established Church, and of the religion of the country, shortly to express my entire, unequivocal, and unhesitating concurrence in the prayer of this petition." * " Now, if this were all, I should say it was * 869 a real substantial grievance, and if this be not all, then I say the whole course of the hon. Gentleman's argument is overthrown; for if under this system, there is a restriction without any substantial reason, why should that restriction be continued as a degradation upon any class of the people of this country?  " That is a practical grievance, and if it be not a grievance, it is certainly a practical degradation. I am most anxious to afford the Established Church every protection and support which can and ought to be given to it, consistent with justice to all classes of the subjects of this kingdom; but of this I am confident that it will not be best maintained by keeping up a system of injustice and exclusion; and if I may be allowed to express an opinion on the subject, I will frankly say, that, in my mind, the main cause of the spread of dissent has been, amongst the lower classes, the insufficiency of the education and religious instruction, with respect to the tenets of the Established Church, and amongst the higher classes, by that, strict line of exclusion, which those who are desirous to protect the Church have drawn around it. I am satisfied that if you intend to attach particularly the higher classes of the dissenters to the Established Church, you can take no more effectual course to gain that object, than giving them full participation in the same civil privileges, and admitting them to the fullest, freest, and most unreserved intercourse with the members of the Church of England, in our general and national institutions. This question of exclusion is not confined to the University of Cambridge, but I am sorry to say carried to a much greater extent in the University of Oxford. As a conscientious member of the Church of England, I cannot but lament that such regulations are enforced in that institution, as render it necessary that young men of sixteen or seventeen years of age should be called upon at their entrance to subscribe to articles which they never read,— which nine out of ten, I will answer for it, have never read,—and upon which, if the tenth should entertain any conscientious scruples, he is instantly over-ruled, if not satisfied by the obligation to subscribe them in order to obtain admission. I do say, that such a system is the most injurious to the interests of the university. I would go further with regard to the system of discipline at Oxford and Cambridge, and unhesitatingly express my entire dissent from the regulation of a compulsory attendance of the students day after day, morning and evening, in the chapels and the different colleges. When we look at the way in which this regulation is complied with, and see young men rushing forward in the morning to see if the gates of the chapel are opened, and in the evening returning from divine service to their wine, I say such a system is better calculated to deaden all feel-
 870 " I know that at Oxford the practice is different: and being a member of that university, I confuse that I should be most glad if I could see its practice, as regards the admission of students, made more conformable to that of Cambridge. At Oxford, it is necessary that every student on entering should subscribe the thirty-nine articles. That is a practice which I cannot but condemn. I cannot bring myself to concur in the ingenious glosses which some hon. Gentlemen have put upon that compulsory subscription to the thirty-nine articles. I cannot put upon it the gloss that it is a mere matter of form, that no real adhesion to the articles is implied until the party shall have been instructed in their meaning; in fact, that the subscription signifies only that the student is willing to receive an education at the university." 871 872 873 "To abolish certain oaths and subscriptions now imposed in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and to provide for the extension of education in the universities to persons who are not members of the Church of England."
 Sir G. Grey : As the noble Lord says, that by reference to the returns we can see that Canada is the only colony that has any surplus corn to export, perhaps he will state what return shows that, as the fact was much disputed in the late debate.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, the hon. Gentleman who had made this motion had not asked for the admission of Dissenters to universities as a boon, but as a right; and the hon. Member who had just sat down, had also used similar language. Now, even if it had been asked as a boon, he should have been prepared to decline giving it; but called for as a right, he was doubly prepared to resist it. Both hon. Members also used such language as led to the expectation that not merely did they claim for the Dissenters admission to the education of the universities; but that next year they might be expected to claim admission to the endowments also. He was however, prepared as much to resist the former claim as the latter. On what authority did the hon. Gentleman claim as a right the admission of non-conformists to the education of the universities? Was it intended to rest their claim on the assumption of their being the representatives of those who founded these endowments, or established this education? or did he found it on the abstract right of the Legislature to extend to all the subjects of the realm, any advantage that at present might be enjoyed by some? If the first ground were the ground taken, he (Sir It. Inglis) denied altogether the assumption on which it was founded. He agreed with his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was a popular error to claim for the Roman Catholics of this country the endowments of the larger portion of the institutions existing in either university. It was true, that the greater number of the colleges in the University of Oxford were s founded before the Reformation; twelve colleges and five halls were so founded, making in all seventeen, before the Reformation. Only seven were founded after the Reformation. Bu t not one of those earlier colleges and halls in Oxford, and he believed he might say the same of Cambridge, was founded by an individual holding the opinions now held by the Church of Rome holding the doctrines of the Council of Trent. Chronologically, it was impossible that the founders could have held those opinions. But taking fellowships and scholarships together, and comparing the numbers founded before and since the Reformation, the number since the Reformation exceeds the number before the Reformation. And when they came to look at that other branch of the subject, which the Dissenters, judging by the speech of the Member for Manchester, seemed to consider at least as important as
 885 886 l l l l 887 888 889 in honorem Dei. 890 891 892
 Sir R. Inglis  wished to put three questions relating to any encouragements which had been given to idolatrous worship in India. The opinion of the House had been so unanimously expressed on this subject about three years ago, that it was wholly unnecessary for him to trouble it with any observations on it at present. He would ask his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government what steps had been taken in order to separate finally the connexion
 850
 Sir R. Peel  wished that the hon. Member had exercised his own discretion in the matter. He wished to intimate to him that if he did exercise his own discretion, and brought forward a motion for the repeal of this act, which passed both Houses of Parliament with but little opposition, which act united the bishoprics of St. Asaph and Bangor,—if the hon. Member, pursuant to his notice, moved that that act be repealed, he would exercise his own discretion, and offer the motion of the hon. Member his most decided opposition. That act was proposed to the House upon the recommendation of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. It was brought forward by the late Administration, and passed through Parliament with but little opposition, although be was aware that out of doors it had met with great opposition. With regard to the appropriation of any surplus fund which might exist in consequence of the union of the sees he could give the hon. Member no assurance. He would adhere to the declaration of Parliament with respect to the union of the sees. He could only say, if the see of
 855
 Sir V. Blake  moved for leave to bring in " a bill to apportion and regulate the overwhelming labour and business of Parliament in a manner calculated to allay discontent, and to preserve and maintain the inviolability of the united empire upon a satisfactory and permanent foundation." The hon. Member (having read his motion) apologised to the House for presenting to them entire a measure at once so enlarged and comprehensive. The language of this bill, however, would be in strict conformity with the declarations of her Majesty's Ministers, and it would simply have for its object to prevent the Chair of that House from being a stepping-stone to the Peerage or to the grave. He hoped it would tend to allay discontent and to further the ends of the Constitution, and that, without change of the elective franchise, without taking any single Member from the number of which the House was now constituted, he trusted it might be hailed as a safety valve to preserve the rights and pri-
 919 920
  Mr. Williams Wynn  considered, that if the simple question of admission to the universities was the only difficulty which they had to meet, it was one which would be easy of removal; but where was the assur-
 910
 Viscount Sandon  thought that the hon. and learned Member for Bath had completely misunderstood, and had, therefore, altogether misrepresented the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for the university of Oxford. His hon. Friend had said— " That men in the university to which he belonged were refused their degrees because they were not adequately acquainted with Christian knowledge." It should be recollected by the hon. and learned Gentleman that a young man passing for his degree required more knowledge than a mere school-boy, and that something more than merely being able to read the Greek Testament was requisite. What was required was, that before passing for a degree, a man should possess more than the common range of scholastic knowledge, namely, that he should also be versed in the principles and doctrines of Christianity, and six months were ample to acquire that knowledge. He believed that there had been an unintentional perversion of facts on the part of the hon. and learned Gentleman, but the perversion must be obvious to any one at all acquainted with the subject.
 Lord Stanley  moved the following resolution:—
 "That on the 12th day of October, 1842, an act was passed by the Legislative Council and Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada, and reserved by the Governor-General for the signification of her Majesty's pleasure, imposing a duty of 3 s " That the said act recites, that it was passed in the confident belief and expectation, that upon the imposition of a duty upon foreign wheat imported into the province, her Majesty would be graciously pleased to recommend to Parliament the removal or reduction of the duties on wheat and wheat flour imported into the said United Kingdom from Canada: " That in consideration of the duty so imposed by the said act of the Legislature of Canada, it is expedient to provide that, if her Majesty shall be pleased to give her sanction to the said act, the duties imposed upon wheat and wheat flour, the produce of and imported from Canada into the United Kingdom, should be reduced; " That, from and after a day to be named, and thenceforth during the continuance of the said duty, in lieu of the duties now payable upon wheat and wheat flour, the produce of and imported from Canada into the United Kingdom, under the provisions of an act passed in the last Session of Parliament, intituled, 'An Act
 940 " For every quarter of wheat, the produce of and imported from Canada, 1 s
 Lord J. Russell  said, if he should succeed in inducing the House to adopt his amendment, there were other words, besides the part of the resolution to which he should first object, which it would be necessary to omit also. The words which he should now propose to omit were the whole of the proposed paragraphs down to the words, " That, in consideration." He objected to this part of the resolution, because it rendered the legislation of the Imperial Parliament contingent upon that of the provincial legislature. That was one of the grounds on which the measure had been introduced to the House. He thought that the Legislature of the United Kingdom should be free on that as on all other measures submitted to its consideration; but in this instance it was not free, because the Legislative Assembly of Canada made their legislative act dependent on our passing a particular measure. If, then, we passed an act founded on this resolution we should to all intents and purposes be making the Legislature of this country be dependent thus far upon that of Canada, and we should in effect restore the 5 s. s.
 Lord Stanley  might appeal to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Baring) to answer the abjection of the noble Lord—for that right hon, Gentleman had taken an opposite
 941 s s s s s. 942
 Lord Stanley  did not think the noble Lord's explanation satisfactory. The noble Lord said, that the acts of the Imperial Parliament were made contingent or dependent upon the colonial legislature. He said, that such was not the fact, and for this plain and self-evident reason,—before
 943
 Lord J. Russell:  Supposing the legislature of Canada were anxious to repeal the bill in consequence of its being obnoxious to the people of the country, the noble Lord said, as long as he remained a Minister of the Crown he would not consent to that repeal. That recommendation the noble Lord would make without any reference to the opinions of the people of Canada. He considered the argument of the noble Lord perfectly untenable. He purposed to bind Canada to a measure which might ultimately prove burthensome to the country. The reasoning of the noble Lord had not satisfied him of the propriety of the course which he proposed to adopt.
 Lord Stanley  wished the House to take a security that neither he nor any other Minister of the Crown would permit the legislature of Canada to repeal an act of the British Parliament, passed for the purpose of granting a boon to Canada. Should the colonial legislature pass an act repealing the one which imposed a duty upon American wheat, then he reserved to Parliament the privilege of reconsidering whether they ought to allow Canadian corn to come into this country at a reduced rate of duty.
 Colonel Wyndham:  Sir, I can tell the hon. Member for Finsbury, that I, for one, am not deceived, and never have been deceived. I was one of the first to speak loudly against the Corn Bill which the Government brought forward last Session. I opposed it in London and in the country. I am determined, as long as i sit in this House, to oppose everything that is connected with free-trade. I wish to stand fairly in the eyes of my constituents, and I wish to stand fairly in the eyes of the country. I voted against the motion of the right hon. Member for Taunton the other night because it was a
 946 s s
 Colonel Wood  said, there always was money gained as well as lost by panics. With respect to the importation of Dantzic corn through Canada as Canadian corn, the power already existed. A man could now take Dantzic corn to Canada, and then introduce it into England at a duty never higher than 5 s.; s. s. 954 s No, no."] s d. 955 d.
 Mr. T. Buncombe  protested against the monstrous and unconstitutional doctrine which had been broached by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies. The noble Lord proposed to insert certain words in the resolution, because, as he said, he would not trust a future Minister to deal with the matter. It was evident that the measure was intended to be a
 945 s.
 Mr. O. Gore  said, that it was with deep regret he felt himself called upon to give any vote adverse to that uniform support he had always hitherto given to her Majesty's present Government, composed as that Government was, he felt convinced, of men whose services were essential to the welfare and best interests of this country. But, strongly as he felt the disposition to support the Government, he had a paramount duty to perform— a duty which he owed it to his country to discharge conscientiously and faithfully. Last year he supported every proposition in the tariff but one, and he did not now regret having done so, because he was sure, that although he voted for a reduced protection, yet that there was still a sufficient protection for the agricultural interests of this country. He supported last year the principle of a sliding-scale, and he was not disposed to change his opinion by now supporting a fixed duty. At the same time, he did not consider that in this measure there was involved the principle of a fixed duty as connected with a fixed duty in this country. In Canada there could be nothing but a fixed duty, because they could have there no regular return of average prices. He was, at the same time that he admitted this, prepared to vote against the present measure, as he considered it to he impolitic, unwise, and, above all, ill-timed. The country had not as yet recovered from the panic caused by the tariff of last year. The farmers were barely beginning to recover. It was notorious that the shock which the farmers had received had greatly diminished their confidence in the Government, and from his own knowledge of them he was sure it would be a long time before their confidence could be restored; they were recovering by degrees, but they were not prepared for another shock such as was now about to be given to them. The agriculturists were a sensitive body, as was justly remarked the other night by the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, and it would
 970 971
 Mr. R. Yorke  said, I will not detain the House for a moment. I wish to make one observation. It shall only be a sentence. We have all heard of old Blackstone's Commentaries, Blackstone's Commentaries.
 Viscount Clements  moved for a
 " Copy of the orders issued by his Majesty's Government in 1831, and following years, for disbanding the Yeomanry Corps in Ireland, together with all correspondence between the Government of that day, and officers of yeomanry relative to the disbanding of the above corps."
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, that Irish Members were treated with great disrespect by the Government. The way in which the consideration of the Irish Arms Bill had been treated, was a specimen of the way in which Irish Members were used by the present Government. He thought, that the returns which were referred to in the first portion of the motion should at once be ordered.
 Viscount Clements:  The noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, knows very well —none better—that personally I have a very great respect for him; but then is it to be supposed that I am to weigh my words, to balance phrases, to smooth down my sentences, when I see the measures that he proposes for Ireland? What would be his feelings, or what his expressions, if I presumed to propose for England a measure such as that which he has dared to suggest should be established in Ireland? What, Sir, are these things to be done, and are we to say that we are satisfied? Sir, we are not satisfied— we are not content— we are dissatisfied— we are very much dissatisfied in Ireland— we have to complain of the treatment that we receive, of the injury that is done, of the wrong that is attempted— we want a Government in Ireland— we have none, we have a Camarilla in Dublin Castle, but we have no Government— we want English legislation in Ireland— we want to have that legislation in this House. If we are not to have it— if that is not to take place, then the sooner we know it in Ireland the better. Let the people of Ireland know what your intentions are— avow them, if you are prepared to act upon them. Inform us, I say, how you intend to govern us; for that which we most dislike is, that you should proceed, as you have done, in the dark. I repeat it, let there be no concealment. What we ask, we ask boldly, plainly, distinctly.
 981
 Viscount Clements  felt disposed, after what had occurred, to postpone his motion.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  had, be said, a question to put to the noble
 982
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  was, he said, a magistrate for two counties; and he wished to know, supposing he presented a petition praying for a Repeal of the Union, whether the commission of the peace would be taken from him?
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman would inform him whether he had received an account of any breach of the peace having been committed—whether these meetings had been held, except in the case of the assassination of an unfortune repealer, at a place called Clones. He wished to know, with that exception, whether he had received the account of any breach of the peace at these meetings?
 Lord Worsley  was understood to express an opinion that the amendment before the House did not go far enough, and, therefore, he would, after the division, propose the amendment of which he had given notice.
 Lord Worsley  rose to propose his amendment. He contended that when the Corn-law Bill of last Session was under consideration, the Government gave no intimation of their intention to propose the present measure. It had completely taken the agriculturists by surprise. Could it be
 949 " It was due also to the importance of the subject, that her Majesty's Government should undertake, on their own responsibility, to propose a measure for the adjustment of this question."
 Lord Eliot  said, that the noble Lord had given a specimen of the temperate manner in which he wished the measure in question to be discussed. He should, however, strictly confine himself in reply to the circumstances under which the motion for these returns was made. He was prepared to give the noble Lord all the returns with reference to arms which he could desire, but what he sought for was a correspondence extending over eleven years, which might contain much matter quite unfit for the public eye, and therefore he thought it his duty not at once to give the House an opportunity of examining that correspondence. He did not wish to withhold any information necessary for the due consideration of the Irish Arms Bill, but he did not think, that the correspondence in question was necessary for that purpose. If, however, the noble
 980
 Lord John Russell  asked, if it were stated by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland whether, in thus acting, he had followed the desire, or attended to the recommendation, of the Lord-lieutenant?
 Mr. Lefroy  as one of those Members for Ireland who had hitherto felt much satisfaction in supporting her Majesty's present Government, stated with great regret, that he felt it, in this instance, to be his conscientious and honest duty to vote against them. He thought it would be unreasonable that the division to which the House had come the other night, should be looked upon as the final decision and settlement of this question, particularly as the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had himself said that other opportunities of opposing the measure would be offered. He should give his vote against the Government on this subject, not for the same reasons as those of many hon. Members opposite, but principally because he objected to the new principle introduced into this measure viz.— the principle of a fixed duty for Canada, instead of a sliding-scale which prevailed in this country, and which he considered it would be more for the interest
 973
 Colonel Sibthorp  depended more on the legislature of Canada than on the noble Member for London, the right hon. Member for Portsmouth, or the right hon. Member for Taunton. He was not in favour of these resolutions, but he could not countenance any underhand means of defeating them. The noble Lord, the Member for London, entertained very different opinions when he was Member for a county from those he now promulgated. He did not know whether the hospitable entertainments at the Mansion-house had any effect in altering his views. He could tell the noble Lord that his present supporter (Mr. Cobden) came from Lincoln with a flea in his ear. There a vote of thanks
 944
 Mr. C. Wood  said, the sole advantage he had been able to discover in the measure proposed by Government, was its approximation to the principle of a fixed duty; and his hon. Friend who had just spoken had gone far to shake his opinion of the value of that solitary advantage, for according to him the measure would place the sliding-scale on a firmer foundation than ever. He agreed that the measure was an advance to the principle of a fixed duty, but he must leave it to Government to reconcile their support of that principle with any regard to their own consistency. He would state shortly the grounds on which he supported the amendment proposed by his noble Friend. He was perfectly willing to take the measure of Government on the showing of the noble Lord opposite, who stated that it would do neither one thing nor the other; that it would not admit one grain for the benefit of the consumer, nor the supposed advantage of the grower. He was willing to consider it as a colonial measure, and that, although there had been much exaggeration on the subject, whatever there was in the bill, seemed, with the single exception of a fixed duty, of a very objectionable nature. The measure affected, in the first place, the intercourse between the United States and Canada; and next, the intercourse between Canada and this country. The intention was to interpose an additional obstacle on corn coming from the United States to Canada, He confessed, if he wanted an
 956 s. s s. s d.; 957 s. l s. s l l 958
 Mr. E. Buller  would support the motion of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley), because he believed it was a step towards the adoption of free-trade principles, and that it would have the effect of increasing the supply of food, and of placing the necessaries of life within the reach of the people of this country. Like his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward), he believed that its effect would be to shake the foundations of the existing Corn-laws. This measure would extend the area from which untaxed produce might be brought; it would afford facilities for the introduction into this country of American corn; and he would therefore give his vote in its favour. He confessed that he objected to the mode in which, under this bill, it was proposed to allow the introduction of American corn. He should prefer the direct introduction of American produce from the ports of the United States, a fixed duty being imposed in this country. It was said by hon. Gentlemen on the opposite (the Ministerial) side, that this was not a free-trade measure, but one rather protective than otherwise. It had been stated, on the part of the Government, that this was one of the measures which they intended to introduce last year; but he would like to ask the noble Lord opposite—if he had any chance of obtaining a candid and straightforward answer—whether, if this measure had been introduced last year, they would have introduced it on the same grounds on which they had now brought it forward? The measures proposed by the Government last year were free-trade measures; but they contended that this measure was one of a protective character. He accused the Government of saying to the con sumer,—" The measure we propose will have the effect of lowering the price of food," while turning to the producer—the agriculturist—they said, " This measure cannot have any prejudicial effect on your interests." This conduct reminded him of a treatise he had read on the origin of love, in which it was contended that males and females were first created in one body, but that they were afterwards split in halves; and that man, a lonely biped,
 969
 Mr. Bankes  thought, however opportune this measure might be considered with respect to Canada or to America, that, viewed in regard to the present condition of this country, it was introduced at a most unfortunate period. The right hon. President of the Board of Trade had said that no promises had been made; but who would say that no expectations had been held out? Had nothing been heard as to prices, had no averages been calculated almost with certainty, but which were essentially different to those which now actually prevailed? The hon. and gallant Member for Brecon had said, that if this were a new measure he should oppose it; but it was a new measure to him (Mr, Bankes), it was a new measure to his constituents, and it was a new measure to a great part of the people of this country. He was, therefore, in that condition which his hon. and gallant Friend had said if he were in he should oppose the bill, and consequently he felt bound to oppose the measure as a new one. The measure had been inopportunely introduced, and without previous inquiry, and without that information which it was their duty to acquire before they ventured to sanction a change of this description.
 964 s. 965 s.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that considerable misapprehension seemed to exist as to the facts upon which the consideration of this question depended. The right hon. Member for Halifax had commented upon the large amount of revenue which this measure would take out of the Treasury of this country,and had stated that the average duty on Canadian wheat for the last five years had been 4 s., l s d., s d., l 960
 Mr. Labouchere  did not mean to follow the gallant Member through his discursive speech. His opinion had been quoted the other night as if he had suggested that this measure should be refused to the colonial legislature. Now, he thought, that the more convenient and constitutional course on an occasion of this sort was, that the Imperial Parliament, which, confessedly enjoyed the power of regulating trade, should dispose, in the first instance, of a measure which not only affected Canada, but our commercial interests generally.
 Mr. Lindsay  was understood to say, that if the resolutions proposed by the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had been brought forward now, for the first time, and unconnected with any other measure, he should have no hesitation in giving to the resolutions his humble but most determined opposition; but viewing the present measure as a part of the great policy of last year, he was disposed to look upon it in a very different light. He repudiated the idea that any deceit had been practised by the noble Lord. The whole tenour of that noble Lord's life was against the supposition that he would be capable of bringing forward any measure in a surreptitious manner. He therefore would cordially support the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Henley  said, he had carefully read the speeches delivered last Session by the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government, by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and by the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and he would maintain that no man could, from those speeches, have had any ground for expecting a measure like the present. He could not agree that the measure was a small one. It was a very great colonial measure; and he could not see the least reason why, if this boon was granted to one colony, it should be refused to the other colonies. New Brunswick and
 953 s s.
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  saw nothing to prevent the Government from at once giving up the papers required in the first part of the motion. There was, or ought to be, nothing secret about them. Should they not grant mere official papers without previous inquiry? Had they brought in the Irish Arms Bill without making due inquiry, and obtaining due information? —and if they had done so, was that not indeed a precious excuse for refusing to give to the House papers which they could not legislate with advantage without? The refusal of the returns would be a piece of unfairness—of total injustice.
 Mr. Borthwick  thought that it was the duty of the Legislature to afford a fair and judicious protection to British agriculture. He supported the measure proposed by the noble Lord, because he believed that its effects would be to encourage agriculture in the Canadian colonies; and the colonists, when they were enabled to supply this country with grain, would take in exchange— not gold, which was required by America— but our manufactures. Frequent allusion had been made during the debates to certain implied pledges which had been given by the Government to the Canadians; but to such pledges he had been no party. He considered the subject as an independent
 967 s 968
 Mr. Phillip Howard  considered it of the greatest importance that they should legislate in a confiding spirit for our Colonies, and especially for Canada, which during the American war, and in 1813-14 —at a time we were engaged in a struggle with the neighbouring—the United States —had shown such heroic constancy and true devotion to our cause. It also seemed to him to be an object of paramount importance to divert the tide of emigration which now set towards the United States
 963
 Mr. Sheil  wished to know whether, before the meeting that had been attended by Lord Ffrench, notice had been given to Lord Ffrench respecting it?
 Colonel Rushbrooke  said, he must crave the indulgence of the House for a few moments while he made some observations on the question. He voted against the amendments which had been proposed because he considered them to be an improper interference with the act of an independent legislature, and also with the prerogative, which should never be so addressed but in cases of the highest and most vital importance; but he had the greatest possible objections to the proposed resolutions. In the first place, the manufacture of the flour would be placed in the hands of the Canadians, whereas, one of the principal reasons given for the introduction of the Grinding Bill of last year was, that it would be a bonus to the millers of the United Kingdom, who by this measure would be entirely deprived of that advantage. Then the statements as to the price of flour, and the cost of its transport to this country, were so at variance that it was quite impossible to arrive at the truth without further information. Equally at variance with each other were the opinions relative to the facility of smuggling; but, even passing them by, it was impossible to say what might be the inundation of Canadian flour in the course of a few years. In the paper No. 218, laid on the Table of the House, there was a paragraph which stated that Canada now was an exporting country, and that in a short time she would be able to supply the mother country with any quantity required, provided the ports of England be open to her produce. This confirmed Lord Durham's observation, that Canada, would, in a few years, supply England with all the corn she wanted. Again, he had a decided objection to a fixed duty; a fixed duty was like a
 962 s s. s. s s. d s.,
 Mr.Redington  said, the House would excuse any little excitement on the part of his noble Friend on the subject of a measure which the noble Lord opposite would not dare to offer to his own country. He thought, upon the whole, that the latter part of the noble Lord's proposition was a fair one, and he would advise his noble Friend to accede to it.
 Mr. Redington  asked whether any communications had been made, through the official organs, such as the lord-lieu-tenants of counties, by the Government here, or by the Lord Chancellor in Ireland, as the responsible officer, intimating to the magistrates, what were the crimes, or what the measures in which, if they took part, they should be liable to dismission from the commission of the peace.
 Mr. Blackstone  would not have spoken had he npt been pointedly alluded to by several hon. Members in the course of the debate. The speech of the bon. Member for Shropshire quite delighted him. He had several petitions in his hand, which he should oh some future occasion take the liberty of presenting to the House. They were Irish petitions. In one of those petitions it was stated that the poverty and distress existing in the country had arisen from the alterations made in the Corn-laws and tariff. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire, whose speech he had listened to with much pleasure, asked why were not the provinces of New Brunswick to have the benefit of a measure like that which was to be extended to Canada? The inhabitants of New Brunswick were loyal subjects, and had a right to complain of any exclusive boon being conferred upon the Canadian colony. What was the secret of the Canadian Corn Bill? By the alterations in the timber duty 700,000 l
 Mr. F. T. Baring  was not disposed to shrink from any language which he bad ever used with reference to this question. He did not quarrel with the noble Lord's version of what he said, but he did most strongly object to the construction which the noble Lord had put upon his observations. That construction, he must say, was most unfair. The noble Lord had not dealt in a frank and open way with regard to his intention respecting the introduction of Canadian corn. The information conveyed to Parliament was of a limited and partial character. Parliament had no knowledge of the noble Lord's despatch, or what he was about to do. The noble Lord should have stated at the time what his proposition was, and, then, without any reference to the question, whether that proposition which he had submitted to the Canadian legislature was a judicious one, no misunderstanding would have arisen. He would ask, whether, last Session, there was any Member on that (the Opposition) side of the House who knew what the noble Lord intended to do on the subject of Canadian corn? Whatever the noble Lord thought proper to say with regard to making the acts of the Imperial Parliament contingent upon the course pursued by the colonial legislature, such was the fact. This act of Parliament was necessarily dependent upon the course adopted by the Canadian legislature. The Imperial Parliament said, " If you," the Canadian legislature, " will impose a duty of 3 s
 Mr. Ward  said, he supported the resolutions of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, but upon grounds diametrically the opposite of those which the noble Lord had advanced. He supported the noble Lord's resolutions in the full conviction that they would give a very dangerous shock to a very bad system which he wanted to get rid of. That did away at once with a great deal of the nonsense which had been talked in that House about the sliding-scale. The noble Lord had openly avowed his preference of a
 966 Stanley; s s s s. s. s
 Sir James Graham:  No general order had been issued in this country, or in Ireland. Each case depended upon its own merits as it arose, and would be so decided upon by the responsible Advisers of the Crown.
 Sir James Graham,  no. It was in the discretion of the Lord Chancellor to act upon his own judgment, solely in such a matter as this, and not under the direction of others; but he, on the part of her Majesty's Government, said that the step taken was approved of by himself and his Colleagues.
 Sir James Graham : If the hon. Gentleman attended a repeal meeting, there could be no doubt but that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland would remove him from the commission of the peace.
 Sir James Graham  replied, he had received an official communication from the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, to the effect that, in the discharge of his duty, he had thought fit to remove from the commission of the peace Lord Ffrench, for having presided at a meeting where the question of repeal had been discussed, and also that he thought it his duty to remove the hon. Member for Cork from the commission of the peace, for the same reason. He had not heard of the third removal having taken place. He had received no communication to that effect.
 Sir James Graham  remarked that nothing could be less expected by him than that questions on this subject should be put to him that evening. He had not had the slightest intimation that it was intended to put them. It was not the usual time for putting them, and he was quite satisfied that the House must perceive there was some irregularity in the proceeding; but, then, in a matter of this kind he was most anxious at all times to answer such questions as should be asked of him, but it was most important that he should be able to answer with accuracy. To the best of his recollection, the Lord Chancellor had specifically directed the attention of Lord Ffrench to the matter. The Lord Chancellor
 984
 Sir James Graham  had not received information of any breach of the peace, except in the case referred to by the hon. Gentleman, as to the death of one unfortunate man; but on the other hand, he had been informed that tumultuous assemblies had taken place under circumstances which had produced the greatest possible excitement and alarm amongst her Majesty's loyal subjects.
 Sir J. Hanmer  was glad to find the country gentlemen of England resume their natural courage and generosity, and dare to look these questions in the face, and not be frightened by every shadow of free trade. There was not a single argument to be adduced against the introduction of corn from Canada into this country which might not have been adduced against the introduction of corn from Ireland into this country which might not have been adduced against the introduction of corn from Ireland in 1806. In 1806 this country had imported 300,000 quarters of wheat from Ireland. The last return made of our imports of wheat from Ireland was in 1837, and this country had then imported thence in round numbers somewhere about 3,000,000 of quarters,
 972
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if notice had been given ten days ago, there would have been time for the examination of documents. No one could undertake to determine whether certain papers should be given or not without having an opportunity of consulting the archives of his office. This, in the case of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, could not be done at once, but his noble Friend would take the earliest opportunity of making the necessary inquiries.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that nothing could be further from his intention than to misrepresent what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. The impression on his mind always had been, and it still remained, that when the Customs Duties Bill was before the House, and his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) proposed to impose a duty of 3 s.
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that his presump tion was that of the noble Lord; but what they required was, the opportunity of referring to the documents. If the orders were to be of general operation, they could be produced without any difficulty.
 Mr. Hutt  could not conceive any measure more calculated to exasperate the Canadians, or to excite a renewal of those angry feelings by which the colony had had been recently disturbed, than to give it a united legislature, and then deprive it of those powers which must necessarily belong to a legislature. He did not think it a sufficent reason for limiting the authority of the Canadian legislature that a portion of those goods which had passed over the frontier might be hereafter imported into this country; but, in addition to this, he was prepared to contend, that the duties imposed by the Government plan would not be paid by the people of this country. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax, thought that the proposal of transferring 18,000 l l 961
 Viscount Palmerston  observed, that one portion of the motion of the noble Lord, as it appeared to him, related to a matter that must be pf public notoriety. From his own recollections be was disposed to say, that an order to disband a yeomanry corps must be a mere matter of official routine, and to the production of which there could be no possible objection. It might be otherwise with papers that possibly were confidential.
 Lord Stanley  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not think him guilty of any disrespect if he declined opening the general question again, which, he thought, had already been sufficiently discussed. He confessed he was unable to draw any distinction between the amendment now proposed by the hon. Gentleman and that which was proposed on Friday last by the noble Lord the Member for London. The noble Lord, in his amendment, moved to omit so much of his (Lord Stanley's) resolutions as referred to an act agreed to by the Legislature of Canada, and rendered the legislation of the Parliament of this country dependent on that of the provincial Legislature. The amendment of the hon. Gentleman was framed on the same principle. His motion was made on a distinct understanding that the measure would tend to the encouragement of agriculture in Canada, and that there should be a protection against the introduction of American corn. He could not now consent to a motion which would enable the colony to obtain the benefit of the proposed arrangement, without affording to the agriculture of this country the intended protection against corn the produce of America. With respect to the question put by the hon. Gentleman opposite. What he had stated when he had proposed the measure was, that an article which; after having been imported into a colony, passed there through a process of manufacture, became the manufacture of that
 991
 Lord Clements  cordially seconded the amendment; and had to express his regret that his hon. Friend had not proposed an amendment in stronger terms; for had it been that the Serjeant-at-Arms be directed to kick the bill out of the door, he would have gladly supported the proposition. Thanks were certainly due to the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, for the gentle and yet straightforward manner in which he had introduced the monster into the House; but now he was here it was fit to meet it and grapple with it in a mode becoming its strength and hideousness. Former arms bills had not been brought forward under similar circumstances; they had been reserved to a late period of the session, and generally consisted of a comparatively few lines, and were thus smuggled through the House. If, on the present occasion, the opponents of the bill should not be able to throw it out, at least they would have an opportunity of considering its details, and of ascertaining the precise nature of the intended law. At the same time it was to be regretted that the noble Lord had not given the House more information as to the necessity for such a monstrous infringement on the rights and liberties of the Irish. All the noble Lord had in fact done, was to direct the attention of Members to the small piece of paper that had this morning been distributed. [A return of outrages reported to the constabulary office]. He regretted also to see the name of the noble Lord at the back of such a bill. How much better would it have appeared on the back of some measure which had for its object the real and practical amelioration of the condition of Ireland. Why had the noble Lord not introduced a bill to regulate tolls and customs in Ireland, regarding which and their legality, contentions arose in almost every fair and market in Ireland? It was most melancholy to behold a Government recommending a Coercion Bill, and neglecting its duty by refraining from producing a measure to regulate tolls and customs in
 1016 "I think that measure is calculated to insure the safety of a large portion of her Majesty's subjects in Ireland; and when I consider the nature and extent of the outrages committed in various parts of that country within the last two years, I do look upon it as a measure calculated to improve the condition of Ireland." 1017 ["Oh."] No." "If her Majesty's ministers do not possess the confidence of the House of Commons, then, I say, that their continuance in office is at variance with the principles and' spirit of the Constitution.' I do not speak of those theories which refer to some combination of the opposing elements of monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy, each armed with defensive and offensive instruments, by which they keep each other in check. I speak only of that system of Parliamentary government which has prevailed in this country since the accession of the House of Hanover. I speak of that system which implies that the Ministers of the Crown shall have the confidence of the House of Commons. I speak of that system which has prevailed during the period when, according to the expression—the just expression of the noble Lord, whom I now see opposite to me, in his able and dispassionate Essay on the English Constitution—' the centre of gravity of the State has been placed in the House of Commons.' When I use the phrase, 'spirit
 1018 * "He had never taunted his Majesty's Ministers for not proposing at an earlier period the measures of coercion which they now demanded. When others said that they ought to have applied for coercive measures, he had been no party to the complaint. His language had always been, try the ordinary laws— there is great evil in coercive measures; you cannot rely on them for any permanent good, but there is great risk that they will relax the energy of the ordinary law, and that they will widen the breach between the richer classes, for whose protection, and the poorer classes, for whose punishment, they appear to be intended."† "I would mention (he said) the case of the * † 1019 county of Longford, which was a few years ago so disturbed, that it was on the eve of being placed under the Peace Preservation Act. At that time my noble Friend (Lord Forbes), one of the Members for the county, desirous to avert this disgrace, as he deemed it, from his county, resolved to make an experiment, whether it was not possible to preserve tranquillity under the present mode of appointing constables. At his request, the application of the Peace Preservation Act was withheld; by his own exertions and influence, with the assistance of his brother magistrates, he formed under the existing laws a baronial police, which has now for five years been in operation, and the result has been the complete tranquillity of the county during the time in question, without any resort to extraordinary means." * "It was (he said) one of the most mischievous courses that could be pursued, for the magistrates, upon every occasion where particular disturbances might exist, instead of looking to the general execution of the laws, and relying firmly upon the authority with which they were invested, to ask Government for the passing of a measure so strong and harsh as that which was meant to be suggested in this petition—the renewal of the Insurrection Act." "Unhappily, since he had been connected with the Government of Ireland, the state of that country had given him frequent opportunities of stating his determination, and that of the Government to which he belonged, to adhere, so long as it was at all likely to prove effective, to the ordinary administration of the law, and to repel that extraordinary application of the powers of Government, which, however it might put down an evil at the moment, was calculated ultimately to increase * † Ibid. Third Series, vol. xi, p. 248. 1020 that evil tenfold, and which put down a weed, to raise a stronger and more noxious produce from its root." * "The mode in which arms were registered at first when I went to the county was, that any person wishing to get arms registered went to the office of the clerk of the peace, and it was, I understood, a matter of course that he should receive his license or certificate to keep arms. It struck me that such a practice led necessarily to this result, that arms got into the hands of a large number of improper persons, who, either from character or from their condition in life, or from the means, or the want of means rather, they had of safely keeping arms, were not persons to whom arms ought to be intrusted; and 1 recollect proving the necessity of a strict scrutiny with respect to arms, by keeping upon one occasion a number of applications during a sessions, which were made to me as chairman, for the registration of arms. I had all the persons called upon the table, we had a personal inspection of them. To judge of their appearance, certainly the appearance of some did not indicate that they were such persons as would be wisely intrusted with arms. Secondly; I examined as to what kind of houses they lived in, whether thatched houses, because I think it an object that the parties having arms should not live in thatched houses. If a house is attacked they can be more easily set fire to; they are more liable to have the arms taken in that way. Then with regard to the mode of keeping arms; frequently if any person had but an open kitchen, a single place where he would leave his gun all day, and he out, he could not be the guardian of his arms. I thought that a ground for refusal, and we refused, upon that ground, such persons as came forward and were liable to the objection. Having gone through the different applications, I refused licenses, I think, to keep arms, to the amount of about thirty stand. I remember one man, a man in rather humble condition of life, applied for three guns and a sword. I examined each applicant as to his fitness and circumstances in open court, to
 * 1021 exemplify what I had been stating to the magistrates before, bow necessary it was that that branch of the jurisdiction of the court should not be delegated to an irresponsible officer." "Is your Lordship of opinion that there are unregistered arms in the hands of the peasantry of Tipperary?"—"I am convinced of that." "Have you yourself found a considerable number?"—"I have received reports of a certain number of my tenants who had unregistered arms; I sent for them, and told them that I understood that was the case, and that if they did not send in their arms I would get them punished for having them; and ten out of seventeen stand of arms were brought in in one day." 1022 "He could not agree, without any inquiry into the state of Ireland, to give his assent to the passing such an arbitrary act as this. At the time of the Union, the Irish were promised a full and fair participation of the rights of Englishmen; at that moment, after a lapse of seven years, they were called upon to pass an act than which nothing could be more arbitrary and oppressive, and which would not be borne with in England but in cases of the most imperious necessity, and after the fullest inquiry." * * 1023 "This bill differed materially from the other; the other was to operate in a particular part only, and that under peculiar circumstances; but this was to act universally throughout the whole country, and under any circumstances. What was that in effect but stating that, generally speaking, you cannot trust the whole of the population of Ireland, and proclaiming to the enemy, that in that place there is to be found a large portion of his Majesty's subjects who are ready to accept of their arms if they will send them there." *
 Sir Arthur Piggott  also opposed the bill on that occasion, and he said:—
 "Since my Lord Hardwick, the Duke of Bedford had been some time Lord-lieutenant; and there were some partial disturbances in different parts of the country. Applications had been made to his grace to put in force the provisions of this act; but he refused. He proceeded against the culprits in a legal way; and the law was found sufficient to subdue the insurrection, and to punish the offenders. Here the House had the evidence of two lords-lieutenant, that in the course of six or seven years, there was no necessity for such provisions. It must be a necessity made apparent to Parliament, and not allowed to go on in respect to any assertion of any individual, to put the whole people of Ireland out of the law, and authorise these nocturnal domiciliary visits." † "It appeared to him, that this act might be so modified as to remove these objections, and to prevent its trenching upon the liberty of the subject more than the absolute necessity of the case required. He should propose that no magistrate or number of magistrates should have the power to search except upon information on oath, or in a case that they had such ground of suspicion as might make it desirable to search a district for arms; and that in that case, they should send their information to Government, in order that it might determine whether the search should be made or not. If Government should determine that a search ought to be made, then he should propose that a warrant should be sent * † Ibid. 1090 1024 by the Lord-lieutenant authorising and directing such search. This provision would, in his opinion, be sufficient to guard the subject from any wanton exercise of authority." * "Moved for leave to bring in a bill to continue the acts of 47 and 50 of his present Majesty, to prevent improper persons from having fire-arms in their custody. The bill he meant to introduce would even go further towards protecting the liberty of the subject than the acts it was intended to revive; as it was meant to enact that no search for firearms should take place but in presence of two magistrates. Under those circumstances, he did not expect any opposition but from the right hon. Baronet opposite, and he would reserve his further observations for the future stages of the bill."† * † 1025 l A laugh. 1026 "Was Ireland, (den, on the eve of a national insurrection? Had misrule reached its climax, and was the House called upon by some instant, general convulsion, to take precautions which nothing but such appalling circumstances could for a moment justify? If such events were to be apprehended, no measure could more tend to hasten them. It would ripen the very discontent and revolt it was intended to check." "The spirit of discontent, arising from the misery and misgovernment of centuries, was stalking forward; and if this evil and malignant genius was to be exorcised from our shores, it was not by coercive and distrustful legislation that it could be done. And this, too, was to be a permanent measure, as it Ireland were doomed to irremediable disturbance, and it was an element of her being to be ever discontented. Let Government subdue Ireland by other means than force—conquer her with such measures as reform—redress her grievances, and then trust arms without peril to her hands," * "Admitted that he withdrew the measure submitted to the House in consequence of the decided opposition to his motion of those hon. Members to whose opinions he was in the habit, of looking with deference and respect." * 1027 1028 l "In one respect he had only done justice to the Government of Ireland, in stating that it had done everything in its power to prevent the yeomanry force from becoming a party force. If it had not succeeded to the extent it could wish, it was not the fault of the Government." "The use of such a force was, he admitted, only a choice of evils." "Have you any Catholics in your corps?— None. "Are they all Orangemen?—They are not. "Are there any labourers in the corps to your recollection — that is, mere labourers, men who have no farm?—There are some. "Do you recollect that there are?—There are some persons residing in the lodges at my gates who work and labour for me, who are yeoman in the corps. "Are there any Roman Catholics holding comfortable small farms in that part of the country?—There are some, but not many. "There is no man of that description in
 1029 "Were not those Orange lodges, to your knowledge, established in many of the regiments of militia?—I have no doubt of the fact. "Are not most of the yeomen in the north of Ireland Orangemen?—I should think and hope that they all hold Orange principles, though I do not know whether they belong to Orange lodges."
 Mr. P. M'Connell  said—
 "Is the Tanderaga corps exclusively Protestants? — I believe so—exclusively Orangemen. I believe no one would be admitted into the corps, unless they were Orangemen. "You state, that in 1835 there were a number of yeomen who appeared regularly in the Orange processions on the 13th of July? —  Yes;
 Lord Gosford  was asked—
 "Your lordship stated, that the yeomanry are generally Orangemen?—That is my impression. "If the yeomanry are in fact Orangemen, they must have conducted themselves so as not to have caused any complaints against their conduct in the opinion of Lord Grey's government?—I cannot tell what opportunities they may have had: the yeomanry have been little known. The corps are not called out, I know, at all in my neighbourhood, and I believe there are very few corps; they are so very seldom assembled and brought together, one hears little of them."
 Sir Frederick Stovin,  speaking of the Orangeman at Dungannon and of the procession, said—
 "Ten of them were armed with yeomanry muskets. … It was reported to the Lord-lieutenant, and the Lord-lieutenant ordered the yeomanry corps to be disarmed. "Are the Protestant gun-clubs appendages to the Orange body?—I do not know; but from what 1 have heard, not. There is no occasion for it, because I should say that the yeomanry are almost all Orangemen. 1030 "Do not you consider that the yeomanry, notwithstanding their being almost entirely Protestants are an useful institution?—They were an useful institution. "Within the last ten years?—Quite useless; and more than useless, in my opinion. I think think are dangerous." "That from the inquiries he had made relative to the unfortunate affair at Newtown Barry, he was of opinion that it was a wanton, unprovoked, and, be had much reason to fear, a deliberate, premeditated massacre." 1031 No, no. [A cry of 1032
 Mr. Baleson  said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down, probably imagined that he, as an Irishman, must rise with great reluctance to support the Government in carrying into law this "abomination, brought forth in a monstrous way,"as the noble Lord termed the bill before the House; but he could assure him, that the only reluctance he felt was in rising to address the House in support of the bill, after the speech delivered by the noble Lord—a speech which, if it proved anything, proved the great necessity there was for a measure of this nature. But leaving the noble Lord to carry into practice his theory of "giving arms to both sides of Piccadilly,"he would revert to the present unhappy state of Ireland, as his great reason for supporting the present bill. He saw that agitation and discord were being scattered through a large portion of the land—that inflammatory appeals were being daily made to the populace by those in whom they trusted—that resistance and separation from England were the common topics of discussion, even in the public papers; and that fire and the sword, if not absolutely recommended, were, at least, spoken of (as at Cork and Cashel) as means, which it might be necessary for the people to employ. When he perceived this state of affairs, and heard the counsels which had been given, he considered he was no enemy to liberty, but merely a foe to anarchy and licence, when he expressed his thanks to her Majesty's Government for having brought forward a measure for the registration of arms. He could not, like the Noble Lord, conceive this to be a coercion bill. In fact, he was no admirer of coercion bills— no advocate for penal laws. He was not of opinion, as many were, that it was expedient to pass some legislative enactment to put down repeal discussion. The actual laws, if carried into effect, were at present sufficient, and a fresh enactment would only give to it an importance which it really did not now possess. He would deprecate any such new legislation to put down free discussion; for he conceived it would only be adding fuel to that flame, which, though it apparently burned brightly at present, would
 1036 1037 1038
 Mr. T. B. C. Smith  (Attorney-general for Ireland) having, in connection with the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, brought in the bill, trusted this House would permit him to state the grounds on which it had been founded. His right hon. Friend who had last addressed the House stated, that this bill was a violation of the principles of the British constitution, and that it was calculated to draw an unjust distinction between England and Ireland, and in describing the character of such a measure he called in to his aid the opinions of Lord Grey in the House of
 1052 1053 1054 Clements: " 1055 1056 Shell: 1057
 Lord Eliot  said, in proposing the second reading of the Arms (Ireland) Bill, he thought it necessary to explain to the House the circumstances under which it was now brought forward. The scope of the measure was to amend, to consolidate, and to continue laws which were now in existence, but which were about to cease. The possession of arms, and the importation of arms and ammunitions into Ireland, had been regulated by law for a period of nearly fifty years; they had been made the subject of different enactments; that was to say, the same
 997 96 998 "There is not, perhaps, a man more strongly convinced than I am, that the very existence of the two islands depends on the continuance of their connection."
 Lord John Russell;  After the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, who has replied to that of my right hon. Friend, and who has based that reply upon what was done by the late Govern-
 1058 1059 1060 1061 1062 1063
 Lord John Russell  said, the House having approved of the measure, and the matter having been fully discussed, he did not mean to impede its further progress, but he wished to protest against the adoption of the bill being hereafter considered as a contract by the Imperial Parliament. If hereafter Parliament should come to what he thought a better opinion, and regard this scheme as disadvantageous, both for Canada and the mother country, he should think the present settlement open to revision, if at any time such a course should seem advisable.
 Mr. Villiers,  amid marks of impatience, said, that the noble Lord's answer to his hon. Friend's amendment, that the measure was not intended to increase the supply of food in this country, was not consistent with the hint that he had given to his agricultural friends at the close of his first speech—namely, that they must remember that the people of this country were increasing at the rate of 300,000 a year; that they were not able adequately to supply them with food themselves, and that the people must be fed. The noble
 992 993
 Mr. Grattan,  in supporting the bill, defended the vote he had given, and stated, that the remedies he proposed for Ireland were—a general education for the people, the abolition of tithes, and Catholic emancipation. But Mr. Grattan, while he proposed these three remedies defended the Arms Bill, proposed by the then Chief Secretary for Ireland, which was passed into a law. The provisions of the 47th Geo. 3rd, were in great measure those which had been continued from time to time ever since, and which were embodied in the bill of which he had now to propose the second reading. He had already observed, that the noble Lord, the Member for the city of London, and his noble Predecessor, Lord Morpeth, thought it expedient to propose for the adoption of that House a bill to consolidate and continue the laws relating to the registration of arms, and their importation into Ireland. He believed it, would be found, on comparing these two bills, that their provisions were in a great measure alike. He was quite willing to admit that this might be said to be an  argumentum ad hominem, 999 "I have forwarded to the Irish Office, according to your wish, numerous constabulary reports connected with the illegal possession of arms; and I may embrace this opportunity of expressing my conviction that an amendment of the present Arms Act is imperatively called for. There can be no question, from the information I have received, that vast numbers of unregistered arms are in the hands
 1000 1001 "For more than fifteen years it has been my almost daily duty to read and class the special reports of crime forwarded from the interior for the information of Government; and although during a large portion of that period I had to deal with such cases merely as occurred in the province of Munster, including of course the county of Tipperary, yet for the last seven years, that is, since a central constabulary office has been established in Dublin, the reports of all serious outrages throughout Ireland have generally passed through my hands. In furnishing these reports, it is the duty of the district officer to ascertain and set forth in his statement of each case, in addition to other particulars, the supposed motive which induced the perpetration of the offence; so that the perusal of such details for a term of years, while calculated to afford to any attentive reader much insight into the character, temper, and habits of the rural population of the country, could not fail, at the same time, to enable him to form tolerably just notions as to the mode in which, and the means whereby, the outrages which afflict the country are effected; and as to the motives which may have led to their perpetration. The police reports bear upon a variety of subjects, for, besides the numerous cases of agrarian outrages, such as homicides, robbing for arms, attacking and burning houses, maiming of cattle, and other acts of malicious injury, the public peace is frequently disturbed by illegal combinations to resist legal process, to regulate the wages of labour, to assert right of turbary or commonage, or to seize and carry off seaweed, &c. In all such cases, illegal combination is readily formed, and, when necessary, arms are sure to be forthcoming. There is, I regret to say, an unhappy propensity among the Irish peasantry to effect their ends, whatever those ends may be, by intimidation and violence; and even in cases of real injury occurring among themselves, where a legal remedy might doubtless be obtained, our police reports show that they are often prone to redress such wrongs by some cruel acts of retaliation, rather than proceed by course of law. To this spirit, and to the sinister means employed to inflame it, may be referred all the formidable combinations which have at different times endangered the public peace in Ireland. Of late years, we have seen vast numbers illegally banded together to resist the payment of tithes and church-rates, when much bloodshed ensued; more recently, the levying of the poor-rate has been forcibly resisted, and lives have been lost in the conflict; and we have just had very menacing movements in certain counties for the declared purpose of curtailing the dues of the Roman Catholic clergy. In the districts of Ireland where the agrarian and other disorders are
 1002 1003 "Limerick, June 24, 1842.—A party of ten men, well armed, entered the house of Mr. Lindsay, and took a musket and 'gun, threatening to shoot one of the inmates if the fire arms were not given up. Banshe, Tipperary, July 22, 1842.—A party of seven armed men entered the house of Mr. Holmes, severely assaulted the inmates, and carried off five fire arms. Rathkeale, Limerick, November 28, 1842.—A party armed with pistols, entered the house of the Rev. Mr. Coughlan, threatened to shoot him, and carried off a pistol. The same party went on to two other houses, and took away from each two muskets. Rathkeale, Limerick, December 7,1842.—A party of twenty, of whom eighteen were armed, some with guns and others with pistols, entered the house of Gerald Conners, beat some of the inmates, and carried off a blunderbuss and a case of pistols. Newport, Tipperary, March 17, 1843.— A party of six men, four armed with pistols, entered the house of Samuel Young, assaulted the inmates, and carried off a gun. Ballinamore, Leitrim, April 22, 1843. —An armed party, thirty or forty in number, broke into six dwelling-houses, succeeded in obtaining four guns, and maltreated some of those in whose houses they were unable to find arms. Kilbeggan, County of Westmeath, May 16, 1843.—A party of six men, four of whom were armed with pistols, entered the house of David Carey, and carried off a gun and a pistol. Strokestown, Roscommon, May 24, 1843.—A party of four men, two being armed with pistols, entered the house of Mar-tin Grady, and carried off two guns and two pistols. Carrick-on-Shannon, Leitrim, January 17, 1843.—In a search for unregistered arms, there were seized five guns, one sword, &c, ' They were concealed in most difficult places; it almost amounts to an impossibility to discover where they are hid.' Sligo, March 11, 1842.—In a search for unregistered arms made by magistrates in three parties, each aided by twenty police, there were seized nine guns, two pistols, and two swords. Kilaloe, county of Clare.—An armed party fired three shots (slugs and bullets) into the house of P. Mulqueeny, and posted a threatening notice on his door. Dunleer, county of Louth.—A party of forty, some being armed, entered Patrick Marron's house, and threatened that they would return and shoot him if he proceeded with an ejectment against a tenant of his, T. Leonard. Roscommon, May 10th, 1843.— A party of fifteen men, of whom six were armed, one with a pistol, and five with guns, assaulted John Leonard, threatened to shoot him, and administered an oath to him to leave his place the following morning." 1004 "Borriskane, Tipperary, May 10th, 1841.— Mr. Hall, a gentleman, upwards of seventy years old, was shot dead on his own land at noon-day. King's County, April 17th, 1842.— Mr. Roberts was returning from Cloughjordan, where he had been attending divine service, when he was shot dead from behind a hedge. County Tipperary, November 26th, 1842.—Mr. Scully was returning from duck-shooting, when he was waylaid and shot dead. Tipperary, November 30th, 1842.—Michael Hauly was shot dead at his own door by a man, who called on pretence of asking the way to a neighbouring place. Clonbullock, King's County, May 5th, 1843.—Mr. Gatchell was driving in his gig near Clonbullock, when he was shot dead from behind a hedge." 1005 "The cases enumerated in the foregoing table (cases of demands or robberies of arms, appearing armed, firing at the person, and firing into dwellings) convey a very inadequate view of the extent to which the possession of arms by improper persons in Ireland is carried. The rule observed in the Constabulary-office in characterizing crime is to record each outrage as one offence, without reference to the several incidents of the case. If an armed party forcibly enter into a house, and beat the inmates, or swear them to do, or not to do, some particular act, the offence would, according to our usage, be characterized either as a 'house attack,' or as 'unlawfully ad-
 1006 1007 1008 1009 1010
 Captain David Duff  gave evidence to the same effect.
 "Do you think there is an equal number amongst the lower order of Protestants unregistered?—I do not think there are, because many of the lower order of Protestants in the north of Ireland are yeomen; and I believe, under the act they can hold yeomanry arms, without reference to a register. "Do you believe that the majority of the Protestants in the north of Ireland are yeomen?—I believe they are."
 Dr. Bowring  seconded the amendment. It was his wish to separate the evil from the good in the proposed measure of the noble Lord. The bill would do good by facilitating the introduction of the surplus corn of Canada into this country, but to provent the corn of America from going free of duty into Canada would be an evil, and from this evil it was the object of the proposed amendment to relieve the noble Lord's measure.
 Mr. Sheil  then rose. He said: If I were convinced that the Arms Bill, even in its present most obnoxious shape, was necessary for the repression of crime, I should reluctantly indeed, but strenuously sustain it; but of its utter inefficiency for the attainment of that legitimate purpose, in which it is obligatory upon us all to concur, I am thoroughly persuaded. It is not to the want of an Arms Bill, such as this, it is to the imperfect, I am almost justified in calling it the impotent administration of justice, that the atrocities, by which certain districts in Ireland are unfortunately characterised, are to be ascribed. In the county of Tipperary the prosecutions at the assizes are begun, conducted, and terminated in such a manner as to secure impunity to crime. How has it come to pass, that the offences which fall within the jurisdiction of the assistant barrister, and are prosecuted by the local solicitor, have so signally diminished, I attribute that remarkable decrease to two causes; first, to the high judicial qualities, the talent, the firmness, the impartiality which has won the confidence of all parties, by which Mr. Howley, the assistant barrister is distinguished; and in the next place, to the signal usefulness of the local solicitor for the Crown (Mr. Cahill), who unites with great ability a perfect knowledge of the country; has the best opportunities of ascertaining every incident connected with the cases in which he is concerned; is well acquainted with the character of every witness for the prosecution and the defence; never puts innocence in peril; and never permits ruffianism to escape. But while minor violations of the law are prosecuted with so much effect, what course is taken at the assizes? I beg most distinctly to state that nothing can be more remote from my intention than to speak in the language of personal depreciation of Mr. Kemmis, the Crown solicitor for the Leinster circuit, or to suggest that a local solicitor should be employed in his place, without adding, that he should receive for any loss he may sustain the most ample compensation. But granting him to possess the highest professional qualifications, I have no hesitation at the same time in stating that the
 1039 1040 l l 1041 1042 1043 "The measure appeared to me so impolitic, so unjust, and likely to produce so much mischief, that I determined, if any person divided the House, to vote against it. I did not speak against the bill: that it would pass, whatever might be said against it, I could not doubt; and therefore thought that to state my objections against it, could have no other effect, than to increase the mischief, which I wished to prevent. What triumphant arguments will this bill, and that which is depending in the
 1044 "The speaker asked what was the melancholy fact? That scarcely one year had at any period elapsed since the Union during which Ireland was governed by the ordinary course of law; that in 1800 we found the Habeas Corpus Act suspended, and an act for the suppression of rebellion in force; that in 1801 it was continued; in 1802 it expired; in 1803 disturbances occurred, and Lord Kilwarden was murdered by a savage mob; that in 1804 the act was renewed; in 1806 disorders arose, and the Insurrection Act was introduced in consequence; in 1810 and 1815 the Insurrection Act was renewed; and in 1825 an act was passed for the suppression of dangerous associations, and particularly of the Catholic Association; in 1826 the act was continued, and in 1827 it expired; and after this enumeration of acts of impolicy and injustice, he asked, "Shall this state of things continue without an effort to remedy it?" 1045 [Hear, hear.] 1046 1047 1048 1049
 Mr. M. Gibson  said, he rose to explain why he objected to this resolution being read a second time, and why he should move the amendment of which he had given notice. The motion of the noble Lord, the Member for London, raised the simple question whether the Imperial Legislature was to be dependant on the colonial Legislature, or the colonial Legislature on the Imperial Legislature. He gave
 989 990 "That in reducing the duty on the importation of Canada wheat and wheat flour into the United Kingdom, it is not expedient that such reduction should be made contingent on the imposition or maintenance of a duty on the importation of foreign corn into Canada."
 Mr. Greene  brought up the Report of the Committee on Canada Corn.
 Mr. Redington:  Am I then to understand this, that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland felt himself justified in referring to her Majesty's declaration, merely because he may have read reports of what passed in this House?
 Mr. Redington:  After what the right hon. Baronet has said, I hope I may be allowed to say one word. The right hon. Baronet is not justified in raising a cheer by attempting to fix upon me the advocacy of the Repeal of the Union, and taking credit to himself for opposing it. I wish to ask another question; has the Lord Chancellor Of Ireland sent any official notification on this subject to other magistrates?
 Mr. Redington : The right hon. Baronet has not answered my question. I wish to know in what manner the declaration of her Majesty, which, I think, ought to be treated with the utmost respect, was made officially known to the highest legal functionary in Ireland, inasmuch as that functionary has made the circumstance of a magistrate attending a meeting to petitition for a Repeal of the Union, after such declaration was made, the ground for dismissing him from the magistracy.
 Mr. Redington:  I wish to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department respecting the recent dismissal of some magistrates in Ireland. 985 "Your Lordship's determination to preside over such a meeting, immediately after the declarations in Parliament, proves to the Lord Chancellor that the time has arrived for evincing the determination of this Government to delegate no power to those who seek by such measures as are now pursued to dissolve the legislative union. To allow such persons to remain any longer in the commission of the peace would be to afford the power of the Crown to the carrying of a measure which her Majesty has, like her predecessor, expressed her determination to prevent. This view of the case, which the step taken by your Lord ship has forced upon the attention of the Lord Chancellor, will compel him at once to supersede any other magistrates, who, since the declaration in Parliament, have attended like repeal meetings."
 Mr. Thornely  said, that he had heard it stated on the authority of Lord Ashburton, that the late tariff of America had been passed for purposes of revenue only. Now, he had spent three months last autumn in America, where he had discussed this question of the tariff with merchants, and with persons in every position of life, and he had never met with any individual who did not admit that the tariff, from first to last, was arranged with a view to the protection of American manufactures, and with a view to the injury of foreign manufactures. He was sure that the Board of Trade would state that the American tariff was passed not with a view to revenue, but with a view to protection. Tea and coffee were admitted free of duty, because those articles were not grown in the United States, and did not, therefore, require protection, and they were not subjected to duty, on purpose that a higher duty might be laid on manufactures. He was perfectly surprised that Lord Ashburton could be so prejudiced as to believe that the tariff had been framed with a view to revenue. He did not believe that the British Government would succeed in obtaining a commercial treaty with the United States. The Government of that country was weak, and had six and twenty conflicting interests to deal with. Still it was the English Corn-law that mainly enabled that Government to carry so high a tariff, and while the sliding-scale was maintained here it would be impossible to prevent a high tariff from being maintained in America.
 Mr. Wyse:  It appears that Lord Ffrench has been dismissed from the magistracy for attending a public meeting, at which the question of a Repeal of the Union was to be agitated, on the ground that a breach of the peace might be apprehended from such meetings. Now, I wish to know, whether it is to be understood that the magistrates of Ireland are liable to be dismissed for attending dinners where there can be no apprehension of a breach of the peace, but where the question of Repeal may be discussed?
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, that in rising to oppose the second reading of the bill he was bound to award his testimony to the moderate tone and temper in which it had been moved by the noble Lord. He trusted, however, he should be able to show that the measure was not called for by the circumstances of the case, and that it was one which ought not to pass. Considering the bill as one of great importance, he still viewed it, not as an insulated measure, but as part of a system by which Ireland had been governed— and he feared but ill governed— for a long period of years. He objected, then, to the bill upon principle, for he objected to the system by which Ireland had been governed, and on those grounds he opposed the measure. The question, he considered, that was raised upon the present bill was, whether Ireland was to be governed by means of justice and good legislation, or whether that country was to be kept under coercion and force, or if force was to be applied to put Ireland in that position in which she ought to be placed by good and just laws. It might be objected against him, as opposing the bill, that he did not represent an Irish constituency, but he did not conceive that that circumstance could militate against his taking an interest in the country to which he particularly belonged. Moreover, he considered that any attempt to violate the
 1011 l l l 1012 l 1013 1014 1015
 Sir G. Grey  thought there could be no objection to the alterations. They were perfectly reasonable and consistent with the right hon. Gentleman's statement in bringing forward the bill.
 Sir J. Graham : I must decline answering hypothetical questions. Without referring to hypothetical cases, however, I may remind the hon. Member that there are instances of gentlemen being dismissed from the magistracy on account of toasts drunk at dinners.
 Sir J. Graham : I cannot, with certainty, answer the hon. Member's question. The Lord Chancellor of Ireland's letter to Lord Ffrench is correctly given in the Usual channels of information, and I believe that the Lord Chancellor has communicated copies of the letter to various magistrates.
 Sir J. Graham:  I have told the hon. Member that the Lord Chancellor, and, I may add, the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, have received instructions from her Majesty's Government, to discourage every effort
 987 [Hear.]
 Sir J. Graham  moved the Order of the Day for the consideration of the Lords' amendments to the Registration of Voters Bill. With reference to the amendment, providing that any person voting without a qualification should be liable to be indicted for a misdemeanor, he could not propose that it should be agreed to by the House, as he was not disposed to recommend the creation of any new misdemeanour with respect to the right of voting. He thought the proposed enactment would be inoperative, and if operative, that it would be injurious. The right hon. Baronet concluded by proposing some alterations in the Lords' amendments.
 Sir James Graham  When her Majesty's present Ministers came into office, they, immediately after their appointment, felt it to be their duty, when the Great Seal of Ireland was entrusted to Sir Edward Sugden, to direct him, in the name and on the behalf of her Majesty, acting under the advice of her constitutional advisers, to use all the powers he possessed, within the limits of the constitution, to discourage every effort which might be made to subvert the Legislative Union, between the two countries. At a later
 986
 Sir J. Graham:  I think I have sufficiently answered the hon. Member. I have told him that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland has acted under the general instructions which he received from her Majesty's Government to discourage all attempts to subvert the Legislative Union, more especially after the declaration recently made by the First Minister of the Crown, in his place in Parliament. I am not prepared to say, that any after official communication has been made to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the course of facts relative to the affairs of Servia would be best ascertained from the despatches of our consul there. The circumstances of the case could not be so well known to Sir Stratford Canning, our ambassador at Constantinople, and he could not. at present undertake to lay upon the Table any portion of his Excellency's communication. He, however, had no objection to lay upon the Table such extracts from the despatches of Mr. Fonblanque, our consul at Servia, as would give a view of the facts of the case. The only difficulty which occurred to him with reference to this point, arose from the circumstance of the disputes in Servia not being terminated, and the probability which existed that a fresh election would take place. That being the case, it was of importance that nothing should be laid upon the Table of the House, which could compromise the interests or characters of individuals. With some reservation upon that point, he would lay upon the Table such extracts from the despatches of our consul at Servia as would give a fair view of the facts of the case.
 Lord Palmerston  said that some time ago the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government promised to lay upon the Table copies of certain treaties with Servia, and the hatti scheriff of 1829. He (Lord Palmorsten) at that time asked whether the right hon. Baronet would not also lay upon the Table such extracts from the despatches of our ambassador at Constan-
 988
  Mr. Stafford O'Brien  said, he had no intention to stand up in vindication of the past treatment of Ireland. The conduct of England towards Ireland was a black page in history. He would go farther, and say that there was one part which he deeply regretted of the conduct of the present Government towards Ireland; he meant the subject to which reference had been made by the right hon. Member for Dungarvan —the measure which had led to the increase in illicit distillation. He thought it unfair in hon. Gentlemen opposite to press their arguments to the length of saying that it was an injustice not to extend the same laws to both countries, when circumstances were different. Had not the right hon. Member for Dungarvan last night told the House that, in order to elicit truth, it was necessary to condemn the witness at criminal trials to eternal banishment, that being the only means by which their lives could be protected? Hon. Members might not be aware that
 1104
  Lord Claude Hamilton  said, that the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down had talked as if the bill before the House was an entirely novel measure, and as if it had been first brought under the notice of Members by the noble Lord in the present year 1843. He must, however, remind the hen. and learned Member that the provisions of the bill wire of very ancient date in the legislative history of Ireland, and they had been considered to be absolutely indispensable by every Government that had, during many years, ruled the country. The hon. and learned Member had talked of rivetting the chains of the people of Ireland by means of the present bill, but he must take the liberty of observing that neither the principle upon which the measure was founded, nor the provisions embodied in the various clauses, were novel: but, on the contrary, they were long recognised, and had been
 1126 1127 1128
 Captain F.Berkeley  begged to ask the hon. Member opposite whether there was any foundation for the report, that the Admiralty had issued orders for the fitting-out of the ten-gun brigs, which were known in the navy tinder the name of " floating coffins," for the purpose of sending them out to Africa, with a commander and a complement of eighty men, in order to cruize along that coast on the slave preventive service?
  Mr. M. J. O'Connell  was certainly beholden to the hon. and learned Gentle, man for having, at the end of a speech full of irrelevant matter, given one sentence in reference to the bill before the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that Mr. Baron Lefroy was a mild politician. Now, he would beg to refer to the speech of that learned personage in 1829, wherein he declared that the King would sacrifice his right to the throne if he gave his assent to the Catholic Emancipation Bill, and the Duke of Northumberland who was then the Lieutenant of Ireland, in consequence of that speech, thought it his duty to abstain from employing him to sit on the bench in the absence of the judge. The noble Lord opposite said that there was nothing new of any importance in the present bill; yet he would remind the noble Lord, that in a former year the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire moved a bill, one of the clauses of which contained a provision for the branding of arms in Ireland, and that, such was the unanimous expression of discontent on the subject, the proposition was rejected. Yet this most offensive proposition was renewed in the present bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that this bill was identical with the bill introduced by Lord Morpeth in 1836; but such was not the case; it differed from it in several material particulars. The very first clause gave great additional trouble in the process of registering arms, requiring the cooperation Of two householders, which caused not only delay, but inconvenience. But the main complaint, in his mind, was against the proposal to brand all the licensed arms throughout the country, indicating, by means of numbers and letters, the district and individual to whom every one belonged. He really thought, that hon. Gentlemen who had been silent in reference to this matter on former occasions, might ground their opposition to this bill upon these very registering clauses alone; an additional grievance of which was, that they were so dovetailed into one another throughout the measure as to render the act doubly difficult to comply with, and doubly penal into its consequent effect. But even supposing the bill to be the same as previous ones, was there any reason for continuing such a measure? Were those who considered
 1150 tu quoque 1151 1152 [Laughter.]
  Mr. V. Stuart  hoped he might be allowed to say, that he differed from his hon. Friends. He thought there was a necessity for some such measure as this in Ireland. At the same time, he thought some of the clauses objectionable, but they could easily be amended in committee.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that in earnest desire for the prosperity of Ireland—in anxious regard for its best interests, he could not yield to the hon Member who had just sat down, or to any other Gentleman on either side of that House. In the fullest anxiety for Ireland's true interests he was prepared to give his support to the present measure. As a magistrate of
 1108 1109 1110 Redington 1111 1112
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, that the Government had formed an opinion that officers of the rank of lieutenants in the navy were not of a rank sufficiently elevated to qualify them for the duties of a commander on the African station, and therefore it had been determined to send out no vessel under the charge of an officer of lower rank than that of a commander to cruise on the slave coast, for the duties which were to be performed by that officer were of a most delicate and responsible nature, more particularly those which related to the boarding of foreign vessels, and of instituting a search for slaves; and
 1096
 Mr, B. Cochrane  would not go against the sense of the House on such an important question as that which formed the subject of the adjourned debate. He would therefore postpone his motion.
  Captain Layard  said, that for his part it was not so much against the different clauses of the bill now before the House that he meant to object, as that he objected to the bill entirely and altogether. He felt that a more dangerous measure could not be brought forward at any time, and particularly at the present, when Ireland was known to be in such a fearful state of excitement; and he did trust that her Majesty's Ministers, finding how extremely unpopular such a measure would
 1121 1122 Vox populi, vox Dei. Vox populi est nihil. 1123
  Mr. C. Buller:  If this bill were introduced without reference to immediate objects, I confess I should not feel a deep interest in its fate. This bill, under other circumstances, and as the mere continuance of the law as it formerly stood, need excite very little interest in this House, or out of it. That such must be the case, is shown by the conduct of the Irish Members, when this bill was proposed by the late Government, and when it was accepted as a matter of course, without the slightest objection to its provisions. I shall not, in order to defend the present conduct of those Members, maintain that there is any difference between the provisions of this bill, and that formerly introduced. I, myself, am resolved to defend my conduct on far more general grounds, and I say frankly, that if this bill were brought in by Lord Morpeth, and if the powers to be exercised under it were to be exercised by Lord Morpeth, who so unquestionably enjoyed the confidence of the Irish people, I should think this bill a matter of perfect indifference. But, Sir, I look to what hands the powers given by this bill, are to be committed. It cannot be denied—the Gentlemen opposite have admitted—that it is restrictive of liberty, that its provisions go to enlarge the powers of the executive. Is it illogical, that before I assent to grant such powers, I should ask in what spirit they are to be exercised, and whether they are to be entrusted to a Government having the confidence of the majority of the Irish people, or only that of a minority detested by that people? On this plain ground I rest my opposition to a bill, of which I thought nothing when it was formerly brought before Parliament. The Government to whom I formerly entrusted the powers of this bill was a Government which, amongst other advantages, exerted the whole of its administrative powers in accordance with the feelings of the Irish people. If it could not complete its good intentions by measures of legislation, it was not its fault. And the Irish people attributed their short-
 1129 1130 1131 1132 1133 1134 1135 1136
 Sir D. Roche  said, that having seen a declaration in the morning papers, made by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Graham), relative to the removal of several of the Irish magistrates, from the commission of the peace in that country, he felt it to be his duty to inform the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of Slate for the Home Department, that he (Sir D. Roche) had attended a dinner at which the question of the repeal was discussed; and having done so, he thought it was quite right that it should be known that he did not wish to remain in the commission of the peace a moment longer than was consistent with his personal dignity and freedom of opinion upon political topics, such as that in question.
  Mr. Ross:  My hon. Friend, the Member for Londonderry (Mr. Bateson) in giving in his adhesion to this bill, has gone so far as to say, that no man acquainted with the present state of Ireland, can oppose it on any other than factious grounds. He will doubtless be surprised to find in the course of this debate many Gentlemen intimately acquainted with that country, and above the suspicion of being actuated by factious motives, most decidedly hostile to a restriction on the common-law right to bear arms, not justified by a proved necessity. That the bill is an invasion of a constitutional right, is admitted by its authors—and how precious is that right! It leaves no man defenceless as regards his person, his family, or his property. On other grounds
 1099 1100 "Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, lest the Hebrews make them swords, or spears. But all the Israelites went down to the Philistines to sharpen every man his share, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock. Yet they had a file for the mattock, and for the coulter, and for the forks, and for the axes, and to sharpen the goads." 1101 " Thy rival was honoured, while thou wert wrong'd and scorn'd; Thy crown was of brier, while gold her brow adorned: She wooed me to temples, whilst thou laidst hid in caves Her friends were all masters, while thine alas! were slaves; Yet cold on the earth at thy feet would I rather be, Than wed what I loved not—or turn one thought from thee." 1102 1103
  Mr. Shaw  said the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Buller), like much of the debate previously, had wandered from the bill immediately before the House, to the general state of Ireland. He was happy to have heard the hon. and learned Gentleman declare that he had never been in that country, for in the remarks with which the hon. and learned Member had favoured the House, with regard to the gentry, the peasantry, the habits, the feelings, and the general condition of Ireland, the hon. and learned Gentleman having spoken so freely of his (Mr. Shaw's) country, and many of his personal friends, must allow him to say, that in reference to every one of those topics, the hon. and learned Gentleman had exhibited the profoundest ignorance. As the debate had, as he had already observed, diverged into a general discussion upon the present state of Ireland, he trusted that he should be borne with while he offered a few observations to the House on that question which was at that moment one of all-absorbing interest. He had hitherto refrained from taking part in the incidental references which had been made to that subject in the House; but he felt that the time was come when it became his duty, as an Irish representative, to give to the House and the country the best opinion which he was capable of forming upon it, without reference to party, to whom it might be pleasing or to whom displeasing, but with the single view to what he believed sincerely to be the truth. He was sorry to be obliged to say, in the first place, that he considered the present condition of Ireland most unsatisfactory—he might, he feared, truly add, alarming. In his recollection — and he spoke the experience of much older men when he said in theirs—the general mass of the population were never so violently agitated, and all other classes so depressed and dejected; each thus operating upon the other, as both cause and effect. Various had been the reasons assigned on different sides for this state of things. He believed it arose from a combination of causes not yet adverted to; at all events, in that House. There was, first, the general depression of the agricultural interest, affecting, even to an extent far be.
 1137 1138 [Laughter.] 1139 1140 1141 1142 [Order, Order.] "I know a trick worth two of that—what 1 want is to organise the entire of Ireland by means purely constitutional." The Nation 1143 "The music's read, the morning's bright, Step together—left, right—left, right; We carry no gun, Yet devil a one But knows how to march in Tip'rary,0! By twelves and sixties on we go, Rank'd four deep in close order, O ! For order's the way To carry the day— March steadily, men of Tip'rary, O ! We'll get repeal in a year or so, If we're active and true to each other O ! Then the rents will be low, And the taxes also, And Ireland will be a great nation, O!" "The Saxon and the Dane Our immortal hills profane, May destruction seize the twain,
Says the Shan Van Vocht.
And what are we to do? To nerve our hearts anew And to treat the hireling crew To a touch of Brian Boru,
Says the Shan Van Vocht. They came across the wave But to plunder and enslave, And should find a robber's grave,
Says the Shan Van Vocht." 1144 l 1145 "Of the whole 143 families mentioned by Mr. Davern, nine only have been ejected during the last eighteen years; and it was necessary to resort to the sheriff in four cases only out of these nine, in one of which the tenant had no family residing on the land; fifty-six families included in his list have not been tenants of Lord Hawarden during the last twenty-one years; three families are twice mentioned; twenty-nine left of their own accord, and received compensation on quitting; twenty-two exchanged for other holdings on the estate, and twenty-one families held as undertenants to lessees, to whom they surrendered their lands, and not to Lord Hawarden, which accounts in a summary manner for the whole of the 143 families mentioned by Mr. Davern, the details of each individual case being stated in the foregoing remarks, opposite to their names." "Since the above period (1662), it appears your ancestors have enjoyed legal and undisturbed possession of these forfeited estates. The character they have bequeathed to posterity shows them to have been distinguished for their rank bigotry, rabid intolerance, and rigid enforcement of the penal laws against the unfortunate Catholics of their day. Was not your Lordship's immediate relative the foreman of that sanguinary jury who, in the year 1765, promoted the legal conviction of a Catholic priest—the rev. Father Sheehy—for the murder of a man who was known to have lived for many years afterwards." "Before I conclude," says the rev. Mr. Davern, "I cannot avoid making a short appeal to the humane and tender-hearted of the public to enlist their sympathies and commiseration for the misfortunes of these afflicted, forlorn families, whom agrarian legislation made victims. Their houses were burnt and demolished, and they themselves were driven as outcasts on the highway. The expulsion took place in the dearth of summer, as well as the inclemency of winter. Among the ejected were to be found persons of every age and every sex, the widow and the orphan, the aged and infirm, the wife in the throes of labour, and the husband in the rage of fever." 1146 1147 1148 1149
 Sir W. Barron  moved the adjournment of the debate.
  Mr. Carew  said, that, in rising to support the amendment of the hon. Member for Rochdale, it was not his intention to detain the House by any details which the importance of the measure under consideration might perhaps justify, but rather to attempt to impress upon hon. Members opposite a few important truths relating to the state of Ireland at present— truths which, however well they might have been known, however well they might have been acknowledged, had not,
 1113 1114
  Mr. Redington  said, if the Government introduced measures of this kind, and forced them on the statute book, they would cause the law to be despised—the people would regard it as an engine of oppression, and a spirit of opposition would be roused which it would be very difficult to allay. How had the law with respect
 1105 onus probandi 1106 1107 "If this be the boon you are granting to Ireland—if Parliament does not see the necessity and the wisdom of governing Ireland by lenient and conciliatory measures, and thereby fulfilling the hopes which it has taught them to expect, it would only excite hatred and disgust towards the British Government, and I can only say that I greatly lament your blindness."
  Mr. W. S. O'Brien  opposed the present bill, not only on account of its special enactments, but also on account of its general principle. He claimed for Ireland the same rights with respect to bearing arms as those enjoyed by Englishmen, the same rights as those enjoyed by the subjects of the most despotic powers, the same rights as those permitted to the New Zealand savages, who were lately allowed to attend the funeral of the governor of that colony with muskets in their hands. He did not mean to assert that emergencies would not arise of sufficient gravity to warrant the Government in applying to Parliament to strengthen their hands; but had such a ease been made out? He had expected that the noble Lord would have alleged the notorious and wide-spread discontent in justification of his measure, but the noble Lord prudently abstained from touching upon that topic. Nothing could prevent the repeal agitation but a rebel
 1119 1120
 Mr. Watson  said, that although an Englishman, as an Irish Member, he thought it his duty to offer some objections to a bill the operation of which was to place 8,000,000 of their fellow citizens beyond the pale of the constitution. It was a bill destructive to liberty and contrary to the constitution of the country. It was acknowledged by the Bill of Rights, which being declaratory was part of the common law, that every citizen had a right to possess himself with arms for any lawful purposes, and that bill was as applicable to Ireland as to England. When he first read the present bill, he could hardly conceive such a measure could be submitted to the Legislature of this country. What were the arguments in favour of it? The noble Lord (Lord Eliot) offered two reasons. The first was the reports of several persons connected with the police in Ireland. Now, he would not pass a bill of this nature on the report of all the persons connected with the police in Ireland, because he knew that the police in every country always acted in restraint of liberty, and always represented the powers given to them as not sufficiently strong to enable them to perform their duties. Before they were called on to pass a measure so destructive of the first principles of liberty they should have the opinions of magistrates, noblemen, and gentlemen resident on their estates, and
 1124 1125
  Sir J. Graham  said, he should adhere to the declaration which he had made yesterday. That declaration was, that a discretion was vested in the Lord Chancellor, and he felt quite sure that learned person would exercise a wise discretion in the consideration of those cases which were brought under his cognisance; that learned and eminent functionary was responsible for whatever he did in this respect, and he (Sir J. Graham) had not the slightest doubt but that he would be found to have been fully justified in those cases wherein his authority had been exercised.
 Sir R. Peel  expressed a hope that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cochrane) would withdraw his motion for papers relating to the diplomatic intercourse with the kingdom of Greece, as it interfered with the adjourned debate.
  Sir R. Peel  said, the failure of Greece to fulfil the obligation she had contracted did place this House in a new relation with respect to that country, and gave the House a right to ask for financial information from the Greek government which they would not have a right to require from a country fulfilling its own obligations. In reply to the question the other night, he had stated that the three powers who were parties to this obligation had met together, and had adopted a joint course, the consequence of which was, that a communication had been made to the Greek government, requiring it to make provision for the future payment of the loan out of its own resources, and to indemnify this country and the other powers for the temporary advance they had made under the treaty. There had been no opportunity yet of receiving an answer from the Greek government. They had wished to give the Greek government a short interval, to take the course which should be most consistent with the dignity of that monarchy. As soon as an answer could be received to that communication, and it was known what course the government of Greece intended to pursue, he should deem it to be his duty to submit to the House all the information he could obtain on the financial affairs of that country. He was sure the House would feel, that after the course taken by the contracting powers, France, Russia, and England, acting in the most cordial concert, the result of that communication ought to be known before he laid these papers before the House. But while he stated this, he perfectly recognised the right of the House to have information relative to financial matters submitted to it at the earliest possible period. With respect to the protocols from 1833, he had not the slightest objection to present at once any protocols which had been signed by the powers connected with the affairs of Greece since that period, with the exception of those relating to the finances of Greece, which he was desirous of suspending only until some definite result was arrived at.
  Sir R. Peel  put it to the House whether there was any reasonable ground for adjournment (at about a quarter to twelve.)
  Sir R. Peel:  No one is less disposed to waste time in debating and dividing on adjournments; but I must say, that I wish generally, and not alone in reference to this particular case, that when it is the evident wish of the great majority to proceed with the debate, the minority will yield to the general opinion, and not " waste time by dividing." The hon. Member who wishes to speak, would have been most attentively listened to. I never heard a debate with less disposition to interrupt. But I saw, certainly, no signs of that disposition to address the House which is now represented to exist in the minds of many on the other side.
  Lord Bernard  said, that it was with great reluctance, that he came forward to take part in a debate which had been mixed
 1115 1116 "I am sorry to tell you, that the repeal is rapidly progressing, even in this remote neighbourhood, the peasantry are persuaded the union will be repealed at once, and then they will get their share of the property of the country as they have been slaves long enough, I am not alarmed, but feel satisfied if Parliament breaks up without passing some measures to stop these large meetings, and to punish seditious language, the worst results may be apprehended." "The council has to congratulate the society at the conclusion of its second year, upon the progress it has made in public estimation, as well as in effectually carrying out those objects which were originally put forward as the basis of its institution. In the increased confidence they have met with in every question; but above all, in the wide extended desire and spread of agricultural improvements, which has lately displayed itself in Ireland. They cannot but see evidence of the practical and beneficial effect they have already produced. It must be gratifying to all who are interested in the society to reflect, that notwithstanding all the difficulties it had at first to contend with, its progress has been uniform and undisturbed, every feeling seemed to be merged in the one all-absorbing desire of directing the newly developed energies and excitement in a proper channel, and to the public good. In the year 1841, only twenty-three local societies were in connection with the central one, in the year after the number had increased to fifty-three, at present there are no less than eighty." 1117 1118 "Venit summa dies et ineluctabile tempus Dardaniæ: fuimus Troes, fuit Ilium, et ingens Gloria Teucrorum: ferus omnia Jupiter Argos Transtulit: incenseâ Danai dominantur in urbe."
  Viscount Palmerston,  on the Order of the Day being read, made the following explanation which he was before precluded from making, by a point of form. The right hon. Baronet, he said, stated that the loan to Greece was the act of the late Government. Now the right hon. Gentleman ought to have recollected that the engagement on the part of the three powers, of which England was one, to guarantee that loan to Greece, was an engagement contracted by the Government of 1830, of which the right hon. Baronet himself was a Member; and that Lord Grey's Government, in fulfilling that engagement, fulfilled towards Greece, under King Otho, that which the former Government promised to do towards Greece under King Leopold. The only difference was this, that whereas they made no specific stipulation as to the payment of the interest on the part of Greece, Lord Grey's Government did make a stipulation, which, if observed, would have been sufficient -namely, that the first proceeds of the revenue of Greece should be regularly applied towards the interest of the loan. So that, if that stipulation had been fulfilled by Greece, no burthen could possibly have been thrown on the revenues of this country.
  Viscount Palmerston  said, to judge from the notice, the motion of the hon. Member was one of very great importance, because by the fact of the Greek government not having fulfilled the treaty, by which it was bound to pay the interest of the English loan out of the first proceeds of the revenue of Greece, the burthen was thrown on this country of paying a year
 1097
  Viscount Palmerston  put it to the right hon. Baronet whether, as many Members on both sides were prepared to speak, it would be possible to divide to-night; and, if not, whether it were wise to waste time in debating adjournments 
 Mr. A. Hope  said, the complaints of hon. Gentlemen opposite about the want of attendance of gentlemen of the county on petty juries would be put an end to by this measure. The absence of those gentlemen was caused by the disturbed state of the country, and for that state of the country the proposed Arms Bill was a remedy. No man was more bound up with Ireland than he was, and he supported this bill because he looked on it as a strong measure necessary for the suppression of a great evil, and he did hope, that when the measure was passed, England and Ireland would be united together in a real and substantial union—of which the Legislative act passed at the beginning of the century was but the adumbration.
 Captain Bernal  said no sufficient reason had been adduced for the infliction of this odious measure upon Ireland. The real cause of the disturbances, so much to be deplored, was the want of sympathy between the rulers and the ruled. Could the Government, which so well understood the value of a majority in that House, imagine that they could govern Ireland by a minority? The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had come down to the House and declared that it was the determination of Government to maintain by every means in their power the Legislative union between the two countries. But the right hon. Baronet had held out no hopes at the same time of redressing the grievances of the people of Ireland, and attaching them to British connexion by kindness, and a generous and forbearing policy. What was the declaration made by Lord Althorpe on the same subject, in that House, on the 8th February, 1831?
 "He by no means intended to say, that the only policy which his Majesty's Government in Ireland ought to pursue was, to suppress the agitation merely by force. The wise policy was, while they firmly suppressed that violent and seditious conduct which tended to insurrection and rebellion, to show the people of Ireland, by measures of conciliation and kindness, that there was every possible disposition to attend to and remove their grievances. That was the policy which his Majesty's Government had resolved to adopt. They were determined to use their utmost exertions to resist the designs of the agitators? but at the same time, by giving employment to the people of Ireland, by repealing such laws as were obnoxious to them, and by other measures of a similar character, to do all they could to conciliate their affections * Orlando Furioso, * 1167
 The O'Conor Don  was disposed to agree that it would be unadvisable in some parts of Ireland to leave to the people the unrestricted possession of arms; he was also desirous that the Government should have all necessary power for the maintenance of peace; but when he looked at the clauses of this bill, he felt indignation that such a measure at this time of day should have been proposed. The dissimilarity in the circumstances of the two countries was alleged as a ground for the measure; whence was the dissimilarity of the two countries? It resulted from the nature of the legislation which had been adopted with regard to Ireland. It resulted from the infliction upon Ireland of measures like this, which degraded and humiliated the people. It was no argument to say that a similar bill had been in existence before, especially when it was recollected that that former bill had been almost a dead letter. What was the cause for this bill at present? Had crime increased in Ireland? No! it had decreased; but it bad increased in England, and yet no such measure was dreamt of for England. It was much to be regretted that the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Dublin university, who was so sensitive with respect to the character of his own clergy, should have made such charges against the clergy whom the people of Ireland revered. He must say, in justice to the Catholic clergy, that much was owing to them for their zealous and efficacious exertions in preserving the peace of Ire-
 1169
 Lord Seymour  said, that two years ago they were told that Ireland was in a state of comparative tranquillity, and that a spirit of good order was spreading throughout the country. Now, however, they were told that Ireland was in a state of turbulence and excitement which threatened the most serious results. The right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government stated, when he assumed office, his intention of pursuing the same conciliatory policy with regard to that country which had been adopted by the late Ministry. What then had produced that change in the state of affairs in Ireland to which he had alluded? One reason assigned was, that certain appointments had been made in Ireland which had given great dissatisfaction to the bulk of the people of that country. He could not blame the right hon. Baronet opposite for having made those appointments. They might, perhaps, have been unwise under existing circumstances, but he did not think the Government ought to be blamed for having made them; and he thought this was not a sufficient reason to account for the present condition of Ireland. It had also been said, that the recent increase of the spirit duties in Ireland had been one means of exciting dissatisfaction. He considered that an unwise measure, but he did not think that it could have produced the existing agitation and dissatisfaction. He asked hon. Gentlemen opposite, then, what had been the real cause of the excitement which now prevailed in that country? He considered the bill now before the House an injudicious measure. It would not prevent the people from assembling in as large numbers as at present; its object merely was to prevent them from possessing arms, except under certain restrictions. It had been said by the noble Lord who brought forward this measure, and by the right hon. Attorney-general for Ireland, that a law similar to the present bill had been in existence for many years; but they had also been told, that there was scarcely a man in Ireland, of the age of fifty, who did not possess arms. What effect, then, had been produced by such a law?—and what advantage did hon. Members think would result from the present measure? Did they conceive it would prevent the commission of murders? He believed that when a man was actuated by feelings of revenge, and determined on the commission of that
 1171
 The Earl of Listowel  said, if it were a bill simply to continue the former Arms Act, he should have been bound in consistency to accept it; but he looked upon it as a measure most coercive and most offensive to the people of Ireland, and he was therefore bound to give it his warmest opposition. It was clear, that the bill was now brought forward with especial reference to the agitation going on in Ireland, and in his opinion it would be no effectual check. He was persuaded that the people had a right to meet to petition for the Repeal of any act of Parliament, so long as the meeting was tranquil and respected the law; and at the recent meetings the law had not been violated. No man could deplore more than he did the agitation now going on in Ireland, which prevented the introduction of capital, and the amelioration of the condition of the people; yet they should recollect, that to this agitation seven-eighths of the people were parties, and it should be met not by unconstitutional coercion, but by the redress of the people's wrongs. Admitting even, that the claims now made were most unreasonable, and that their concession would be most impracticable, yet it became Parliament to consider whether the people of Ireland had not reasonable grounds for cherishing a growing desire for Repeal. He asked Englishmen to make the case their own. He asked them to consider how they would like to see the tithes applied to a Church to which not one-eighth of the population belonged? How they would like to see their municpal rights and their franchises far more restricted than in any other part of the country. The whole difficulty of governing Ireland, that which distracted the country and excited the passions of the people, was the existence of an Es-
 1189
 Lord Worsley  said, his noble relative had assured him that the statements which had appeared in the newspapers relative to this matter were not by any means correct.
 Mr. Hawes  said it was admitted, that until the last year or two Ireland had been entirely tranquil. Now he thought he was entitled to ask what had been the occasion of the change in the state of that country? They ought to have a very strong case made out for it before they assented to the bill of the noble Lord. He concurred in all that had been said of the spirit in which the noble Lord had governed Ireland, but still he would ask had the noble Lord made out a case for this bill. Had the noble Lord shown any want of subordination to the law? Had there arisen out of these great meetings any tumult— any breach of the peace—any bloodshed? In short, had the noble Lord shown, that there was any one justification for the Government coming forward with a bill of this nature? Before a case could be made out, the noble Lord ought to show at least some decided case of insubordination. He would do the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) the justice to say, that he believed the right hon. Baronet was the very last man to countenance anything of a violent tendency or resort to harsh measures, but the right hon. Baronet unfortunately was identified with a party in Ireland, which, to say the least of, was extremely unpopular. The appointment of Mr. Serjeant Jackson to a seat on the Bench, almost immediately after he had given a decided opposition to the measure of education for Ireland which the Government thought fit to adopt, and before people had recovered from their surprise at seeing the hon. and learned Gentleman still continued in his official situation in that House after such an opposition, showed that the right hon. Baronet was bound to that party. In respect to Canada the right hon. Baronet had pursued a wise course, and
 1173 1174 1175
 Sir David Roche  felt bound to say a few words, in reply to the attacks which had been made on his friend Mr. Justice Jackson, He believed that that learned judge, from the time he had been called to the bench, had given universal satisfaction in his judicial capacity, and he felt that he should not be doing his duty if he did not, in his place in that House, express his high sentiments of the learned judge's character. Strong political partizans had been appointed to the bench in Ireland by both parties in the state at different periods; but as far as his experience went, he believed that those judges had always conducted themselves in a manner to command the respect and confidence of men of all parties. With respect to Baron Lefroy he was not so well acquainted with him in his judicial capacity, but he believed that there was no ground of complaint against him, except that he sometimes displayed a little too much humanity in the cases brought before him. With respect to the bill now before the House he objected to its provisions, because he thought they would not succeed in depriving the evil-disposed of arms, whilst they would subject to unnecessary inconvenience, and to severe pains and penalties, those who were well disposed. He hoped, therefore, that some modification of the bill would be made in committee to meet the objection upon this score.
 Mr. Shaw  thought it very unfair to renew the subject, after the detailed denial which had been given to the statement in question. He believed Lord Hawarden had given directions for legal proceedings for a libel to be taken against the rev. Gentleman.
 Sir H. W. Barron  said, in explanation, that he had not the least intention of impugning the conduct of Mr. Justice Jackson and Baron Lefroy since they had been raised to the bench.
 Sir H. W. Barron  condemned the vehement and improper language which had been applied to the great and illustrious warrior at the head of the army. At the same time, it was not very decent in some of the Gentlemen opposite to condemn such language, for they had used similar language themselves towards the Duke of Wellington. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had persons sitting near him who had used similar or worse terms not very long ago. He thought therefore that right hon. Gentlemen opposite should look into their own recorded speeches. In common with other hon. Members, he must condemn the appointment of Messrs. Blackburn, Lefroy, and Jackson to the judgment seat. These were all persons who had been all their lives violent partizans, who could not see them placed on the bench without loosing their confidence in the administration of justice. Mr. Jackson, who had been so much praised, had been all his life opposed to the Catholics, and had never, before emancipation, signed a petition in their favour. He had been secretary of a society which had endeavoured to proselytise the Catholics, and continued secretary of it after it had been abandoned by all the Catholics who had been members of it. The best proof of the character of the society was, that the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had withdrawn from it the grant of public money which it had received. The House could not be surprised, therefore, that the appointment of Mr. Justice Jackson should cause discontent, for that gentleman had always been the enemy of the rights and liberties of the people. The same observation applied to Mr. Blackburn. As to Mr. Lefroy, he
 1204 l l Member;  1205 1206 Dublin Evening Mail, Dublin Evening Post, Pilot. Pilot Evening Post, juste milieu Evening Mail. [Interruption.] Times Morning Chronicle Morning Post, "There could certainly be no policy worse for Ireland than the frigid indifference and cold contemptuous tone of conciliation which they applied to all the affairs of that country." 1207 1208
 Mr. John O'Brien:  I oppose the second reading of the bill before the House, I do so from a full conviction that it is unconstitutional in its principle, offensive to the feelings, and uncalled for by the condition of Ireland. I oppose it because there are other and better means to achieve its professed objects, and to secure the pacification of the country. It is true that individual outrages have been perpetrated, but existing laws, in my opinion, are fully able to repress the further progress of crime;—'tis true, that popular movements are now in action to achieve important changes in the political constitution of the empire; but it is not less so that these manifestations have been unaccompanied by any infraction of the law which can justify this invasion of the constitutional rights of the people. England has been, and recently, the scene of a widely-organised conspiracy, matured into crime, and threatening in actual outbreak the existence of its social and political institutions; it has not been thought advisable to make such an experiment upon the unbroken spirit of that country, and why should Ireland be placed in humiliating contrast, why will you proclaim the offensive announcement that we arc unfit for the enjoyment of national and constitutional rights? If such be our position, how trumpet-tongued does it not speak of the character of your past policy; for centuries we have been subjected to your authority, you were the masters of our destiny, and upon you rests the responsibility of that condition, which, as you proclaim, imposes the necessity of this act of severe and unmitigated legislation. I shall not analyze its provisions, they strike the most superficial inspection, they were so various, so complicated, and so penal, that they amounted to an almost practical prohibition of the right of arms, they induce a system of constant espionage, they suggest temptations to private malice, no rank, no character, no object, however legitimate, can protect you from the searching penalties of this offensive bill; and Ireland, after a legislative union of nearly half a century, is treated with all the suspicion and all the indignity of a subjugated province; this will not be held by the country as a realization of the hopes inspired at the advent of the noble Lord to office, as the practical development of that great principle of equal justice to all parties so fully announced at the accession of the present Ministry to power. This bill you cannot carry into
 1163 1164 1165
 Mr. Roebuck  said it was impossible to consider the Arms Bill for Ireland without considering the general policy of the Government towards Ireland, and it was impossible to consider the conduct of the present Government without reference to the late Administration, and the past history of that country. The subject of Ireland was fraught with melancholy considerations to any one who wished to stand as a disinterested party between contending partisans, and also a fruitful subject of invective and furious hostility to the contending parties themselves. It was, however, to be hoped that Englishmen, though they had been the chief cause of the miseries of Ireland, would at this time, at least, keep their minds calm amid contesting factions, and endeavour to discover the right mode of governing that large section of the empire. Let them not forget the true question before the House— whether or not such a measure as that on the Table was requisite for the government of Ireland or any other civilised country in the world? Let him not be understood as putting the question in the shape of an
 1190 Member 1191 W. Barron Rem acu tetigisti. 1192 1193  fortiori, 1194 Graham 1195 [No, no.] 1196 1197 1198 Listowell Murphy: 1199 1200 [Hear, hear.] 1201 1202 1203
 Mr. Borthwick  said there had been a conclusive case made out for the bill by the arguments on his side, and the admissions on the opposite side of the House. He believed, and he thought it had been fully admitted, that the state of affairs in Ireland wore, at the present moment, a most threatening aspect. There was in that country a numerous associated body, whose object it was to effect a dissolution of the Union between Ireland and Great Britain. He must say that under such circumstances the violent language used by certain persons out of doors, tending to excite feelings of rancour among the Irish people against the executive Government, was most reprehensible. He considered that the present Government had evinced a disposition to do justice to Ireland, and he thought, therefore, that they were entitled to the support of all hon. Members who were desirous of promoting the welfare of the country. He thought that it was the bounden duty of the House to support the executive Government in endeavouring to put down that incipient rebellion, he would venture to call it, which was excited by the hon. and learned Member for Cork (Mr. O'Connell). He would give his support to the bill, and to any other measure of a similar nature which might be brought forward with a
 1170
 Mr. Wyse  in resuming the debate said, that he took on some points a different view of this measure from many who had preceded him. He looked upon it not as a bill of police, but as a political measure likely to be fraught with the most serious consequences. He would admit, that such a bill might have been called for by some sudden and unlooked for emergency, that it might have been required by some violent or revolutionary outbreak; and if such a case had been made out, however sacred the right to bear arms for self-protection might be, he should feel it his duty to support a measure which such a necessity called for. He would, in such a case, at once admit the propriety of acting on the principle of  salus populi suprema lex. 1154 1155 1156 1157 Shaw: "The relations of Ireland to France, in her very pardonable national hatred, must continue to be still a cause of danger. But that
 1158 "Let us identify, let us incorporate ourselves with the people. At present all is troubled and cloudy and distracted, and full of anger and turbulence, both abroad and at home; but the air may be cleared by this House, and light and fertility may follow it. Let us give a faithful pledge to the people that we indeed honour the Crown, but that we belong to them; that we are their auxiliaries, and not their task-masters; the fellow-labourers in the same vineyard, not lording it over their rights, but helpers in their joy."
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  moved as an amendment, that a select committee be appointed to inquire whether the condition of Ireland is such as to require statutory enactments relative to arms different from those which are in force in Great Britain, and if so, to what causes such necessity for different Legislature is to be attributed? The hon. Member read a letter from the rev. Mr. Darvren, Roman Catholic clergyman, confirming his statement previously published in the newspapers, respecting
 1221
 Colonel Verner  said, that he should not have troubled the House but for some of the observations which had fallen from hon. Gentlemen opposite. A noble Lord (Lord Clements) was reported to have said, that he had stated that some of the yeomanry corps were members of the Orange lodges. Now, he not only reiterated that statement generally, but he could add, that in the province of Ulster every member of the yeomanry corps was a member of the Orange institution; and the reason was this, that the only persons on whom the Government could rely there were the Orangemen and Protestants. He felt it his duty to come forward on behalf of the yeomanry of Ireland, and defend them from the attacks which had been made upon them. Parliament in some cases had voted thanks to that body, and from the Lords Lieutenant of Ireland they had frequently received marks of gratitude and approbation; and he could not, therefore, sit still and hear them traduced and maligned as they had been. He could not understand the grievance of which hon. Gentlemen opposite complained. The possession of arms was no very great advantage to the people of that country. The hon. Member for Dungarvan had said that he supposed he must call the yeomanry loyal because that was their title, and for the same reason he supposed he must call the Repeal Association loyal; but what was the difference between those two loyal institutions? The moment the Orange institutions were declared illegal, they disbanded themselves; but, notwithstanding the almost universal expression of opinion amongst the statesmen of this country as to the Repeal Associations, they had declared their intention of not discontinuing their agitation until their object had been attained. Under those circumstances, would it not be madness in any government to allow those people any longer the possession of arms? It had been said, that the Irish had a thirst for arms; he was afraid that they also had a thirst for something else, and that their thirst for arms was frequently for the purpose of gratifying their other thirst. The
 1168 "Perhaps you may say what is this old story to me? But after the repeal of the union, it would be every thing to you. Ireland would be a happy country then; the fortune of war might put you in possession of your long-lost rights; and you ought to know where those rights are situated."
 Sir A. Brooke  felt thankful to her Majesty's Government for having introduced this measure. The noble Lord who had last addressed the House stated that, though measures similar to the present had been in existence for many years past, it was notorious that great numbers among the people of Ireland were in the possession of arms. But the noble Lord must be aware that the measures to which he referred had not been carried into effect. He believed that this bill would have a tendency to produce tranquillity in Ireland; but he did not think that this measure alone would prove effectual in producing that result. He felt confident that hon. Members on that (the Ministerial), as well as on the opposite side of the House, would ere long call upon her Majesty's Government to enact laws for the preservation of tranquillity in Ireland of a much more stringent nature than that now under consideration. It had been asked, by what means the excitement and agitation now existing in Ireland had been produced? He conceived that that excitement was in a great measure caused by the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Cork, who had during the last year devoted his time to the agitation of the question of the Repeal of the Union. He must say, that the aspersions cast by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), in his speech last night, upon the clergy and gentry of Ireland, were most unjustifiable; and he did not require to be told by the hon. Member, that he had never visited Ireland, and that he was, therefore, not very well qualified to form a correct judgment on the subject. He believed that in no country in Europe had the progress of improvement been more visible, especially among the lower classes, than in Ireland.
 1172
 Sir J. Graham:  Sir, I am glad to follow the hon. Member for Lambeth, because in one respect he has done justice to Ministers, when he said that he was satisfied that nothing would have induced the noble Secretary for Ireland to recommend this bill but a deep sense of duty. I assure the House, that the feeling which it is admitted actuates my noble Friend, no less influences all his Colleagues in office. We bring forward this measure only under the severe compulsion of present circumstances, and because we are painfully convinced of its necessity. I was struck by the justice of several of the observations made last night by the hon. and learned Member for Kinsale (Mr. Watson) when speaking of popular rights and of the law, which is their safeguard. I admit, that the carrying of arms is a noble and distinguishing mark of freedom, and a constitutional right of great value. I would not infringe that right without the most grave consideration; but when the hon. Member for Lambeth asks what new circumstances have arisen to justify it, I will not enter into any details of the state of crime in Ireland, by which I might, if necessary, harrow the feelings of the
 1176 1177 1178 Member: 1179 minimum 1180 1181 1182 1183 Roebuck: W. Barron W. Barron:  1184 1185 1186 W. S. O'Brien: 1187 1188
 Sir R. Peel:  I do not consider at this hour of the night, in the absence of many Members of the late Government, though I do not refer to the fact as any matter of blame, for I think the noble Lord the Member for London intimated his intention of giving his support to the bill—I do not, I say, consider it desirable at this hour, and remembering the nature of the question before us, to enter, in the absence of many whom. I should desire to be present, into a
 1209 Cries of " No." 1210 1211 "I took what security I could against assassination, but it was impossible to watch every bush that lay along my road." 1212 H. W. Barron: 1213 l l Judicium parium et lex terr "Such," (says the right hon. Gentleman) "is the state of this district with which I am perfectly acquainted, that on a fine of 500 l l 1214 l l "Then," (says the right hon. Gentleman) "it is necessary, for the purpose of facilitating the detection of crime, that you should give full security to the witnesses." "I know a case in which a humble neighbour of mine prosecuted persons charged with murder to conviction; I applied to the Government, I claimed their interference, and by the exercise of my legitimate influence I induced the Government to provide for the expatriation of that man, and of his family, and for their continued maintenance in the colony to which they were sent." "And," (said the right hon. Gentleman) "apply the same principle; invite witnesses to come forward; guarantee to them their removal to a distant land, and on their arrival there, subsistence for themselves and their families." 1215 1216 C. Buller: 1217
 Viscount Jocelyn  said, he should support the measure of his noble Friend, and trusted that the importance of the question would be considered sufficient apology for occupying the attention of the House for a very few moments. In giving support to the measure he did so because, although he was not sanguine enough to believe that it would be entirely effectual, he sincerely hoped that it might in some measure render less frequent those outrages which disgraced his country in the history of civilised Europe. Would any hon. Member on either side of the House deny that it was the duty of the Government to give security to the loyal and well-affected portion of her Majesty's subjects, and to enable them, without risk of assassination, to make
 1159 1160 "The people are ready and anxious to do their duty, and they 'bear and forbear, they wait for the good time patiently, under every outrage and insult, but they must have a hope of success. What did I see near the rock of Cashel? A population of physical power, which, if placed in the hands of Napoleon, would have enabled him to conquer Europe. He marched from Boulogne into the centre of Hungary with a smaller effective force than surrounded me yesterday, and then he had no such army in reserve as I saw to-day on my way towards Nenagh." "The Irish people allege truly, that every thing has been done by the Whigs to injure and insult the Irish people." "Ireland had nothing to expect from the Whigs but insolent contempt and malignant but treacherous hostility." 1161 "Up to the period when Ireland accomplished the victory of complete religious emancipation, Mr. O'Connell rendered most important services to his country; but since that period — I say this from my own official situation, with something of authority, for I say it with knowledge—he has proved a most unfortunate obstacle to the social happiness and progressive improvement of Ireland." "Of what value is it to Ireland that Lord Grey should have retired, if he has left to his successors, the same proud and malignant hatred he appears to entertain towards the Irish nation. I know Lord John Russell cherishes feelings of a similar description. The Whigs are enduring the hale, and some of the contempt, of the Irish people." "The Whigs have found no difficulty in offering insult to Ireland. The Whigs, I am satisfied, would have refused to give any reform to Ireland, if they possibly could." "We owe nothing to the Whigs; it is our own vigilance and activity that enabled us to turn their imbecility and hypocricy to account; for, believe me, that if their necessities and anxieties to keep themselves in office had not wrung it from them, they intended nothing for Ireland."
 Lord J. Russell : I will take this opportunity of giving an explanation respecting a statement which I have seen in the newspapers, purporting to be an account of something which passed in this House, and I will then proceed to offer a few observations on the present state of affairs in Ireland. It appears to have been several times stated that the late Government offered the office of Chief Baron to Mr. O'Connell. The fact is, that the late Government offered that Gentleman only the office of Master of the Rolls, which Sir Michael O'Loghlen was about to vacate for that of Chief Baron. I am not now going to enter into the reasons which induced the Government to make that offer; but if any animadversions should be made upon it, I shall at all times be ready to defend it. I will now touch upon the other subject to which I have already adverted, namely, what appears to me to be the extraordinary state of affairs with respect to the Government and this House relative to Ireland. We are told every day of new regiments going over to Ireland—of large reinforcements of troops being sent there. We are told of military preparations being made at Dublin Castle;
 1240 1241
 Mr. Sham  merely rose to set himself right with respect to one or two facts that had been erroneously stated. He was present when Lord Fortescue made his declaration on the subject of repeal, and Lord Fortescue not only stated that he would discourage the agitation of that question, but said he would carry his opposition to the utmost extent to which Government could go, and would withhold every kind of patronage and favour from every person who, in any way, lent any encouragement to that movement. With respect to the system of national education, hon. Gentlemen opposite were constantly charging the Government with appointing bishops, whose opinions on that subject were at variance with those which Government acted on. Now, there was a very simple reason for th1 s. 1247
 Mr. T. B. C. Smith  said, as his name had been introduced into the discussion, he trusted the House would allow him to make a few observations. The first intimation which he received with regard to the representation of the University of Dublin was before he was a law officer of the Crown, and before any person was aware that he was to receive any appointment from the Government; and it was conveyed in a letter from a private Gentleman connected with the university, who stated that there was a strong feeling in his favour, and a desire that he should be put in nomination; and required to know from him whether or not he would permit himself to be put forward, but there was not one syllable in it relating to his opinions on any one subject. Perhaps that was occasioned by the fact that his general political views were known from former occasions. As he thought it possible that there might be some misconstruction, and he had made it a rule never to attempt to gain an advantage for himself by practising deception on any man, he wrote in reply to his friend in the university, saying, lest the gentlemen there might be under a misapprehension as to his views, that he would not wish to be put forward if he should be expected to oppose the grant to Maynooth or the grant for the purpose of national education. That declaration was voluntary on his part. He made it because he thought it would not be right that there should be a requisition to him under a misapprehension. In the course of the following month he was appointed to the office of Solicitor-general, without the slightest application having been made on his behalf. Under these circumstances he acted fairly and openly, and stated that if he should be returned he should in all probability support the grants for national education and the College of Maynooth. The requisi-
 1248
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  felt persuaded, that when any body of men were deprived of their civil privileges, for doing what was perfectly legal in itself, such injustice would always awaken a feeling of sympathy in that House. He believed, that all parties in Ireland felt satisfied, that when their country was treated with injustice, they would be sure to meet with the sympathy of the people of England.
 Captain Bernal  wished to make one observation on what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Recorder of
 1250
 Mr. Lane Fox : As the hon. Member has appealed to me, I beg to say I mean to bring forward the motion of which I have given notice; and I never should have given notice of such a motion, unless on that occasion I was prepared to prove that it is Popery, and nothing but Popery, which leads to the disorders now prevailing in Ireland.
 Lord Stanley  moved, "That the Canada Wheat Bill be read a second time."
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, the Government had been charged with having misled the people of this country with respect to the present measure. He might say, in reply to observations which had fallen from several hon. Members, that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had last year proposed to impose a 3 s. 3 s. s.
 Mr. V. Smith  was afraid that it was almost ungenerous to aim another blow at this almost undefended measure; but he must say he thought that such a measure ought to have received something more of explanation from her Majesty's ministers than the House had yet heard. If the noble Lord who introduced it did not like to say anything in its defence why were others silent? Why was the Paymaster of the Forces absent, introduced as he had been into the Cabinet as a decoy to the country gentlemen,—as the Mrs. Bend who was to invite them to come and be killed? On a former occa-
 1262 Stanley 1263 1264
 Lord Stanley  said, that certainly the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had introduced something of novelty into the debate, which he had thought so worn out that he should have felt an apology due to the House for again intruding upon its attention, were it not that such a direct appeal had been made to him by the right hon. and learned Gentleman. In consequence of some expres-
 1273 Sheil: " 1274 Sheil: Shell: 1275 Shell: " "That it was expedient to encourage the agricultural interests of this province (Canada), and to facilitate the introduction of foreign wheat into the province at a duty named." "That such duty should be levied only when Canadian wheat could be admitted into the United Kingdom duty free." s. Sheil: 1276 1277 s. s. s. usque ad nauseam. 1278 "That the price of flour at Montreal is from 22 s. d s. s. s. s. s. 1279 1280 s. s.
 Lord Norreys  was anxious, before the debate was over, that the hon. Member for Wallingford should have an opportunity of repeating those attacks before the face of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government which he had made out of that House. The hon. Member said, the other night, that it was his intention to speak on the second reading of the bill, hut he had not as yet ventured to repeat those attacks on the right hon. Baronet which he had made behind his back. He did not dare to make those attacks before the face of the right hon. Baronet which he had made at an agricultural meeting at Wallingford, which the hon. Member himself had convened. Notwithstanding the attacks which the hon. Member had made on the right hon. Baronet, he was surprised, after the Corn-bill had been before the House for au entire month, to see in the  Morning Post " Quid immerentes hospites vexas, canis Ignavus adversum lupos? Quin hucinanes, si potes, vertis minas Et me remorsurum petis? Tu cum timendâ voce complêsti nemus Projectum odoraris cibum." "Molossus aut fulvus Lacon." "Cave, cave: namque in malos asperrimus Parata tollit cornua." 1283 in vino Veritas. 1284 s. s.
 Lord Worsley  moved as an amendment, "That the bill be read a second time that day six months." He was convinced that
 1252
 Mr. Wodehouse  thought the measure, as applied to English and Irish millers, was excessively unjust. He would not have made any objection to it as a measure of colonial beneficence; but he asked why was the experiment proposed in the present state of agriculture, and why should the experiment be made on agriculture alone? With respect to smuggling, he consulted Sir C. O'Donnell, who had been military secretary in Canada, and it was that gentleman's opinion, that it would be impossible to prevent smuggling under this bill. He complained, that certain friends of the noble Lord had covered him with a panoply of infallibility, which the noble Lord was not at all anxious, he believed, to wear. Sir Colquhoun Grant used to say on some occasions, "I do not wish to say a severe thing, but upon my soul, you are as great a scoundrel as ever I met." And when those friends of the noble Lord came round to him and told him that he had no weak point—that he could not err, he believed, that if the noble Lord followed the course of his own nature, he the weakest set of gentlemen that ever I knew." He thought the hon. Member for Kent was bound to explain
 1282
 Mr. Cardwell  thought it would have been more expedient had there been no magistrates dismissed. He thought, the large class of persons in Ireland whose lives and property were placed in jeopardy, would consider that the notice taken in this House of the proceedings in that country was not likely to stop, or pacify the agitation, and that it was, on the contrary, very likely to excite in the minds of large classes there, and their leaders a strong impression that they had the sympathy of a large party in this House with them. At this particular moment it was most undesirable that such an impression should go abroad. If this were his own opinion merely, he should not trouble the House with it—but he stated it because it was the opinion of a great number of persons in this House and country. He must say, then, that if the noble Lord was prepared to pass a vote of censure on the Government, he should do so at once—or if not prepared with an immediate vote of censure, he should have delayed his observations till the subject was better understood.
 Mr. Eliot Yorke  gave his support to the measure. Some time previous to the introduction of it, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had distinctly announced the proposition of a duty of 3 s.
 Mr. Bankes  said, it had been remarked of this measure that that part of it which was protective would cease, but that which savoured of free-trade would continue. It was impossible not to see that there was a very great probability of that being the case. He must complain of the manner in which it had been brought forward. They had yet to inform themselves as to
 1258 1259 s. s. s. s. s. 1260
 Mr. G. W. Hope  said, that no arguments had been advanced against the bill which had not been urged before over and over again. The bill was verbatim the same as the resolutions; and what necessity was there for his noble Friend going over the same ground again. From the course of argument pursued by his hon. Friend it would be supposed that there was no Custom-house in Canada. His hon. Friend ought to know, from the situation which he had formerly held, that duties were collected on other articles coming into Canada from America, and that sufficient security for their collection existed. Where smuggling could be carried on along the frontier there was no corn, whilst, the great lakes were interposed between the corn-growing countries and Canada, and these lakes, as he understood, were never entirely frozen over in winter. Besides this, what would be the gain to the smuggler in comparison with the risk of seizure and the difficulty of landing? There had been formerly a considerable quantity of contraband tea introduced
 1265
 Sir H. W. Barron  rose amid cries of "oh, oh," "question, question." He should not allow himself, he said, to be
 1249
 Mr. Benett  agreed with his hon Friend who spoke last, that this was a most unfortunate time for introducing this Bill. He had not opposed the measures of last year. He had persuaded his constituents to accede to those measures as being final. He knew nothing—his constituents knew nothing—of any pledge to Canada; and the House might imagine his disappointment at finding fresh measures now proposed; at being told by his constituents, " You persuaded us that the bill of last year would be a final settlement; but here is another stride, and a large one, being made towards repeal; who can tell where the next stride will place us?" He was anxious to consider Canada as a county of England; but then Canada should either bear the burthens of English counties, or rather English farmers should be relieved from those burthens. The malt-tax, for example, fell most heavily on the poor man, and at the same time it destroyed itself because the poor man could not drink liquor made from barley. He would have all such taxes removed; and he could say so fairly, because he was the advocate for an income-tax. He thought it the fairest of all taxes. He wished, too, that protection should go hand in hand with a necessity of cultivation.
 Mr. J. E. Denison  in seconding the motion, said, that as they had now reached the stage in this measure, when it was usual to discuss its principle, and as the noble Lord had afforded them no fresh information upon it, it was necessary to examine the preamble of the bill itself. Now the preamble merely set forth, that whereas an act was passed by the legislative assembly of the province of Canada, imposing a duty of 3 s. s. 1253 s. 1254 s. minus s. s. s., 1255 "Sir R. Peel and Lord Ripon have done away with a practice which had given great, and not wholly unjust, offence to America— and which is alleged, in the recent report of a Committee of Congress, as a serious grievance—namely, that of granting privilege of duty to foreign produce when carried to the United Kingdom from the ports of our colonies, and thereby excluding, under the provisions of our Navigation Act, the vessels of the producing countries from a fair competition with our own, for the voyage across the ocean; as, for example, in the case of their pitch, pine timber, and their ashes. The practice was also open to the objection, that it starved the revenue often without any advantage to the consumer." 1256
 Mr. Hume  expressed his surprise at the statement of the noble Lord the Member for London, that the late Government had not made Mr. O'Connell an offer of the office of Chief Baron. He heard Mr. O'Connell state publicly in that House, without contradiction, that the offer of that office had been made to him, and he had repeated the same thing in private. The state of affairs in Ireland was such, that Parliament ought not to lose one hour in extracting from Government an explanation of their reasons for making such formidable preparations as were now being carried on. If the Government were about to revert to the old practice in Ireland, and govern that country by coercion, they would fail to establish tranquillity there. The right hon. Baronet said that the House had been occupied during three nights in discussing the state of Ireland and the policy of the Government; but that was not the fact. The
 1243 1244
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  said, that a measure so characterised by mystery in its birth and its after-stages, was never before
 1257
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  entreated the right hon. Gentlemen opposite to avail themselves of the approaching holidays, and to prepare a statement of what their intentions were. There was a large part of the people of Ireland, who, while they fully agreed with others of their countrymen, that there were many and serious grievances, yet did not concur with them as to the remedy to be applied. What he wished her Majesty's Government to do, was to put those who were opposed to repeal in a position to say to the people of Ireland, that the Government was ready to do everything it could do, to redress all just subjects of grievance. There was one subject that had been much misunderstood. He alluded to what had been called fixity of tenure. For the tenant to wish to possess himself of all the rights of a proprietor, was too absurd a thing to be even discussed; but it was not less certain that there was much in the existing law between landlord and tenant that required alteration. At the last meeting which he had attended of the commissioners for inquiring into the state of the poor in Ireland, he believed it was in 1835 —he had proposed to his brother commissioners to extend their inquiries to the laws for regulating the relations between landlord and tenant, for he was satisfied, that much misery and crime might be traced to those laws. He believed it was an unfortunate circumstance that that inquiry had not been proceeded with. It was a question fraught with the greatest danger to the peace of the country, and if it was not attended to, the consequence would be, that the at-
 1246
 Mr. Sheil : The right hon. Baronet has omitted to answer one part of my question; I wish to know what the right hon. Baronet's opinion is as to the probability or certainty of his being able to introduce the bill during the present Session.
 Mr. Sheil  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department whether it is the intention of the Government to bring in an Irish registration bill this Session, and, if so, at what period?
 Mr. Sheil : I do not think that the hon. Gentleman has succeeded in showing that it was not necessary for any Member of the Treasury Bench to have taken part in this debate; nor do I think he has shown, what it was of great importance to establish, that the statement of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the colonies, that there were no divisions in the Canadian House of Representatives on the measure, has been borne out by the facts. I am convinced, that the noble Lord only stated what he believed to be true—the documents, however, which he has produced, prove that the noble Lord laboured under a mistake of an egregious kind. After the noble Lord had stated to the House, that there were no divisions, my hon. Friend, the Member for Montrose, referred to a paper in which it appeared that there was a division on the first resolution. When that paper was reverted to by my hon. Friend, and when he referred to the speeches made upon that occasion, I ask how it is the noble Lord could make an assertion, so utterly at variance with the evidence adduced by the Member for Montrose. The noble Lord said, he had referred to the journal. So have I. Surely, the noble Lord will admit, that a division on
 1266 "That it is the opinion of the committee, that it is expedient, in order to encourage the agricultural interests of this province, and facilitate the free admission of Canadian wheat into the ports of the United Kingdom, to impose a duty on foreign wheat imported into this province." "The question being then put on the first resolution, the House divided thereon, and the names being called for, they were taken down as followeth." "The question being then put on the first resolution, the House divided."] "O fortunati nimium bona si sua norint." 1267 s. s. s. 1268 1269 "Magni stat nominis umbra." [No! no!] 1270 1271 [No, no.] 1 s. 1272 [Cries of "No, no." [Cries of "No." No, no."] [Renewed cries of "No."] [Cheers and cries of "No."]
 Mr. Milner Gibson  wished to know whether Government had authorised a letter from Mr. Mandeville, which had appeared in the public journals, requesting the Buenos Ayrean general to desist from advancing on Monte Video in an authoritative tone.
 Mr. Mitchell  thought that the importance of this measure had been greatly overrated. He did not think the importation into this country of 80,000 or 100,000 quarters of Canadian wheat would produce any material effect upon the home market. He objected to the bill, however, because he believed it would abstract the difference in the duty from the British Treasury, in order to put it into the pockets of the Canadian landed proprietors, and that it would tend to raise the price of wheat to a proportionate extent in Canada. The measure would therefore inflict a double blow—first, upon the English Treasury; and next, upon the Canadian consumers; and for what object? To support the landed interest in Canada. He considered that the tendency of the bill would be to discourage, rather than to increase, the transit of American wheat through Canada to this country. Hitherto the duty on American wheat imported through Canada had been 2 s. d. s.
 Mr. Blackstone  could assure the House, that he had had no intention of offering a single word on the present occasion, but or the pointedly personal manner in which he had been alluded to by the noble Lord. He would assure the House that on no occasion had he introduced — and on no future occasion would he introduce—personalities into any discussion in that House. He stood there as the representative of the feelings of his constituents, and he hoped that feebly as he might give utterance to those feelings, he did not think that for that he ought to be called in question by any Member of that House. His noble Friend, if he could be permitted still to call him so, had stated that he had expressed his intention to speak on the second reading of this bill. If the noble Lord had been present on that occasion, he thought he would have understood him differently. He had been led to say a few words on the first introduction of the measure, but he did not wish to address the House on any of the amendments, and wished to reserve himself until such time as the House would be called on to come to a decision on the principle of the bill itself. What he stated was, that he had no wish to express his opinion on the several amendments, but to wait until they came to discuss the general question. He trusted that he had so far set himself right with his noble Friend, the Member for Oxfordshire. He
 1285
 Mr. Ewart  remarked, that British merchants in that country declared that our ambassador had assumed a position to which he had not adhered.
 Mr. Ewart  understood that the British ambassador had demanded of General Rosas, the Buenos Ayrean commander, that he should withdraw from the territory of Monte Video. That officer did not comply with the request; he marched onward and continued to lay waste the territories of Monte Video. The British merchants conceived that their ambassador, in not having proceeded further, although there was an ample force on the coast, had not acted up to the notice he had given, and they presented a remonstrance to the ambassador to that effect. He wished to ask whether steps would be taken to relieve the apprehensions felt by the British merchants, and give effect to the demand made on General Rosas by the British ambassador.
 Sir Charles Napier  observed, that a few nights ago he was simple enough to believe, on the authority of the noble Lord, that there could be no smuggling corn into Canada under this bill. Now he had consulted several officers who had served in Canada, who assured him that this was altogether a mistake. He found that this
 1281
 Sir J. Graham : The Government continues to be of the opinion which it has frequently and decidedly expressed, that
 1238 1239
 Sir J. Graham : It is indispensably necessary that the clause in the Poor-law Amendment Bill should be discussed and decided on by the House before 1 can finally determine on the introduction of the bill.
 Sir R. Peel  moved that the House on its rising should adjourn to Thursday next.
 Sir R. Peel : I am disposed to consider the observations which have fallen from the noble Lord rather as a notice of his future intentions, than as intended to provoke a debate on the present occasion on the matters to which he has referred. I am sure the House will feel that, after a continued debate of three nights on a measure immediately connected with the peace of Ireland, which led to discussion on several matters connected with the Government and present condition of that country, it would not be consistent with the convenience of the House now to enter on a fresh debate upon the same subject. The noble Lord and the House must feel, that it is the first duty of the Government to provide for the maintenance of the public tranquillity. The noble Lord also must know, that nothing can be more unwise than to place reliance on every rumour collected from the newspapers. I must guard the House against supposing that these reports, in every case, rest upon a solid foundation, or that they are not in many instances erroneous. I will not now say a word with respect to the dismissal of the magistrates; I think it would be very inconvenient to anticipate discussion
 1242
 Sir R. Peel  hoped the House would allow him to correct a mistake into which the hon. Gentleman seemed to have fallen on rather an important point. The hon. Gentleman admitted that the Government had declared their intention to support the system of national education, but he said that the Government had counteracted that declaration by selecting for every appointment in the Church and the law persons hostile to that system. He would state the facts with respect to the law officers of the Crown. The two principal law officers of the Crown were the Attorney-general and the Solicitor-general. Now, it was of great importance that the Attorney-general for Ireland should have a seat in that House. The high academical character of the Attorney-general entitled him to become a candidate for the university of which he was a member: It was then intimated to him that if he
 1245
 Sir R. Peel  said he had already stated to the House that every possible representation and remonstrance of the most urgent character had been made to the belligerent parties, to induce them to come to terms of peace. The representative of the English Government, and the representa-
 1251
 Sir R. Peel : the Government certainly never had authorised the British agent, nor had the French government authorised their agent to hold out the expectation that either one country or the other would become a party to hostilities, but both had been authorised to make representations in the strongest manner against the continuance of hostilities.
 Mr. R. Yorke  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether, considering that they were then in the month of June he intended to discuss an improved Poor-law at large, and if he did, when?
 Lord J. Russell  thought the only course Government could take in a case of this kind, was to prosecute the persons who violated the law. If they ware Roman Catholics who assaulted Protestants going to a public meeting, they should be prosecuted; and if there were persons calling themselves Protestants, who destroyed the houses of Roman Catholics, the law should at the same time be vindicated, and put in force against them. What the noble Lord said as to, the value of the property destroyed might be misunderstood. Though the cabins which had been wrecked might only be roofed with straw or thatch, yet that was no measure of their value for the eyes of their owners; the loss might be as great to the inhabitants of one of them, as that of the most valuable mansion would be to its proprietor,
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  was inclined to support the proposition of his hon. Friend; but, after the statement of the noble Lord, he hoped it would be withdrawn. He admitted, that the guardians had not managed the valuations in a proper manner, but he strongly objected to leave the valuations, which were the basis of the elective franchise, entirely in the hands of the commissioners.
 Sir R. Ferguson  supported the amendment. The great defect in the bill was, that it proposed no sufficient check upon the powers of the commissioners.
 Sir D. J. Norreys  quite agreed with the noble Lord as to the unfortunate effect of the connection between the municipal act and the Poor-law. For that, however, hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House were not responsible. If it had not been for some words which were introduced into the municipal bill by the present Lord Chancellor, none of this bad result would have to be deplored. There was one point connected with this subject on which he begged to ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) a question—he meant the removal of Scotch and Irish paupers from England to their respective countries. The commissioners did not appear to have referred to the subject in their report in a way that was calculated to be effectual, so as to establish a reciprocity, in this respect, between the coun-
 1314
 Sir D. Norreys  rose to order, and suggested, that the noble Lord had wandered from the question at issue.
 Sir R. Ferguson  objected to fixing the standard of rate in any part of the country, as he thought it would be better to adapt it to circumstances. In Londonderry many holdings under 5 l d s d l l
 Sir R. Ferguson,  would withdraw his amendment, or allow it to be negatived, and bring it forward again on the report.
 Lord Worsley  did not feel justified in offering further opposition at this stage of the bill.
 Lord Eliot  thought there was no foundation whatever for saying that the officers had asked, " Where are the rebels?" and that this was merely one of the embellishments of the story. The fact was, that the Commander-in-chief had received such information as induced him to think, that some addition to the garrison of Waterford was necessary. He recommended that such an addition should be made, and the troops were despatched to Waterford accordingly. He believed it was not found necessary that this addition should be permanent, and they had subsequently returned to Dublin.
 Lord Eliot  could not acquiesce in the proposition. If it were adopted, he believed, whatever might be the feeling of the committee, the whole matter would be re-opened, and the remainder of the Session would be consumed in the discussion of the abstract question of a Poor-law for Ireland; no report would be made, or if made, not in time to be acted upon. The bill consisted of clauses which every Gentleman was now in a condition to discuss, and no real advantage would be gained by referring the bill to a committee upstairs. The hon. Gentleman had pronounced a diatribe against the commissioners; but it was the duty of those who sought to impugn their conduct, instead of making individual charges without notice, to move for a committee of inquiry; but even admitting the allegations respecting valuations and improvident contracts to be correct, he
 1309
 Lord Eliot  was obliged to the noble Lord for giving him an opportunity of explaining. It was stated in the newspapers, that the houses in question had been razed, and that account seemed to have reached the right hon. Baronet opposite. He held in his hand an account of the damage done to each particular house, which stated: in one, a pail broken; in another, three or four shelves; and so on. He admitted, that destruction of property had taken place to an extent very serious to the poor people in question; but he made this statement to show that the damage had net been of such, extent and magnitude as, was represented in the, newspapers. It had not extended to the razing of houses, but was confined) solely to the destruction of certain household property.
 Lord Eliot  said Government had received accounts of the outrages of which the hon. Member spoke: they were shortly these: a meeting of persons, inhabitants of the neigbourhood of Dungannon, assembled at that town for the purpose of petitioning Parliament against the Repeal of the Union- While so engaged, information was brought, to them, that a small party on their way to take part in the proceedings had been assaulted and beaten at the village of Carland, a few miles from that town. On hearing this, a small body of the meeting;, consisting of 400 or 500 persons repaired to the village, and not finding the persons who. had been the aggressors, wreaked their vengeance on the Houses, A good many of these were more or less injured, but the, amount of the damage done to the property had been very much exaggerated. The whole of the damage done, to the property did not exceed 85l, He was not, for a moment, about to extenuate the character of an outrage of this sort; but on the other hand, he thought it right that it should not he over-stated or exaggerated,. Government had taken all the measures their power, to apprehend the offenders, and bring them to justice, and rewards had been offered for that purpose. The police had arrived on the spot within five minutes of the. commencement of the disturbance, and order was immediately re-
 1302
 Lord Eliot  thought the power proposed to be vested in the commissioners by the amendment was too arbitrary. The recommendations of the commissioners in the first instance were, that occupiers under 5 l l l 1319
  Mr. Lawson  said a few words in support of the bill.
 Sir A. L. Hay  asked whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure in the present Session to regulate the settlement and endowment of  quoad sacra 1299
 The Speaker  said, he had to acquaint the House that he had received a letter from Lord Ellenborough, the Governor-general of India, acknowledging the receipt of the thanks of that House to the officers and men engaged in the late campaign in Affghanistan, which, with the permission of the House, he would read. The right hon. Gentleman read the letter as follows—
 Colonel Sibthorp  expressed his regret at being compelled to vote against the Government on this occasion, and expressed his intention of taking the sense of the House on the third reading of the bill. He believed that the right hon. Baronet meant well; but he must be pardoned if he said that he believed in this instance the right hon. Gentleman erred in his judgment.
 Mr. Ross,  wished to know from the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland whether the Government had received any official account of the outrages committed by an Orange mob against some Roman Catholic inhabitants of the vicinity of Dungannon; and whether it was in contemplation to introduce any measure to curb the violence of those partisans?
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  said, the connection between the municipal franchise and the poor-rates in the Cork union had led to much inconvenience. So great was the political ferment, and so much had the workhouse been converted into an arena of political discussion, in order to strengthen the Tory interest in the city, that many of those who otherwise would have gladly aided in carrying out the law, had been obliged to discontinue their attendance. With respect to the removal of paupers, the evil was monstrous. In Cork they were accustomed continually to see shiploads of paupers who had been embarked in the port of London, set ashore and turned adrift among them. In addition, the paupers from the country infested the streets. Now, considering that they had from 1,650 to 1,800 paupers of their own to support, it was most grievous to have between 200 and 300 paupers thrown on the union from time to time, without having anything similar to the law of settlement in this country to provide for their transmission to their proper localities. Surely, it was not just, that the labouring classes of Ireland, after having wasted their strength and employed the best part of their lives, in lending their aid in the construction of the public works, and gathering the harvests of England, should when decay rendered them no longer serviceable, be thrown back on the destitution of Ireland, where, from the lapse of time, their local connections had cooled in their attachment, and were no longer so ready as before to render them assistance. How they were to be relieved from this constant influx of paupers from England, ought to occupy the immediate attention of Government. He was fully disposed, from all he had seen of the noble Secretary for Ireland, as well in public as in private, to give him full credit for wishing to act, with respect to this measure, in a spirit of perfect fairness. For himself, he was quite ready to meet the Government in the same spirit. There was one observation he had to make before he sat down, and that was, that in his opinion, the commissioner was undoubtedly too much in the habit of following his own judgment, instead of listening to advice from those whose local knowledge gave them a right to offer it. An instance of this had occurred at Cork,
 1315
 Mr. G. Hamilton  said, as the proposition of the hon. Member for Dundalk was not to be pressed to a division, he would not take up the time of the House by adverting to it; but he would avail himself of the opportunity of stating, that it was his intention to move some clauses in reference to the manner in which the clergy were at present rated. With regard to the present Irish Poor-law, he felt that it was very imperfect; and he did not hesitate to add, that its imperfections had been greatly aggravated by the injudicious administration of the Poor-law commissioners in many cases. He was most anxious to see the measure improved. He had had the honour of a seat in Parliament when the measure was first introduced, and he could not forget, that it had exhibited an almost solitary instance of an Irish measure being discussed and carried through the House without any exhibition of party feeling. As a measure, therefore, proposed by the late Government, and supported by the late Opposition, he felt that it came to the present Government under very peculiar circumstances. He thought it was entitled to a fair trial; the time and circumstances had not admitted of that fair trial as yet; and he thought, also that Members on all sides of the House, ought to co-operate in rendering it now as efficient as possible. Although fully sensible, as he had stated, of its imperfections, he could not admit that the measure had been altogether a failure. He thought the state of the workhouses, as respects the class of their inmates, exhibited anything but an indication of failure. If, indeed, the workhouses had been filled with able-bodied men, he should have despaired of the result of the experiment; but such was not the case; the persons who asked admission into the workhouses were, for the most part, the aged, the infirm, and children, and in cases in cities, able-bodied women. No one, he thought, could complain that relief had been administered to such classes; and indeed the consideration of the comparative comfort which those poor people enjoyed, went very far, in his estimation, to overbalance any objections that were made to the system itself. There was another point likewise in which he thought the poor
 1316 1317
 Mr. George Hamilton could not agree in the proposition of his hon. Friend, the Member for Londonderry city, for he thought it would be productive of a constant struggle between landlord and tenant —the one claiming, and the other resisting the exemption; he was, however, very favourable to the exemption of the occupiers of small tenements, but he thought the clause liable to serious objections. It was the principle of the present Poor-law, that the occupier is liable to one moiety of the rate on the grounds, and in consideration of, the profits of occupation; and the landlord to the other, on the grounds of his ownership, but occupiers of very small tenements, scarcely removed from pauperism, who are unable to pay, and the recovery of the rate from whom would be attended with distressing results—and these the bill proposes to exempt. But if inability to pay was the ground of exemption in the case of such small holders, the exemption ought to have been extended to lessees of similar holdings. There was another great objection to the clause as at present framed. It appeared to him to introduce a new principle—it made the landlord liable not only to his ownmoiety as owner, but to the moiety to which his tenant was liable, in consideration of the profits of occupation. Again, from the exemption being confined to cases of tenants at will, it appeared grounded upon the supposition, that the landlord would recover from his tenant the amount of the rate, in the shape of an increased rent. If this were the case, the effect of the clause would be to shift the odium of collection from the collector to the landlord; and it would also be said, " Is it fair to disfranchise the tenant?" If it was not so, if the occupier in those cases is supposed to be totally exempt—why place one class of landlords, because they happen to have
 1320
 Mr. G. Palmer  designated the bill as most mischievous to the agricultural interest. As the House had allowed the second reading, he would not oppose the present stage, but he wished to know by what provision the noble Lord would prevent American flour from being brought into this country under the pretence of being of Canadian manufacture. He contended it would be impossible to do so. The admission of American corn free of duty, flour being excluded, would not be half so injurious as this measure. No corn would be introduced by the bill, but flour only. Now American flour, after having paid the duty, would be better six months after it had been ground than any English wheat that could be produced. What was the cause—whether it were attributable to the climate he knew not—but it was the fact, that American flour, three years after importation, was as perfectly good in quality as if it was just out of the mill; but he should like to see the English flour that would be good six months after grinding.
 Sir H. W. Barron  wished to put a question as to an occurrence which had created great excitement in the city of Waterford. On Sunday last, a war-steamer had; come up the river, to the great surprise and
 1303
 Mr. Hume  was glad the hon. Member had had an opportunity of expressing his opinion that the bill would be beneficial both to agriculture and manufactures. He was only sorry the advantage to the country would be so small. The question was solely one of principle. The right hon. Baronet had said he would stand by a sliding-scale, but this measure was a complete contradiction to this declaration, and showed that the cabinet, as regarded the Corn-laws, were completely divided. He thought this bill would make no very great change, one way or other; but as the Canadians wished to have it, he regarded it as a politic and wise measure, though, as far as the country gentlemen's interests were concerned, it would affect them very little. Other causes were at work, which would affect them in a very different way, and they would have reason to regret the obstinacy with which they
 1304 1305
 Mr. Redington  rose to move, that the bill be referred to a select committee. Having closely watched the operations of the existing law, he by no means desired
 1306 1307 l l d d 1308 ex-officio pro tanto l l l
 Mr. Redington  would, with the permission of the House, withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Redington  moved to fill up the blank with the word " four" instead of " eight."
 Mr. Wyse  said, that he would now repeat the question he had put to the right hon, Baronet the Secretary of the Home Department on a former evening, and which he then declined to answer without formal notice. Mr. Clanchy, of Charleville, in the county of Cork, in a letter, on the 24th of May, in- reply to a communication addressed to him by Henry Sugden, esq., secretary to the Lord Chancellor, asking him whether ha had attended a repeal dinner at Charleville on the 18th instant, had stated—
 " That he did attend a dinner at Charleville on the 18th, given to Messrs. O'Connell and Roche, at which were persons differing in opinion on the subject of the Repeal, as well as on other matters of politics—that Messrs. O'Connell and Roche were the representatives in Parliament whom he had supported at the last general election, and purposed doing so at the next—that neither at this dinner nor at any meeting, had he given any opinion on the act of union, but that his intentions were to
 1300
 Mr. Wyse  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet was this course of proceeding on the part of the Government to be considered as the precedent by which they intended to rule their conduct in future, in reference to the magistracy of Ireland.
 Mr. S. Crawford  objected to any additional powers being vested in the commissioners. It should be for the House, and not the commissioners, to fix the amount of property to be assessed.
 Sir J. Graham  was anxious that the House should go into committee with as little delay as possible, because it was in the committee that the details of the measure could be best discussed, and therefore, under ordinary circumstances, he should be most unwilling to prolong this debate; but as the hon. Baronet opposite, as well as the hon. and learned Sergeant and the hon. Gentleman behind him, had remarked upon the subject of the removal of Scotch and Irish paupers from England, he would, with the permission of the House, offer a few words in reply to them. It was, he need scarcely observe, hardly possible in an Irish Poor-law bill to deal with this subject. In England there was the right to relief and the law of settlement. In Ireland there was neither. In England a removal took from one specific spot to another specific spot. With respect to Ireland the removals were to a country, and not a specific place. He admitted that both with respect to the Scotch and Irish paupers the law as it at present stood did inflict upon those who had been resident in England very great hardships. The pauper, who had helped to increase the wealth of England by his labour, ought to have some greater consideration shown to his health and comfort when he was worn out than at present fell to his lot. He intended to introduce a bill on the subject before the close of the Session, which might lie over during the recess, so as to give some time for consideration, and be was not without hopes that checks might be devised to guard against abuses in the plan he should propose. With respect to the question of franchise, he must disclaim, on the part of the Government, any intention to interfere with the franchise in establishing the connexion, as it was called, between the Municipal Act and the Poor Relief Act. The Government was inclined to adopt the sum of 10l. with regard to the larger towns in Ireland, but upon further consideration, and viewing the effect which the rating would have upon the municipal franchise, they had adopted the lower sum. If it could be shown in committee that any particular sum would interfere with the exercise of the municipal franchise, the point would be mooted in committee, and it would then be found
 1318
 Sir J. Graham  hoped the House would do him the justice to remember that he had never intimated any intention to introduce a measure the object of which would be to operate a large change in the exiting law. On the other hand, several clauses were postponed last year, and he
 1301
 Sir J. Graham  had already stated that in each case of magistrates openly manifesting themselves in favour of Repeal, the decision would be made by competent authorities, and according to the circumstances of each case.
 Sir J. Graham  had made inquiries on the subject, in consequence of the question which had been put to him on a former evening by the hon. Gentleman, and the result of that inquiry was the information that a meeting had been held at Charleville on the morning of the 18th of May, and that it was succeeded by a dinner in the evening, and that the only justice of the peace present at that meeting and dinner was Mr. Clanchy. That dinner and meeting had been designated by Mr. O'Connell as a Repeal meeting and dinner. In consequence of the attendance of Mr. Clanchy at that dinner the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had thought it necessary to remove him from the commission of the peace.
 Sir James Graham  said, that it was the intention of the Government in this Session to bring in a bill for the purpose of better supporting large parishes in Scotland, and for facilitating the endowment of ministers, but it was not intended to make any application to Parliament for any grant of money for that purpose.
 Sir R. Peel  announced that he had a Message from her Majesty. It was brought up and read from the Chair as follows:—
 " VICTORIA R.—Her Majesty- thinks it right to acquaint the House of Commons, that she has given her consent to a marriage between her Royal Highness the Princess Augusta Caroline, eldest daughter of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, and his Royal Highness Frederick, Hereditary Grand Duke of Mecklenburgh Strelitz. " The many proofs which the House of Commons has afforded of their affectionate attachment to her Majesty's person and family, leave her Majesty no doubt of their readiness to enable her Majesty to make a suitable provision for her Royal Highness on this occasion." V. R,
 Sir V. Blake  said, the proclamation issued by the Government mentioned, that considerable injury had been done to the houses in the village. Hon. Members would be astonished to learn, that this considerable injury was neither more nor less than the razing to the ground of forty-eight houses.
 Lord Bernard  said, that he would oppose the amendment of the hon. Member for Dundalk, for referring the bill to a select committee, as it would be neither satisfactory in itself or to the country, With regard to the concessions proposed by the noble Lord, be never could See the advantage of the 7th clause. If the valuation were  bonâ fide ex officio ex officio " The new bill introduced by Lord Eliot might justly be described as an act to deprive the ratepayers of all confront in the administration of the law, and to vest the entire power
 1310 "The bill introduced by Lord J, Russell was an atrocious bill, and he rejoiced in having opposed it on principle and detail, yet bad as it was it gave the people a selection of two-thirds of the guardians who were in general sufficient to prove an obstacle to the domination and tyranny of the commissioners, but under the new bill one-half of the guardians were to be ex officio, and the commissioners would only have to get a majority of one out of the other half, in order to have a sufficient number to carry their measures." 1311 l l ex officio " In the first place, the coming into operation of the Municipal Act depended upon the declaration of the Union; and the board first elected for the Cork Union, the majority of whom were Liberals, prematurely forced on the declaration of the rate before we had the machinery completed for the working of the act; to which is to be attributed in a great measure the difficulties we have since laboured under; and further, the municipal franchise depending on the Poor-law valuation, which, and the times for striking the rates being dependent on the acts of the board, it is quite evident that party politics entered into the decisions of the board." " Your petitioners further beg to call the attention of your honourable House to the injurious effects of the Irish Corporations on the working of that great experiment, the Irish Poor-law, by parties becoming guardians of the unions in cities and corporate towns, not for the purpose of promoting the benevolent objects of the act, but that by political majorities they may be enabled to use the Poor-law valuations as engines to create a franchise. In the first place, the coming into operation of the Municipal Act depended upon the declaration of the Union, and the board first elected for the Cork Union prematurely forced on the declaration of the rate, before we had the machinery completed for the working of the Act, to which is to be attributed in a great measure the difficulties we have since laboured under; and further, the Municipal Franchise depending on the Poor-law valuation, which, and the times of striking the rate being dependent on the acts of the board, it is quite evident that party politics entered into the decisions of the board." 1312
 Lord Bernard  really thought, that he was not now out of the strict line of the debate that had been usually the practice to allow, and surely not so much as hon. Members had been, throughout the recent discussion on the Irish Arms Bill. He could not help saying, at the same
 1313 " Far from this being the case, I hear an universal outcry of complaint before any one can have any possible ground to know that there is ground for it. I find among the ratepayers opposition to the collectors—among the guardians opposition to the commissioners —and to the very principle of the act, among the whole population, a disposition not to make the best of the law, but as far as in them lies to embarrass its working. Now, if this be the case, how can it succeed? The objects of the best law in the world will be defeated, if those to whom the execution is entrusted, are determined to defeat them. They first endeavour to make it fail, and then complain because they have been successful."
 The Earl of Lincoln.  May 1 ask the hon. Member whether it is his intention to bring the petition under the consideration of the House?
 The Earl of Lincoln.  Sir, I am aware that 1 should be fully justified, and should, perhaps, better fulfil my duty as a Member of this House, if I declined to be catechised by the hon. Member and declined to answer a question that must be considered extraordinary and unusual. Sir, I am not only not ashamed, but I am fully prepared to defend the part which I have taken in any election, not only at Nottingham, but in any one in which 1 have been concerned. If the hon. Gentleman is inclined to go through a series of questions, and will concede to me the same privilege, and will promise me that he will give a fair and impartial answer to every question I propound to him, as far as I am concerned, 1 am perfectly prepared to go through the ordeal. Sir, I will state at once that the Conservative electors of Nottingham did call upon me for advice after the termination of the last election. Ever since I entered upon public life, they have done me the honour to place great reliance upon my opinion, and have
 1323
 Mr. B. Baring  said, to the hon. Member's observations, he could answer only by conjecture. The order of General Napier applied only, as he understood it, to slavery in Scinde, and so that the social relations of European families might not be disturbed by the general act relating to it. The order would not prevent the holders of slaves from making them free if they pleased.
 Lord J. Russell  had understood the right hon. Baronet to state that not having full information on the subject of the hon. and learned Gentleman's inquiry, and the matter still being before her Majesty's GO-
 1325
 Mr. Roebuch  would on the earliest possible opportunity without reference to papers, bring the whole subjact of Scinde under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Williams  rose, to second the motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. Within nine years they had added by their votes 42,000,000 l l
 Mr. Williams  expressed a wish that the right hon. Baronet, instead of referring to what has been the practice in similar cases with respect to our own native princes and princesses, had referred to what had been the practice in respect to the numerous alliances which had been formed between German princes and princesses with members of the Royal Family of this country. He would have found it difficult to discover that any former royal princess, in forming such an alliance, had ever received one single farthing of fortune from the country. And he should like to know, in the present state of the country, what pretence there was to change that custom, and to make that change so much in favour of these German princes and princesses. He considered that his royal highness had had an ample allowance of the public money to enable him to provide for his own children. He was in the receipt of 27,000 l Member: 1339 s s s l l l 1340 [question question].
 The hon. Member for Coventry has represented the illustrious Duke as being colonel of two regiments, each of two battalions, and deriving great emoluments
 1341
 Yet Mr. Gooday,  who gave this evidence, belonged to a highly respectable class, and what he said showed the general laxity of morals in Sudbury among high
 1347 in corpore vili, " That leave be given to bring in a bill for an effectual inquiry into bribery and corrupt practices alleged to exist in the borough of Sudbury."
 Mr. Wynn's  amendment was read from the Chair.
 The Attorney-General  was desirous only of stating that the caution given by the Lord Chancellor to the witnesses, that they need not answer questions to criminate themselves, was, he believed, in accordance with the invariable custom of all who had occupied that high office. " To compare the evidence adduced before the House of Lords, in the case of the Sudbury Disfranchisement Bill, with the evidence taken before the Sudbury Election Committee of the House of Commons, and to report upon the circumstances under which material witnesses examined before such committee were not produced at the bar of the House of Lords."
 Mr. Gladstone  said, at that late hour he should not occupy the time of the House by any endeavour to defend the Government against the invective aimed at their general policy with which the noble Lord had wound up his speech. The noble Lord had, perhaps, thought of the wearisomeness of his subject, and had attempted to give it some relish for the palate of those around him, by introducing a question not at all relevant to that which he was dis-
 1371 dicta 1372 1373 1374 s s 1375 l l l l l l l s s 1376 s 1377 " Early in 1842, the contractors holding large contracts with the French Government applied to the Government to authorise the immediate completion of their contracts for 1842 and 1843, so that they might evade the new duty in England." " It therefore may be asserted with certainty, that the imports of British coals into France have not diminished in consequence of the new duty in England; and that those imports will gradually increase as the stock in hand is expended. It is likely that the importations will be greater next year than during any preceding year" Member 1378 " There is a considerable reduction in the import of coals. This is accounted for in the first place by the large stock laid in by the dealers previous to the levying of the English duties of 1 s s d s s d s d 3 ¾ 1379 s d s d s d s s d s d s d s 9d. 6d. s d s d s d s d s 6d. s s d 6d. 1380
 Mr. H. Hinde  agreed partly with the right hon. Gentleman and partly with the noble Lord. The noble Lord had never said that this tax was the sole cause of the depression of the coal trade, but that it had been aggravated thereby. All that his right hon. Friend had attempted to prove was, that the case of the coal trade was not quite so bad as some might think it was. He did not lay much stress upon any documents except such as had received the sanction of official authority, but he could not help reminding the House that there had been evidence delivered before committees on railway bills which showed very clearly that this duty had worked very ill, both for the coal-owners and for the public, and for every class engaged in or connected with collieries. It appeared that upon the line of one railway there were seven collieries, five of which had recently been suspended. He hoped the House would also bear in mind that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade did not pretend to say that foreigners paid the tax which had been imposed upon coals; neither did he appear to have succeeded in combatting that part of the speech of the noble Lord in which he had shown that our coal trade with Holland had very materially declined. Then this duty on coals afforded no compensation for the disadvantage which it was likely to occasion us in time of war by depriving us of
 1381
 Lord Harry Fane,  although extremely loath to occupy the attention of the House at that late hour, more especially after his noble Friend the Member for Sunderland had so completely exhausted every part of the subject of debate, yet was still anxious to offer a few comments on what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. It seemed to him that 88,000 l des Ponts et Chaussées 1382 1383
 Mr. Bell  would consider it his duty to give his vote in support of the proposition
 1384 s d s d s d
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, that he should certainly support the motion of the hon. Gentleman. He thought the Government ought to be able to give an account of their motives and their conduct. He would apply to them the remainder of a line which had been quoted already—
 Mr. Liddell  said, that, after the speech of the right hon. Baronet, and the manner in which this motion was introduced by the noble Lord opposite, and considering the connection which he held with the district most interested in this tax, he hoped the House would permit him to address it for a short time. Although he considered, in common with many connected with the coal trade, that this motion was most ill-timed and imprudent, he should still support it. It was consistent with his duty and the opinions he held to give no vote in defence of a tax which he held to be injudicious and it was equally consistent for him to slate that the motion was at the present moment ill-timed. He was perfectly aware that the motion would be met by the argument, which the right hon. Baronet had just addressed to the House, when he called upon them to support the public credit, and that this tax, which the House had agreed to last Session, had not, up to the present period, produced sufficient for the purpose of supplying the deficit in the revenue, and it was because he foresaw
 1392
 Lord Eliot  expressed himself as unable to give the return proposed. Perhaps a return might be made of the expenses of the expedition. But on the whole he trusted the hon. Gentleman would not press his motion.
 Lord John Russell  came down to the House prepared to support the amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Tufnell), thinking that it was reasonable. The basis of the measure of his hon. Friend, and of the amendment proposed by the right hon. Gentleman was, he believed, the same, namely, that after the evidence had induced the House to take the strong step of passing a bill to disfranchise the borough, it was not fit to issue a writ without inquiry. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Montgomery, an authority which always deserved the respect of that House, and the right hon. Baronet thought that another proposal would be a better mode of ascertaining the truth, and of obtaining the assent of the House of Lords to the passing of a further bill. His hon. Friend would therefore have been acting unwisely if he had persisted in his opposition to the right hon. Gentleman, and had not agreed to his amendment. From former experience, his own impression was, that the House of Commons would often have sufficient evidence to warrant them in passing such bills, but that in the ulterior proceedings in the House of Lords there would be similar failures. It was with a view to remedy this that he made his proposal in the bill of last Session. If they were to deal with the corruption of these boroughs, he was convinced that some other mode of proceeding was necessary; and he was persuaded that the proposition to which all
 1354
 Lord John Russell  said, if he understood the right hon. Gentleman rightly, he proposed that they should return an answer to the Crown, and in doing so profess then readiness to listen to the proposal. Even if he (Lord John Russell) took the same view as the hon. Member for Montrose, he should still think it more respectful to the Crown to receive and consider the proposal to be made. It would then be open to any hon. Gentleman to say, "We are willing to make a provision, if the circumstances of the country allow it," or on the other hand to say, " considering the circumstances of the country, we are incapable of making a provision." He trusted his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose would withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. F. French  wished to ask whether her Majesty's Government were prepared to enforce an act of the Irish Parliament, the 35th of Henry 6th., by which the benefices of those prelates who resided away from their sees for a certain period without due cause were to be sequestrated?— the one-half was to be bestowed in church endowments, and the other given to the public service.
 Mr. Thesiger  had seconded the motion of his gallant Friend; but after the discussion which had taken place, suggested the expediency of withdrawing the motion for the writ. When there were proceedings of this extraordinary nature; when the selection of counsel itself suggested a fair suspicion of the conduct of the case, it would be hardly proper that the writ should be sent down without inquiry.
 Mr. Aglionby  was in favour of the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, and at a fitting period he should support it; but he would suggest that that was not the proper time for it. The best time would be in the next stage of the question. If his hon. Friend would not postpone his motion he h,  c,
 Mr. Labouchere  said, an observation which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and which had been put forward before by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, made him anxious to say a few words. The hon. Gentleman asked was this a period, and were the circumstances such as to call on Gentlemen to vote against the continuance of any tax, however inconvenient it might be? During the last Session he had voted against several duties, as, for instance, the timber duties, and felt himself justified in giving those votes, though he should not feel justified in repeating them during the present Session. However, with regard to two measures which the Government brought forward during the last Session, the coal duty and the duty on Irish spirits, they had as measures of revenue so completely failed, and had inflicted so much injury on the trade, prosperity, and, in the instance of Irish spirits, on the morals of the country, that he should feel justified in voting, as he certainly should do, against both those taxes. He begged the House to recollect the language which was used last year in discussing this measure. They were then told it would produce 140,000 l 1387 l 1388
 Mr. Tufnell  said, that, in proposing the motion of which he had given notice, he was actuated by a wish to maintain the character of that House, and by a desire that the corruption which had notoriously prevailed at elections in the borough of Sudbury might be properly and fully investigated. When he looked at the evidence which had been adduced before a select committee of this House as to the
 1342 1343 "I have not deserted my post while any hope remained; I have protracted the struggle long enough to see men, who no longer ago than last night solemnly renewed to me their often repeated promises of support, brought up to the hustings this morning in a loathsome state of intoxication, in that state turned into these booths, and then, without even the decency of removing the blue ribbons, which as a badge of their pledge to me still fluttered in their button holes, polled as plumpers for my opponent. Gentlemen, it is not for me to say what potent influence has been at work during the night to purchase this shameless and wholesale apostacy—you will draw your own inference; but this I will say, that I turn from such degrading practices, and from the willing agents in the work of pollution, with loathing the most unmeasured and ineffable." 1344 " The other defect which I wish to allude to, is the difficulty, so far as the boroughs are concerned, of obtaining results satisfactory to Parliament and the public. We appoint a committee of inquiry; the committee reports the existence of systematic bribery; the inquiry goes to the Lords, and is not proceeded with during the Session. In the meantime, the feelings which led to the presentation of the petition have died away. The electors meet; they say, why should we proceed with this? Shall we not be charged by posterity with causing the disfranchisement of the borough? and is it not much better to withdraw the evidence from the House of Lords?" " He should therefore prefer that, in place of the tribunal suggested, a power should be given to the House, on a  primâ facie 1345 1346 "Had you any other reason for not giving him 60 l l "Because you thought it a crime to bribe him?—Yes. " Do you think it is any crime in a man to be bribed?—Yes. " Do you think it would have been a crime in the man to be bribed by Mr. Massey?— Yes. " You had a great objection to bribing him yourself, because you thought it was criminal; hut you had no objection to take him to Mr, Massey, that Mr. Massey might commit the crime?—Such was the case. "That is the nature of your conscience, is it?—No. " You have no conscience, perhaps?—I may have a conscience, and not exactly in the position in which it is placed by the question. " Then your conscience is of this kind, that it prevents you from inducing a man to commit a crime by buying his vote yourself, but it does not prevent you from taking a man to another, that that man may commit a crime, and buy his vote?—My conscience succumbed to the circumstances."
 Mr. Tufnell  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman proposed his amendment as a preliminary inquiry to further proceedings, he would have no objection to withdraw his own amendment.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that not long ago he put a question to the right hon Baronet on the subject of recent transactions in Scinde. Since that time Scinde had, by a series of inconceivably brilliant actions, displaying at once the bravery of our troops and the consummate skill of their commander, been subjected to the dominion of England, and its former rulers, the Ameers, were now prisoners at Bombay. He would now ask the right hon. Baronet was he prepared to lay before the House such information as would enable it to judge of the whole of the proceedings in Scinde, with reference to their policy and propriety? But if the right hon. Baronet was not now able to lay this information before the House when did he expect to be?
 Mr. Hume  said, that no one could wish happiness to the illustrious Princess more than he did, but at the same time he must say, that the right hon. Baronet seemed to him to have omitted what was very important. He did not object to one word that was in the proposed address, he only wished to add two or three lines with reference to what it was the duty of the House on some occasions to attend to. He thought the right hon. Baronet could not expect that the House should go into committee before he had given notice of his motion to that effect. He presumed that the right hon. Baronet ought to stale on this occasion that on a future day he would name the precise sum which he should ask the House to vote by way of
 1327 "And, also, with due consideration to the state of the public finances, and to the diminished receipt from some of the ordinary
 1328
 Mr. Hume;  Sir, I will not withdraw the amendment I have made. I wish her Majesty to know the truth as far as I am concerned.
 Mr. Hume  did not think that the House was prepared to enter into any details, and after the statement of the right hon. Baronet, it would be fit for the chairman to report progress and ask leave to sit again. There could be no objection to fix an early day for the revival of the subject.
 Mr. Hume  understood the message to be for the purpose of the House making a suitable provision for a Member of the royal family, and he took the answer they
 1330
 Colonel Rushbrooke  rose for the purpose of moving that a new writ be issued for the election of two Members for the borough of Sudbury. The hon. and gallant Member referred to the recent proceedings in the House of Lords with regard to this unfortunate and persecuted town, and contended that, as the bill for disfranchising Sudbury had been thrown out in the House of Lords, it would be most unfair to subject the acquitted party to a second indictment. He moved that the writ do issue.
 Colonel Rushbrooke  felt his inequality, when he was opposed to the right hon. Gentleman; but he must ask whether Sudbury was to be made the scapegoat or other boroughs, which might on inquiry, be found to be equally delinquent, though they had been more prudent and circumspect in their proceedings? A respectable witness (Mr. Warner) a Liberal, gave this evidence:—
 " Do you believe that there are a considerable number of respectable tradesmen in Sudbury who are quite incapable of taking bribes for their votes?—I think there are.
" Should you say that they form the majority of the respectable tradesmen of Sudbury? —Yes; I should say the majority of them would not do it." 1351
 Colonel Rushbrooke  was ready to acquiesce in the suggestion of his hon. and learned Friend, and would withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Gisborne.  Undoubtedly, I have given a notice to that effect. Will the noble Lord allow me to ask a question of him in return? Had the noble Lord any connexion with the proceedings before the committee which lately inquired into the allegations made against the return for Nottingham on the late occasion.
 Mr. Gisborne  moved that the proceedings before the late Nottingham Election Committee be printed.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that nothing had filled the people of Waterford with greater astonishment than the expedition in question. In fact, they had expressed their opinion in a rhyme which was current in the papers, and among the people:—
 1396 " The Rhadamanthus with a thousand men, Steam'd down to Waterford—and back again."
 Mr. Ewart  said, that as the noble Lord promised him no result (and the hour being late), he would abstain from pressing it at present. But he must say that nobody could account for the proceeding of the Government except the Government itself.
 Mr. Ewart  moved for a—
  " Return of the cost of the late expedition of
 1395 Hibernis ipsis Hiberniores. Castigatque auditque dolos."
 Mr. Mackinnon,  finding the committee, generally speaking, adverse to his proposition, would withdraw it. He assured the House he had only acted under a conscientious feeling that he was proposing what would have promoted the comfort and happiness of their Royal Highnesses, and that he was merely doing that which he could wish any one would do towards him under similar circumstances.
 Mr. Mackinnon —I trust, Sir, the purpose of my amendment will not be misunderstood. I do not intend in any manner to oppose the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, but to suggest an alteration in the proposal he has made that will, I think, save money to the country, and which, I am also certain (I speak from unquestionable authority), will be most acceptable to the parents of both the parties interested. The proposal of my right hon. Friend is to make a grant of 3,000 l l l l l 1336 l l l l l l 1337
 Sir George Clerk  moved that the House resolve itself into a committee of Ways and Means,
 Sir G. Clerk  wished merely to make a short statement to the House in answer to the argument deduced by the noble Lord from the alleged falling-off in the export of coals from this country during the first three months of 1843, as compared with those of 1842; but that comparison, he contended, did not afford a fair test; the cause of the decrease arose from
 1385 l l l 
 
 In 1841, the exports to Russia were 70,000 tons 
 In 1843 the exports to Russia were  83,000 tons 
 In 1841, to Sweden 26,000 tons 
 In 1843, to Sweden 37,000 tons 
 In 1841, to Denmark 151,000 tons 
 In 1843 to Denmark 145,000 tons 
 
 In 1841, to Holland 173,000 tons 
 In 1843  180,000 tons 
 In 1841, to France 451,000 tons 
 In 1843 515,000 tons 
 In 1841, to the United States 52,000 tons 
 In 1843 60,000 tons 1386
 Sir Howard Douglas:  Sir, I cannot give a silent vote on this interesting subject. I hope the committee will permit me to remind it, that the amiable princess for whom we are now called upon, by royal message, to make suitable provision, is the grand-daughter of the illustrious monarch who surrendered to Parliament the hereditary revenues of the Crown, in consideration of a civil list of limited amount, settled on the Crown for the maintenance of the royal household, and other charges for public services. This immense patrimony, the ordinary revenue of the Crown, was capable of vast improvement and augmentation. The public have greatly benefitted by this arrangement; and I hope the House will feel, that the compact thus made, between the king and his Parliament, imposes upon this House, a moral and political obligation, to make the grant now required, and thus to provide for the grand-daughter of that good and illustrious monarch, who divested himself, for the public good, of the means of doing this, by rendering himself dependent upon his Parliament, for a fixed sum calculated only for the actual support and maintenance of the royal household, and the other charges on the civil list.
 Sir R. Peel  thought this was a question of considerable difficulty and of very great importance. The House had almost unanimously resolved, or at least there was an immense preponderance of opinion that the borough of Sudbury was so corrupt as not to be entitled to have continued to it the privilege of sending Members to Parliament. In coming to that opinion, the House took into its consideration the evidence on which an election committee came unanimously to the resolution of calling the attention of the House to it. He should, therefore, think it painful for any one, if any alternative could be found, to vote at once that this borough of Sudbury was entitled to this privilege. He thought, after the vote which had been almost unanimously come to, that the borough of Sudbury was not so entitled, they should adopt some proceeding before they issued the writ. At the same time the proposal of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Tufnell) was very novel; it was that a commission should be appointed by the Crown to make further inquiry. He proposed to pass a bill for the purpose, but in a bill so passed by the Commons, the House of Lords must concur. If they sent such a bill to the House of Lords without any intervening inquiry, he was not prepared to predict what view their Lordships might take; and if such a bill were rejected, the House of Commons would have no alternative but to issue the writ. In his opinion the pro-
 1352 1353
 Sir R. Peel  differed entirely from the calculation of the hon. Gentleman. It was true that an annuity of 2,000 l l l l l l 1338
 Sir R. Peel:  I now proceed to state to the committee the precise character of that proposal which, on the part of her Majesty's Government, I am authorized to submit for the consideration of the committee. I do not propose to call upon the committee to adopt any proposition which will impose any immediate additional burthen upon the people. I do not propose to take any immediate vote by way of provision for her Royal Highness Princess Augusta Caroline of Cambridge. I find that the general rule adopted and sanctioned by the House of Commons, in respect to provisions made for princesses of the Royal Family, has been to assume that the parent of the princess, whether the reigning sovereign, or any member of the reigning family, would undertake, during the life-time of that parent, out of the provision made for him, either from the civil list granted to the Sovereign, or from the consolidated fund granted to any member of the Royal Family by Parliament, to make provision for their daughters. I propose to adhere strictly to that principle upon the present occasion. I shall not propose anything by way of absolute allowance; not anything by way of present annuity. But what I propose to the House is, that upon the death of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge a certain portion of the annuity now received by his Royal Highness should he applied as a provision for the Royal Princess Augusta, his daughter. I will not refer to any particular provisions which have been made for the female branches of the royal family at former periods, because I am quite willing to admit that those cases form no necessary rule for guiding the subsequent discretion of the House of Commons. It is perfectly open to the House to consider the various circumstances which at the present time ought to guide and influence their decision upon this subject. I therefore only allude to the principle upon which allowances to the female branches of the royal family hare been regulated; that principle being, as I have already said, to assume that the parent during his life-
 1334 l l 1335 l "That an annuity of three thousand pounds be settled upon her Royal Highness the Princess Augusta Caroline, eldest daughter of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, upon her marriage to his Royal Highness Frederick, Hereditary Grand Duke of Mecklenburg, Strelitz, the same to take effect from the decease of his said Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, and to be charged upon the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland."
 Sir R. Peel:  Under the particular circumstances of the case, I certainly should be sorry if hon. Gentlemen acting, as I am sure they now are, upon a sense of public duty, after my stating the nature of the proposal the Government had to make to the House of Commons should feel it necessary to require delay for the consideration of that proposal; but at the same time, should there be on the part of hon. Members of this House a general opinion in favour of delay, I should be acting very unwisely with respect to a vote of money to the royal family to attempt to carry it by mere numbers. Much of the value of such a vote must depend upon the general concurrence of the House; and, therefore, after stating my proposal, if there should be a strong wish for delay, it will not be consistent with my duty to press it; but I shall then call upon the House on the earliest day to adopt the proposal.
 Sir R. Peel:  When the hon. and Learned Member had called his attention to this subject on a former occasion, he stated that he would undertake to lay on the Table the treaties entered into with the Ameers, and ratified by all the contracting parties. The hon. and Learned Member was aware, that those documents had been laid before the House; but he had also promised to lay before the House other documents which would enable it to form a judgment on the whole case connected with our occupation of Scinde. There were several points on which information had been required from the government of India.—On some of these the explanation sought for had not arrived. The information which he wished to lay on the Table, was not as complete as he could wish, but still it would be such as would enable the House to take a general view of the whole proceedings. The events which had recently occurred in Scinde, were, he would admit, of great importance; they were characterized by the valour of the men, and the skill, bravery and self-devotion of their gallant commander.
 Sir R. Peel  said, what he stated was, that on some points the information in the hands of her Majesty's Government respecting the subjects of the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman was imperfect. He had had every reason to hope that the next mail that went out would convey the general views of her Majesty's Government respecting the government of India. Up to this time there had been no opportunity for her Majesty's Government to communicate their general views respecting the policy to be pursued there from want of information. With respect to the question of the noble Lord, he thought there were objections to selecting for presentation to the House, first, those papers which had been published in the public journals. That course had been objected to, he believed, with respect to papers concerning some of the negotiations with America, and he thought it would be a very inconvenient one.
 Sir R. Peel:  I hope the two hon. Gentleman will allow the House to go into committee to enable me to state what is the proposal I have to make. I have acted not only in conformity with strict precedent, but in correspondence with those rules which are dictated by common sense and reason, without reference to precedent. The proposal I have now to make commits no one to approve of what I may state in committee. The proposal is only an assurance to her Majesty that we thank her for her most gracious communication, and consent to the consideration of the message—nothing more. Now surely, in committee of the whole House there will be a much better opportunity of my explaining to the House what is the nature of my proposal; and though I cannot accede to the hon. Gentleman's wish that I should state it now, yet I cannot help confidently hoping that the proposal I have to make will be one that will show that the Government have not disregarded the various considerations that, in the present state of the country, ought to be duly considered.
 Sir R. Peel : Before I move that the House resolve itself into a Committee of
 1326 "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, to return her Majesty the thanks of this House for her most gracious communication of the intended marriage between her Royal Highness the Princess Augusta Caroline, eldest daughter of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, and his Royal Highness Frederick Hereditary Grand Duke of Mecklenburg Strelitz, and to assure her Majesty that this House will immediately proceed to the consideration of her Majesty's gracious message."
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Member had placed the statute 35th of Henry 6th. in his hands, which was plain enough but without knowing how far the provisions of that statute might have since been modified by other acts of the Legislature, and without knowing under what circumstances the individuals alluded to might be absent, or how far their absence might have been authorized, or how far the statute might be applicable to their particular cases, it was impossible for him at that moment to do more than to state generally his deep regret that any prelate should be permanently absent from the exercise of his spiritual functions in Ireland.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he had anticipated the hon. Gentleman in his quotation about the Rhadamanthus, and he hoped that, having made this quotation and another, he would be satisfied, without pressing the motion to a division, however desirous he might be to ascertain what were the objects of the expedition.
 Sir R. Peel : I will follow the example of the right hon. Gentleman, and limit myself to a very few observations, without troubling the House with any details. We are not now discussing how we shall appropriate a surplus revenue to the reduction of taxation— we are not in a condition in which we can boast of having a clear available surplus above the expenditure of the country. It is a notorious and admitted fact, that at the present moment, notwithstanding the imposition of the income-tax, notwithstanding the increased produce of that tax, notwithstanding the willingness of the country to submit to that unusual and unpopular impost, there is still a deficit of income as compared with the expenditure of the country. The question, then, is to-night whether we shall increase that deficit by a remission of the duty which was imposed only last year upon coal. The right hon. Gentleman says, it is a duty of only 100,000 l l 1389 Hume s s. s. s 1390 1391 l
 Sir. E. T. Colebrooke  wished to know whether her Majesty's Government had deter mined to confirm the acts of the Governor-general with respect to the government of that part of the country heretofore under the dominion of the Ameers of Scinde? Was the general order of the Governor-general with respect to slavery to remain in force and how was it to be carried out? In the general order referred to, the Governor-general spoke of Acts of Parliament relating to the slave-trade, but no Acts of Parliament on this subject referred to India. Was the order of General Napier to be considered as rescinded by that of the Governor-general?
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that if he had to choose between the two propositions before the House, he should not hesitate to adopt that of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The case before them was indeed a most extraordinary one. An election committee of that House had unanimously voted that gross bribery had taken place in the borough of Sudbury, and recommended to the House, that a bill should be brought in to disfranchise it. A bill was accordingly brought in; no petition was presented by any party to be heard by counsel against it; no person appeared to oppose it, and it passed that House with apparent unanimity. The bill was sent to the House of Lords, and there he found the case had entirely miscarried. Their first duty then appeared to be to inquire into the reason for this different decision of the two Houses. They had asked the House of Lords for the evidence taken at their Bar
 1348 1349
 Viscount Howick  rose to propose the amendment of which he had given notice, and to bring under the consideration of the House the propriety of repealing the law with reference to the exportation of coals, which was imposed during the last Session of Parliament. He felt that he was bound to make some apology to the House for the manner in which he brought this subject forward. He was most averse to make such a proposition by way of amendment to the motion for a committee of supply, or ways and means, and so interrupting the course of public business; but it was of the greatest importance to the persons engaged in the coal trade, that the views of the Government, and the opinion of that House should be imme-
 1355 "I cannot conceive any more legitimate object of duty than coal exported to foreign countries. I speak of a reasonable and just
 1356 l " The export of coals was in the year 1836, 916,000 tons; and in 1838, it amounted to 1,313,000 tons. This is strong indication that the article would bear a small duty, and I doubt whether a 2 s s 1357 1358 " We have on hand 12,000 tons of oversea coals, round, besides small, lying at the pit's mouth, wrought since the 1st of January, expressly for exportation; and at this period last year we had not one ton, although we have wrought a smaller quantity during the present year than in the same period of the years 1841 and 1842." " Our trade at Sunderland has fallen away very much. Our heaps are daily increasing at the pit's mouth. I would recommend the dismissal of two hundred men and boys till heavy stocks in hand should be got rid of, but that they would have not the slightest chance of getting a day's work, great numbers being already out of work, and applying for relief, and that having nearly all gained settlements, they would have to be maintained at any rate. At present, I have a great number of orders for coals from France, but limiting the price of the coal and freight to such an amount as prevents me fulfilling them, the foreigner pays the duty here, which, if he was exempted from, would enable him to offer so much more price as would afford me the means of executing his commission." " Our correspondents in France, Germany, &c, buy the coals from us here at a certain price free on board, and authorise us to procure ships here at a certain freight per chaldron, and the limits which they have placed upon us this year are 10 per cent lower than last." " Notwithstanding the small number of vessels which have arrived here since the month of January, prices have not improved with us as the demand for English coal has decidedly fallen off very much. This is to be attributed to an amelioration which has taken place lately in the quality of the French coals, which are extracted in this neighbourhood, and who can
 1359 s " English coal is cheaper in all the French markets than last year; the coalowner and shipowner have been obliged to pay, not only the duty, but a further reduction has been necessary to meet the increasing competition. When I say all the markets, I mean those with which I am daily in intercourse, say Bordcaux, Rouen, &c. I consider we have about lost the Dutch trade altogether. My partner at Stockton went over to close a contract of importance, but the proprietors of the German collieries got it. He left Amsterdam four or five weeks ago, without getting an order in the place." 1360 s d s d. "The small coals exported are chiefly screened from the coals wrought for home consumption, and must either be sold or burnt at the pit, and, therefore, the coalowner is glad to take any price for this description rather than have them burnt at the colliery, which frequently subjects him to considerable expense from the damage done to the adjoining land and crops; therefore, any price is taken rather than suffer them to be burnt, that will defray something more than the expense of leading them to the place of shipment, so that collieries at a great distance are still obliged to burn immense quantities. I was at Langley the other day, and very large quantities are being heaped up at the collieries in that neighbourhood, which this mild and wet weather will cause to ignite spontaneously." 1361 1362 1363 1364 " You are aware of the patience with which the workmen have hitherto borne it; but now that a union was in the course of formation, a great portion of the men had already joined it." 1365 1366 1367 l l R. Peel l l l l l l 1368 " Her Majesty regrets the diminished receipt from some of the ordinary sources of revenue. Her Majesty fears that it must be in part attributed to the reduced consumption of many articles caused by that depression of the manufacturing industry of the country which has so long prevailed, and which her Majesty has so deeply lamented." 1369 "There are at present duties levied on the export of certain British manufactures—a doctrine which I think contrary to every sound principle of legislation." " These duties I find amount to 103,000 l "I propose," (the right hon. Gentleman went on) " to remit altogether the export duties on British manufactures, and thus there will be incurred a loss to the revenue of 103,000 l 1370
 Viscount Howick  could not help suggesting to the right hon. Baronet, that how-
 1329
 Viscount Howick  said, that it was not competent for the hon. Gentleman to embody the whole of his proposition in one amendment. He must in the first instance move to substitute the word " two," for the word " three;" and then, if that were carried, he must in a subsequent resolution move that the annuity do commence from the day of the marriage of the Princess, instead of from the time of the decease of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge.
 Lord J. Russell  spoke as follows: Sir, I rise for the purpose of asking the House to go into a committee of the whole House, in order to consider the present laws relating to the importation of foreign grain. In making this proposal, I do not feel that I shall be at all liable to any charge of unsettling that which is settled and established. I think there is no class in the country which feels satisfied with the present condition of our legislation on this subject. We all know that the great majority of the manufacturers ask for a change in our system; that they ask either for the total abolition of all duties, or for the imposition of a fixed duty on the importation of corn. With respect to the commercial interests, they likewise wish for an alteration of the present system, and they, I should say, are more generally of opinion, that a fixed duty ought to be substituted for the present system. With respect to the agricultural portion of the community, we have just had a convincing proof that that class of the people are not satisfied
 1446 " They view with the utmost alarm and anxiety the present position of the classes engaged in, and connected with agriculture." 1447 " Under the pressure of taxation, and of the local charges to which the land is exclusively liable, the home producer has a constitutional claim to look to the Legislature for ample protection against the otherwise ruinous competition of untaxed foreign capital and labour." 1448 " You need not expect me to go further in the way of free-trade. You might as well expect a man who has taken one pill, and been much the worse for it, to take a whole box of pills." 1449 l. l. l. l. l. s. s. 1450 1451 s s s. d., s d s d 1452 s d s. d. 1453 1454 s d s d s s d s d. s d s d s. s. d., s. d.  s s s. s d d. s d d., s. d., d s d d., s. s. d., s. 1455 s. s.
 Colonel Wood  did not think, that the proposition of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down promised much hope of a permanent settlement of the question. The hon. Member had said, that he was in favour of a moderate fixed duty, but he had not proceeded much further before he expressed his readiness to unfix that duty. He could not see why hon. Gentlemen opposite, who were favourable to total Repeal, and always strenuously opposed a fixed duty, should wish now to go into committee, unless they expected that this would tend to promote the abolition. Hon. Members opposite, studiously misrepresented the object of the Corn-laws. It was said, that the law of 1815 was passed, in order to keep the price at 80s., whereas, when it reached that price, grain was to come in duty free for three months. The true object of that law was
 1506 s
 Lord J. Russell  replied. It would only be necessary for him to address a few observations to the House, some of them relating to what had been said of himself personally for the course he had thought fit to pursue. The President of the Board of Trade had thought fit to blame him for introducing this motion, when he knew that it would not be supported by a majority of the House. His experience bad not shown that a minority was on all occasions to remain silent because it was not a majority. Majorities might always be powerful, but they were not always right;
 1518 R. Peel: R. Peel: 1519
 Lord R. Grosvenor   wished to ask the
 1445
 Mr. Villiers  said, that observing the impatience of the House he would only say a few words, which, as the mover lately, himself of this committee, but with a different object, he desired to do, in order that he might not be misunderstood. He intended to vote for this committee, he felt no difficulty in doing so; it was the preliminary form required for the discussion of all subjects, connected with trade, and it was impossible to decide any measure of that kind, without it, and when, in former years, he had made the same motion, persons voted with him who did not agree with him fully in opinion, which was his case now as regarded the noble Lord. He thought the noble Lord had done the cause service by bringing it forward; the advocates of the repeal of these laws wish nothing better than they should be brought before the public as frequently as possible, and knowing the distaste this House had to the subject, and the offence that they took at its being introduced, it required some courage in Members with less authority of station to submit any motion upon it. The noble Lord had done good also by showing to the country that there was a powerful party including a considerable section of the aristocracy whom he might be said to represent, who were determined that the present law should be considered no settlement of the question. That they, at least, would use their best efforts to change it, and to shake the confidence of the agriculturists in its continuance. While it would also manifest, that those who were identified with a greater change than that proposed by the noble Lord were as determined as ever to leave no stone unturned to procure for the people the removal of every vestige of a law made distinctly against their subsistence. That is the determination of those who are leagued together, for that purpose, and
 1508 [Oh 1509 1510
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that as the hon. Member for Montrose had made reference to him, he trusted the House would indulge him by permitting him to make a few observations. Before, however, he referred to what had fallen from the hon. Member, he was first desirous of noticing the speech of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), in which a much different tone was observable when speaking of the measure of 1815, than that which characterised the noble Lord at a former period. There was a remarkable change in the noble Lord's reasoning with respect to the action of the currency as connected with this subject. He thought that it was folly to enter into a consideration of this subject, without, at the same time, considering the question of money. It had been proved incontestably that the range of fluctuations in England was less than that of any other country, except Sweden. This he had again and
 1495 s [Order, order.] [_Order, order.]
 Mr. Aglionby  remarked, that a new intelligence was springing up among the farmers, which showed that they no longer believed the Corn-laws to be beneficial to their interests. In those districts where, a few years ago, the proposal of a fixed duty would have been received with astonishment and dread, the agriculturists were now rising up to petition for an alteration of the Corn-laws. He had petitions to this effect from several parts of Cumberland, and in particular one from the eminently agricultural district of Brompton, signed by a large number of freeholders and occupiers of land. They stated, that they were no longer, as formerly, advocates for a sliding-scale; that under the sliding-scale the farming interest was becoming daily more and more depressed, and the only hope they had of prosperity was the restoration of prosperity to the manufacturing classes. Connected as he was with the land, and having no other interest than in the welfare of the agriculturists, he would tell the right hon. Baronet it was his firm conviction, that nothing could save that interest but an alteration of the present Corn-law. Some of the petitions entrusted to him were for a moderate fixed duty others for a total repeal, but all prayed for alteration. Under the influence of the present laws, the yeomanry of Cumberland were fast disappearing, and unless they were altered, he believed the condition of the farmers would become worse from year to year.
 Mr. Labouchere  could assure the House
 1480 1481 1482 1483 1484 1485 1486 1487 1488 1489
 Mr. Hume  thought that many important observations that had been made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite had not been answered by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He felt, with respect to the right hon. Gentleman's speech, that if an utter disregard of facts and reasoning could justify the support of a law or a doctrine, the right hon. Gentleman was then entitled to great credit. The right hon. Gentleman had made a
 1490 No ! no ! 1491 1492 s. s. s. 1493 1494
 Mr. Ewart  had felt himself obliged to postpone the motion he had placed on the paper, in the belief that the conduct of Ministers, in delaying the settlement of the question, was unjust to the manufacturing, the commercial, and, above all, the agricultural interests; but had not the noble Lord given notice of the present motion, he would certainly have brought it forward. There were three modes of settling this question; first, that of the fixed duty, which was advocated by the noble Lord; this he thought was no longer maintainable. The second was by the gradual expiry of the duty, to decline at. the rate of Is., or some fixed sum every year. This would involve uncertainty and agitation, as long as the reduction
 1507
 Sir J. Graham  was bound to say, that after having given his best attention to the bill of the hon. Member for Lymington, he was not prepared to give the measure his support. He must also say that the subject to which the noble Lord had called his attention was one of very great importance, and one of extreme delicacy and danger. He was not satisfied that the practice of interment within the metropolis was inconsistent with the health of the inhabitants—that fact was by no means demonstrated. It was much to be desired that in providing a remedy due regard might be had to the feelings of the inhabitants of the metropolis, and that none should be adopted which was inconsistent with the interests of the poorer classes of society. A very elaborate report had been prepared on the subject, which he hoped in a short time to lay on the Table of the House, but he could not hold out the hope that Government could introduce any measure during the present Session.
 Sir R. Peel  expressed his surprise that he could have been misunderstood by the noble Lord. He had said that the low price of corn was partly owing to the operation of the law, but much more to the bountiful harvest. Those were, he believed, the very words he had employed. During the last six months there had been less variation than, he believed, in any preceding six months for many years.
 Sir R. Peel  said, I am sure the House will feel that it is equally painful for me on the one hand to permit a question of such great importance as this, and which has been brought forward by the noble Lord, to pass without comment; and, on the other, to enter on the discussion of a subject so perfectly familiar to the House as this, on which every argument hag been used, not once, or twice only, but innumerable times, and with respect to which not a single new fact or principle has been announced during the present debate. I shall follow the example set by the noble Lord as far as regards the spirit in which his speech was conceived, and the moderation and temperance with which he has discussed this question; and I shall confine myself to the single point, whether it would be for the public advantage to disturb the settlement of the question which was made last year, for the sake of adopting the principle advocated by the noble Lord? I leave the House to judge from the speeches of those who intend to vote with the noble Lord, whether it be probable that such a measure as the noble Lord's will meet with that
 1511 toto cælo 1512 1513 [A Cheer.] " I am so afraid of such an expansion of commerce, and such an extension of manufacturing industry, were we to consent to an immediate repeal of the Corn-laws; that, in order to take security against so great an evil, I must have a small fixed duty." 1514 1515 " That I stated it as my opinion that if you subjected corn to a fixed duty you raised the price of corn, the produce of this country, universally by the precise extent of that fixed duty; that, for instance, if you imposed a duty of 8 s s l/ l. 1516 s s 1517
 Sir W. Clay  said, the few observations with which he should trouble the House, Would have reference rather to the present condition of the question than strictly to
 1496 1497 1498 1499 1500 s en route s 1501 1502 1 1503 s 1504 1505
 Hume  said, he had been induced on a former day, to move that the chairman report progress, in conformity to what he considered an excellent principle, that the House ought not to be called upon to vote monies for any purpose of which due notice had not been given. That was not the only objection he had to the proposal of the right hon. Baronet; he disapproved altogether of the proposed grant for many reasons, but he should confine himself to the statement of only a few of the number. In the first place, he begged that any observations which might fall from him might not be supposed to be intended to throw any reflection on the character of the parent of the Princess, for he was bound in candour and fairness to state that his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, in private life, so far as had come to his knowledge, and also in public life, deserved the approbation, and, compared to other branches of the Royal
 1528 " It had been always the policy of this country to make suitable provision for the different branches of the Royal Family, to render them independent of ministers, and bind them by interest and sentiment to preserve that constitution under which they enjoy such permanent and solid advantages." 1529 l l l 1530 l l " An act to enable his Majesty to grant an annuity for the life of his Serene Highness the Prince of Mecklenburgh Strelitz, nephew to the Queen." l s " His Majesty may settle 2,000 l " Making any other grant or pension, which he may lawfully do, under the provisions of the said act (33 Geo. 3rd), until the whole pension list shall be reduced to 80,000 l l l 1531 l l l. l l l l l l l 1532 Oh, oh! Name, name l l " His Majesty having, by his message of the 8th day of April, 1778, recommended to his faithful Commons to make competent provision for the honourable support and maintenance of the younger branches of the royal family, and in consequence thereof, an act having passed charging certain annuities, for such purpose, upon the aggregate fund of Great Britain; but no provision having afterwards been made in the act by which the several revenues composing the said aggregate fund were transferred to the consolidated fund of Great Britain, for securing the said annuities, by reason whereof the provision so recommended by his Majesty, and carried into effect by act of Parliament, has failed and become ineffectual; his Majesty recommends to the House of Commons to consider of such measures as may be necessary for securing the said annuities upon (he consolidated fund, and
 1533 " That such a proposition should have been submitted to Parliament, under the present circumstances of the country, and particularly by the noble Lord, so distinguished for the profession of economy, was to him, he confessed, no less a matter of regret than of astonishment. The House in general, indeed, must have been taken by surprise in this proceeding; for nothing had, he ventured to say, ever been brought before Parliament in a similar manner." " If the Lords and Commons were, alone, called upon for a contribution of this nature, he would most cheerfully assent to it; but, feeling for the people, who were already so borne down, he could not consent to increase their burdens, particularly upon such grounds as were stated by the noble Mover of this bill." l 1534 l l " An act to alter, amend, and consolidate the laws for regulating the pensions, compensation, and allowances to be made to persons in respect of their having held civil offices in his Majesty's service; enacted by section 6, and whereas, the principle of the regulations for granting allowances of this nature is, and ought to be, founded on a consideration, not only of the services performed by the individual to the state, but of the inadequacy of his private fortune to maintain his station in life: be it therefore enacted, that whenever any person shall seek to obtain any such pension, shall make, in writing, a statement of services, and a declaration that the amount of his income from other sources is so limited as to bring him within the intent of this act" l 1535 l l l l 1536
 Colonel Wood  should not have spoken but for the personal allusion made to himself by the hon. Member for Montrose, who in that respect was unhappily wrong again, inasmuch as he was not in Parliament at the time, and never made the speech which the hon. Member attributed to him. It was not till 1807, that he entered Parliament, and the speech was made by Colonel Mark Wood. He would add that the cheerful assent of the House to this grant was the only means it had of expressing its grateful sense of the conduct and example of the Duke of Cambridge, more especially for the manner in which he contributed to and presided at the meetings of the charities of this country.
 Mr. G, H .  Ward, 1541
 The Attorney-general  considered the bill a great improvement of the present law, and he hoped it would be allowed to be read- a second time.
 Lord Worsley  moved the second reading of the Coroners Bill.
 Lord Worsley  had purposely abstained, in the absence of the noble Lord, the Member for South Lancashire (Lord F. Egerton, from entering into a discussion at this stage of the bill; at the same time he had not offered any opposition to the hon. Gentleman stating his objections; and having done so, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would allow the bill to pass the second reading.
 Mr. Liddell  amidst general cries for a division, complained of the invidious nature of the amendment, and of the invidious speech by which it had been introduced, though both were to be expected from the quarter from whence they had proceeded. He had risen to answer the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose, because it seemed to him to require an answer. [ Cries of " Divide." Cries of "Divide."
 Mr. Barneby  opposed the bill, as having a tendency to increase the county rates which were already very onerous. He moved that the bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Barneby  withdrew his amendment.
 Mr. T. M, Gibson  said, he was desirous of having some explanation of the course which her Majesty' s Government seemed to be pursuing in reference to certain important bills they had introduced into that House. He would first ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman respecting the Factories Bill. That bill was introduced
 1524 1525
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, in consequence of what fell from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, on the previous day, he should not press the Health of Towns Bill at present.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last was not altogether right, for though it would appear in that return moved for by him that the Crown had lost so much by the bargain, yet there was on the other side to be taken in account many expenses formerly defrayed by the Crown, and which now fell on the country, and which would materially diminish that loss; but he agreed with the hon. Gentleman that, after the Crown had given up its hereditary revenues, and the means which it formerly possessed of providing for the Royal Family, in order to make itself entirely dependent upon the people, the House was bound always to | meet a proposition of this kind in a liberal spirit, His hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had stated that the last Civil List committee had made certain recommendations which were never adopted by the Government. His hon. Friend was J entirely mistaken. Those reductions had taken place in the salaries of the officers, and the whole of the recommendations of that committee were adopted. The hon. Gentleman had confounded the case of the late civil list committee with that of
 1540 l l
 Sir G. Grey  wished to state, with reference to his motion from referring the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill to a select com-
 1527
 Sir James Graham  had agreed on the part of the Government not to oppose the second reading of the bill, but he had reserved to himself the power to consider its provisions, especially in respect to any increased allowance to the coroners and other officers. On the whole, he thought useful amendments might be introduced as to the jurisdiction of the coroners, if
 1549
 Sir R. H. Inglis  expressed his regret at detaining Members from a more agreeable occupation than that of listening to him. The House had exhibited some signs of impatience while the hon. Member was speaking; and the hon. Member must not consider him (Sir R. Inglis) uncourteous, if he said that he wished his voice had not been heard at all. He could not hear the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose, even if he had not personally referred to himself, without being desirous to state his views on this case. The hon. Member asked on what pretence the House was called upon to provide for Members of the Royal family? In the first place, he would inform the hon. Gentleman, that the return for which he had moved would give him an answer. In the year 1761, the hereditary revenues of the Crown were exchanged for a fixed annual sum. On a calculation of the receipts of seventy-seven years from the date of the bargain, renewed as it had been subsequently, it appeared that the nation received from the hereditary revenues and from taxes which were appropriated to the Sovereign, 117,000,000 l l l l 1539 l Hume:
 Sir R, Peel.  I stated to the House on a former occasion, and I beg now to repeat, peat it was the earnest wish of the Government, for the sake of the public interest, and for the sake of the royal family, to make no proposition with respect to a provision for the Princess Augusta but what should be not merely in conformity with precedent, but which should be ratified by the good sense and general conviction of this House; it was our desire to make that provision which, by the prevailing opinion of the House, should be considered a reasonable and just provision. The hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montrose, has referred to the position of the Duke of Cambridge, and said, that he ought, like any other nobleman, to make provision for his children on their marriage, I must beg him to recollect that his Royal Highness is a
 1542 l l 1543 " I will refer to preceding precedents, and I will ask whether you have any authority from these preceding precedents to make this grant?" l. l l. 1544 " It was always the policy of the country to j make suitable provision for the different branches of the royal family; it rendered them independent of Ministers, and bound them by interest and sentiment to appreciate the ' constitution under which they enjoyed such permanent and solid advantages. On the other hand, the royal family, in narrow and dependent circumstances, were compelled to look up to the Throne for protection and support, and from the nature of that support, they were liable to become instruments of the Crown in forging chains for the people." l l l l l 1545 l l l l l l 1546 l
 Sir R. Peel  said, his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department would state on the next day the course which he meant to take with regard to the Factories Bill, and the hon. Gentlemen would therefore excuse him if he postponed until to-morrow making any special announcement regarding that measure. He wished the hon. Member would ensure the means of taking a certain bill on any given day. The hon. Gentleman complained of the grievance of being obliged to attend in the House of Commons. If that were a grievance, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would have some commiseration for persons like himself, who in the discharge of their public duty, were obliged, in addition to official business, to attend regularly in that House for eight or nine hours every evening; he could not, therefore, have much sympathy with the particular grievance of which the hon. Gentleman complained. The hon. Gentleman ought to recollect the various contingencies which might occur to prevent a particular measure from being brought on. Ministers had given notice of certain measures, some to make important reforms in the administration of justice, others to make some provision for the education of the people, but it was impossible for them to specify the exact period at which any bill would come
 1526
 Lord J. Russell  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman, Perhaps he might be permitted to say that he
 1570
 Lord Stanley  moved the third reading of the Canada wheat bill.
 Lord Stanley  said, that the present measure was one which affected Canada, and Canada alone. Canada stood upon a different footing from New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; and he felt himself entirely free from any pledge with respect to bringing in a similar bill at any future Session in reference to those colonies. Nothing could be more inconvenient than to call upon Government to give a pledge as to any future measure in any future Session upon so important a subject as that of the Corn-laws, especially when the object, after all, was, comparatively speaking, an insignificant one. The question would, of course, remain open, and, if necessary, might be made the subject of a distinct discussion; at the same time, relating as it did to so important a matter as the Corn-laws, it ought not to be treated lightly.
 Mr. T. B. C. Smith  thanked the hon. Gentleman for the openness with which he had avowed his opinion. As to the question before the House, there were three courses open to the Government. One was to allow the existing law to expire; the second was simply to renew it; and the third was to consolidate and amend the laws upon the subject. This last was the course which it had been thought proper to adopt as the best mode of bringing distinctly under the consideration of the House the nature of the enactment. He had scarcely expected, after the majority by which, upon the second reading, the principle of the bill had been adopted, that a new discussion would arise upon it. Such a measure as the present was no longer than two years ago, considered just and right by hon. Gentlemen opposite, who were now opposed to it. But admitting the possibility that what was just and right in 1841 might not be so in 1843, he would refer to the papers laid on the Table of the House to show, that circumstances now rendered such a measure more imperative than in 1841. The class of crime to which the measure applied had increased since 1841. With respect to fixity of tenure, he must remind the hon. Member for Sheffield, that in 1835 and 1836, a measure on this subject was brought before the House. In 1836, the measure was read for the first time, but it never reached a second reading. If the measure were so necessary for the welfare of Ireland, why was it not taken up by the Government of that day,
 1593
 Captain Bernal  did not intend to occupy the time of the House with going into an examination of the provisions of the Arms Bill. He thought that it was the duty of the Government to show something like stringent reasons for the adoption of such a measure before it called upon the House to pass it. The House was induced to pass the Arms Bill, which was introduced by Sir A. Wellesley in 1807, because there was a French party existing in Ireland at that time. This was admitted by Mr. Grattan, who deservedly possessed great influence in that House. He stated that the persons against whom the Arms Act was chiefly directed were entirely devoted to the enemy. It had been inferred by Gentlemen opposite that because a Whig Government passed a certain measure that it was a sufficient reason to press for a continuance of it. It would appear that this was a common defence of all Irish governments, for if complaint were made in any matter with respect to their proceedings, they uniformly defended them-
 1604 " I dare appeal to those that know the country, whether, in former times, many men have not been committed, and executed by the deputies' warrant that were not thieves and rebels, but such as went up and down the country. If they could not give a good account of themselves, the provost marshal, by direction of the deputies, used in such cases to hang them up. I dare say there are hundreds of examples of this kind." " Of the new provisions of this bill, the following were the only ones which he thought it would be necessary for him to enumerate. In the first place, the bill would enact that there should be a general registration of all arms in Ireland, and that each individual weapon should be stamped and branded, so that arms, might be easily traced through whatsoever hands they might pass. Any person having unregistered arms in his possession would not be subjected to a pecuniary penalty, as at present, which, from the poverty of the persons, was never enforced, but would be held to be guilty of a misdemeanour, and liable to be punished accordingly." 1605 "That as such strong sentiments had been expressed respecting the penalties of the bill which had been described as disproportionate to the offence, in deference to the opinion of Gentlemen connected with Ireland, for whose judgment he had a great respect, he should state at once that he should not think it right to preserve that, clause in the bill which rendered the possession of unlawful arms a transportable offence." "That to propose measures of unusual severity, and then withdraw them, savoured of levity and inconsistency." " His Majesty's Government thought it inexpedient to resort to unconstitutional measures, which had formerly been brought into operation. I am now ready to admit that I withdraw the measure I submitted to the House, in consequence of the decided opposition of those hon. Members connected with Ireland, to whose opinions I am in the habit of looking with deference and respect." " May it please your Excellency—We stand before you in number amounting to over one hundred thousand, and the greater part of us avow ourselves as having belonged to that political party in this country who advocated
 1606 1607
 Mr. P. Bortkwick  referred to the use made in the course of this debate, of a remarkable expression attributed to the Lord Chancellor, who was said to have called the Irish people " aliens in blood, in language, and in religion." The speech in which that expression was used was delivered in the House of Lords, in the course of a debate on the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill, on the 26th of April, 1836. On the 27th of June following, Lord Lyndhurst took occasion to give an explanation of his observation, and made use of the following words:—
 " Now, as to the charge itself, what is it? it is this: that I stated as a reason for not granting municipal institutions to the Irish, that they were aliens by descent, that they spoke a different language, and had different habits from ours, that they considered us to be invaders of their soil, and were desirous of removing us from their country. I made no such statement, nor did I say anything at all resembling it. No expression ever fell from me upon which any person, not of a weak intellect, or not disposed to misunderstand and misrepresent what I stated could have put such a construction. That this was the case is obvious from the conduct of the noble Viscunt opposite (Viscount Melbourne.) What did the noble Viscount do on the occasion when it is said these words were uttered by me? He remained perfectly quiet in his place, and made no comment whatever on what are now considered as most extraordinary and most unjustifiable expressions." 1608 "Every man present was wholly at his beck and nod," and that " under his instructions they would march to the music of their band or follow the repeal wardens us orderly as any army in Europe."
 Lord Worsley  said, the bill had now arrived at its third reading, and from the sentiments expressed by those members who represent more particularly the commercial interest in this House, and from those of the noble Lord, he (Lord Worsley) felt justified in saying that, it was considered of but little advantage. The Members representing the agricultural interest
 1576 " To come to a fair decision upon the measure before the House, I am obliged to compare the benefit which it will confer on the commercial interests, with its probable effects on the interests of the agriculturists. Now in my opinion, the benefit which the commercial classes will derive from the present bill, is extremely small, but I will not on that account oppose it, but I will do so because I believe that if it do pass, the discontent and dissatisfaction which it will create throughout the agricultural community will more than counterbalance any advantage which it is capable of yielding."
 The Speaker  said, according to the rule of the House, it was no doubt irregular for any hon. Member to allude to any thing that had taken place in a former debate; but there was certainly a degree of latitude allowed to hon. Members when such allusions were connected with the question immediately under discussion. It had not then been the practice to interfere, and the strict rule of the House was only adhered to when the subjects of the debates were of a totally different nature.
 Colonel Sibthorp  moved that it be read a third time that day six months.
 Mr. D. R. Pigot  said, that Government had no reason to complain of the course taken by his hon. Friend, the Member for Waterford. The Irish representatives were bound to record their opinions, and would do so, without offering anything like a factious opposition. Some had assumed, and others had directly asserted, the identity of this bill with some others which had formerly been before Parliament; but it was because this bill professed to introduce material changes, that, they who opposed it were desirous, before it was adopted, to have it placed upon an intelligible and reasonable foundation, and for that purpose to have a full inquiry. The first Arms Bill was introduced in 1796, but it was not introduced to prevent assassination. The recital showed the intention of the Legislature in passing it; namely, to check the traitorous insurrection which was then latent in Ireland. It was first passed when Ireland was in a state of rebellion, and the flame broke out two years after this enactment. It was accompanied by provisions for pro-
 1594 " There was another act also to which he wished to call the attention of the House—an act which was brought in at the same time with the present Insurrection Act, and which had caused much discussion in that House— he meant what was called the Arms Act. He believed that every gentleman would admit that the provisions for registering of arms should not be given up, and that the power of searching for arms should exist somewhere. But the act, as it at present stood, was liable to very great objections, which he proposed to obviate. By the act, as it now stood, any two magistrates might, upon suspicion, search the house of any individual for arms, at any hour, and one magistrate might, upon information, search in the same manner, or delegate a power to another person to make the search. These were unquestionably strong powers, which might in their execution become the source of much vexation and individual hardship, and ought, therefore, not to be suffered to exist, if the object of enacting them could be attained without resorting to such harsh means. It appeared to him, that this act might be so modified as to remove these objections, and to prevent its trenching upon the liberty of the subject more than the absolute necessity of the case required. He should propose that no magistrate, or number of magistrates, should have the power to search except upon information on oath, or in a case that they had such ground of suspicion as might make it desirable to search a district for arms; and that in that case they should send
 1595 1596 1597 1598 5 1599 " If the House will look at the paper on the Table they will find a reduction to the amount of 1,200,000 gallons in the quantity of spirits produced in Ireland. This is not a novel circumstance in the fiscal concerns of that country, quite independent of any alterations of duty. In the year antecedent there was a reduction in the quantity of spirits of 2,400,000 gallons. But I shall be told that this reduction was owing to the duty of  Ad. Ad. s 1600 " Various circumstances tend to show that the decreased consumption in spirits in Ireland arises rather from altered habits on the part of the people, than from the increase of illicit distillation. I have made careful inquiries as to the conduct of the people in Ireland, at public meetings and other assemblages where large bodies of men are brought together, and the result of those inquiries has satisfied me that at no former period was there ever known to be such an absence of those evils which have invariably followed the increase of illicit distillation, namely, drunkenness, and consequent on that, riots and disturbances. The reports which I have received, up to the latest period, uniformly concur in stating that habits of sobriety are extending amongst the people of Ireland to a most extraordinary degree. It is reported to me that on St. Patrick's-day not a single man was seen drunk in the streets in several large towns. That is tolerably strong evidence of the change which has taken place in the habits of the people of Ireland. Having these facts before me, I cannot admit that the imposition of an additional duty on Irish spirits has led to an increase of illicit distillation." 1601 1602 "He was afraid, however, that one great objection would be made to this regulation-namely, that by the delay which it would occasion, the opportunity of preventing the mischief might be lost. He did not, however, think that the delay would be so great as to prevent a sufficient and effectual search from being made, and he trusted that the law was not so weak that it could not remedy any evil that might result from the adoption of the measure which he should propose. He was convinced that the advantages which would result from showing the people that Government determined to give them as much liberty as possible, consistent with the precautions which were necessary for the general safety, would more than counterbalance any evil that might result from this provision." 1603
 Mr. Ross  might subject himself to the imputation of factious motives, but he could not allow the present opportunity to pass without expressing his disapprobation of the bill before the House. He had been struck by the contradictory grounds on which the noble Lord who had just addressed the House, and the noble Secretary for Ireland, had advocated the measure. The former noble Lord had referred it to the present excited state of the country, and the noble Secretary had said, that it had no connection with, and had not been intended to meet, the difficulties of the present agitation. As to that agitation he would candidly avow his opinion. To him it seemed absurd to talk of a Repeal of the Union. The Union had now existed for upwards of forty years, and had so blended itself with the condition, the feelings, and the prosperity of the two countries, that to dissolve it would be ruinous—if it were possible. To attempt a division between the Saxon and Celtic families would be an attempt equally absurd, because equally impossi-
 1613
 Mr. Labouchere  expressed a hope that the intention of her Majesty's Government should be distinctly made known as to their future course with regard to the colonies of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.
 Mr. Hume  thought that if there had previously been any doubt as to Lord Lyndhurst's words, the hon. Gentleman opposite had done all in his power to establish their authenticity. But leaving the hon. Member, he begged to ask, was it unreasonable that they should have more information before they proceeded further with this bill? As an inducement to pass the Act of Union, benefits were Promised to the people of Ireland. Let
 1609 1610 1611
 Mr. Hume  said, that since this bill passed its last stage, accounts had been
 1575
 Mr. Hume  complained of the attack which had been made on him last night by the right hon. Baronet for making use of certain expressions. The right hon. Baronet had denied the accuracy of his calculations with respect to the pension granted to the Prince of Mecklenburg Strelitz forty-five years ago, and also with respect to the grant now under consideration. The former pension he repeated had cost the country 335,000 l
 Mr. Hume  said, the right hon. Baronet was quite correct in stating the value to be 26,000 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that having last night given the House an opportunity of expressing its opinion, and having been supported by only fifty-nine Members out of 658, he thought he should best consult the convenience of the House by not continuing his opposition, but by merely recording his opinion against the grant. If the right hon. Gentleman was determined to make a provision for the princess, let him propose a sum of money at once.
 Mr. Blewitt  said, that having adopted the amendment of the hon. Member in lieu  of 1582 " "—That it was great pity, so it was. That villanous saltpetre should be digg'd Out of the bowels of the harmless earth Which many a good tall fellow had destroy'd," " But for these vile guns, He would himself have been a soldier." 1583 1584 Eliot 1585 Roebuck Hume, ; 1586 1587
 Captain Jones  wished to know whether the 24th clause of this bill did not give exactly the same powers that were given in Mr. Wellesley Pole's bill. The charge of the right hon. and learned Gentleman was, that the Government had increased the stringent clauses in the present bill, but he feared that the right hon. Gentleman had not referred to the former acts of this kind. If the right hon. Gentleman would look to the 24th section of the acts which passed in 1830 and 1834, he would there find it enacted that any justice of the peace might enter and search any house for arms, on the issue of a warrant for that purpose, on receiving information on oath. Now, the clause in the present bill did not go beyond this. The whole effect of the right hon. Gentleman's speech depended on the accuracy of his statement as to the clauses. He thought that some Arms Bill was absolutely necessary for Ireland, and he confessed that it appeared to him that the present bill was precisely the same with former acts on the subject.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that if in the course of the discussions which had already taken place on this bill, he had heard any reason given to show either the justice or the policy of the measure, he might have been disposed to take a different course from that which he was determined to pursue on the present occasion. He considered the people of Ireland to possess every constitutional right equally with the people of England, and that if any infringement of those rights, or any suspension of them, were proposed, it was his duty to ascertain the ground upon which such infringement or suspension was required. During the debate on this measure, he had not heard any sufficient ground urged in support of this bill. So far from an increase of crime in Ireland, there had been a considerable decrease, and he could not, therefore, understand why such a bill as this should be introduced, unless it were upon the philosophical principle of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who considered it to be the duty of the Legislature to prevent the occurrence of crime. If this were a restrictive bill (and who would say that it was not?), why had not cases been stated, or proved to the House justifying restriction? Why had it not been established, that arms had been used in defiance of the law? Above all, why was this measure to apply to the whole of Ireland, when even
 1579 ultima ratio? 1580 1581 " That it be referred to a select committee, to inquire and report how far it is just an J politic any longer to restrict the Irish people from the free exercise of their admitted constitutional right to bear arms."
 Mr. Williams  resumed his observations amid the impatience of the House. He said he hoped, that the hon. Baronet was now satisfied that the statement he had made was most erroneous. He would not have troubled the House, but for the observations of the hon. Baronet.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, the proposition before the House had occasioned a great deal of conversation out of doors, and a great deal of dissatisfaction in the public mind; and he was of opinion, that a committee ought to be appointed to inquire whether the Duke of Cambridge had the means of providing for his children without pensioning them on the country. If the Duke of Cambridge had amassed considerable wealth, it was highly improper for the Government to bring forwarded such a proposition as the present. A few days ago a similar claim had been put forth by a noble Earl for another branch of the royal family, and if the claim of one was admitted there could be no just ground for refusing the other. The hon. Baronet, the Member for the Uni-
 1573
 Mr. Ward  thought that the noble Lord had placed the question on very fair grounds, when he said that those who had supported an Arms Bill in 1841, were bound to assign some better reason for not supporting it now, than the mere fact that their own friends were no longer in power. He was quite ready to join issue upon these grounds. His objections to the measure of the Government were twofold—first, that additional stringency had been given to some of the worst clauses of the old law; and secondly, that the general policy of the present Government towards Ireland rendered such a measure unwise and unjust. He admitted that, like many other hon. Members, he had supported the Arms Bill passed by the late Government. If he had not voted for it, he had given it a tacit assent, and he had done so because he considered it part of a system, a bad system, no doubt, but a system which that Government was doing all in its power to improve. The bill, as it was now presented to the House, was placed before them as the whole essence of the policy of the Government towards Ireland, and it was put forward as the only measure which they had to suggest to satisfy the people. He feared that it would only add to that long score of injustice which they had to settle with Ireland already. He had himself, when he first came into Parliament, voted for the Coercion Bill,—he said it to his own shame, for, it was the act of his public life which he most deplored,—the avowed object of which, was to put down even the semblance of civil liberty in Ireland, without the slightest justification in the then state of that country for such a step. But he did this in ignorance of the past history of Ireland, and in blind reliance upon a blind guide—he meant the present Secretary for the Colonies,—-who, with all his abilities, was the blindest, and most dangerous, of guides wherever Ireland was concerned. Subsequent events had proved that it was conciliation, not coercion, that was wanted in Ireland—justice, not force; for, if ever there was a people keenly, and
 1588 1589 Borthwick; " I want to know whether a man in the House of Lords did not say that the Irish were aliens in blood, in language, and in religion? I will tell you why I think the man said it, because I was listening to him myself. It may be said, that he was some every-day talking agitator; but no, the man who used that phrase is now Lord High Chancellor of England. How dare you say that Irishmen and Englishmen are of the same race, when your Lord High Chancellor pronounced his decree that they are not, and you have since rewarded him with a salary of 14,000l. a year, and an annuity of 6,000 l 1590 something something " You propose to open to the Catholics Parliament, and to invest them with political power; —to make them capable of acting in the highest offices of the state, and of being the responsible advisers of the crown. You tell us that the Roman Catholics of Ireland are advancing in wealth and education, and that, as you remove the disabilities under which they labour, their advance will be the more rapid, and they will become more influential in the State. Do you mean then  bonâ fide, 1591 ? " The history of Scotland is referred to as proving the policy of granting those privileges, which we are now called on to grant, and though I reject is as affording any precedent at all analogous to the present case of Ireland, I cannot help feeling that it may be, at some future time, with great force, appealed to in favour of establishment of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland. What was the policy towards Scotland? After vain attempts to impose on the people a form of religious worship, against which they revolted, you abandoned these attempts, and established, permanently, and inviolably, the Presbyterian Church, its doctrine, discipline, and government. Scotland with her Presbyterian Church, has been united to England with her Episcopal Church; all jealousies are buried in oblivion, and the political union is complete." 1592
 Sir James Graham  said, if he were called upon at that moment to say whether her Majesty's Government had another measure to propose, having only very recently adopted the decision he had just announced to the House, he must give for answer that their attention had been confined exclusively to the measure he introduced on behalf of his colleagues, and therefore that they were not prepared to bring forward any other measure. But as he had stated to the House, that on Monday he would declare the intentions of Government with respect to the remaining clauses of the bill, it would be more convenient if the noble Lord would allow him to take till that day to consider.
 Sir J. Graham:  In consequence of a question which was yesterday, in my absence, put to my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, I will take this opportunity of stating the course which it is intended to pursue with respect to the Factories Bill. The House will do me the justice to recollect that when I brought forward the educational clauses of the Factories Bill, I stated that the proposition I then made was defensible on account of special circumstances connected with the compulsory education of a portion of the people under the Factories Act as it now stands upon the statute book. The House will also, I am sure, not fail to remember that I stated that the proposition which I submitted on the part of the Government was framed in no sectarian spirit, that we did not regard it as a measure connected with party feelings, and that I hoped and believed it would not be discussed in a party spirit in this House, or be so received and considered in the country. I am bound to say that, as far as this House is concerned, the proposition was received, if not with favour, at all events with forbearance on the part of those opposed to the Government for which I beg to tender my most cordial acknowledgments. It was received in a manner worthy of the vast importance of the subject which far exceeds all the transient considerations of party. It would be impertinent in me, the sense of the House never having been ascertained by any division, to speculate on what might be the opinion of the House with respect to the educational clauses as they now stand, in their modified form. I stated distinctly that, in my estimation, the success of the measure must mainly depend upon it being received generally throughout the country as a measure of concord. I hoped it would be so received; I endeavoured to frame it so as to impart to it that character and, in that light, after the best deliberation I can bestow upon the subject, I still continue to regard it. It was evident, however, that the great body of the dissenters of this country entertained insuperable objections to the bill in its original form;
 1568 1569
 Sir R. H. Inglis  contended, that in substance his statement was correct. As a sample of the inaccuracy of the hon. Member for Coventry, he would remark upon one statement he had made. The hon. Member said, that the amount de-
 1574 l l W. Williams:
 Sir R. Peel  could not imagine that he had said anything calculated to ruffle the temper of the hon. Gentleman, who in one comprehensive sentence had accused him of intending to throw every possible reflection upon the hon. Member. The hon. Member last night made that sweeping anathema, and was now angry because he had quoted the hon. Member's phrase, " preceding precedents." He did not quote it for the purpose of inducing the House to ridicule the hon. Member, for it was an error into which any hon. Member might have fallen, the hon. Member no doubt meant former precedents. It was very hard to make him responsible for that expression having been laughed at. With respect to the return asked for by the hon. Gentleman, he had not the least objection to give the date of the year when the pension was first granted to the Prince of Mecklenburg Strelitz; but he did not object to the production of any calculation with respect to a particular pension on the arbitrary assumption, that the money with which it had been paid had been borrowed at the rate of 5 per cent, interest. There was a material difference between a calculation made by an accountant, to determine the effect of
 1572
 Viscount Dungannon  rose to order. He wished to ask the Speaker whether it were competent for any hon. Member to take up the time of the House by allusions to speeches that had been delivered in a different debate altogether from the present, and such as were totally unconnected with the issue now before them. He wished to know whether the hon. Member for Coventry was now entitled to be heard when he was following such a course?
 Viscount Dungannon  could not forbear deeply regretting, that when a measure as remarkable for its moderation as for its justice, had been introduced to this House—when it was proposed to make a provision of this kind upon the death of the Duke of Cambridge, for the grand-daughter of one of the best and the greatest Sovereigns that had ever swayed the sceptre of this country, whose memory must live in the respect of every good and enlightened man,—he could not, he repeated, but regret the tone which had been taken by certain hon. Members on the opposite side of the House, who indulged in the most unfair and invidious observations. He should be the last individual among the hon. Members of this House who would ever be found to oppose any grant to the royal family, that was deemed necessary to place them in that situation which they had a right to fill.
 Viscount Dungannon  was not surprised that a Gentleman holding the opinions of the hon. Member for Montrose blamed the Government for having the courage and honesty to introduce a measure rendered necessary by the dangerous state of Ireland. The Government might be blamed, but he contended, that it was the excitement produced by designing men that produced the evil, and Government would do wrong if it had not the manliness to provide for it. He rejoiced at the plain speaking of several hon. Gentlemen at the other side, who declared, that the Established Church must be put down and reduced to the position of a sect, and from whose remarks it was to be inferred, that hostility to the Church was at the bottom of the opposition to the bill, and of the agitation going on in Ireland. They were told, that the established
 1612
 Viscount Howick  had not, without considerable difficulty, made up his mind upon the vote he should give. On the one hand, he certainly considered the principle of these Arms Bills objectionable, or at least questionable, and believed that they must either be ineffective or annoying, or both; and he was of opinion that the latter was really the case; and that the effect of such measures was to
 1614
 Mr. Gladstone  said, it was within the knowledge of the House that negotiations had been going on last year, between the British Government and that of Hanover, On the subject of the Stade duties, and were in a state of considerable advancement. The points which then remained for further discussion between the two Governments were not of very great magnitude at that time, when it was proposed by agreement between the King of Hanover and the Elbe-bordering States that the negotiations should he concluded in Germany, in order that it might be settled there by the parties who had the most immediate and substantial interest in the adjustment of the question; inasmuch as the ultimate burthen of those duties, however onerous they might be to the British trade, must fall on the consumers of the commodities on which they were levied. There was considerable hope at that time that this negotiation might lead to a speedy arrangement, involving a settlement of the question for other countries as well as this; and had it done so, it would have been more satisfactory than any other negotiation, not embracing all the parties who had an interest in the question, but confined to this country on the one hand, and Hanover on the other. This negotiation in Germany had now been in progress for, he believed, not less than five months, and the British Government were in great, doubt whether any speedy issue of it was likely to be attained. For some weeks past the British Government had been employed in investigating the facts of the case, and they were by no means satisfied at the present moment, that a result would be speedily arrived at. In a very short time the British Government would have made up its mind on the question, whether there was such a prospect of settlement with the means now in operation, as to warrant them in trusting to those means, as the shortest way of solving the question between this Government and that of Hanover; but unless they should come to that conclusion very speedily, it was intended to make an effort to resume a
 9
 Mr. Gladstone:  It was with reluctance that lie gave an opinion; but if the hon. Gentleman asked him for his opinion as an individual, he must say lie did not believe. my inference could be drawn from this importation that the relative position of our cotton manufacturers was at all changed. Importations front America were often made for the purpose of re-exportation. He believed that from the American ports a considerable quantity of goods had lately been exported for the east; but, at the same time, an infinitely greater quantity of British cottons had been exported from this country. He could not, therefore, say that he saw in these circumstances any grounds for the apprehensions that had been excited by them.
 Mr. Thorneley  stated, that he ha d s-terday received a letter from America to the following effect:—
 "Our Lowell factories have run off their heavy stocks of heavy goods at low prices for export; say 5¾to 6½ cents for 37 inch, and 6¾ cents for 30 inch drills; prime goods gone to Calcutta, China, Bombay, Manilla, and to the extent say of 35,000 to 40,000 bales;" (and added), that "the fact was, the Americans were successfully competing with us in the supply of cotton goods to China, India, and South America."
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  said, he would suppost the bill, but he wished to be understood as not pledging himself to many of
 20
 Mr. Redinglon  did not agree with the lion. Gentleman who had just sat down, in thinking that this bill had any tendency to preserve life and property, he regarded it as a measure of severe coercion, which would materially abridge the liberties of the people of Ireland, and he would therefore give it his opposition. He was surprised that during the former debate which had taken place on this subject some better reasons had not been advanced for the proposal of this measure. The noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland had admitted that within the last five years there had been a very considerable decrease in the number of homicides committed in Ireland; and
 21 22
 Mr. Escolt  perfectly agreed that it was the duty of English not less than of Irish Members, to consider temperately, the grounds on which they meant to give their votes on the measure; and he begged first to express his surprise that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and who professed to be desirous of considering the measure duly, should have ventured on an unworthy taunt at the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government. If the epithet "ungenerous" were ever correctly applied it was to that man who owing his seat in that House principally to the right hon. Baronet, could utter such a taunt. The right hon. Baronet had done more to forward the substantial welfare of Ireland than any other Minister. It was difficult for English Members to understand the different views taken of the question before the House. The hon. Member for Guilford, who opposed the bill, regretted that it was not more unconstitutional and more repugnant to the principles of liberty, whilst the hon. Member for Carlisle, who also spoke against it, expressed a hope that it would be rendered less unconstitutional in committee. After a debate of three nights no new fight had been thrown upon the question. It had been argued that the bill was not the same in principle as the previous arms bills. This however, appeared to be an after thought, suggesting itself since the discomfiture on the former debate. [ Mr. Redington 23 24
 Lord J. Russell:  I had hoped, Sir, that it would have been only necessary for me to say a few words to justify the course which 1 shall take on the important question under consideration. The noble Lord the chief secretary for Ireland purposes to go into committee on an Arms Bill, which he has introduced; my hon. Friend the Member for Waterford desires that that bill should be referred to a select committee, to inquire whether, with respect to the particular privilege of bearing arms, it is necessary to continue the restrictions at present in force. Such, I conceive, are the questions for our consideration; and I should have been satisfied with saying a few words only upon the subject, had not the right hon. Gentleman —following other Members, I admit, but, as I think, very unnecessarily following them—raised a question as to the whole state of Ireland, and entered upon a discussion regarding measures brought forward in former years and respecting the present policy of the Government as it now stands. Into that question I am now obliged to enter; but before I do so let me say a word as to the grounds on which I shall give my vote. The noble Lord proposes—first, certain restrictions regarding the power of having and keeping arms in Ireland; and, secondly, restrictions re-
 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 "That whatever your laws may be, whatever changes you may make in the laws, much depends on the spirit and the manner in which they are administered." 63 64
 Lord Stanley:  I had hoped, Sir, that I should have been spared the painful necessity of taking any part in the discussion of a matter with which officially and individually I am in no way connected, and in which possibly, from former recollections, my personal interposition might have introduced a tone of bitterness which 1 am happy to say, so long as we confined ourselves to the measure itself, has been peculiarly remote from the discussion, and for that reason I determined to take no part in the debate; nor should I have done so but for the speech which has just been delivered, not upon the subject-matter under discussion, but on the subject of the general state of Ireland, and but for the invectives—not the arguments which have been directed by the noble Lord opposite against her Majesty's present Government, and against the course which they have pursued, although the noble Lord has sedulously abstained from pointing out the course which in his judgment they ought to have pursued. Sir, I believe that I am going to vote in common with the noble Lord to-night. I believe, that the noble Lord is as conscious as any man of the critical position of Ireland at the present moment; the noble Lord knows and feels, and his official experience for a long period in the office of Home Secretary of this country leads him not only to feel, but to know, that in the present state of Ireland, as in the state of Ireland while it was under his own immediate superintendence, some such measure as this cannot with safety be dispensed with. The noble Lord admits that danger, he admits that critical position, and yet the noble
 65 66 J. Russell: 67 s 68 J. Russell. 69 "I find great fault with the course the Government have pursued. They have done nothing, as they ought to have done, to conciliate the people of Ireland. I find fault with their appointments of bishops and judges. What have they done, for example, with respect to the question of tenancy ! What have they done with regard to the Church !" " I admit (says he), that if there he a tenant who has not improved his farm, who has paid no rent, who has let his farm go to ruin, it is quite wise, quite right, quite justifiable that the landlord should eject him.." "But," (adds the noble Lord), the wild justice of revenge does not stop to consider what are the merits of the cause of that ejectment." 70 71 "Oh ! (says the noble Lord), if we had but got the appropriation clause, if we had but obtained the application of a portion of the revenues of the Church in 1834, I think the remaining Church revenues would have been quite safe from any future attempts at alienation." "When we gave up that proposition, we did so because we were compelled to surrender it. We found that we could not make that partial remedy, and even if we had made it, I tell you it would have had no effect." "These (says the hon. and learned Member for Bath) are the two levers by which Ireland is moved; and these (says the hon. and learned Member), I am ready and willing to apply." "These (the noble Lord says) are the two causes of discontent in Ireland; but God for-
 72 "But (says the noble Lord) the Government of Ireland, as at present constituted, does not share the confidence of the country." No ! no ! 73 C. Napier 74 "With respect to the repeal of the onion, it is like any other measure, and is liable, like any other statute, to modification or amendment.—Lord JOHN RUSSELL." 75
 Sir C. Napir  moved, that the debate he adjourned.
 Captain Berkeley,  considering the vote he had given on the Irish Coercion Bill, would be sorry that the debate should close without his giving his reasons for the vote to which he was about to come. Shortly after the vote on the Coercion Bill, he had accepted office under Earl Grey; consequently, he had to return to his constituents, and having been before at the head of the poll, he found the sympathy of Englishmen with Irishmen so great, that owing principally, he believed, to the vote he had given, he was rejected. At that time, lie happened to be a resident in Ireland; the repeal question was then in agitation; but, under different circumstances from the present; there was violence, danger, all which was not now the case. He had at that time confidence in the Government of Earl Grey, and he felt sure that, in giving that Coercion Bill, its powers would not be used, if it were possible to avoid it; he had not the same confidence in the present Government, and
 80
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  hoped the House would give him its indulgence whilst he said a few words. He would not have spoken if it had not been for the peculiar, if not the ungenerous appeal made to him by the noble Lord, the Member for Lancacashire. [Mr.  Borthwick: 81
 The O'Connor Don  felt bound to say, that what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet was satisfactory to his feelings, and would tend to remove much of the irritation which the former speech would create in Ireland.
 Lord Clements said (amidst some confusion) that he thought the language employed by the right hon. Baronet was wicked and mischievous. He repeated it, wicked. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman would shake the peace of Ireland, and was more calculated to do mischief than all the harangues of Mr. O'Connell. The words of the right hon. Baronet—[Sir  J. Graham  83
 Colonel Conolly  could not conceive what the hon. and learned Member meant, by saying that under the present agitation there were some latent principles, which appeared to the minds of the Irish people to proceed from misgovernment. The lion, and learned Gentleman ought to have given some explanation of this, for to him (Colonel Conolly) the present agitation seemed to involve two points: the one was an interference, or rather, a forfeiture of property, by the adoption of what was called
 30 Member 
 Lord Eliot  wished to say, that the clauses which had excited so much indignation on the part of the learned Sergeant, had been expunged from the bill. He had stated this before, and he would go into further explanation when the House got into committee. If the learned Sergeant would look at the amended copy of the bill, he would see that clauses 25 and 26, which appeared in the former bills, had been struck out.
 Mr. Lefroy,  who was almost inaudible, was understood to say, the hon. Gentleman had made reference to some charges that
 17 1 1 l
 Mr. Hindley  wished to know of the President of the Board of Trade whether the Government had made any inquiries as to the importation into this country of 400 bales of American manufactured cotton goods, and whether the right hon. Gentleman had formed any opinion as to whether our manufacturers would be much affected by American competition in consequence of that assignment.
 The Speaker : The word "insulting" is unparliamentary.
 Mr. B. Wall,  from his knowledge of the character of the noble Lord who brought forward this measure, was prepared for the moderate tone in which it bad been introduced. Would that the moderation shown within those walls might meet with a response in the breasts of the people of Ireland, and influence the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Cork, who, perhaps, possessed more influence in that country than either the Viceroy or the
 18 19
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  felt called upon to make a few observations on a question so interesting to the people of Ireland, and more especially after the present state of Ireland had been so frequently referred to to warrant the introduction of the bill. He was not open to the reproach, if reproach it were, which, during the debate upon this subject had been so frequently levelled against hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House—namely, that they assented to propositions of this sort when made by the late Government. He had no seat in the House at the time, but if he had he would have been equally prepared to give the same opposition to those measures which he then intended to offer to the present. What was it that rendered this bill necessary? His right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Clonmel, had shown last night, from statistical documents, that offences of the nature, the suppression of which the bill was supposed to contemplate had considerably decreased from 1837 to 1841. If that were the case, and if the species of crime alluded to had increased since 1841, he (Mr. Murphy) contended, that the altered state of things was referrable to the alter-
 25 26
 Sir W. Barron  had used the word with reference to his country, and he repeated that the speech of the right hon. Baronet had been insulting to Ireland and to his Catholic fellow-countrymen. He hoped the debate would be adjourned, if only to enable the Catholic Members to recover their composure, which was very necessary.
 Sir W. Barron  said, after the insulting language of the right hon. Baronet—
 Mr. Tuite  was decidedly of opinion that an Arms Bill was necessary for Ireland, but not one containing such harsh provisions as were embodied in the present bill. He would suggest that if the Government were determined to brand arms, that they should also either brand or place some mark on the police, who had to look after arms, so that they could be readily recognized and identified. One of the provisions of this bill appeared to him to be monstrously absurd—namely, to enact that there should be a register of forges, with the view of preventing the manufacture of pikes, because, notwithstanding any such register, you never could prevent their being made. The present bill increased the severity of the penal clauses to such a degree that it would almost appear that there was some desire on the part of the Government to show great feelings of
 31 32
 Dr. Bowring  rose to put the question of which he had given notice. He wished to know what was the state of the negotiations respecting the Stade tolls; and whether there was any prospect of a prompt settlement. Those negotiations had occupied several successive governments, and great anxiety was felt as to the issue of them.
 Mr. J. Collett  seconded the motion.
 Mr. J. Collett  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, it was not his intention to impute to the Government a design to insult Ireland, or to propose anything with a view to her degradation. The Ministers merely acted according to custom, and had proposed these measures so long, as the means of governing the country, that they became habitual to all parties who governed Ireland. For the last fifty years, an Arms Act had been the law of the country—it was acknowledged by all parties; and the right hon. Gentleman was only taking the same steps as others. The argument used by the right hon. Gentleman was the state of the country. He brought before the House a case of extraordinary atrocity, in order to show that the state of society was totally distinct from the state of England. So far he agreed. But the next proposition of the right hon. Gentleman propounded a difficulty which the right hon. Gentleman left unanswered, The right hon. Gentle-
 36 37 38 Cum hoc propter hoc Eliot 39 40 41 42 Connolly 43 "The mischief of a priesthood is very much diminished by depriving them of any interest to be active. Pay them well, and the chances are that they will cease to be misehievous." 44
 Mr. Hume,  as he wished to record his opinion against the bill, would take a division now, and move that the bill be read a second time this day six months.
 Mr. P. Howard  hoped this bill would be withdrawn, and presented again in a more temperate and constitutional form. Some of its provisions were far too stringent; for instance, it exposed men to be transported for the possession of arms on conviction for the first offence. He would rather support a small increase in the military force of the country than resort to such a tyrannical enactment. A conciliatory policy had already been tried in Ireland under the administration of a late Lord-lieutenant, and had been most successful. Unless her Majesty's Government would withdraw this bill, and bring forward a less stringent and oppressive measure in its place, lie should feel it to be his duty to support the motion of the hon. Member for Waterford. He did not pursue this course from any wish to court popularity, and if he had been influenced by the invectives uttered against him by that extraordinary man who possessed great power:among the population of Ireland, he would have adopted a very different line of conduct. During the serious disturbances and riots which very recently took place in several districts of this country it was not considered necessary to adopt such measures as that before the House for their suppression; and yet on the mere anticipation of disturbance in Ireland this measure was brought forward. He considered the bill most unconstitutional in its character, and he would give it his decided opposition.
 Mr. Philip Howard  said, that if he was opposed to the bill before the speech of the right hon. Baronet, he now felt his opposition should be doubled, for it showed the " animus" 82
 Mr. P. Howard  said, the right hon. Baronet had alluded to the solemn oath taken by the Catholic Members of Parliament; and what inference could be drawn from the allusion, but that they had infringed those oaths.
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall , who obtained a hearing with difficulty, said, that he should not at that late hour have risen to address the House, as it might be considered presumption in him to obtrude himself after the speeches of the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, were it not for the extraordinary speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, and the excited manner in which the right lion. Gentleman had alluded to the class to which he (Mr. O'Ferrall) belonged, Namely, the Roman Catholic Members of that House. He should feel it an unworthy act to have heard the observations, and, even though unprepared, not to reply. Everybody in the House would admit, that this Arms Bill had been discussed with singular moderation by the Irish
 76 77
 Mr. Gisborne:  The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had chosen to throw down a challenge to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), and to divide the House into two sections; and as he (Mr. Gisborne) formed one of those sections, and intended to take part in the debate, which he could not do at that time in the morning (two o'clock), he would move that the debate be adjourned.
 Mr. Redington,  being one of the Roman Catholic Members who had felt very indignant at the charges he supposed the right hon. Baronet had made against those of his religion, must say that, after the calm statement made by the right hon. Gentleman, had his former speech been delivered in the same quiet tone—[ Hear
 Mr. Wyse  said, the right hon. Baronet's words were to this effect:—" I thought the Roman Catholic Noblemen and Gentlemen might be trusted on their oaths which they took at the time;" and, certainly the manner in which the right hon. Baronet repeated the words had produced the impression upon him and the Gentlemen around him, that the right hon. Baronet intended to convey the charge that the Roman Catholic Noblemen and Gentlemen to whom he referred had, if not openly, at least passively, violated their oaths.
 Mr. W. S. Crawford  rose to support the motion for a committee of inquiry. Inquiry ought to precede the further progress of the bill, otherwise the bill would be considered the first stage in a new era of coercion. It proclaimed a distrust of the whole Irish people from the highest to the lowest. No solid argument had been used in support of it. It had been stated to be founded on former precedents. He admitted there was a long continued series of precedents, but he said that was no reason why they should be continued. The system had lasted for years, and done no good. Precedents, therefore, were of no value. It was said their system had been followed by former Governments. He did not defend former Governments, whether Whig or Tory, and he thought the conduct of former Governments was no reason for this bill. Another reason given was the opinion of the officers of the constabulary. But everybody knew that men intrusted with arbitrary power sought to increase that arbitrary power. That reason, therefore, had no weight with him. Another ground was the crimes that were committed in Ireland, and it was thought that depriving the people of arms would restrain them from the commission of crime. Now, a return had been made to the House of the crimes committed in Ireland in April last. What was the number of homicides throughout Ireland in that month. Eight; and of these only one was connected with firearms. Now, though there was a great quantity of crime in Ireland, it was wonderful there was not more. He did not believe there was an evil spirit in the people. If so, there would be more crime. Political causes might have some considerable weight in arousing to crime. The grievance of the Established Church might be of weight, but all these were nothing compared to the great grievance of the rack-renting system of the landlords of Ireland. That was the grand cause of discontent. The distressed state of Ireland was chiefly attributable to the conduct of the landlords. He alluded to the extensive system of ejectment that had been carried on in different parts of Ireland, and the numbers of families that had been turned out upon the world in consequence. 16
 Sir James Graham:  Sir, without wishing to detract from the admiration which the speech of the hon. and learned Member may probably excite, or without desiring to say anything which that hon. Gentleman might consider personally offensive, I must be permitted to observe, that the address of the hon. and learned Member for Bath this evening fully establishes the truth of the observation which he applied to another learned individual, viz., that it is possible for a man to be an astute lawyer and a very bad statesman. I should be ashamed, after having addressed the House at large on this subject on a former occasion, if I were to delay them long from the division at which I hope they will arrive this evening. I see signs of dissent on the opposite side of the House, but until I shall see hon. Gentlemen persevere in the
 45 46 47 Clements: "
 Sir J. Graham:  I am sure, Sir, after what has fallen from two hon. Members in succession, one or other, or both of them, will be so obliging as to specify the expressions which they refer to as having been insulting to themselves personally? or, what is far more important, to my Catholic fellow countrymen? or, which would have been even more unpardonable, to a large portion of the British empire? I appeal not to their generosity, but to their sense of justice, and as gentlemen.
 Sir James Graham:  I shall appeal, Sir, not to the indulgence of the noble Lord, but to the judgment of the House. I thank the three Gentlemen who responded to my appeal by giving substantive form to the charge urged against me. Nothing was further from my intention than to have spoken at all this evening; and till nearly the end of the learned Member for Bath's speech I did not make up my mind to do so. I had heard last night strong observations upon great questions of policy made by the hon. Member for Sheffield; and to-night observations fell from the learned Member for Bath, which appeared to me highly dangerous in the present state of Ireland. Having but a short time to exercise any reflection, I did think it would be inconsistent with my duty to allow that speech to pass without observation. I appeal to the judgment of the House if it was possible to pass by the topics adverted to by the learned Gentleman, and whether it was possible to avoid, in discussing these topics, the use of language that, to some, might seem exciting. The subject naturally induced a warm and animated tone on the part of one, who, like myself, was expressing his conscientious opinions in all sincerity. The hon. Member for Waterford says, that I indulged in insinuations. Now it appears to me that the; complaint is, that in what I addressed to the House I was too plain, and was not sufficiently cautious and guarded in the expressions I used. I am most anxious to abstain from attempting to give the slightest colouring to what I formerly said, or to utter anything which is not perfectly consistent with the exact truth. If I recollect rightly the observations which have been complained of were made with reference to a speech delivered by my right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth, in 1817, which had been referred to in a previous part of the debate by the hon. Member for Sheffield, and what I then said referred to the answer of Mr. Canning to that speech. My observations were to this effect, that my right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth had then stated, that if the Catholics obtained an equality of civil rights with their Protestant fellow subjects, it was not in human nature that they should not try to obtain a supremacy for their Church. Mr. Canning in his reply, which I read to the House, demurred to this opinion, and said
 84 85
 Sir R. Peel  said, I do not mean, on the present occasion, to enter into any discussion of the general question, having had, on the occasion of the second reading, an opportunity of stating my views on that subject. I rise merely to refer to an individual case which has been adverted to in the course of this debate, by the learned Sergeant opposite, and I know that individual cases, when stated with that rhetorical power which the learned Sergeant can so well command, often make a greater impression than a lengthened or elaborate argument. Now the hon. and learned Member did state a case which I perceive made a considerable impression upon the House, namely, the case of a woman, who, in the absence of her husband, was convicted of having arms concealed on her premises; that her husband was at this time at work in England; that the woman was found guilty, and sentenced to transportation; that her husband, on his return, actuated by wild feelings of revenge, murdered the magistrate, who had been active in the conviction of his wife, and that for this murder he was afterwards executed. Now, the statement that under one of the clauses of the bill similar acts
 33 l 34 l l 35 The History of the Penal Laws."
 Sir R. Peel  moved the second reading of the Princess Augusta of Cambridge's Annuity Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the congress had undertaken to consider the whole question generally, whether Hanover had a right to impose any toll, or a toll beyond one-sixteenth; but whatever decision they might come to, we were not concluded by it.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that some time since negotiations had been entered into, or rather concluded, between Hanover and this country, for the purpose of forming a separate treaty, and proposals had been made on the:part of this country for an amicable settlement of the differences which existed. These were not finally accepted by Hanover, and the negotiations were broken off in consequence of Hanover not acceding to the terms offered. Several other states had expressed a desire to bring this question to a satisfactory settlement, and had entered into negotiations for that purpose; their interests were corresponding to ours, but not exactly identical, and they endeavoured to make an arrangement with Hanover, which if effected on equitable terms, would be of great advantage to commerce generally, and therefore to this country; for it was quite evident that a mere partially arrangement between one state and another would not have the same good effects as a general arrangement, in benefitting the commerce of Europe. He had thought it better to wait; the result of these negotiations before renewing the negotiations between this country and Hanover. At the meeting at Dresden we had no representative, but there was a person there of the highest intelligence to report on the proceedings, but with a distinct understanding that we were not to be concluded—knowing there were parties there who had different interests from ours—by any arrangement which they might make, if we did not think that arrangement rested on an equitable basis. Therefore by no possibility could the arrangement at Dresden conclude us, either directly or impliedly, unless we were satisfied with the justice of it. The injury had now been long sustained; there did not appear to be the same prospect that formerly seemed to exist of an amicable termination of the difference; and it became now a question whether it were not desirable for us to resume negotiations on our own part only, without waiting for the close of those at Dresden.
 Viscount Howick  did not rise to offer any observations against the bill. On the contrary, if he had been in his place on a former evening, he should have voted with her Majesty's Government in favour of the grant, but he hoped he might be excused if he offered to the House, and most earnestly recommended to her Majesty's Government, a suggestion thrown out a few nights ago by a noble Friend of his in another place. The House would easily see lie referred to the suggestion which had been made of the propriety of making some provision for the family of his late Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex. He was perfectly aware that any proposal of this kind could only come from her Majesty's Government; therefore it was not his intention to make any motion on the subject. He should not even have gone so far as to allude to it at all, had he not known that there were in this case peculiar difficulties in point of form to be overcome; which might, perhaps, present an obstacle to the right hon. Baronet taking that course which he was sure his wishes would otherwise dictate. In consequence of these difficulties, he (Viscount Howick) trusted he might be excused if he took this, he trusted not unfitting, opportunity of expressing his own opinion. If the right hon. Baronet could overcome these difficulties, and should find it consistent with his public duty to advise her Majesty to recommend to that House to make some provision for the family of his late Royal High ness, such a proposal he was sure would by that House be received with great satisfaction, and most cheerfully agreed to. In this he expressed merely his own feelings, but he had no doubt similar feelings were entertained by many other gentlemen, in common with himself. The right hon. Baronet, some nights ago, in moving the address of condolence to her Majesty, paid a well-merited tribute, most honourably to his own feelings, to the admirable qualities of his late Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex. That tribute was too fresh in the memory of hon. Members, and he was too unequal to repeat it, to make it proper that he should attempt to go over the same ground. But he must say, that he thought, under the circumstances of this case, the family of his Royal highness had a very strong claim, and he felt it the more, because he had the honour of being
 13
 Viscount Palmerston,  said, perhaps the House was not aware that the question, as it stood between Great Britain and Hanover was this:—We contended that by the treaties, Hanover had no right to levy more than one-sixteenth per cent. on the value of our goods. He wished to know whether the question which was to depend on the decision of this conference at Dresden was, whether Hanover should levy
 11
 Viscount Palmerston  said, if he understood the right hon. Gentleman rightly, the closing of the question at issue between Hanover and Great Britain, respecting the exemption of British commerce from certain tolls which the Government of Hanover had hitherto imposed, had by the British Government been allowed to depend on the negotiations going on at Dresden. But unless this negotiation at Dresden was to determine in some way the question between Hanover and Great Britain, he did not understand why the negotiation between Hanover and Great Britain should have been suspended on account of the negotiation at D esden; but it appeared that the question of the right of toll between Hanover and Great Britain was suffered to be suspended until the negotiation between Hanover and the Elbe-bordering States at Dresden should have been brought to a conclusion. What he should wish to ask was, how Great Britain was represented at that assembly of plenipotentiaries of the Elbe-bordering States? He should wish to know what organ we had at this meeting, by which our right to be exempt from those tolls could be established, because it was obvious, if we had no organ there, we were to be in some way concluded by the negotiation; or, if it were not so, there was no sense in referring the subject to that meeting. He wished to ask, whether that board of the representatives of the Elbe-bordering States did or did not contain representatives of the States forming the General Union of Customs, which, so far from being interested in retrieving our commerce from the burthens pressing on it, had, from the very nature and principle of their confederacy, an interest in continuing burthens on British commerce.
 The Attorney-general  was sorry that such a matter had been brought under the notice of the House. With reference to the nature of the question, and with reference to the illustrious individual to whom it related, he must say, that he thought he should be setting a bail example, which might be drawn into a very
 94
 Mr. S. Wortley  suggested that it might be of considerable advantage if, instead of postponing a grant from the Committee of Privy Council until they received applications which rendered it necessary, the Government proposed to Parliament at once to make some addition to the vote (30,000 l
 Mr. Ellice  said, that he had been at the commencement of this debate disposed to support this bill, but he now begged to state the grounds upon which he felt himself obliged, with great reluctance, to vote against it as part of a system of coercion towards Ireland. God knew that this bill was not an experiment. They had been legislating on this unwise system for half a century, and they were now called upon to renew this law under the declaration of a Member of the Government of the day, that concession towards Ireland had gone to its utmost limit— that if there were grievances in Ireland, the Government neither knew the means, nor would propose any to redress them. The hon. Member who had last spoke had almost brought the question to this issue:—Was it safe to trust the Irish people? Was it feasible to legislate for them as they would for his own constituency in Yorkshire? His answer was, that it was because they had never legislated for the Irish people as they would have legislated for the people of Yorkshire—it was because we had not done our utmost to place them upon an equality as regarded civil liberty, with the rest of their fellow subjects, that this odious bill of coercion against the Irish people became necessary. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Bath that the two great questions, as regarded Ireland, with which it became necessary for any government which wielded the destinies of this empire to cope, were the tenure of land, and the state of the Church in Ireland. He knew that these were very difficult questions to deal with; but it was not because they were difficult that the Government should content itself with proposing a bill to repress by arms the opinions of the people in that country. He recollected some years ago that he seconded a motion made by the hon. Member for Montrose for certain returns respecting tithes in Ireland. In the course of the debate upon this question, it appeared that there were 1,500 or 1,600 actions pending in that country for the recovery of tithes; and he then declared that in this country such a state of things would not be tolerated for a single day. He admitted that it was no easy affair to administer the affairs of this country; but he denied that that was any reason that the attempt should not be made —that the difficulty should not be coped
 125 126 127
 Mr. L. Fox  said, that considering there was a notice of his on the books with regard to the Emancipation Act, and that it would be impossible for him to bring it under the notice of the House to-morrow night, in consequence of the other business which stood before it, and looking to the turn which this debate had taken, he thought he should be perfectly justified in introducing now the observations which he should have made on that motion. It was now distinctly stated—as he had always believed—that the Protestant Church in Ireland was to fall in case the Repeal of the Union was carried. The liberator too had clearly and distinctly announced that the year 1843 was to be the year of repeal, and there did appear to him every prospect of Mr. O'Connell's being able to fulfil that declaration, from the organisation which they had lately seen. His reason for wishing to state his opinions in this House on the present position of Ireland was, that he was firmly convinced that our glorious Protestant constitution, in which so great a breach was made by the act of 1829 was as much the law of God as the law delivered to the Israelites on Mount Sinai. This being his opinion, he must refer to
 133 "When I sent you without purse and scrip and shoe, lacked ye anything? And they said, Nothing, Then said he unto them, But now he that hath a purse let him take it, and likewise his scrip; and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one. For I say unto you, that this that is written must yet be accomplished in me; he was numbered with the transgressors, for the things concerning me have an end. And they said, Lord, behold here are two swords. And he said unto them, It is enough."  "Behold my servant, whom I uphold—mine elect in whom my soul delighteth. have put my spirit upon him; he shall bring forth judgment unto the Gentiles. He shall not cry nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax he shall not quench; he shall bring forth judgment unto the truth, and the Isles shall wait for his law" 134 135 136
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  thought he could trace the whole of the speeches made by hon. Members opposite, from the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyne (Mr. Colquhoun), down to the hon. Member who had just sat down, to the observations to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary hon the Home Department, who had told the House that in Ireland conciliation had gone to its utmost, and had opened the whole of that religious discussion which had usurped the place of the discussion on the Arms Bill, not only that night, but at the close of the previous night. The hon. Member for Newcastle had reminded him of the time when that hon. Member represented a Scottish constituency, and introduced his bill about Maynooth College, and procured the appointment of the everlasting Intimidation Committee. What the hon. Member's speech had to do with the question of the Arms Bill, he could not discover. He would show the House what was the value of the hon. Member's testimony with reference to Ireland. In 1839 the hon. Gentleman stated before a committee on the state of Ireland, in answer to a question with respect to an estate in the Queen's county, that a person named Price, an agent on board of the packet, in going over, had informed him that a man of the name of White, a schoolmaster, was a Ribbonman. Price was examined, and stated, that he had never told the hon. Member that this individual was a Ribbonman: next, that Ribbonism was unknown in the Queen's county; and lastly, that he had never said that White was a conspirator, or Whitefoot of any kind. He thought it right to quote this, after the hon. Member's invectives against the Roman Catholic clergy, in order that the House might not place confidence in the statements he had made. He would not go
 137 138 139
 Viscount Clements  moved, that the debate be adjourned.
 Lord Ashley  said, although he deeply regretted the loss of the educational clauses, he, for the sake of the rest of the bill, approved of the resolution the Government had come to. Even had it been possible for the Government to have carried the measure in that House, he did not think it would have met with that cordial sympathy and co-operation front the different classes affected by it, without which it could not have been effectually carried out. It should be borne in mind, that the Church, with a view to conciliation, were ready to make the very largest concessions, larger certainly than it had ever made before, but concessions made in the hope of conciliation and peace. But when the Church found that the terms which it proposed, so far from leading to conciliation and peace, only led to greater disunion and almost to effectual war, it had no alternative but to stop, at all events, at the point to which it had already advanced. Somewhere or other, however, a very great and deep responsibility did he; it was not for him to point out who were the parties really responsible for the position at which they had now arrived. He certainly must say that the Government had shown their readiness to act. 'He saw the Church prepared to make concessions for the sake of conciliation and peace, and on the other hand he saw the great body of Dissenters rejoicing that they had been successful in their efforts to defeat the measure. Where ever the fault lay one thing was quite clear— that the really suffering parties were the vast body of neglected children, who, as present appearances went, were now consigned to an eternity of ignorance. While he deplored the result to which the measure had come, he must be allowed to express his satisfaction at the manner in which it had been received and entertained in the first instance, and at the absence of all violence with which it had been received by the Dissenters in that House. That reception did certainly afford some ground for hoping that hereafter something might effectually be done to arrest the further progress of vice, ignorance, and immorality in the country by means of
 95
 Lord John Manners —The grandson of a Tory Lord Lieutenant, who was not unpopular in Ireland-I trust the Irish Members will pardon me, if I venture to express my opinions on the subject under debate, attended, as it undoubtedly is, with most grave difficulties, difficulties so great that they would induce me to support almost any measure of executive detail which the Government in a crisis like the present might propose, even were it not supported by so many precedents, as this Arms Bill is. I, Sir, like the hon. Member for Nottingham, and others who have spoken during the debate, am glad at the tone of most of the speeches which have been delivered, but beyond that my satisfaction cannot extend, for, except in the speeches of my hon. Friends, the Members for the counties of Londonderry and Northampton, I have heard no proposals likely in ameliorate the unhappy condition of Ireland, and the addresses of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, and the right hon. the Home Secretary especially disappointed me in that respect; nothing could be more convincing than the noble Lord's exposure of the futility and emptiness of the scheme enunciated by the noble Lord the Member for London; some miserable petty plan of raising the social condition of the Roman Catholic Priesthood by granting them titles of honour; but the noble Lord stopped short at this; not so however the hon. and learned Member for Bath, who with a most undue faith
 111 The Tablet. "The abolition of the Irish Church, as a single measure, would not we are firmly persuaded buy off ten votes from Repeal. If this Church were to live till Doomsday the people might feed, and they might worhip God in peace and tranquillity, and fulfil the duties of their faith." 112 "There is something very singular in the ecclesiastical history of Ireland. The Christian Church of that country, as founded by St. Patrick and his predecessors, existed for many ages free and unshackled. It had no connection with England, and differed upon points of importance with Rome. The first work of Henry 2nd, was to reduce the Church of Ireland into obedience to the Roman Pontiff. Accordingly he procured a council of the Irish clergy to be held at Cashel in 1172, and the combined influence and intrigues of Henry and the Pope prevailed. This council put an end to the ancient Church of Ireland, and submitted it to the yoke of Rome. From the days of St. Patrick to the Council of Cashel, was a bright and glorious career for Ireland. Front the sitting of this council to our time, the lot of Ireland has been universal evil, and all her history a tale of woe." 113 "Less Calvinistic, less fierce, more ready to own the Romish Church as a sister though a fallen one, more apt to pray for than to curse the Jerusalem of Christendom; when many of her clergy are ready to adopt towards their Roman Catholic brethren the language which Bishop Berkeley addressed to the Roman Catholic priesthood of his diocese, 'I consider you as my countrymen, as fellow subjects, as professing belief in the same Christ. And I do most sincerely wish there were no other contest between us— but who shall most completely practise the precepts of Him, by whose name we are called, and whose disciples we all profess to be.'" " Hear," from an hon. Member on the Ministerial side. 114 Delenda est Anglia, "If the same gentle spirit of sloth did not soothe our squires as well as peasants, one would imagine there should be no idle hands among us. Alas! how many incentives to industry offer themselves in this island, crying aloud to the inhabitants for work. Roads to be repaired, rivers made navigable, fisheries on the coast, mines to be wrought, plantations to be raised, manufactures improved, and above all lands to be tilled, and sown with all sorts of grain." 115
 Mr. Hindley  hoped the example of the hon. Baronet who had last spoken would be adopted, and that all points which could excite acrimony would be waved. He had presented 2,000 petitions against the bill, and he begged, personally, to tender his thanks to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government for abandoning it, and for having acted up to the spirit of the declaration he made to a deputation that waited upon him, when he said that this was a question that could not and ought not to be decided by a mere majority of that House. On the part of those petitioners he tendered his respectful thanks to the Government for not having pushed the measure as they might have done. At the same time, he hoped that the objections that had been urged against this particular measure would not be supposed to be applied to any general plan of education. The Dissenters were as desirous as Churchmen could be to have a national education for the improvement of the minds of the people. Much had been said of the ignorance prevailing in the manufacturing districts, but the same kind of ignorance prevailed in the agricultural districts. It was only on Saturday that, having been up with a late debate the night before, he took a short excursion into the country, and went into an agricultural district. There he met two children. They had been two years at the national school, and he asked them to spell "Time." One of them deliberately answered "Smite." That was the way the child spelt the word "Time," after having been two years at the school. He asked the other whether he had learned his catechism. The child answered" Yes." On being asked, "What is your name?" the child gave its surname? and to the question, "Who gave you that name?" it answered, "My godfathers and godmothers at my baptism." Thus there were faults on both sides; and he did not think they ought to cast stones at each other. He did hope that next Session some scheme for national education, without any reference to the Established Church, would be really promoted. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend (Mr. Gibson) that the Ministers had abandoned nothing, but, on the contrary, had assumed a great deal, and he did hope the next Session they would take a course very different
 98
 Mr. Hindley  begged to ask whether Spain were to be left to itself in the choice of its government, or whether that government were to be chosen for them by France? He wished also to ask whether the Queen of Spain was to be left free to choose whom she might as her husband? or whether that choice was to be made for her by a foreign state?
 Mr. Muntz  had not the slightest intention to take any part in the present debate merely respecting the Arms Bill, of which he knew nothing, such a measure never having been connected with the Government of England. But the discussion had very much altered during the debate, and many things had been introduced respecting Ireland, which gave to their deliberations a very different character from what the mere measure of an Arms Bill might have borne. He heard from all quarters, that great excitement and great agitation existed in Ireland; and that large meetings of the people of Ireland were held for effecting a repeal of the Union. Now, he could not understand why these meetings should be any cause of complaint. He could not understand why the Irish people should not meet to discuss their grievances as well as the English. He himself had been in his time an agitator to a very considerable extent. In the agitation for Reform during the years 1531, 1532 and 1533, he took as large a share as any man in England, and he never had any other intention but that of doing right to all. He sought at that time to remove what were then called the rotten boroughs, and to give to Englishmen the right of representation. Why then should they find fault with the people of Ireland for agitating in the same peaceable and constitutional manner? remembered perfectly well, that after the celebrated three days in 1532, when the people of Birmingham had met two and three hundred thousand a day, that a deputation came to London to wait on the Government. His predecessor, and his present colleague, and himself, waited on the venerable Lord Grey, and the then Lord Althorn, and the right hon. Baronet the present Secretary for the Home Department. The deputation were received by the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman in a very gracious manner. He mentioned this to recall to the right hon. Baronet's mind, the fact that no mischief resulted from the encouragement which the Government of that day gave to the agitation which then existed. And yet he also remembered that he himself was told at that time by a very respectable gentleman, that the Birmingham Political Union had determined to rob everybody—and that it had resolved to divide the land of the
 140 141 C'est le petil ventre qui gouverne le monde."
 Sir W. Barron  cordially thanked the noble Lord for the spirit in which the observations he had just made were conceived. Such speeches on the part of Members of both Houses generally, would do far more to allay the agitation which now prevailed, than a hundred such measures as that now before them. Unfortunately, however, the tone prevalent on the other side of the House was far more calculated to increase than to allay that agitation. The speeches, for instance, of the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, and of the noble Secretary for the Colonies, who spoke after him on Friday night, would do more to spread anger and dissatisfaction, to alienate the people of Ireland from this country, than any speeches that had ever been delivered in or out of the House—than any acts which had been committed in or out of the House. The imperial Government—the imperial Parliament—said the right hon. Baronet, hail gone to the extreme verge of conciliation and concession. They had given to the people of Ireland emancipation, reform in Parliament, reform in municipal matters, reform in the Church, reform as to tithes— what more could the people of Ireland— what more could the Roman Catholic population of that country require? True, something had been done towards these various concessions; but in what manner had the concessions been made? Emancipation was granted; but those who granted it said they yielded it to their fears, and not to their sense of justice. They yielded it to the long-existing organization of the Irish people, thus affording to that people a lesson, that to obtain their rights, they must again resort to organization. Again, the Parliamentary reform accorded to the Irish people, was stinted and bare, in no respect equal to that which the people of England obtained: nay, the valuable franchise of forty-shilling freeholders, which the Irish before possessed, was taken from them, and at this moment there was not one man
 116 117 118 119 120 121
 Mr. Colquhoun  thought that amidst the
 99
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, the simple question was, whether it were not necessary to adopt this bill for the defence of persons, who would not be safe without such a measure? He was sure that any one who calmly contemplated the state of Ireland must see that no Government would be justified in withholding from the magistracy of Ireland the powers which were given to them by this bill. If they referred to the reports of committees on the question of tithes and other subjects during the last twenty years, they would find that the Irish people had evinced a strong antipathy to the law; that it was
 107 l l 108 109
 Mr. Hardy  said, the hon. Baronet had talked much of the unpopularity of her Majesty's Government in Ireland, but he had failed to give any reason for it; because, although he had spoken of their judicial, magisterial, and clerical appointments, he had not proved that any of them were improper, or that the parties were incompetent or had been guilty of any impropriety in the discharge of their duties. The strain of the hon. Baronet reminded him of a similar attack upon a former Ministry, in reply to which Mr. Sheridan observed, that nothing definite could be obtained from the assailant, that he seemed to be influenced only by the feeling described in the hackneyed lines beginning "I do not like thee Dr. Fell," &c. If the hon. Baronet wanted a justification of this measure, could he not find it in the excitement and the assassinations, murders, and frequent offences against life and property, which were more prevalent there than in any other country professing to be civilized? When the Ludd-
 122 "The great boon became the more acceptable to this country because, among the counsellors of his Majesty there appeared conspicuous the most distinguished of Ireland's own sons—a hero and a legislator—a man selected by the Almighty to break the rod which had scourged Europe—a man raised up by Providence to confirm thrones, to re-establish altars, to direct the councils of England at a crisis most difficult, and to staunch the blood and heal the wounds of the country which gave him birth. An enlightened and wise Parliament perfected what the Sovereign and his councillors commenced, and already the effects of their wisdom and justice are visible, and duly appreciated by all the wise and good. The storm which almost wrecked the country has subsided, whilst social order, with peace and justice in her train, prepares to establish her sway in this long distracted country. And is not the King, beloved brethren, whom by the law of God we are bound to honour, entitled now to all the honour, and all the obedience, and all the gratitude you can bestow? And do not his Ministers merit from you a confidence commensurate with the labours and the zeal expended by them on your behalf? And that Legislature which raised you up from your prostrate condition, and gave to you, without reserve, all the privileges you desired, is not that Legislature entitled to your reverence and love? We trust that your feelings on this subject are in unison with our own, and that a steady attachment to the constitution and laws of your country, as well as to the person and Government of your gracious Sovereign, will be manifest in your entire conduct. Labour, therefore, in all things to promote the end which the Legislature contemplated in passing
 123 "' Lest, while ye gather up the tares ye root up also the wheat with them.'—Mathew, c. xiiii., v. 29.  Note. Note bonâ fide 124
  Mr. Blewitt  rose to submit a question to the Attorney-general upon some important constitutional points. His Majesty the King of Hanover had lately arrived in London, and had taken his seat in the House of Lords as Duke of Cumberland; his position was thus extraordinary; he was a British-born subject, owing therefore allegiance to the Queen; he was also a peer of Parliament, a member of the privy council, a field marshal, and an independent, or, as some might say, a despotic sovereign. It seemed impossible that any person could reconcile the conflicting duties thus imposed upon the same individual; the King of Hanover claimed the right of taking part in our legislative proceedings; and, as a privy councillor, he was able to obtrude himself into the secrets of the executive government. As a field marshal, he would have a right to lead our armies, even though this country should be at war with the kingdom of which he was monarch [ Laughter. 93 "The peers of the realm are by their birth hereditary counsellors of the crown, and may be called together by the king to impart their advice in all matters of importance to the realm, either in time of Parliament, or, which bath been their principal use, when there is no Parliament in being. Accordingly Bracton, speaking of the nobility of his time, says they might properly be called  'consules, a consulendo: reges enim tales sibi associant ad consulendum' Ad consulendum. Ad defendendum, regem: "An Englishman who removes to France, or to China, owes the same allegiance to the King of England there as at home, and twenty years hence as well as now. For it is a principle of universal law, that the natural-born subject of one prince cannot, by any act of his own, no, not by swearing allegiance to another, put off or discharge his natural allegiance to the former."
 Mr. M. Milnes  was sorry to hear the right hon. Member for Coventry say, that he would vote against her Majesty's Government on the present occasion, because he had believed, that the right hon. Gentleman must have recollected, that there once existed a Government, not unmindful of the claims of Ireland, who had brought forward a coercion bill of a much more stringent character than any that had been brought forward by the present Ministry, and he would have expected that, recollecting this circumstance, the right hon. Gentleman might have been disposed to consider the difficulties under which a
 128 129 130
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  suggested, that the alterations intended in the bill should be made  pro forma,
 Mr. Christopher  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to call the attention of the House to a circumstance materially affecting the honour of a portion of his constituents, but more materially affecting, the privileges of this House He should at once state the case he had to complain of, and in bringing all the circumstances of it before the House, he thought he should make out one sufficiently strong to satisfy the House that there was a gross and flagrant breach of the privileges of the House, so that the House would no doubt be induced unanimously to accede to his proposal for a select committee to inquire into the circumstances of the case. In the first place he begged leave to advert to a petition that was presented to the House on the 9th May last, which purported to come from a portion of the inhabitants of Epworth, in Lincolnshire. That petition declared that the Corn-laws were highly injurious to the interests of the country; and they, the petitioners, living as they were in an agricultural district, were involved in common ruin in consequence of them, and were then suffering through privations which the want of profitable employ entailed upon the people; they implored the House to remove the cause of the present distress by at once repealing those unjust and oppressive laws which obstructed the bounty of an all-wise Providence, and deprived the poor of their daily bread. This petition was presented to the House by the hon. Baronet opposite, the Member for Preston. He acquitted the hon. Baronet
 90 "Whereas a petition for the repeal of the Corn-laws was presented to the House of Commons upon the 9th May last, which professed to come from the inhabitants of Epworth, and that such petition was a forgery, we, the owners and occupiers of property in and inhabitants of Epworth, pray your honourable House to institute a rigid inquiry into this scandalous abuse of the privilege of petitioning, which abuse was becoming every day more general." "I, William Hudson, vestry-clerk of Epworth, in Lincolnshire, do declare that I have carefully examined the copy of the petition, with the signatures thereunto attached, which was presented to the House of Commons on the 9th May last, and purported to come from 213 of the rate-payers and inhabitants of the town of Epworth, praying for a repeal of the Corn-laws; and I have also personally waited upon all the  bonâ fide 91 "That the petition from Epworth, for repeal of the Corn-laws (presented 9th May), and the petition from Epworth complaining that the former petition was a forgery (presented 15th June), be referred to a select committee."
 Mr. M. Gibson  could not understand how it was that the noble Lord used the word "concession," as regarded the conduct of the Church with respect to the education clauses of the Factory Bill. He protested against the use of that word, "concession." He could tell the noble Lord that it was because the framers of that measure had proceeded on the doctrine that there was some recognised superiority in Churchmen— some sort of divine right in them to trample on the religious liberty of the Dissenters, and to take the money of the Dissenters to teach the tenets of the Church of England;—it was because they persisted in recognising this sort of superiority that they had failed in accomplishing the object of a general system of education. Proceed on the real principle of religious freedom; let men be treated not with reference to their theological opinions, but simply as citizens of a free country, having the right to worship their God in their own way, freely according to their own conscience —adopt this as the principle of legislation and it would not fail. But, in fact, the noble Lord's remark about the concessions, as he called them, of the Church having failed, only amounted to an admission that the Church had not conceded enough. Treat all sects in the spirit of justice, and there would be no fear for the accomplish-
 96
 Mr. Gisborne  said, when this bill was last before the House it attracted little attention or opposition from hon. Members; for himself he was not aware till the present Session of its particular provisions, and, if he had voted for it on a former occasion, it would still be his duty to consider it now as a subject of much more importance, being submitted in the present state of Ireland. He had listened attentively to the debate, and the first argument he had heard used in its favour was, that it had been the existing law in Ireland for fifty years: and the second argument, that crimes of violence prevailed to such an extent, and so much more than in other parts of the empire, that it was necessary to have a peculiar law for Ireland.
 102 103 104 105 "If you object to our executive acts, tell us which they are; if you object to our official appointments, let us know who you dislike." 106
 Mr. Wyse  thought the country was obliged to the right hon. Baronet for attracting attention to the necessity for education, to the inadequacy of existing systems, and the responsibility on the Government and the Legislature to provide a remedy. More progress had in this way been made in one year than in ten years previously; but he trusted that the Government would not stop here, but would propose not such a measure as the recent one, which had offended the religious feelings of large parties, but a practical system more fitted than the lately proposed one to secure a good secular education. When they proposed another system, he trusted it would be more large and comprehensive. He hoped, too, that many of the restrictions that were now opposed to the general distribution of the Parliamentary grant— restrictions that operated to prevent the increase of demands for its aid— would be removed. If those restrictions were removed, the right hon. Gentleman would soon find increased demands, and then the condition would be fulfilled on which he promised to come down and move an augmentation of the grant. He would be glad to know whether there would be any modifications of the orders of the Privy Council in this respect? His remarks applied not merely to the Roman Catholic schools, but also to those of other sects.
 Mr. W. Williams  wished to know how the present bill would put down the agitation in Ireland. There was no proof given during the whole of the debate that it would even put down the class of crime against which it was ostensibly levelled. The existence of such crimes proved that the system upon which Ireland had been governed was bad, and that no steps had been taken to remove the grievances under which the people laboured, and which caused those crimes. There was not in any other country in Europe so much misery and destitution as in Ireland, and the existing discontent was the natural consequence. The two principal causes of discontent were the Established Church, and the relations between landlord and tenant, and until these matters were adjusted, there could be no peace in the country. The landlords did not fulfil their duties towards their tenants, and this was one great source of discontent. It was true, that there were some noble examples the other way, and these were principally to be found amongst the Members of the English aristocracy who pos-
 110
 Sir C. Napier  rejoiced at having moved the adjournment, for it was the occasion of the delivery of many excellent speeches; and amongst others, he must refer to the straight-forward and manly speech of the right hon. Member for 'Coventry, which he was sure enlightened every man in the House. He rejoiced, too, at having made the motion of adjournment, for it gave the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department an opportunity of explaining away the very offensive expressions he had made use of. That right hon. Gentleman ought to feel greatly obliged to him. In making that motion, it was true he encountered the sneer of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley), in answer to his question about the Bishops. The noble Lord having defended the judicial appointments. After the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder for Dublin that there was not a clergyman capable of becoming a bishop who was not averse to the scheme of education, he certainly did expect something like a defence of the ecclesiastical appointments. It appeared, however, that gentlemen of the law and of the navy had no business to interfere with such matters, and, as for himself, the noble Lord seemed to think that he was not entitled to give an opinion on any but naval affairs. He was glad to
 131 132
 Sir G. Grey  was desirous of expressing his satisfaction at the withdrawal of the education clauses, at the same time he should regret if it went forth to the public that the Government were considered by the failure of this scheme absolved from further responsibility on the subject of national education. He should regret if they were to fall back upon the former system, and on the paltry suns of 30,000 l
 Sir George Strickland  had made inquiries upon the subject, and had found that the statement made by the hon. Member was substantially correct. He had this morning received a letter which gave somewhat a different colour to the affair: it was from the secretary to the Anti Corn-law League at Doncaster, and although he did not know him, he had been informed that he was a highly respectable individual, The letter (from which the hon. Member read some passages) stated that the person employed at Epworth had been recommended to the League as an intelligent and respectable man, who stoutly denied the allegations made against him, and asserted that not a few of the signatures were obtained on condition that the names were not shown, to other parties. Mr. Milner had been down to Epworth last week, and found that there was not the least chance of obtaining the truth from any of the subscribers—so absolute was the bondage in which the bold peasantry were kept: they might as well set fire to their houses as acknowledge the fact of what had been
 92
 Sir J. Graham,  in compliance with the wish of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Devonport, would answer the question that had been announced by the noble Lord the Member for London. As he understood the question, it was this:—the Government having, on Friday last, deliberately withdrawn a measure on which they had bestowed the greatest care and attention, which was intended, if possible, to introduce a general system of education, and having so withdrawn that measure in compliance with the general sense of the House—whether they were, on the Monday following, prepared to announce, that
 100 101
 Sir R. Inglis  would not follow so bad an example as to defend the clauses that had been withdrawn even from the rather violent attack of the hon. Member for Manchester. At the same time, he did claim on behalf of the great body of the uneducated people of England some such sympathy in act as the House manifested in feeling when his noble Friend (Lord Ashley), in that very remarkable speech of his at an early period of the Session, called on them to consider the destitute spiritual state of those who were Christians in name only—of those who were, as he had himself said, and he believed the statement was not an exaggeration, almost compelled to be heathens. He, therefore, urged her Majesty's Government not to abandon the general subject of education, and not to consider that they had discharged their duty in having submitted to the House, and circulated through the country that proposition, the fate of which was now sealed. Had the Government taken a more decided tone as to the nature of the education to be given, they would certainly have met with a more cordial support from one great class of the community— while they could not have experienced any more virulent opposition from others. Trusting, however, as he did, that the Government, even this Session, but at all events the next, would provide sonic means for the education of the people, he would abstain from saying one word that could provoke discussion as to
 97
 Sir Robert Peel  considered that the noble Lord was rather influenced by his former habits of Secretary of State in making his proposal. As far as the per-
 89
 Sir R. Peel  was not called upon at that moment, nor did he desire to enter into the question of the affairs of Spain; but he had no hesitation in saying, that we had fulfilled all our engagements with the present organ of the Spanish Government, and that he had fulfilled all his engagements towards us with perfect good faith and amity. Whatever might take place in Spain, he was convinced that it had been, and was, the earnest desire of the Regent to administer the government committed to his care, on sound constitutional principles? and when the time should arrive for surrendering the high trust reposed in him, he would have the consolation of feeling that he had so strengthened the government of Spain, as to lay the foundation of its future stabi-
 88
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he had on a former occasion stated to the noble Lord, and with perfect truth, that the only hesitation which he felt to produce the papers in question was, that the names of individuals who had taken part in the proceedings were so mixed up with almost every line of the communications, that their publication might seriously affect: the interests of those persons Servia was not now in a very settled state; but orders had, he believed, been issued, for a new election of a governor; and at the earliest moment at which he could lay those papers before the House consistently with the safety of individuals, he should be ready to produce them.
 Sir V. Blake  rose to speak amid much confusion. He wished to record his vote against this inroad upon the liberties of Irishmen, and warned all English Members, that the next attack would be made on the liberties of their country. The hon. Baronet referred to what had been said by the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Lane Fox), that this was to be the year of Repeal, and assured Ministers that they could not resist it if the Protestants of Ireland joined in demanding it. Upon this point the hon. Baronet read an extract from the  Dublin Evening Mail,
 Viscount Palmerston  did not wish for information of the nature which the right hon. Gentleman had mentioned, and the production of which, would, he admitted, be objectionable. He would ask the right hon. Baronet whether he would permit him to look over those papers, and to strike out of them every thing that could bear upon individuals. He should be content with the rest, whatever it might be— content, that was to say, as far as those papers went; but, of course, reserving to himself to ask for more if he should think it desirable. His object was to ascertain what was the right of Russia to interfere with the election; and whether any engagement given to Russia had been so violated as to require the election to be cancelled and another to take place. He would undertake to return the papers to the right hon. Gentleman on the following morning.
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet when there was any likelihood of his being able to lay upon the Table of the House those papers connected with the affairs of Servia which the right hon. Baronet had said, he would be ready hereafter to communicate?
 Lord Althorp,  therefore, acquiescing in the two first classes of claims, distinctly declared that he was not prepared to assent to the third class. The present application was for compensation for the ships and cargoes which were captured at sea after the declaration of war by Denmark against this country, and at a time when there was no doubt the two nations were engaged in war; and it was to the payment of these claims which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), like others who had preceded him in the office which he had the honour to fill, was prepared to offer the most determined resistance. He might subject himself to the imputation of being harsh against the individuals who were represented as objects of compassion, yet holding the office which he now held, he considered it to be one of his first duties to protect the public purse against claims which ought not to be preferred. Following the ex,
 153 l. 154
 Mr. Howes  said, the right hon. Gentle- man had not fairly grappled with the argument which he addressed to the House the other day. He did not bring this forward as a private question. He considered it to involve a great question arising out of the public policy of this country, and calculated seriously to effect great injury to the merchants of this country. Under all the circumstances, those merchants were, in his opinion, entitled to come to the House, and ask for that compensation which the Government had refused to them. Upon what ground did he resist these claims? The right lion. Gentleman said that these seizures were made in time of war. He would ask the Attorney-general to meet him on this ground, and he would refer him to the case of the ship  Orion, droit 155 l
 Mr. H. Hinde  seconded the motion.
 Captain Berkeley  rose, according to notice, to call the attention of the House to the inexpediency and danger of employing the old class of ten-gun brigs under commanders, and re-establishing them as sloops of war in her Majesty's navy. He would first show the inexpediency, and next the danger, of employing the old class of 10-gun brigs under commanders, and re-establishing them as sloops of war; and he would contrast the authorities which upheld the re-establishment with the authorities who held an opposite opinion. A civilian, however high his attainments, or however great his talents, could not, from the mere fact of his being the First Lord of the Admiralty, know as much of naval matters as those who devoted themselves to that profession, and though the hon. Member for South Wilts, who would probably reply to him, might be able to offer an opinion as to the class of vessels which might be fit to sail around the Isle of Wight, it was not to be supposed that he was acquainted with the nature of the vessels or the burthen they could bear which were compelled to breast the waves of the Atlantic. He would rather take the hon. Gentleman's opinion as to the speed of a racehorse carrying a prescribed weight. It was of importance to ascertain whether the bringing of these vessels into operation with increased complement of men and stores accorded with the opinion of the Board of Admiralty, or was a measure concocted not at the Board but in a private room. It would be desirable to see what was the opinion of the naval Lords, and also what was the opinion of Sir W. Symonds, the surveyor of the navy; but during the time that the Admiralty was respectively presided over by Sir J. Graham, Lord Auckland, and Earl Minto, Sir W. Symonds then being surveyor of the navy, these Ill-gun brigs were considered unfit for such service. 162 163 164 165 "That, after the lamentable loss of life which experience proves to have taken place in vessels of the class of old ten-gun brigs, this House views with apprehension the reemployment of such vessels in circumstances of increased danger, arising from the additional complement of officers and men, with the greater weight of provisions and stores thereby rendered necessary, and which it is now proposed to place in them."
 Captain Gordon  said, he was not himself aware (and he had not learned from his hon. and gallant Friend) that there was anything in the present circumstances of these vessels that they were to be considered less safe now than in the twenty or thirty years during which they had been employed in all parts of the world. Now, for himself, he confessed he entertained no such apprehensions as those expressed by the hon. and gallant Members opposite; and as he found in the  Navy List 168
 Captain Plumridge  begged to say a word or two on the present occasion, especially as he had so long filled the duties of inspecting the packet station at Falmouth. He could state that during six or seven years the loss of these gun-brigs had averaged one in each year, and the total number of souls who had been swept into eternity by those losses was 234 during a period of seven-years. With regard to sending out 10-gun brigs against the slavers, it was like sending an elephant to catch a hare. As to the feeling of the public with regard to those packets, it was proverbial that passengers inquired, "is your next packet one of the coffins or one of Symonds's vessels?" His duty had been to examine all, and he could state not only that they were well officered, but had been well managed by officers and men both by day and night. On the whole, the sooner this class of vessels was either sold, or got rid o in some manner, the better.
 Captain Berkeley,  in reply, said, that if the hon. Gentleman had, in answer to a question he put some weeks ago, given the explanation given to-night, that these vessels were not to be used as sloops of war, with all the appurtenances, probably the House would not have been troubled with this motion. Throughout the service, the general opinion amongst the officers against these vessels was very strong; but if the Admiralty chose to commission a washing tub, such was the zealous character of the British sailor, he would not refuse to enter the craft. But, because that feeling existed, our seamen ought not to be sent out in unseaworthy vessels. He had done his duty to the service to
 174
 Lord Clements  moved for a,
 "Copy of the orders issued by his Majesty's Government in 1831, and following years, for disbanding the yeomanry corps in Ireland; together with all the correspondence between the Government of that day and officers of yeomanry, relative to the disbanding of the above corps; together with all correspondence between her Majesty's Government and the
 177 178 l
 Viscount Clements  said, he should be content with the returns to which the noble Lord consented for the present, but of course he should use his discretion as to moving for a further return.
 Mr. James Stuart Wortley,  in moving the second reading of this bill, said, he now proposed that, not on any narrow consideration, but from regard to the principle on which the measure was based. He would set out by admitting that there was no ground for a proceeding of this kind, unless it was shown that the case was an extreme one, and that the common forms of judicature afforded no adequate remedy. Now, he undertook to show that there did at this moment exist a great and pressing private grievance, and an imminent chance, if not a certain prospect, of great future loss and injury to the parties interested. He need not say one word, he was sure, to show the House that in this case there was a gross and scandalous exhibition of a fraudulent attempt. When he said a fraudulent, he meant an improper attempt to substitute in the place of the rightful heir to a seat in one of the branches of the Legislature, one who, by the evidence, appeared to have no title or claim whatever to that distinction. [The hon. and learned Member entered into a history of the case and of the bill, which will be found in our report of the proceedings in the Lords; see vol. lxix. pp. 412, 417, 494, 673]. The hon. and learned Member further said, he must, however, draw the attention of the House to an extraordinary part of this case, which showed that, down to a late period, there was a disposition on the part of the Marquess to come to such an agreement as would almost necessarily have the effect of precluding the proof of illegitimacy. It was a negotiation begun in 1824, and continued down to 1842, after Lord Charles Townshend had disputed the legitimacy, by which, in consideration of a pecuniary sum, Lord Townshend was willing,
 147 "Dear Sir;—It appears to me that, with a little mutual confidence, some arrangement might be made between us regarding the settlement and estates, advantageous to all parties, and injurious to none. I have explained my sentiments to Mr. Ridgway on this subject, who will communicate the details to your solicitor. When I come to town I shall be glad to have a personal interview with you; we can then talk over family affairs which nearly concern us, and which are better transacted thus without the agency of a third person, at least in the first instance. I am persuaded, Sir, that you now think with me, that in family disagreements mutual exposure is a sad remedy for mutual imprudence, and serving no purpose but to gratify the malevolence of the world.—I have, &c. "June 10, 1824. TOWNSHEND." "The proposition of the Marquess Towns-bend, by Mr. James Ridgway (his agent), to William Dunn Gardner, esq., is to pay 40,000 l 148
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, as charges had been advanced against the Board of Admiralty though the hon. and gallant Member who moved had said he did not wish to cast a censure on the Board, and as the hon. and gallant Member who succeeded him had improved the proposition, and had even talked of impeachment, he hoped he might be excused if he made a few observations to show these charges to be utterly and entirely unfounded. He hoped
 169 Berkeley: 170
 Lord Eliot  thought he had some right to complain of the noble Lord's allusions to the disarming of the yeomanry in Leitrim, of which he had no notice, and on the discussion of which he was not, of course, prepared to enter. With reference to the motion, he could only repeat the assurance which be had given on a former evening, that it was very far from his intention to withhold any information that was necessary to the purpose of the noble Lord, and that he was quite prepared to give copies of all orders for disarming the yeomanry. He did not, however, think it expedient that communications between one department of the Government and the other, in which particular opinions were expressed, should be published. For the first time a restriction was now imposed as to the yeomanry, and their arms were subjected to the same distinctive mark as it was proposed to make applicable to arms of every description. He should move, as an amendment to the noble Lord's motion, that there be laid before the House
 179 "Copies of any order or orders for the disbanding of the yeomanry in Ireland: of any order or orders in respect to the discontinuance of pay to the staff and non-commissioned officers of yeomanry in Ireland of any order or orders for delivering into store the arms of the yeomanry in Ireland."
 Mr. Hawes  moved pursuant to notice,
 "That this House will on Wednesday next,
 151
 Mr. C. Buller  moved, in conformity with his notice, that this bill be read a second time on this day six months. The facts of the case did not enter into his consideration; they might be thrown over as far as regarded the ground on which he meant to rest his proposition, although he entirely agreed in the remarks which his lion. and learned Friend had made upon them. He did not think that the slightest doubt could be entertained on the evidence adduced; but his objection to the bill was founded solely upon general principles. He felt deep sympathy for the Townshend family; they were suffering under severe hardships; but he also sympathised with other parties, and there never was a case more strongly proving the evils of the present system. Every body entertained the same opinion respecting the scandalous injustice of the law which would not give Lady Townshend a divorce. She was bound for life to a man whom she could not but loathe, and she had made every effort to escape from the marriage, but without success, for the courts would afford her no remedy. It was natural, then, that she should unite herself to a man towards whom she had discharged all the duties of an affectionate wife; but the question was to be discussed on different grounds to those of sympathy. He resisted the further progress of the bill, because it remedied, in an individual case, what was, in fact, a common wrong. The defect of the law which prevented the heirs of the Townshend family from having proper redress, applied to every man who had property in jeopardy from such an imposture as the present. It was a monstrous principle, and one which he apprehended the House would not sanction, that a remedy was to be granted to a Peer, and to a noble family, which would not be conceded to any other of the subjects of the State. The measure under consideration was perfectly unprecedented
 149
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the whole ques-
 157
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in order to make the case of these claims intelligible, he would briefly state the circumstances out of which they arose. War was declared by this country against Denmark in 1807. It was declared under peculiar, though not unprecedented circumstances. It was necessary to remind the House, that the weakness of the Danish government made it impossible for that power to offer any resistance to any demand to give up its fleet. In consequence of the information which it received, the Government of this country demanded of Denmark, that she should give up her fleet to Great Britain, and on her refusal to do so, this country commenced an attack on the capital and arsenal of Denmark. Thereupon the Danish Government very naturally declared that they were at war with England, and they proceeded to adopt the ordinary measures of war. In addition, the Danish government resorted to extraordinary measures, for the purpose of obtaining the possession of the property of British subjects, and of thus annoying this country. In the first instance, the annoying
government compelled all its subjects, who were indebted to British subjects, to pay the amount of their debts into the Danish treasury, and then confiscated the property for the service of the Danish Government. In the next place, the Danish government seized all the property belonging to British subjects within the limits of their territory, which was equally confiscated for the service of that country. These measures, not of an ordinary character, the Danish government also resorted to the uniform practice in maritime warfare, and issued letters of marque, and captured British ships and merchandise. On the cessation of the war, no provision was made for compensating the parties whose ships and merchandise were thus seized; and for nineteen years after the conclusion of peace, being twenty-seven years after the commencement of the war in which these captures were made, no application was made either
 152 "My Lords were aware that claims had been and still might be preferred for the losses sustained by the acts of the Danish government, which were in conformity with the ordinary usages of war, and recognized by the law of nations; but, my Lords were not under any circumstances to be considered to admit that any such claims should be entertained."
 Dr. Bowring  was very happy to second the motion. Any proposition which went to subject the representatives to popular control out of doors should always have his support. He congratulated the hon. mover on the indomitable courage he displayed in bringing on this subject again and again in spite of defeats.
 Mr. Redington;  Considering that the noble Lord opposite had shown every disposition to give all the information in his power, he hoped his noble Friend would not press his motion for so voluminous a correspondence.
 Mr. S. Crawford  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal the 1st of George 1., stat. 2, cap. 38, for extending the duration of Parliament to seven years. He limited his pro, position to the mere repeal of this act, because he considered that to confine the duration of Parliament even to three years would be a vast improvement on the present system. Looking over the progress of legislation on this subject, it appeared that in the 34th and 36th of Edward 3rd, it was provided that annual Parliaments should be held. In the 16th of Charles 2nd, it was enacted that Parliaments should not be intermitted for a longer period than three years. The 6th of William and Mary, cap. 2, provided that the duration of Parliaments might be for three years. Next came the 1st of George 1st, stat. 2, cap. 38, enacting that Parliament might continue for seven years. In his opinion it was impossible to defend that act, continuing for seven years, as it did, the duration of the then House of Commons. Such an enactment was adverse to the liberty of the people. The effect of repealing it would be to leave the law as it stood under the 6th William and Mary, or to render three years the utmost extent to which a Parliament could continue without a fresh election; and though that was very far short of what he could wish, he was willing to test the feelings of the House on that question. No man, in his opinion, had a right to retain the name of a reformer who was not prepared to agree to this, but in putting forward the proposition he wished to be understood as in no degree abandoning the principle of annual Parliaments. The people called for reform they stated the grievances which they suffered for want of these reforms, and principally for want of being fully represented in the House of Commons. He wished, therefore, to amend the representation of the people so far as the duration of Parliament was concerned. It had been objected that practically the duration of Parliaments was shorter than the legal duration. That might be, but it did not operate to impose responsibility on the representatives of the people; for they were elected on the supposition and in the hope that they might keep their seats for seven years. The truth was, there could not be any due representation or responsibility, except the
 159
 Sir Charles Napier  observed, that whenever the Admiralty got into any scrape, owing to their own ignorance, impropriety, or obstinacy, they always seemed to expect that the House would not interfere with them, or, as it was said, take the business out of the hands of the executive government. Now he thought that prevention was much bet-
 171 172 173 l l
 Sir G. Clerk  said, the papers now required to be printed were formerly regularly published, and so little anxiety had been shown by the public to possess them, that the last year of their publication only four copies had been sold. This year the Board of Stamps and Taxes had found it necessary to print these documents for their own use. 300 copies had been sent down to the House. Two bad been taken by the hon. Member for Brighton, and the remaining 298 were wholly at his service, as not another copy had been asked for. Under these circumstances, he would put it to the House, whether they would incur the outlay necessary for this publication.
 Captain Pechell  thought it highly probable, that Gentlemen opposite did not want such papers, but Members on his side would, no doubt, be very glad to be possessed of any authentic publication. The fact was, however, that the return published by the board was very imperfect, no less than twenty-five cases having been suppressed.
 Captain Pechell  moved,
 "That the return of the several cases of assessed taxes for the years 1841 and 1842, determined on appeal be printed."
 Captain Pechell  seconded the motion, and said, he was anxious to know on what grounds the Board of Admiralty could refuse its consent to the reasonable and moderate proposition of his hon. and gallant Friend. It was lucky for the Board that the Navy Estimates had been gone through, without this subject and others of equal interest having been pressed upon the attention of the House. It had been shown by his hon. and gallant Friend that to send these ten-gun brigs to rival the American vessels employed on the coast of Africa would he ridiculous, and only tend to disappointment and dissatisfaction in the minds of the officers and men sent out in them. These vessels had already been employed in the suppression of the slave-trade, and a reference to their log-books now lying in Somerset-house, would show that the officers who had commanded them had suffered the deepest mortification, and they had never succeeded in capturing a slave-ship, except by some accident, or by the aid of their boats. He thought he could show by one single instance the distress and mortification suffered by officers in command of these ten-gun brigs. One of them, commanded by an officer whom he would not mention lest it might interfere with his claims, gave chase to a slaver well laden with slaves, and whose sailing was greatly deteriorated by the weight she had on board; still,
 166 167
 Sir J. Graham  could not agree with the deductions the hon. Gentleman drew from the facts he stated. The proposition in the reign of Edward 3rd, was not whether Parliaments should continue for three years or seven ears, but whether there should be any Parliament at all. The act of William and Mary merely provided that there should be a Parliament once in three years at least. Then, the act which the hon. Gentleman sought to repeal extended the duration of Parliament to seven years. The hon. Gentleman surpriesed him by saying that seven years was a duration inconsistent with public liberty. The hon. Gentleman must have forgotten that the Septennial Act was passed to secure the liberties of the people, and that it was doubtful whether the succession of the present Royal family could have been perpetuated unless the Septennial Act had passed. On the whole he considered it for the public advantage, that a duration of considerable extent should be given to a public assembly. For the first or second year of a new Parliament there would be manifest, among new Members, a want of experience and knowledge of the habits of the House and forms of business, which could only be acquired by time, and without which they could not render their talents fully available for the public service. If Parliaments really lasted for six or seven years, he should think that much too long, but the hon. Gentleman admitted that the duration practically was much short of seven years. He did not think that for the last twenty years the average duration of Parliaments was more than four years each. The hon. Gentleman, how-
 160
 The Solicitor-General  said, the hon. Gentleman had been pleased to refer to an opinion which he (the Solicitor-General) was alleged to have given respecting these claims, and in which he declared the justice of them. Now, that opinion, such as it was, depended entirely on the case put before him. Since, however, the real facts of the case were put before him, he had never had the slightest doubt as to the want of foundation for these claims. A few years ago, the matter was brought before the House by his learned Friend, Mr. Justice Cresswell, who had asked him to support them; but on hearing the case in that House, he was not satisfied that they had been made out, and he therefore considered that the Government of that day was right in resisting them. The reason urged by Lord Althorp for opposing these claims, he conceived to be very sound. That noble
 156 l
 Mr. Hutt  observed, that the whole question turned upon the period of the declaration of war. He considered, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was altogether mistaken in saying, that the Danish declaration of war was made on the 16th of August. The paper which the hon. and learned Gentleman represented to be a declaration of war, was nothing more than a proclamation of the Danish government informing the people that a British force was on the Coast.
 Lord Stanley  said, in reply to a question put by Mr. Ewart, having had an opportunity of looking at the documents in the Colonial-office, he was able to state the facts of the case to which the hon. Gentleman alluded, as they had been reported to him by the Governor. Some time ago. at Norfolk Island, a very desperate attack was made by a body of convicts employed in discharging a vessel which had brought provisions and other stores from Sydney. There was a crew of eighteen persons in
 180
 Mr. Miles  thought, that if carried out properly, the bill would do great practical good to the country; for not only would it bring into operation a great deal of labour, but it would be of especial service in the case of those able-bodied married men among the manufacturing population, who had been taken from the agricultural districts, and who, as he had for some time held, must sooner or later come on the land for support. He hoped the bill would he read a second time, and allowed to go into committee, in order that they might make such alterations as might produce a bill of universally beneficial character.
 Lord Worsley  moved the second reading of the Commons' Inclosure Bill, (No. 2.)
 Lord Worsley  expressed his regret, that lie could not comply with the recommendation for postponing the measure until next Session. Tire main object of it was to place the inclosure of commons under the management and superintendence of the tithe commissioners. It had been a considerable time before the House; for, although as the hon. and gallant Member had said, this was the second bill upon the subject in the present Session, it in no respect differed from the first, excepting in the omission of some
 183 184 l l l 185
 Lord J. Manners  felt a difficulty which had not been removed by the hon. Member opposite. He agreed in the policy of providing a certain portion of ground for the sports of the people; but he did not see in this bill any provision to effect that object. It was all very well to say, that labourers should be dependent on wages only, but he did not think that any one who was acquainted with the manufacturing districts could expect that families could be wholly dependent on manufacturing wages. Two or three days a week they had labour. How could that make them independent? He had presented several petitions from the manufacturing classes in Leicestershire, stating their wish for the allotment system, in order to eke out a subsistence. [Mr.  Roebuck.—"
 Mr. C. Buller  could not understand after the speech of the noble Lord, how he could object to passing this bill.
 189
 Colonel Sibthorp  saw no neccessity for any such measure, and contended it ought to be deterred to a future Session. Besides, this was a second bill on the subject this Session, and was materially different from the first that had been introduced. He thought that it would be better to withdraw the bill; and he would move that it be read a second time on this day six months.
 Mr. Divett  was persuaded the bill would prove one of the best means for securing the constant and ready employment of the poor. The hon. and learned Member for Bath had spoken of the allotment system as having a tendency to throw the labourer into a state of dependence upon land and not on wages. The noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) spoke of its use in eking out a subsistence for the labourer; he (Mr. Divett.) believed, that a well-regulated allotment system enabled the poor to enjoy vast numbers of comforts, which not only made them better labourers, but elevated them in the scale of society. He cordially supported the bill, which, he was convinced, would prove the means of relieving some of the most serious social evils the country laboured under.
 Mr. G. W. Wood  moved the second reading of the Scientific Societies Bill. His object was to relieve these institutions from the pressure of local taxation, which would give thorn more effectual aid than any pecuniary assistance. There was a great disposition to give relief in this way, if the parties were not prevented by the law. Chapels, schools, and hospitals were already assisted, and large sums had been granted out of the public money for churches and other public purposes, and upon those precedents he asked the assent of the House to this bill.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that in replying to the objection of the hon. Member for Rochdale, that the bill was a robbery of the poor, he would not complain of the expression, because he considered every man had the right of judging for himself; but he would say that he would not yield to the hon. Member or any other man in anxiety to preserve the rights of the poor, and protect them against the innovations of the rich; and he would work with any man who would suggest a mode how those rights could be best protected. He would add, as his name was on the back of the bill, that the objection made to the noble Lord (Lord Worsley), that he was against the repeal of the Corn-laws did not apply to him, for he had voted for the repeal on all occasions. He advocated the bill solely because he believed it would be productive of the greatest benefits to the people.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in moving that the Orders of the Day be read, took the opportunity of saying, that on Friday next he would move that the House should resolve itself into a Committee to consider the Excise Acts. It would be in the recollection of the House that during the last Session an act was passed imposing an additional 1s. a gallon on spirits in Ireland. He had recommended that change, in the belief that it would be productive to the revenue, and if it was not, it would produce a diminution of consumption of spirits, and lead to the increase of those habits of temperance which had grown up in Ireland. Those duties involved not merely fiscal but moral considerations, for if there was a low duty the immorality was great, whilst if the duty were high, it gave rise to illicit dis-
 181
 Mr. Roebuck  did not agree with hon. Members as to the great advantages to be expected from this bill. At present, there existed in England a certain quantity of land which, from accident and other causes, had escaped cultivation. Over that land were certain manorial rights and other rights, such as rights of common to all the community resident in the neighbourhood. In these circumstances, he
 187 Laughter. 188
 Mr. W. Patten  said he thought that by giving an uniform remuneration, some Coroners would receive too much, and great burthens be flung on the rate payers.
 Mr. Wakley  explained the nature of the diversity of payment in different situations. On the Surrey side of the Thames a coroner's jury was paid 12 s d d
 Mr. Ferrand  could not agree to the second reading of the bill, because there was not a single clause in it which, in a distinct manner, declared the rights of the poor, or which gave to them a portion of the waste land of this country; and if the bill became the law of the land, the poor would for ever lose all chance of gaining any part of those lands. Still some such measure was necessary to ward off' a revolution in this country. Machinery was increasing to such an extent that the masses out of employment were increasing month after month. The new combing machinery would throw a hundred thousand combers out of employment. Even now, in many towns in the north, the poor's-rates amounted to 8 s s d s 186 J. Graham:
 Mr. S. Crawford  could not let this opportunity pass without stating the reasons why he persisted in his opposition to the measure. He considered that every enclosure bill that had passed that Session was a robbery of the rights of the poor, and he looked on this bill as a measure for plundering the poor in a general form without coming to Parliament to do it. There was no provision in the bill, that in his opinion adequately secured the poor man's rights. He therefore should give it his most decided opposition. The hon. and learned Member for Bath desired that the poor should be dependent only on wages and not on land. He desired the. reverse; he wished the labouring poor to derive an independent support iron. land, connecting the use of land to certain extent with those who were employed in manufacturing labour. He denied that the occupation of small allotments of land caused the distress of the poor of Ireland. Their distress was owing to their not being able to get those small occupancies in such a manner as to derive the full benefit of them. They were prevented by high rents and other means from getting the full benefit of their holdings. He would not have enclosures except on condition that all should be for the poor, remunerating those who had rights of common by the sale of a portion of the enclosed land, or by reserving rents upon it. Thinking, then, that this bill would extend the monopoly which the rich already had against the poor, he felt it his duty to divide the House against the bill; and if the hon. Gentleman thought of withdrawing his motion for taking the second reading that day six
 191
 Sir C. Burrell  supported the bill. It was in all respects different from that of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, which went to take from one set of men their rights, and transfer them to another set. As far as he could at present judge, he believed the bill of the noble Lord was based upon a good principle, and that it would tend to increase the cultivation of the land, by giving employment to agricultural labourers.
 Viscount Sandon  hoped there would be no opposition to the second reading.
 190 Roebuck.—"
 Viscount Sandon  seconded the motion, having previously moved a like measure, at the request of a meeting of the literary and scientific institutions of England. The burthen of taxation was very peculiar, for they must have large museums, and mother on rooms, and if a single porter lived on these premises the whole was rateable. The burthen was very disproportionate to the means of these societies. In one cast the income of the society was only 400 l l
 The Earl of Leicester  said, he hoped he was not out of order in the course he was about to take, or if he was, he trusted the House would extend its indulgence to him while he made some reference to what had fallen from an hon. Member on this subject, and which had also been stated by a noble and learned Lord in another place, namely, that from the silence of the Marchioness of Townshend on the subject, she might be taken as giving her consent to the bill now pending. He (the Earl of Leicester) rejoiced in having an opportunity of giving a contradiction to that statement. He must also state, that he disapproved not of the manner in which the hon. Member (Mr. J. Stuart Wortley) had introduced the bill, but of the extraordinary way in which a certain noble and learned Lord in another place had, from the materials in his possession, made reference to what might be supposed, from the noble and learned Lord's observations, to be a communication from the Marchioness. The noble and learned Lord had said that the Marchioness had made a communication of a certain nature, and, from reading the account in the newspapers, one would suppose that that communication bad been made by the Marchioness. That was utterly untrue. The communication was made by an interested agent—an honest man, he believed, but still an agent interested for the Marquess. Before the noble and learned Lord made that statement, and attached so much importance to it, it behoved the noble and learned Lord to have considered whether this authority was a proper one or not. As it was stated the other evening that there was not any property involved in this matter, he begged to assure the House that there was a great deal of property involved in it. If the bill should pass, he should be deprived of all the property belonging to the Marquess's family, and he would thus be materially affected in a pecuniary point of view. With respect to the evidence, he must say that a great deal of it was founded upon mere hearsay. In making this statement, he thought he was doing no more than what was just to himself. He did
 205
 Mr. James  believed, that the proposition of the hon. Member was one which the House could not entertain without stultifying itself in the eyes of the country, and of civilised Europe. After expending 20,000,000 of money in order to emancipate the slaves in our own colonies—after all the blood which has been spilled, and the vast sums of money which had been already expended, and were in the course of expenditure, with a view to put down the slave-trade—after all the efforts made by former Governments, and which, he presumed, would still be made by the Government for the abolition of slavery, and for inducing other countries to imitate our noble example, it appeared to him remarkable that any Gentleman should have come forward with such a proposition as that now made; and he thought it would be still more extraordinary if any distinguished Statesman in that House, or any man aspiring to the character of a Statesman, should support a measure like that which was proposed, and which was calculated to aggravate in a tenfold degree the cruelties and horrors to which our black fellow-creatures had been subjected. Then it was said that there was no reason why we should not encourage slave-grown sugar, when we encouraged the growth of other articles of the same character, by their consumption. There might exist Very good reasons indeed why we should abstain from using all slave-grown produce, but he could not understand how the commission of one error could justify that of others. He contended that the question of the consumption of slave-grown sugars was one which should be deemed an exception to the general principles of free-trade, and he had the authority of the late Mr. Deacon Hume in his favour on this point. That gentleman said, in his evidence before the committee on import duties, in 1840,
 " I cannot conceive, that having thirty years ago abolished the slave-trade, and now
 226 1 1 s d 1 s d 1 s d " As a Jamaica proprietor, you will be glad to hear of my success at Sierra Leone. It will be further satisfactory to you to be assured that the Africans brought over, and mostly located in this vicinity, are doing remarkably well, I may say, indeed, every thing that could be wished or expected of them, working well, easily managed, quite healthy, and delighted with the change from sterile Sierra Leone, to fertile Jamaica. It is to Africa we must look for an increase of people the best suited for our climate, and who will feel at once at home among their own race. The commencement made in this is cheering, from its success in every point of view, and I do hope it will have from Government that countenance which it so well merits, viewed as a
 227
 Mr. James  in explanation, said, that it was very far from his intention to show anything like angry feeling in debating this question. As for the ample compensation which his hon. Friend said that no doubt he received for the slaves on his property, he would only say, that although twenty millions was a very large sum, yet, when it came to be divided and apportioned, it afforded Very inadequate compensation. The amount paid for each slave might be very good in Demerara, but this was not the case with regard to Jamaica. He had received 4,700 l 1 l
 Mr. Bernal  could not help feeling that the proceedings of that debate were of rather a singular character, for it partook Very much of a discussion  de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis, 237 238 1 1 1 239 s d s d d s s s s s d d d d 240 241 l l d 242 1 l d d 243
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that apprehending it to be the desire of the House that this discussion should close to-night, he could promise them that he should not do anything to stand in the way of so desirable a consummation. He should endeavour to be extremely brief in what he had to say, in reply to the proposition which had been so very temperately and fairly made by the hon. Member for Lambeth. For his own part, he would admit, that he was very far from congratulating the House, upon commercial grounds, on the exemption of sugar from the beneficial principles of the tariff of last year. He thought it would have been advantageous to the commerce of the country if, without sacrificing the higher interests and feelings to which the House and the country were
 255 s s 256 l s 257 s s 258 259
 Mr. Fox Maule  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department whether it were intended on the part of the Government, to introduce any bill to vary the provisions of the Poor-law Act with respect to Scotch and Irish surgeons attending in prisons and unions? Another question which he had to propose to the right hon. Gentleman was, whether he intended to introduce a bill to provide for the endowment of parishes for  quoad sacra
 Mr. G. Berkeley  spoke to order. He
 213
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  observed that the outlay upon a hogshead of West-India sugar was so great that there was no profit from it. There was loss upon every hogshead. The hon. Member for Stockport asked what prevented the colonies from maintaining themselves, and competing with foreigners. The colonies did not fear competition if they had a full share of free labour, but until that was given, let not protection be taken from them.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that both sugar and rum paid heavy taxes to the State. Suppose they were divided into fifteen parts, thirteen of them were taken by the Government. The West Indies had contributed largely to the resources of this country through a long series of years. At the same time the mother country had taxed all the foreign produce entering the colonies. The colonies were taxed for the advantage of the trade of the mother country. He believed, that no country ever taxed its colonies so highly, and the colonies yielded between 4,000,000 1 1 245
 Mr. Hawes  rose to move an amendment. The question which they had just decided, he said, was practically against the abolition at once of differential duties. He
 251 "A main defect of slavery, in an economical point of view, is its incompatibility with the highest degree of agricultural improvement, owing to the necessary debasement of the human agent, and its inability to employ, in the most efficacious manner, the various appliances of science and of art. A grand advantage of freedom is its capability of receiving the full benefit of all those invaluable accompaniments of human labour, neutralising, in a great degree the disparity of numbers, securing the greater continuity, economy, and perfection in the process, and approximating to an astonishing extent the productive powers of widely-differing soils." 252 s s s s s s s s 253 s d s d s d "The recent accounts from the Wrest Indies fully confirm those previously received; and it may now be stated with much confidence, in contradiction to original expectation, that the
 254 s
 The Speaker  apprehended that the amendment could not be put in its present shape. All amendments, except on motions for going into Committee of Supply and ways and means, ought to be essentially analogous to the subject. The amendment of the hon. Member for Stockport related to Colonial duties generally, and went far beyond the Sugar duties and could not, therefore, be put.
 Mr. Villiers  complained of the manner in which the motion of the hon. Member for Dumfries was treated. He would not suffer it to be concluded in that way. Neither he nor his friends had risen, after three persons had spoken on their side, from not believing it possible that the
 229 230 1 l 231 232 233 234
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the grounds upon which he moved, the sugar duties mainly rested on those which he had laid down on the last occasion when he addressed the House on this subject. He had then stated to the House distinctly, that he felt as strongly as any man in the House the importance to this country of selling to the consumer the commodity of sugar at as cheap a rate as was compatible with the general interests of the empire. It would have afforded him the highest possible satisfaction to have proposed and made such a general reduction in the duties on sugar, whether imported from our own colonies or from other countries in connection with this country, as should effect a material reduction of price, and a freer admission and use of the article, and extend its consumption to those classes of the community who were now deprived of it. He still remained of the opinion which he had then expressed; and if the state of the revenue at the present moment was such as to admit of a great experiment being made with respect to the reduction of those duties he should have been most anxious to carry a measure into effect which should secure such a desirable object as that which he and hon. Gentlemen opposite wished to carry out. But he was sure he need not use any argument to the House to prove that any experiment on the revenue which should run the hazard of loss would be one which, under present circumstances, no one could expect to receive the concurrence of the,
 214 s s s 215 s d s s s d s d s d s s d s d s d s d s s 216 s s s s s 217 Ewart  218 s d 219
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that no such order had been issued. The usual notices from
 204
 Mr. Labouchere  assured the House he would occupy their time very briefly. and, avoiding all details and figures, would state only on general principles why he was prepared to vote with his hon. Friend. The question on which they were about to vote was, whether sugar should continue to be excepted from the general rule which had been laid down with regard to all other articles of trade and consumption in the country; whether it should be protected
 260 261 " As long as you have an extensive export trade to Brazil, you must be aware that trade cannot be continued unless yon receive in return the produce of slave labour; and, if you act consistently, you must declare that you will not export a single bale of goods to that country."  262 263
 Dr. Bowring  admitted that his hon. Friend who had just sat down, had made an ingenious speech, as the representative of the West-India interest, and by that interest it had been properly cheered; but his hon. Friend's observations were wholly beside the question before the House. That was—by what right did the House prevent the people from obtaining sugar on the cheapest terms? Why were they not allowed to go to the cheapest market, why were they not in the purchase of one of the most important and necessary articles of consumption, permitted to apply the principles which the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had advocated? Why was this to be an exception to that general and beneficial rule? This country had paid the West-Indian proprietors 20,000,000 1 1 244
 Mr. Brotherton  could not let this occasion pass without protesting against depriving the poor of their comforts. Keeping up the differential duties he thought by no means calculated to abolish slavery. To slavery he had been all his life opposed, and would be very unwilling to support any plan calculated to encourage slavery, but, notwithstanding the arguments of the hon. Member who spoke last, he must state his opinion that these differential duties ought to be removed. The hon. Member for Stockport had explained what were the expenses of the colonies. Why should the country give the colonies, in addition to all these, the means of keeping up prices? Having attended to the subject a good deal, he would mention a few facts relating to this enormous monopoly. What was the state of the importation of sugar? In the years 1830, 1831, 1832, he quantity was 12,825,323 cwt.; in 1840, 1841, 1842, the quantity was only 11,849,499 cwt. Notwithstanding, therefore, the intermediate increase of population, the consumption was 1,000,000 cwt. less in the last three years than in the three ending 1832. But what was the price? The price paid for the first quantity was 16,512,574 1 1 1 s s s 228 1 l 1
 Mr. Cobden  said, that as his amendment was out of order, he would be content to divide on the amendment of the hon. Member for Dumfries.
 Mr. Cobden  said, that he believed the subject upon which they were about to legislate was, with one exception only, the most vital, in connexion with the commerce of the country, which could occupy their consideration. It was proposed that they should go into committee on the present Sugar Bill, which was about the very worst bill that was ever devised for this country. He begged to call the attention of hon. Gentlemen opposite to the system upon which our colonial affairs were now administered, for he believed that on that subject great misapprehension prevailed amongst them. He did not wish to be misunderstood as to the course he was going to take. He was not opposed to the retention of colonies any more than hon. Gentlemen opposite. He was as anxious as any one that the English race should spread itself over the earth; and he believed that colonization, under a proper system of management, might be made as conducive to the interests of the mother country as to the emigrants themselves. But he also believed that the system upon which our colonial affairs were now conducted was one of unmixed evil, injustice, and loss to the people of this country. He was about to mention a few facts in support of this proposition, and if they should be disputed he was prepared to give proofs of their truth. What was the first thing we should require of our colonies in the present condition of the people of this country, in order to make them profitable to us? Why, it was that they should help us to maintain our existing burthens.
 206 207 l l l l l 208 l 1 1 l l 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 209 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 210 Gazette, 211 " I repudiate protecting duties on the score of general taxation, but I support a fixed duty on the score of specific taxation." 212 " That in tile opinion of this House it is not expedient that, in addition to the great expense to which the people of this country are subjected for the civil, military, and naval establishments of the colonies, they should be compelled to pay a higher price for the productions of those colonies than that at which similar commodities could be procured from other countries, and that therefore all protective duties in favour of colonial produce ought to be abolished."
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, his hon. Friend, the Member for Weymouth, had complained that sugar was not allowed to be used in our distilleries and breweries, and the hon. Member who had just sat down had complained of the heavy duties on rum; but both those effects were caused by those who wished to keep up the price of corn, and both the hon. Member and his hon. Friend must see that the West-India interest was sacrificed, as well as the people of England, to the landed proprietors; and though they continued to assist the landed proprietors, they were ready to exclaim against the evils of their situation. The power that prohibited the use of sugar in distilleries, and subjected rums to a heavy duty, was the same power which enacted the Corn-laws. The landed proprietors would not admit sugar into distilleries nor breweries, nor admit rum, because they would come into com-
 246 1 1 1 1 247 priori 248 249
 Mr. Wyse  begged to ask a question of the Secretary at War. It was stated, that a circular had been addressed from the Horse-guards to the commanding officer of every regiment in the army, directing him to make a return of Irishmen in his regiment, without delay, the object being understood to be to enable the Commander-in-Chief to determine which regiments might be the most safely or prudently stationed in Ireland to provide for the contingency of any repeal outbreak. Now, though he (Mr. Wyse) attached no credit to this rumour, others were affected differently, and he thought it right that the Government should take the first opportunity of formally stating whether it were or were not correct, as if uncontradicted it might lead, indeed had led, to angry impressions in Ireland.
 Mr. Ewart  said, he should not have expected at the beginning of the Session to have heard such a statement as had now proceeded from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He talked of the danger of extending slavery by the adoption of his (Mr. Ewart's) proposal. Yet had not her Majesty's Government been endeavouring themselves to negociate a treaty with Brazil? and that having failed, the Members of that Government had now had the assurance (for he could not use a more qualified term), to come down and talk against the admission of the slave-grown produce of Brazil. The right hon. Gentleman admitted, that the existing duty was to be only for a limited time. The right hon. Gentleman himself, therefore, contemplated that within a "limited time," there must he an admission of slave-grown sugar. The right hon. Gentleman's next argument said, that the consumption of sugar had not diminished. The people of this country would not be satisfied with that statement, even if it were proved; for the people of this country did not complain that they had less sugar than their ancestors, but simply that they had "not enough sugar." It was not in the power of the right hon. Gentleman to satisfy the country by these petty apologies when they required substantial good. That substantial good was to extend the commerce of the country, and to facilitate the subsistence of the people. His amendment attacked the principle of differential duties altogether. That he held to be the sound doctrine, and on that the right hon. Gentleman had not condescended to dwell. By his (Mr. Ewart's) proposition, he would admit the sugar of foreign countries, whether free or slave produce, at the same amount of duty as they laid on colonial sugar, and he was disappointed that on this subject her Majesty's Government had no proposition to lay before Parliament. During the last year, the right hon. Baronet had made a solemn annunciation of the principles of free-trade, "To sell in the dearest, and buy in the cheapest market," was the text he then adopted, but this year there was no practical commentary on that text. He (Mr. Ewart) felt, in the first place, that he was justified in saying that the reduction of the duty on foreign sugar would produce a large amount of revenue; and in the next, that
 220 221 s d " What becomes of the molasses produced in refining foreign sugar in bond in this country?—They are exported. " Are they admitted to be consumed in this country upon any duty whatever?—Not at all. "What is the duty upon molasses imported into this country, the produce of British possessions?—Nine shillings a cwt. "Are molasses admitted to be imported from any other country, and at what duty? Twenty-three shillings and ninepence from Holland or Belgium. 222 " You may import molasses from the continent of Europe at 23 s d " The export is attended with considerable loss?—lt is. " In your opinion, would a greater supply of molasses be a relief to the poorer classes of people in this country, under the present high price of sugars?—Undoubtedly, it is an article of food of very great consumption, particularly in Lancashire and Yorkshire." The poor suffered in another way. If sugar were not subject to such heavy duties it would enter largely into distillation and brewing. Hon. Members would recollect the inquiries of the committee, moved for by Mr. Warburton, then Member for Bridport, upon this point. The right hon. Gentleman dwelt much on the loss that he supposed would accrue to the revenue. Did he maintain that the reduction of the duties on foreign sugar to 30 s The Chancellor of the Exchequer, s s 1 1 1 1 223 224 225 s s d l s s 1 s l s l s
 Mr. Ward  said, that the only parties that seemed to be left out of consideration or neglected by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was the great body of the consumers of sugar, who were not represented in that House. No one could deny, that they were in a state of the greatest distress, and they were not in a condition to pay twice as much as as they ought for such a necessary of life as sugar. He rose, however, not with the intention of detaining the House, but merely to say one or two words in reply to what he must consider the strange views expressed with regard to another
 235 1 236
 Sir James Graham  said, that, with reference to the first question, a draft of a bill had been prepared by the governors of prisons in Scotland, which was now in his possession. He had taken the opinion of the law advisers of the Crown opal the subject, and he hoped in a few days to be able to introduce a bill on the subject. With regard to medical practitioners, members of Scotch universities, not being allowed to be engaged in England under the Poor-law Amendment Act, he had already stated his opinion that it was a grievance both with regard to them and Irish medical practitioners; but that arose from the Apothecaries Act. He was anxious to remove the grievances under which Irish and Scotch practitioners laboured; but he was not disposed to introduce any clause into the Poor-law Amendment Act to remedy it, because, as he stated, it involved of necessity the whole question of medical reform. With regard to the third point, which was the most important, the right hon. Gentleman misunderstood what fell from him on a former occasion. He did not undertake to introduce any measure for the continuance of  quoad sacra
 Sir R. Peel  said, the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, expressed a hope that some explanation would be given by her Majesty's Government as to the course of negotiations on this subject past or future —but the right hon. Gentleman must be aware, that great embarrassment might result to the public service if any Member of her Majesty's Government entered into details with respect to matters of this nature. I may say, generally, that her Majesty's Government have, within the last year, submitted propositions to the Government of Brazil for the purpose of placing our commercial relations with that country, which will terminate in November, 1844, upon a basis which appears to her Majesty's Government more satisfactory than that which at present exists, These propositions so made by her Majesty's Government to the government of Brazil, had reference to the article of sugar. We proposed to the government of Brazil to treat for the freer admission of Brazilian sugar into the markets of this country, On the condition that the government of Brazil should adopt some measures for the purpose
 264 ultimatum " If you object to make a treaty with Brazil, why don't you treat for the admission of Java sugar into this country, or for the admission of sugar produced in the islands of the Indian Archipelago or in China into our markets? These are sources from which you may admit the competition of foreign sugar free from the objection that that sugar is the produce of slave-labour."  "Here you may obtain sugar the produce of free labour. Show a disposition to break up the West-India monopoly. Remove your prohibitive duties in favour of sugar which is produced by free labour."  265 266 Member  l 1 1 267 l l l l l l 1 l  [Mr. Hawes: l l l Member: 268
 Lord Stanley  said, in answer to Mr. G. Berkeley, he had received within a very short time, and was preparing to lay on the Table, information with regard to the return of a number of coolies from Demerara to India, the term of their engagements having expired. The accounts of these persons were very satisfactory. Their conduct had been exceedingly good, and they were returning perfectly satisfied with their situation, carrying with them a very considerable sum of money, amounting to not less than from 150 to 200 dollars for each individual returning. When on board ship, they made a subscription of two dollars each, to provide a testimonial of their esteem for the manager of the estate on which they had been employed.
 Lord Seymour  was glad to hear from the right hon. Baronet the terms which he had used upon this subject, and that might be regarded as evincing a disposition to concede some measures of conciliation and concession; but measures of such a nature were required, and not the mere expression of an inclination to employ them. It was, he confessed, with very great regret, that he had heard the speech, the other night, of the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He thought, that the right hon. Baronet should have avoided rising such expressions; for the right hon. Baronet, it might well be supposed, had enough of religious questions on his hands; he had religious questions in England, and in Scotland, and he ought not to seek for religious strife in Ireland. He regretted much, too, that the same right hon. Baronet had said, that conciliation could go no further. Such an expression should not have been used without the person who gave utterance had weighed well the consequences that might flow from it. It
 303
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  observed, that though some speeches might be made for delay, it could not be denied that they had great encouragement to continue to deliver them, for the effect of those speeches had been the removal of some of the most stringent clauses of the bill. The object for which they had been engaged in debate on this bill really was discussion. There had been no motion made for the purposes of delay. Then he begged to ask to what did the answer amount which the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had made to the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton? W hat did the right hon. Baronet say, with regard to the present position of the established church and of the Roman Catholic clergy. Upon this important question the right hon. Baronet had made no answer at all. After the speech of the noble Lord, he did expect the right hon. Baronet to have said, at least, that he would take into his consideration the condition of that church, in order that it might be placed in a better position, both as regarded the Roman Catholics in Ireland, ay, and in the estimation, too, of the Protestants of England. Public opinion was beginning to manifest itself in various quarters as to the anomalous position of that establishment; and the speech of the learned Recorder for Dublin proved the alarm of those who were for maintaining those abuses of the established church which had lately been so much decried. People were beginning to think, and ask, what was the use of a Protestant establishment on such a scale of magnificence in Ireland, for a small body of the people,
 307
 Lord J. Russell  would not, on that occasion, enter into a discussion on the general condition of Ireland, but there were one or two points touched on by the noble Lord who had just spoken (Lord Eliot), and the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel), he understood, had made some remarks which would not allow him to remain silent. He could not pass by what the noble Lord had stated, namely, that the noble Lord, on coming into office, ' had found the state of the country so undisturbed, so tranquil, that the Irish Government had thought it right to dispense with the services of eight stipendiary magistrates. That was the avowed declaration of the noble Lord. He wished for no better testimony to the state in which the country was left by the late Government, because the House would recollect the numerous discussions which had taken place when the late Government were in office, on the general condition of Ireland; the House would recollect how much that Government was on that account the object of vituperation; it would recollect the numerous inquiries that were instituted in the other House of Parliament to ascertain in what degree outrages of all kinds, murders, and aggravated assaults, had increased under that Government; and now it was proved by the declaration of the noble Lord, that the
 314 315 Shaw 316
 The Lord Chancellor  could only have information of this, either by communication from the Secretary of State, or through the press. If it was obtained through the latter medium, the question arose whether or not the transaction involved a breach of the privileges of this House, and he should be glad to hear the Speaker's opinion upon the subject. If, however, it was not through the press that the Lord-lieutenant obtained his information of what had passed in this place, it must have been through some organ of the Government; and if so, would not Government avow that communication to the House? He put this simple question, which he hoped would be definitely answered, as one referring to the constitutional rights of the people of Ireland.
 Viscount Clements  desired utterly to deny the assertion of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, that the bill now before them was similar in its character to the existing act of Parliament. This bill contained 100 stringent
 329
 Lord J. Russell  was very glad that the hon. Gentleman had drawn from the right hon. Baronet the declaration he had just made. He really thought that hitherto, as a constitutional question, the dismissal of the Irish magistrates had been left on most unsatisfactory grounds, after the first letter from the Lord Chancellor of Ireland which had been produced in the House, and after the other letters from the same authority. But if her Majesty's Government were of opinion, that there had been meetings in Ireland, attended by great numbers, and under circumstances calculated to inspire terror, and that there had been a succession of such exhibitions, of a character having a tendency to popular commotion — that such opinions being entertained by the Government furnished a ground for the Secretary of State to write to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland as the right hon. Gentleman had described. That he considered was a sound and constitutional ground. He was not discussing the question of the dismissals, or what was the reason of them; but it there were those grounds, which he had referred to, for the right hon. Baronet to act upon, he thought the right hon. Baronet ought to produce the letter he wrote empowering or directing the Lord Chancellor of Ireland to act as he had with respect to those dismissals, with the grounds
 334
 Mr. Gladstone  moved the second reading of the Woollen Manufactures Bill.
 Mr. Gladstone  hoped to be able to meet the objection of the hon. Member when the bill went into committee.
 Lord Eliot  explained that the Lord-lieutenant had made no apology to Mr. West; but great disappointment having been felt by the Conservative party in Dublin, the Lord-lieutenant had explained to Mr. West that the appointment to the sergeantcy was a strictly legal and professional one, and that it was made without the least intention of throwing a slight on him, or treating him with the least disrespect. With respect to the stipendiary magistrates, the noble Lord was mistaken in saying twelve had been dismissed: the number was only eight, and they had all been re-appointed within a year, and several of them within three months. The circumstances of the country at that time, it was thought, did not justify such a large number of stipendiary magistrates, and eight, being the eight junior ones, were removed.
 Lord Eliot  referred the hon. Baronet for au answer to his inquiry, why this bill was confined to Ireland, to the speech of the noble Lord, the Member for London, who said, that in 1839, from inquiries he made, he was satisfied that au Arms Bill for Ireland was necessary. The hon. Baronet was in favour, apparently, of applying the same law to both countries; but till the hon. Baronet moved to get rid of the Party Processions Act, and the act allowing the presence of soldiers at elections, he (Lord Eliot) might be permitted to doubt the hon. Baronet's desire to make the uniformity complete, which he now seemed to advocate. The right hon. Baronet had quoted the returns of the number of convictions for particular offences in the two countries; but he had omitted all reference to the crimes unknown in England, such as the robbery of arms, the possession of arms, of assembling with arms, of administering unlawful oaths, of rescue, and of the refusal to aid the peace-officers in the execution of their duty. He had omitted to say, also, that the proportion of convictions in England to the committals for heavy offences was 50 per cent., whilst it was only 25 per cent. in Ireland. For the most serious offences there were in—
 The Speaker ߞ.I am bound to tell the hon. Member that lie is out of order in referring to, or reading, any report of proceedings said to have taken place in this House.
 Mr. Ross  was rejoiced that this debate had been protracted, as, besides eliciting the sentiments of a great number of Members upon the subject of Irish affairs, it had afforded an opportunity to two leading Members of the House to give notice of the measures which they thought necessary for the relief of the grievances under which Ireland laboured. He had heard with great gratification the observations of the noble Lord, the Member for Tiverton; but he was sorry to hear him declare that he would support the provisions of this bill to the extent at least of those of previous enactments; for he did not see any necessity for the bill, either as regarded Ireland or England. He very much feared it would be used in a hostile spirit, as a means of op-
 324
 Mr. Shaw  did not rise so much for the purpose of answering the speech of the noble Lord, as of stating why he and his hon. Friends who sat around him had abstained from speaking during that and the last three nights' debate on the bill then before them, although frequently provoked to do so by attacks on their Friends, on the resident gentry, and the church in Ireland. They regarded the whole of the last four nights' debate as irregular—got up for the purpose of obstruction, and in pursuance of a threat openly made by the Irish Members opposite, that they would resort to every means for delaying and impeding the progress of
 304 305 306
 Sir H. W. Barron  rose to call the attention of the House to the necessity of extending the measure to England, on the same grounds that had been adduced by noble Lords and the hon. Gentleman opposite for applying it to Ireland, if it were intended that the laws should be framed and administered on the same principles for both countries. Both the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, and the Secretary for the Home Department, had maintained that the bill was a measure, not of coercion, but for the protection of life and property. If this were really a bill for that purpose, what English Gentlemen could consistently, and in common honesty, refuse to extend its provisions to this country? Hon. Members opposite were in this dilemma—they had either made use of false pretences in order to get the bill passed for Ireland, or they were inconsistent, if they refused to
 276 277 278
 Sir W. Barron  said, that the sense of the House being evidently against the amendment, he should beg leave to withdraw it.
 Mr. Trelawney  said, that Gentlemen on that side of the House had no desire to oppose Government, when it introduced good measures. It was his conviction, that until the present Church Establishment in Ireland was abolished, there would be no peace for Ireland. That Church which presented to the whole people, the exhibition of churches without congregations, shepherds without flocks.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose for the purpose of answering a question which had been put to Members on this side of the House by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, who he regretted was not now in his place! but who had asked how hon. Members on this (the Opposition) side of the House could reconcile their opposition to this measure at the present moment, with their concurrence in the bills, f r a similar purpose, of 1838 and 1840. Now he (Mr. Duncombe) was quite ready to profess that the Members on this side of the House were in a false position upon this question. He, for one, confessed the error he had committed on this subject on former occasions; but the fact was, he did not hear the Irish Members make any objection to the measure then before the House, and when he did not hear Irish Members, and those who were interested in the subject, oppose the measure, he certainly did not feel called upon to be the first to throw himself in the breach, and declare that the measure was unconstitutional. He was quite ready to admit, therefore, that his attention had never been directed to the subject before. But looking at the bill now, he could only say that, if it was a measure proposed for England, it would not, for one instant, be tolerated; the English Members themselves would not allow the House to go into committee upon it. He could assure the Government, moreover, that there was arising a very strong feeling amongst the people of this country upon the subject of this bill; the working people of this country thought that the people of Ireland ought not to submit to such a measure. The noble Lord, the Member for Tiverton said, that the people of England supported the present Government, but that the Irish people were op-I posed to it. He, however, held a different opinion; he believed that the people of England were not prepared any longer blindly to submit their destinies and pin their faith to this noble Lord, or that hon. or right hon. Gentleman. The people of England had not as yet seen any very strong demonstration of an intention to take their interests zealously in hand by either party.  [Interruption.] 325 [No, no.] 326 "It having been reported to me that you have attended certain meetings, assembled for the purpose of agitating the repeal of the union, I wish to ask whether that report is correct, and if so whether any of such meetings took place subsequently to the declaration made by her Majesty's Ministers in Parliament of her Majesty's determination to resist the repeal of that act?" 327
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that he was not surprised the right hon. Gentleman opposite had given no answer to the question he had put to him. He had asked whether, in the letter in which the Lord Chancellor of Ireland referred to certain proceedings in that House, the Lord Chancellor had so written in consequence of communications from the Government at home, or merely on the authority of newspaper reports? "Now," said the hon. Member, producing a newspaper, "Now, I will take leave to refer to the solemn farce which was some time since enacted in this House.  [Cries of Read.] of "Order."]—Ay, " 330 of "Order."]
 Mr. T. Duncombe .—Very well, Sir; then, I beg to move "That a true and faithful report of the proceedings of this House is not a breach of the privileges of Parliament." That is my proposition. The right hon. Baronet has taken no notice of my question. [An hon. Member.—It's not worth an answer.]—Perhaps so; perhaps, the right hon. Baronet may only make bad worse. I am told that one of the results of his speech was, that on Saturday a number of peers assembled and agreed to resolutions declaring that they would assist in carrying out his principles to the fullest extent. I wonder how the right hon. Baronet reconciles that speech with the letter he wrote when Lord Fitzwilliam was removed from the Lord- lieutenancy of Yorkshire, and when he resigned his commission in the Yorkshire Hussars. This is the letter, it is addressed to Lord de Grey:—
 Mr. Redington  could not help remarking the discrepancy between the mode in which the right hon. Baronet had formerly answered his questions on the subject now before the House, and his present explanation; and he would say, that if the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had not before this dismissal of Lord Ffrench received any instructions from the Government, he thought the Lord Chancellor had committed one of the most unjust and most unconstitutional acts and one of the greatest breaches of the privileges of the House of Commons that ever took place.
 Mr. Redington  moved, that the consideration of the first clause be postponed. He thought the statement of the right hon. Recorder for the city of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), that he considered the new clauses introduced into the bill Very unimportant, was an additional justification of their opposition to the measure; and he hoped
 337
 Mr. Wyse  said, that it was quite time the people of Ireland received something more grateful from the Government than an Arms Bill, yet no symptom or promise of any measure of redress or amelioration had been held out to them. The Irish people could not forget the obstructions which the party now sitting on the Treasury Benches had thrown in the way of the Church Temporalities' Bill, the Municipal Reform Bill, the Railways Bill, and indeed every measure of public utility and conciliation; and they required something now at the hands of that party to heal these repeated wounds. The present excitement of the people of Ireland was occasioned by the irritation consequent upon the refusal of all measures of relief; and he apprehended, that the declaration made by the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department, the other day, that the policy of conciliation was now exhausted, would do more to aggravate this excitement than any exertions of disaffected persons. The grievances of which the Irish people complained, were recognised by all sides of the House, and if some legislation were not had upon the subject before the termination of the present Session, he Very much feared that in the interval between this and the commencement of the next Session, they might be called upon to act against the Voice of the country, and to resort to that worst of all expedients of plunderers and wicked men—a civil war.
 Mr. B. Ferrand  expressed a hope that the right hon. Gentleman would give the House to understand that there would be some alteration of the clause which enabled any constable or peace-officer to enter any house and search for materials without a warrant, and to seize any housekeeper without a warrant and lodge him in prison. He had received many communications, expressing great surprise that a bill granting such power to a petty officer without warrant, should have been introduced. He hoped to receive some pledge, that the clause should be so altered as to prevent the exercise of such a power.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, that the constitutional question put by the hon. Member for Finsbury called for an answer from the Secretary of State for the Home Department; and he rose, in order, if possible, to try to elicit that answer. In his letter to Lord Ffrench, Sir Edward Sugden said, that,
 " Her Majesty's Government having recently declared in both Houses of Parliament their fixed determination to maintain the Union, it becomes the duty of the Members of Government to support that declaration."
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland in superseding these magistrates, had alluded to a declaration which had been made in that House of Parliament by a Member of the Government. He could only have obtained that information from the public prints. He wished to ask Mr. Speaker whether any individual, be he a newspaper editor or a Lord Chancellor of Ireland, had a right to take the statements of the public press as authority with respect to communications between her Majesty and that House, and to act upon information derived from such sources.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, amid general cries of "divide," it was melancholy to hear so many evils admitted as existing with respect to Ireland. and yet to hear no plan proposed for their remedy. He thought that measures might be adopted which with respect to the tenure of land would improve the condition of the people, without trenching upon the rights and liberties of the proprietor of land, and such a measure it was his intention to propose. The only way of getting rid of the grievance of the Church was by taking away all the revenues of the Church, and leaving it to be supported by means of voluntary contributions. As to the motion before the House, he could not assent to it. The principle upon which he objected to the Arms Bill extended to England as well as to Ireland. He would oppose it as applied to either country.
 Colonel Verner  said, the question before the House—the question to which hon. Gentlemen had addressed themselves, was
 308 309
 Mr. Ward  said, he had never said, or supposed, that the right hon. Baronet himself had applied the epithet "subordinate" to the Home Secretary. It would have been impertinent in him to put into the mouth of the Premier an expression in such bad taste, as applied to a Colleague filling so important a Ministry. He bad used the word as expressing his own opinion with reference to the position of the two right hon. Gentlemen in the Cabinet; fir he thought it no degradation for any man that
 323
 Mr. Ward  suggested, that the noble Lord opposite might extend his taunt about the impropriety of persons talking of Irish people and Irish affairs, without having visited Ireland, to certain persons much nearer himself. He believed the noble Lord would find, upon inquiry, that the present Lord and master of Ireland, the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, who, it must be admitted, expressed his opinions with considerable decision about the Irish people, bad never yet been in Ireland. As to the Protestant clergy, no one on that side of the House had thrown any aspersions upon the Protestant clergy of Ireland personally. On the contrary,—it was admitted that, of late years, they had discharged their duty with a sincerity of feeling, and earnestness of purpose, which nothing but the vice of the system could have counteracted. What he, and those who thought with him, objected to, was, not the conduct of the clergy, but the character of the system; and, when the right hon. Baronet opposite called upon them to support him in maintaining the Union, they were bound, as honest men, to give him their opinion in return, as to the causes, which impeded the proper operation of that Union, and made it a mere parchment bond between the two countries. It was absurd to suppose that they could tranquillize Ireland, while they persisted in perpetuating the evils which rendered her discontented; yet, until Ireland was tranquillized, England could know no security. The danger attendant on the existing state of things was never more forcibly illustrated, than it had been that night; for it appeared that no question, however insignificant, could be mooted in reference to that country, without leading to a most important discussion. A motion, which he did not believe would have occupied in discussion many minutes of the time of the House, had led to two most important speeches on the general state of Ireland. That of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, and that just delivered by the right hon. Baronet, the bead of her Majesty's Government, the speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) was the more particularly important,
 319 320 R. Peel a 321
 Mr. Ward : I beg pardon, I heard every word of it.
 Sir J. Graham  had said, that the Lord
 335
 Sir J. Graham  said, that previously to the declaration of the right hon. Baronet, at the head of her Majesty's Government in that House, several communications had passed between himself, the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and the Lord-lieutenant of that country, with respect to the attendance of magistrates at repeal meetings.
 Sir J. Graham  must plead guilty to ° having abstained in the first instance from taking any notice of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman; and if the House should desire to know why he had so (lb-. stained, he thought they might find that he was amply justified by the observation which had fallen from the hon. Member, to the effect that it was his purpose to prevent their going into committee. [Mr.  Duncombe: 333
 Sir R. Peel : Then, I must say, it was natural for me to imagine it had been otherwise, for never was there a more complete, though doubtless unintentional, misrepresentation of what I said. I was defending, of course, what had been pursued by the Government of Ireland, stating, that I was prepared to prove that its policy had been marked by moderation and perfect impartiality. That policy my right hon. Friend near me, as Home Secretary, chiefly directed, and the hon. Member's inference about differences of opinion between myself and other Members of the Cabinet are altogether and entirely unfounded. The course of policy pursued in Ireland, as directed by my right hon. Friend, has been marked, I say, by moderation, justice, and impartiality; and upon this subject, which is under his more immediate superintendence, there has been between him and myself the most cordial concurrence of opinion. And, as to the expression of "subordinates," made use of by the hon. Gentleman, what I said, in answer to the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston), I repeat, that it is not true that any such parties have attempted to influence appointments in Ireland, or that, if they did attempt it, they would succeed. And that the hon. Gentleman tried to pervert into a supposition that I was referring to the speech of my right hon. Friend. Cautioning my right hon. Friend, and intimating a dissent from his declarations—[Mr.  Ward
 Sir R. Peel  said, I am sure, Sir, the House will permit me an explanation after what has been thrown out by the hon.
 322
 Sir R. Peel : I regret, Sir, that the noble Lord should have taken a course which imposes upon me the necessity of interrupting the progress of the bill at present under consideration, upon which, I think, after what has passed, her Majesty's Government and the House generally had a fair right to calculate. We have now been occupied six nights upon the preliminary discussion before entering into committee; and the noble Lord, without notice, upon the motion of the hon. Baronet, which he does not intend to support, enters to-night into a general discussion with respect to the policy to be pursued in Ireland. Sir, I shall first notice that part of the noble Lord's speech which towards its conclusion, had reference to the executive Government in connexion with the affairs of Ireland. The noble Lord made this candid admission, that supposing her Majesty's Government were to take the advice which he did not presume to offer and voluntarily relinquish their situations, such was the popular distrust of the probable successors of the present Government, so great would be the apprehension of a restoration to power of the noble Lord and his late colleagues in office, that the people of every part of the British empire, excepting Ireland would compel the present Government, notwithstanding their voluntary retire-
 292 293 294 295 296 297 298 299 Ward, " 300 301 302
 Sir R. Peel  explained, that he bad not
 317
 Viscount Dungannon  was very glad, that Gentlemen opposite spoke out so plainly on the subject of the Church of Ireland. The right hon. Baronet near him had most truly said, that the moment the Established Church of Ireland was overthrown, there was an end of the Union., He considered the attacks which were so constantly made upon the Protestant clergy of Ireland, as in the highest degree reprehensible. The noble Lord opposite, before he passed opinions on the subject, should visit Ireland, and ascertain the facts of the matter. He could state from personal knowledge, that a more praiseworthy body of men than the Protestant clergy of Ireland did not exist. In his opinion, Gentlemen who spoke of that body of men, in the language which unfortunately had been too frequently heard in that House, who vituperated them as idle drones, living on the fat of the land, and doing nothing, as shepherds without flocks, were responsible for much of the bad spirit which was engendered in respect
 318
 Lord Ebrington  said, that the speech of the hon. and gallant Member who had just taken his seat, and the speech of the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin appeared to him both, particularly the former, to he Very wide of the subject under discussion. He was surprised to hear the word "obstruct" used by the Gentlemen opposite. In their mouths the word was most ungraceful and uncalled for, considering that it was, if not introduced, at least much used, by the author of that never-to-be-forgotten outrage on the feelings of the Irish—the Registration Bill. Still less did it become, he thought, the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder to apply that term to the Gentlemen around him (Lord Ebrington) who had on no occasion sought to impede any proper objects aimed at by her Majesty's Government. His purpose, however, in rising, was principally to correct a quotation which had been made from a declaration of the late Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, and which had been held by the right hon Gentleman, the Recorder, to justify the infliction of civil disabilities for certain political opinions. The same use had been made of the declaration of the late Lord-lieutenant by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury; but he was sure that the expressions used by the Lord-lieutenant would not bear that interpretation, nor anything like it. With the permission of the House, as he was in possession of a corrected report of the expressions used by the late Lord-lieutenant, he would read them, and the House would see whether they were justly characterised as involving any civil disabilities for political opinions. After stating his determination and the determination of the Government with which he was connected, to maintain the Union in the strongest terms, the late Lord-lieutenant said: [The noble Lord quoted the expressions previously quoted by Earl Fortescue in his Speech on the 9th of June, see  ante 311 ex post facto, 312 313
 Viscount Howick  had not intended to take any part in this discussion; but he thought this incidental point as to the dismissal of magistrates was left in a state of doubt and uncertainty which required some further elucidation. His noble Friend near him had asked the right hon. Baronet opposite, whether he was prepared to lay on the Table of the House the official communications with the Lord Chancellor of Ireland which had led to these dismissals, and the right hon. Gentleman replied, decidedly not. After hearing that answer, lie (Lord Howick) must say, that he deeply regretted the course pursued by the Government. They were well aware that one of the great misfortunes under which Ireland laboured, was that wide difference of opinion existing between the great body of the people, and those classes from whom the magistrates were generally selected; and the people of Ireland had not that confidence in the administration of the law which was desirable. It was, therefore, in the highest degree important, that the dismissal of magistrates who were supposed to possess the confidence of the great body of the people, should, if possible, be avoided. If the Government did determine that magistrates who encouraged the repeal agitation should not be allowed to hold the commission of the peace, they ought to have given some intimation of that
 336
 Viscount Jocelyn  said, that he had given notice in the usual way of his intention to put a question, and at the time he had given the notice he had no connexion with the household of the Lord-lieutenant or Ireland.
 Viscount Palmerston  was anxious to take that opportunity of stating the grounds on which he had hitherto supported the bill they were about to consider in committee, and why he could not Vote for the amendment of his hon. Friend. He felt, that in the present state of Ireland, it would neither be fair to her Majesty's Government, nor useful to the public service, to withhold from her Majesty's present advisers the powers calculated to maintain order! and tranquillity in Ireland, which were possessed by the Government to which be himself had had the honour to belong. A measure of this kind to regulate the possession of arms by the people of Ireland, had been in force for a great many years.
 280 281 282 283 284 285 286 287 288 289 290 291
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the noble Lord had formerly said, that this was the
 386
 Viscount Clements  said, that no returns as to the actual state of Ireland were made, to show any cause for a measure of this kind. No act of equal importance had ever been introduced to the Legislature on such slight grounds. One of the reasons assigned for the bill was, that men went about in some parts of Ireland administering unlawful oaths. Such a practice was fraught with serious evils, but who were the parties most to blame? Were they not the gentry, who in many instances took no pains to check it, but on the contrary, encouraged it, and administered oaths themselves in open fairs and markets on the most trivial occasions? He himself had seen a magistrate administering oaths at a toll-bar leading to a market-town on a market day. The statements which had been laid before the House by the noble Secretary for Ireland were founded upon the reports of the police officials; but no dependence could be placed upon such evidence. The homicides which took place in Ireland arose principally from family quarrels, and from disputes regarding property. Sometimes a farm of three or four acres in extent was as much encumbered as a nobleman's estate. Bequests were left to the children of the owner, to be paid by the successor to the property; and the quarrels which
 384
 Lord J. Russell  said, that before further progress was made in the consideration of the measure, he wished to ask tile noble Lord opposite, whether the object which he had in view would not be attained by the retention of those clauses only which were similar to those in the existing Arms Act. He had not heard any reasons advanced by the noble Lord, or by any Member of the Government which, in his opinion, would justify the adoption of the additional clauses which had been introduced into the present bill. His opinion was borne out by the hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw). He believed that many hon. Gentlemen would be ready to agree to the adoption of the measure, if only those clauses which existed in the present Arms Act were proposed, with such verbal
 385
 Mr. B. Yorke  said, that after the disgraceful proceeding they witnessed, he begged to move that the chairman report progress.
 Sir R. Ferguson  proposed that the appeal should be to the next going judge of assize, instead of to the justices at the next general sessions.
 Mr. Pigot  thought that it would be much better to leave the matter to the discretion of the justices who possessed local knowledge, instead of throwing the duty on the judge, who had not the same opportunity of obtaining information.
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  moved that the Chairman report progress.
 The O'Conor Don  regretted that the suggestion of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had not been acceded to, especially after the admission of the right lion. Member for Dublin University, that neither he nor his friends wished for the additional clauses, unless Ministers could establish the necessity for them.
 Lord Eliot  said, the noble Lord who had just sat down, and the noble Lord, the Member for Tiverton (Lord Palmerston), had by their speeches and votes recorded their opinions that an Arms Act was necessary in Ireland. The question, therefore was, whether such an act ought not to be made effectual for the accomplishment of the objects for which it was enacted? It was the general opinion of the witnesses examined before the committee of the House of Lords in 1839, that it was absolutely necessary some measures should be adopted for facilitating the identification of arms which might be stolen or improperly obtained. Parties in the possession of unregistered arms were now liable to penalties; but there were no means of ascertaining whether arms were or were not registered. Without going so far as to say that the present law was inoperative, he must say that it was not so effective as a measure of that nature ought to be; and, acting upon the advice and opinions of persons conversant with the subject, and having come to the conclusion that 'additional enactments—especially with reference to the identification of arms—were necessary, he had proposed the present measure. He believed the only means of effectually ascertaining their identity was by putting upon them some distinctive mark; but it was proposed, that where the arms bore such distinctive marks as might be sufficient for the purpose of identification, the owners should not be compelled to have them branded. He would also propose to substitute the word "mark" for "brand" in the bill, as it had been recommended that another mode of marking should be adopted instead of branding. He regretted that he could not accede to the suggestion of the noble Lord as to the withdrawal of the additional clauses which had been proposed in this measure.
 Lord Eliot  said, the noble Lord, with his accustomed ingenuity, but not with his accustomed candour, had greatly distorted what had just fallen from him; but doubtless it was very convenient to build the change in the noble Lord's tactics on his statement. He would ask the noble Lord to refer to the Arms Bill of 1838, and see whether his bill were not the milder of the two? The opposition which the noble Lord now menaced was not what he had a right to expect; hut he was quite prepared to discuss the provisions of the bill. He did not say the present Arms Act was inoperative and inefficacious. As he had said before, he regretted that these restraints on the people were necessary; but he felt that the House was bound to pass them. The present law, he said distinctly, was inoperative; a great number of arms were registered in Ireland, and a great number seized; but under the present law, the police had no right, if they met a man with arms, to ask if they were registered. He thought that the noble Lord had totally misrepresented what he had said; and his hopes that the noble
 387
 Lord John Russell  should not have opposed the bill had its provisions been the same as those he formerly supported; he had voted for going into the committee because it seemed to him that an Arms Continuance Bill was necessary, but not such an Arms Bill as that now under consideration. It was said that in 1838 he had voted for a bill like the present; that bill was without the branding and some other vexatious provisions. In 1839 the then Government had considered the subject most carefully, and had come to the conclusion that an Arms Continuance Bill would be sufficient.
 Mr. Thesiger  considered that such a mode of legislation was unprecedented in this country. It never before, at least, had been avowed. Lieutenant Burslam had taken advantage of the law, as he had
 393
 Sir H. W. Barron  said, that crime had been on the decrease in Ireland for the last fifteen years, and, therefore, the necessity for an Arms Bill on the showing of the Government was less necessary. There was no case to justify such a measure, and the only ground that had been urged was, it had been passed by former Governments. This, however, was a gross delusion, for the severity of the enactments of the bill were increased to a monstrous extent in comparison with the former acts.
 Mr. Hume  was glad to hear that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) intended to oppose the bill, and wished that he had acted in the same spirit when he was in office. However, it was better late than never. The circumstances of the times did not require such an enactment, and that if justice was done to Ireland she would cease to complain. It seemed to him that Ministers were running quite wild, or were positively mad—upon the subject of Ireland.
 Mr. Wallace  had hoped that tile noble Lord would have concluded by submitting a resolution to the House. He also would offer all the opposition in his power to this measure. He was the only Scotchman who opposed the Irish Coercion Bill; and he felt it equally his duty to oppose the bill now under consideration. He was himself opposed to a repeal of the legislative union; but he was decidedly of opinion that full opportunity should be afforded for the discussion of the question.
 Sir James Graham  said, it appeared to him that the clause would inflict a personal hardship; but upon consultation with the highest judicial authorities, he was of opinion that the clause should pass, and that it should do so for the purpose of effecting that particular case alluded to.
 Viscount Palmerston  objected to the 11th clause of the bill. It appeared to him to be directed against a particular individual, Lieutenant Burslam, and it would have the effect of an  ex post facto
 Sir R. Peel felt,  with his right hon. colleague, conscious that the Government had done every thing in their power to give a full and fair trial to Mr. Hill's plan. It would have been a great dereliction of public duty, if any doubt they might have entertained at a former period had led
 439 440 t 441 442
 Lord Stanley  said, that looking at the achievements in Scinde, in a military point of view, there could be but one feeling of unmingled satisfaction and pride at the gallantry and skill that had been displayed by the commander and the army in surmounting the obstacles that had been opposed to them—the intense heat, the difficulties of the country, and the superior numbers by which they had been encountered—the gallantry and skill that had been evinced combined to render their achievements equal, if not superior, to any that had been recorded of the British arms in these later times. Her Majesty's Government had not been unmindful of the services of Sir C. Napier and his gallant army, and he (Lord Stanley) had he satisfaction of announcing that her Majesty had issued her commands that the Grand Cross of the Military Order of the Bath should be granted to Sir C. Napier, in addition to a regiment which had already been conferred upon him. With
 399
 Captain Gordon  thought the hon. and gallant Member had failed to show any just reason which could induce the House to alter the opinion which it had formerly expressed on this subject. In the case of Lieutenant Forbes there was no proof that his insanity had been contracted while in the public service. Indeed, the contrary was the fact. Lieutenant Forbes served in the navy till 1815, when he quitted the service. In 1822 he obtained permission from the Admiralty to enter the merchant service, and for some time he commanded a merchant vessel. Having some dispute with the owners he relinquished the command and went to South America, where he endured great hardships, which it was stated produced the loss or his sight, and ultimately becoming insane, he was admitted into Haslar Hospital. Previously to 1831, one moiety of the half-pay of officers confined in that asylum was appropriated to their maintenance; but in that year the Board of Admiralty adopted a regulation that only 1 s d.
 Mr. Corry  said, that since 1831 a deduction of only l s. d. l. l.
 Lord Eliot  thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman must have brought forward the subject at that late period of the Session rather with the view of calling the attention of the Government to it, than with the expectation of carrying through any legislative measure. He could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman, that when the subject was brought forward last year, it struck him that it was a grievance for which it was desirable, if possible, to find a remedy. He could not at that hour be expected to go into the subject, but the attention of the Government should be directed to the matter, and he was not without a hope that some remedy would be provided.
 Mr. B. Wood  had in his possession medical certificates which would prove that the insanity of Lieutenant Forbes resulted
 448
  Mr. Murphy  rose to move,
 " That this House will, on Monday next, resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, to take into consideration an act passed 17 and 13 Car. 2nd, c. 7, entitled, ' An Act for provision of Ministers in cities and corporate towns, and making the church of St. Andrew's, in the suburbs of the city of Dublin, presentative for ever,' with a view to the repeal of so much thereof, as relates to the payment of ministers in corporate towns in Ireland, and to provide a substitute in lieu thereof." l
 Mr. Aglionby  agreed with hon. Members who had praised the exertions of Lord Lowther. There was no man who enjoyed more public confidence, or whose services were of greater benefit to the public. He was afraid, however, that even Lord Lowther might be occasionally overridden by the subordinates of his office, and the Post-office was not the only public department of which such suspicion was entertained. He would advert to another point. By the act for the registration of voters, and by the 100th section, it was enacted that notices of claims should be sent by the Post-office, and he had proposed a plan which had received the assent of the right hon. Gentleman, to ensure the delivery of such notices. But by the other House, in the 101st section of the act, the interpretation clause, words had been inserted applying to all notices sent by the Government, which had destroyed the effect of his clause. He regretted that the alterations made by the Lords had not been noticed in that House, and the consequence was, that this part of the act could not be carried into effect
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, although the argument which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made use of against those who conducted the Post-office did not apply exclusively to the management of his noble Friend the present Post Master-general, but extended equally over an antecedent period, with which neither he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) nor his noble Friend had any concern, yet, as it was his fate to be placed in that office, which had the control and direction of the departments of the revenue, he considered it his duty to rise to answer the attacks which the hon. Member had so liberally made, not only against the Treasury, but against every officer employed in that department, making no distinction in the case of individuals, whose length of service at least might have entitled them to respect, and who had a right to claim credit for the sincerity of the motives by which they were actuated. Throughout the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech, he seemed to think that there was but one individual who was solicitous for
 421 422 d. d. l. l. d 423 " Mr. R. Hill shall be attached to the Treasury, and that the employment shall be for two years certain, at a salary of 1,500 l. bon² fide. " As it may be satisfactory to you to have in writing the position in which I consider you at present to stand, I propose to put on paper my views, in order that you may use it for the information of my successor. I wish, therefore, to state, that some lime ago I informed you in reference to the Post-office business, that I thought it would be of great advantage to continue your services beyond the two years originally settled; that I did not deem it expedient to make any engagement beyond one year, but that you might consider that for one year from the expiration of the former two years your services were engaged on the same condition as before." 424 425 426 l. 427 428 d. l. d. l. l. l. 429 l. 430 431 l l 432 l. l. l. 433 434
 Mr. Roebuck  inquired if it was the intention of the Government to propose a vote of thanks to Sir C. Napier and the army now in occupation at Scinde?
 Mr. Hume  thought the statement of Mr. Rowland Hill had not been so much exaggerated as it had been contended; because whilst every department of our revenue was found to be declining, the revenue derived from the Post-office had gone on increasing progressively during the last three half years. lie felt that this ingenious Gentleman had not been assisted as he ought to have been by the officials in the office, though he wholly exonerated Lord Lowther, whose zeal and ability he had great satisfaction in acknowledging, so as to enable him to carry out as perfectly as he might have done the whole of a plan so calculated to confer almost incalculable advantages upon society at large.
 Mr. Hume  thought the Government ought not to have deprived these ladies of a pittance of 1 s. d.
 Mr. Wallace  considered that no other man living had a just claim to the invention of the penny postage but Mr. Rowland Hill. As to the opposition that plan met with at the Post-office, it was not at the hands of the Postmaster-general whether the Duke of Richmond, Lord Lichfield, or Lord Lowther—but at the hands of the subordinate officers, of Sir Francis Freeling, his successors, and the other subordinates. No man would have encountered the difficulties placed in his way by these persons so efficiently as Mr. Hill had. In his opinion no one Postmaster-general, however able, was competent to the various duties of the office. Lord Lowther had distinguished himself as a Post-office reformer, and was fitter than any man he knew for the office of Postmaster-general; but in his opinion the duties could only be performed with thorough efficiency by a commission.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  said, he would follow the recommendation of the right hon. Baronet, and as a committee was granted he would not enter upon the general question; but he thought himself entitled, before the discussion closed, to ask for some information from her Majesty's Government concerning certain Post-office arrangements affecting the borough of Manchester. He was aware that a Member ought to be reluctant to bring local matters of this kind, however important, before the House, the usual course being to memorialise the Treasury, and to refer the matter to the Post-office authorities; but in this case that course had been taken repeatedly, without procuring a redress of the grievances, or scarcely a definite answer. In September, 1842, a memorial was sent to the Postmaster-general from the town council of Manchester, complaining that the boxes for the reception
 443 Manchester Guardian "The hour for closing the Hull post-office
 444
 Mr. Mackinnon  rose to move for a select committee to inquire into the means and the expediency of preventing the nuisance of smoke arising from fires or furnaces. He would not be guilty of the bad taste of occupying the House long on
 446
 Sir C. Napier  said, the last time this question was brought forward hon. Gentlemen acted with great indecency, for they left the House and it was counted out. He did not think that the Lords of the Admiralty had any right to doubt the correctness of the medical certificates. The Lords of the Admiralty had consented at one time to pay these arrears, and subsequently declined. Let the records of the Admiralty be examined, and he would venture to say that it would be found that a different course had been adopted when the claims of parties of power and influence were to be considered. It was, in fact, well known that a distinguished officer of rank and influence had these arrears paid to him. He never heard any Lord of the Admiralty come forward and confess that he had committed an error. He made no distinctions. All Lords of the Admiralty were alike. They all refused to admit that they had been in error. What, he would ask, was the use of the House of Commons, if they did not inquire into abuses? and what good was her Majesty's Opposition if they did not find fault? He should support the motion of his hon, and gallant Friend.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  said, that as he understood the amendment, it would give every opportunity for a fair investigation, and for seeing whether the plan had been honestly carried into effect, and also to see whether any of the most important parts of it bad been left out. After such an assurance of a full inquiry, he hoped that his hon. and learned Friend would not press his motion, but allow the amendment to be carried. With respect to the question itself, he would in the first place allude to the case of Mr. Rowland Hill, which was a separate matter from the other part of the case. As that gentleman had been so long connected with, and acting with him, in the department over which he formerly presided, he felt called upon to say something as to his opinion of Mr. Hill, and as to the treatment which be had experienced. As for any bargain that had been made, lie perfectly agreed with the right hon. Gentle, man that there was no bargain with Mr. Rowland Hill. The right hon. Gentleman had said that Mr. Rowland Hill had been employed—and lie laid some stress on the phrase—to carry into effect the plan of the penny postage. The right hon. Gentleman referred to the Treasury minute under which Mr. Hill was appointed and seemed to rely upon the words "penny postage," which he found in that minute. Now it was well known at the time of the adoption of the plan that it involved not merely the reduction of the rate of postage but other most extensive alterations. In the first instance, when the plan was attempted to be carried into effect, he had told Mr. Hill that lie was not prepared to undertake all these changes immediately, but that, in the first instance, they would confine themselves to the system of the penny postage, and those matters immediately involved in it. That was only a part of the general plan, and,
 435 436 437 438
 Sir George Clerk  admitted the existence of the grievance of which the people of Manchester complained. It arose, as there was no good without its corresponding evil, from the facility of travelling introduced by railways. The great powers possessed by railway companies, rendered it difficult for the Government to make satisfactory arrangements with them. In general the terms asked were so high, that a great loss would be incurred by the Post-office were those terms always agreed to as soon as demanded. The result of the negotiation, however, which was going on would soon be known, as he believed, that the Post-office and the railways were on the point of coming to an agreement. There were many necessary details to arrange but he hoped, that a direct communication would be speedily established, and that the inconvenience
 445
 Captain Pechell  moved, that the petitions of Mrs. Forbes, Mrs. Ricketts, and Mrs. Purchas, presented on the 20th of March and the 10th and 11th of April, be taken into consideration. He said the husbands of those ladies were officers in the navy who had become insane in consequence of the hard duties which circumstances had imposed upon them. Prior to 1819 they were inmates of an asylum at Hoxton, where they were supported free of expense; but in that year it was recommended that all officers so situated should be removed to Haslar Hospital, and they were accordingly removed. The result, however, of the change was most detrimental to the families of the officers so situated, for immediately upon their change of residence the half-pay of every officer so situated was reduced one-half for his maintenance. Their families had calculated upon a certain income, but, without the least previous notice, they lost one-half of it; for the reduction was not confined to pay alone, it was also extended to pensions. Those orders remained in force until 1831, when the injustice of them became so manifest, that Lord Grey's Board of Admiralty altered the system and reduced the charges for all officers who were so melancholily situated, to 1 s d s d 447
 Captain Pechell,  in reply, remarked, that what the petitioners complained of, was, the breach of faith on the part of the Admiralty. The Board had raised expectations only to dash them down, and the misery it had thereby entailed was more than he could describe. He contended, that the committee ought to be granted, if only to remove the doubts which some hon. Gentlemen appeared to entertain as to the genuineness of the medical certificates; but, at the same time, he expressed his readiness to withdraw his motion, if the Lords of the Admiralty would only hold out a hope of relief.
 Sir J. Graham  said, when he was connected with the Board of Admiralty, in 1832, the practice was this, with respect to lunatic officers, one-half of their half-pay was retained to defray the expenses of their maintenance during their confinement in the hospital, and the other half was made over to their families. That was the rule at present in operation with respect to the army. When he was a
 449 s d s. d. Napier:
 Sir T. Wilde  was satisfied with the amendment, and said Mr. Hill would be ready to defend every part of his plan.
 Sir Thomas Wilde  rose to call the attention of the House to a petition which had been presented by Mr. Rowland Hill, on the subject of the Post-office. He felt satisfied that the House, after what had occurred, would deem the matter to which the petition related of sufficient importance to justify him in bringing it under the consideration of the House. It would be in the recollection of the House, that at a time, which the state of the revenue did not render peculiarly propitious for that purpose, the House entered into an inquiry as to the practicability of a plan proposed by Mr. Rowland Hill, for the purpose of reducing the postage upon letters from the then various amounts to one uniform charge of one penny. It was not disguised that such a plan must be attended, in all probability, with a permanent diminution of revenue, to a small amount, while it would lead to a temporary diminution to a considerable extent. But the House evinced its high estimate of the value of the plan, by adopting it, notwithstanding it was especially expedient to avoid at that time reducing the revenue, except for objects of paramount importance. This plan had been published by Mr. Rowland Hill, in the year 1837, when he first presented to the public attention the great advantage which would result from the adoption of a uniform rate of postage, accompanied by considerable reduction; and expressed an opinion, that although a loss in the revenue would be
 400 " That they (the Commissioners) had sufficiently informed themselves on the subject to be satisfied that an alteration of the present system was absolutely necessary." " I was not long enough in the office of Commissioner to have been able to consider that subject with my Colleagues; but my observation of the Post-office has led me to this conclusion. I think the present system has proved that it is not at all adapted to the active circum- stances of the times, and I should feel disposed
 401 "The duties of the Post. office (the noble Lord continued) are becoming now so great, notwithstanding its inconvenient and almost prohibitory arrangements, and so general, and from the present state of the world, and our constant communication with the East, and with America, I should look to England as being in a great degree the Post-office of the world, if facilities were offered; and however capable or industrious one man might be I should conceive he could hardly be qualified to look into the number of details that that office would embrace in all its ramifications. I should think the better way would be to have a board as in France (there it is called a Council), with a head and two assistants, one to superintend the Home Department of the Post-office, and the other, the Foreign department, and colonies; and the head would have a general view over the arrangements of the whole office. "And among other defects which appeared in the existing system the committee were satisfied from the evidence that evasion was practised almost without restraint; that the rates of postage were so high, as in effect to deprive the poor of the convenience of the Post-office, and seriously to injure the revenue itself." d. s. l. 402 now 403 l. d. d. l. 404 d 405
 Loud Clements  objected to a police officer being considerered an authority on constitutional matters. The only constitutional authority of the noble Lord was no other than Mr. Warburton, a police officer. He thought the constitution of his country was invaded by the bill, which went to establish an inquisition. The Pains and Penalties Bill was another of the acts which placed an additional sum of money in the hands of the Government,
 459 " Yet for the last seven years, that is, since a central constabulary office has been established in Dublin, the reports of all serious outrages throughout Ireland have generally passed through my hands. In furnishing these reports, it is the duty of the district officer to ascertain and set forth in his statement of each case, in addition to other particulars, the supposed motive which induced the perpetration of the offence; so that the perusal of such details for a term of years, while calculated to afford to any attentive reader much insight into the character, temper, and habits of the rural population of the country, could not fail, at the same time, to enable him to form tolerably just notions as to the mode in which, and the means whereby, the outrages which afflict the country are effected; and as to the motives which may have led to their perpetration." " The police reports bear upon a variety of subjects, for, besides, the numerous cases of agrarian outrages, such as homicides, robbing for arms, attacking and burning houses, maiming of cattle, and other acts of malicious injury, the public peace is frequently disturbed by illegal combinations to resist legal process, to regulate the wages of labour, to assert right of turbary or commonage, or to seize and carry off seaweed, &c. In all such cases illegal combination is readily formed, and, when necessary, arms are sure to be forthcoming. There is, I regret to say, an unhappy propensity among the Irish peasantry to effect their ends, whatever those ends may be, by intimidation and violence; and even in cases of real injury occurring among themselves, where a legal remedy might doubtless be obtained, our police reports show that they are often prone to redress such wrongs by some cruel acts of retaliation, rather than proceed by course of law." 460 " Of late years we have seen vast numbers illegally banded together to resist the payment of tithes and Church-rates, when much bloodshed ensued, more recently, the levying of the poor-rate has been forcibly resisted, and lives have been lost in the conflict." " In the districts of Ireland where the agrarian and other disorders are most prevalent, the progress of disturbance is marked invariably by the same characteristics. The system of intimidation is traced by the pillaging of arms, the posting of threatening notices, and the firing of shots, the administering of unlawful oaths, to compel the reluctant to enter into combination, the firing into dwellings, &c. Hence the thirst for the possession of arms, which is a ruling passion among so many of the peasantry."
 Sir R. Ferguson  could not see that the branding of arms would give any security to the public. There were gun clubs holding weekly meetings; at each meeting money sufficient was subscribed to purchase one gun, which was raffled for; at the end of the year each member possessed a gun. Now, supposing one gun to be branded, was it not easy to have that mark nine times over, and if those guns were used in different parts, as they ' would be, most probably, what security was there from the licence? The clause, therefore, was only vexatious, and not likely to be of any use.
 Mr. V. Stuart  thought the clause unnecessary. Although he was prepared to support the bill generally, he should decidedly oppose this clause, and he warned the Government against the consequences of pressing it on the House.
 Mr. T. B. C. Smith  observed that Gentlemen from Ireland had not stated that the marking of these arms would be degrading to them or regarded as an insult to Ireland. The hon. Gentleman was a law officer of the Crown in 1841, when that general discretion was given to the magistrates which he now objected to. The same occurred as to the withdrawal of the licences without appeal. The schedule described what was meant in Ireland as arms. He admitted the clause might be used as a subject for exciting irritation, by those who sought for such topics; but he would show by resolutions of the King's County magistrates, that the branding of arms was not regarded as an insult to them. In the recent case of Mr. Scully, men, the supposed murderers, were seen prowling about the neighbourhood with arms—two pairs of pistols, a musket, and a blunderbuss—and if some provision of the present kind had existed, they might have been examined, and the murder perhaps prevented. He thought sufficient evidence existed of the necessity for such a power.
 Sir R. Ferguson  moved to omit some words of the clause.
  Mr. Vesey  said, the noble Lord had
 461 462
 Lord Eliot  opposed the amendment, it was very unlikely that the magistrates would refuse a licence, except to persons notoriously unworthy of being entrusted with arms.
 Lord Eliot  had always thought that the restriction on the common law right of the subject to carry arms was only to be justified by necessity, and so far he and the noble Lord agreed. The only question he had to discuss with the noble Lord was, whether the new clauses and provisions which the Government had introduced were or were not likely to make this bill more efficient. The noble Lord had said
 457 458
 Lord John Russell  rose to move the omission of the clause altogether. He considered it alike unjust, unnecessary, and impolitic. No sufficient reason whatever had been assigned for the introduction of this new provision. It was unnecessary, and therefore unjust; and impolitic in the highest degree. At the present moment, when so much ferment prevailed in Ireland, where there was so strong a feeling expressed there as to the conduct of the Imperial Parliament towards Ireland, it was essential to take no restrictive steps which were not absolutely necessary. If ever there had been a time at which it was desirable for the British Government to husband their power, to economize the means of authority, and to refrain from Vexatious acts not absolutely required for the service of the State, that time was the present. Yet this was the period at which her Majesty's Government brought forward a provision, full of additional offence, and attended with Very little, if any, additional security; which conveyed an insult and a stigma, deeply felt and resented by the people of Ireland; while, as a means of giving to the authorities in that country any more effective control, it was weak and valueless. He had never witnessed an attempt towards improved efficiency which manifested so little practical wisdom. The noble Lord relied in his defence of the new provisions
 455 456
 Sir D. Roche  considered the branding of arms quite unnecessary, because a person could be punished if found with unregistered arms. He believed the bill would not avail in the protection of the public or the suppression of offences, whilst it would be regarded as an insult by the well-disposed.
 Mr. G. Hamilton  stated that there was no disinclination among magistrates in his part of the country to grant licences to proper persons; he recollected very few instances in which licences had been refused. He could not subscribe to the doctrine laid down by the hon. Member for Waterford city, that in legislating the House was to assume that magistrates would do injustice.
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the House to a return which had just been laid upon the Table, showing the comparative state of crime in England, Ireland, and Scotland, from which he found that the facts did not tally with the statements made by the noble Lord on introducing this bill, and that, while in England and Scotland, during the last two years, offences against the person had increased, they had decreased in Ireland.
 Mr. Wyse  moved to omit the words requiring the parties pending the appeal to deposit their arms with some authority.
 Sir T. Wilde  said, all agreed in this, that it was of the utmost importance not to excite unnecessarily irritation in Ireland,
 463 464 465
 The Earl of Leicester  begged to make a statement to the House in reference to his own conduct, and the course he had taken in the bill now before the House. He believed, that no person charged him with any personal fault in regard to the transactions to which the bill referred, though before the bill had been considered by the committee of the other House —he had been charged with very great faults by parties whose proceedings he thought deserved reprobation. It was hardly any satisfaction to him now, after the allusions which had been made to his conduct by one or two noble Lords in another place, that they had since ascertained there was no foundation for the statements which had been made to his prejudice. He would state to the House
 480 481
 Mr. H. Hinde  rose to inquire of the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether any settlement had been made of the claims of the late Mr. Petrie, for his services in editing the collection of British historians, undertaken in pursuance of an address of this House; also to inquire whether the "large collection of materials" for that work, which was stated, in a return made to the House last year, to be still in the possession of Mr. Petrie's executors, had been transferred to the custody of the Master of the Rolls; and if not, why it had not been so transferred. Although Mr. Petrie did not in his life time receive any remuneration, yet two assistants employed under him bad been most liberally paid—one having been paid 4,000 l l l
 The Earl of Lincoln  presented a petition from 600 electors of Nottingham, praying that the House would vindicate the rights of the honest voters of Nottingham, as well as the privileges of the House.
 The Earl of Lincoln  then said, that he was sure the hon. Member for Nottingham would feel with him that neither of them was so much involved in this inquiry as the mutual friends of each. He would therefore suggest to the hon. Member that this discussion should stand over until Monday, and in the mean time they might both consult their friends as to how far a committee thus appointed would meet their respective views.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, the hon. Gentleman who has made the present motion talked in the course of his long speech of his unwillingness to vapour across the Table of the House; but he has given no answer to the challenge I threw out to him on a former occasion. As to the hon. Gentleman's professed unwillingness to vapour, those hon. Gentlemen who had thought it worth their while to remain and listen to his speech, would judge how far that profession had been carried out. On the occasion I have referred to, the hon. Gentleman gave me no answer, but in the intervening time he has felt it necessary to pore through the blue-book which was the result of Mr. Roebuck's committee, and has endeavoured to represent my character in as bad a light as possible as far as regarded election proceedings at Nottingham. A more ungenerous and unfair proceeding never occurred on the part of a Member of this House. What is the motion before the House? It is a motion to the effect, that the House should take into consideration certain petitions presented on the 12th, 21st, and 27th of June. How then, could I have expected that the hon. Gentleman intended to carry back his investigation into elections long antecedent, or that one hour out of an hour and a half occupied by his speech, would have been spent in heaping charges on me, whose conduct the hon. Gentleman has chosen to characterize as neither honest nor high minded? It being the hon. Gentleman's intention to make such charges and to characterize my conduct by expressions which I believe were scarcely Parliamentary, but (at all events, I ant glad the hon. Gentleman was not interrupted in the use of them), the courtesy which one hon. Member ordinarily displays towards another under such circumstances ought to have induced him to inform me that he was about to call the attention of the House to the evidence received before Mr. Roebuck's committee, to direct my attention to those points upon which he proposed to assail me, that I might be prepared with at least a refreshed recollection upon the subject. I do not, however, shrink from an investigation of that evi-
 496 "Your Lordship represents one of the divisions of the county? I do. You are a deputy-lieutenant of the county I am. And in the commission of the peace?—Yes: I think your Lordship has acted as a magistrate of the county?—1 have. And you are an officer in the Yeomanry corps there? I am. Did you take any active part in behalf of either of the candidates at the Nottingham election in April, 1841? I was not present at the election in April 1841." 497 Gisborne: "No."] data Gisborne: Gisborne: 498 Gisborne: 499 500 501 502 Gishorne: 503 Gisborne: 504 505 Gisborne: 506 s l l 1 l l 507 l s d 508 "That a select committee be appointed to inquire into the transactions connected with the late elections for the borough of Nottingham, and with the petition presented in consequence of the returns for the borough of Nottingham."
 Mr. Humes  said, he had been present during, the whole debate, and after hearing the charge upon one side, and the explanation from the other, he could not but ask what Parliamentary grounds there were for this inquiry? He would advise the hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord, after their statement and vindication, to let the matter rest where it was.
 Mr. Williams  said, if the Government had any regard to the feelings of the country, they would support the motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. When the King of Hanover resided in this country, and before he ascended the throne of an independent state, the people had not grudged him the means of maintaining his rank and station; but, having ceased to stand in the same relation to this country. he ought no longer to be a pensioner upon the people. The King of Hanover was, he believed, a despotic sovereign; for he had destroyed the constitution he found in his dominions, and he had the means of exacting as much money as he pleased from his own subjects. No just and honest dealing man could stand up in that House and justify the payment to the King of Hanover out of the taxes laid upon the people of this country, He knew the motion would be rejected, because the House of Commons did not represent the feelings and wishes of the people—if it did, they would not dare to insult the people by the continuance of this impost.
 Captain Berkeley  said, he would not
 531
 Lord Worsley  had voted against a similar motion on a former occasion, and he saw no reason for changing his opinion. He therefore could not do otherwise than oppose the motion. He would repeat what he had observed when that subject was previously before the House,—that it would not only reflect much credit upon. his Royal Highness, but would be conducive to the interest of the country if the King of Hanover followed the example set him by his Majesty the King of the Belgians, and by Lord Camden.
 Mr. C. Buller  was about to vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, and was desirous of stating that he did not pursue this course from any personal hostility to the King of Hanover. It was always his principle never to attack personally any individual who was exceedingly popular with the great body of those whom he might be addressing; and he observed that the conduct and character of the King of Hanover had secured the very enthusiastic regard of some hon. Gentlemen opposite. He conceived, that the grants made to the members of the Royal Family were not unconditional
 529 in loco parentis. 530
 Mr. C. Wood  as he had had the honour of being the chairman of the Nottingham committee out of the proceedings of which part of these transactions had arisen, thought it due to the committee to make a few observations, because in one of the petitions the conduct of that committee had been impugned. And although the noble Lord did not impugn the conduct of that committee, he yet spoke of the statement contained in that petition, which if true, reflected on the committee. The noble Lord seemed to hint, that the committee ought to have made up a report which would have induced the House to ascertain whether these witnesses had been tampered with or not. With regard to the question whether these witnesses had committed a gross fraud on the petitioners, he had not the slightest doubt in the world that they did commit a fraud on the petitioners, they stated so distinctly in the evidence; but it was no part of the concern of the committee to attempt to ascertain this. It was utterly impossible that the committee or the House could in any way punish them for the fraud on the petitioners. No doubt, if the committee had been of opinion that the witnesses had committed perjury before them, it would have been their duty to report their conduct to the House. He would only say that the thought of the witnesses having committed perjury had not crossed the minds of any of the committee. The witnesses stated distinctly that they went before the Gentlemen who sat at the George the Fourth for the purpose of telling a lie; they stated that they communicated together beforehand, for the purpose of concerting a lie, and they told their friends that they had done so. God forbid that he should palliate or excuse such a proceeding. The question before the committee was, whether the witnesses had perjured themselves before the committee? His conviction was, and he was sure that be spoke the opinion of the committee generally that the witnesses had not perjured themselves before the committee but had told the truth; and all the cross-examinations
 509 510
 Mr. Aglionby  asked the right hon. Baronet whether it was his intention to introduce during this Session any bill to render the enfranchisements of copyhold and customary lands compulsory.
 Mr. Hume,  in pursuance of notice, rose to move a resolution against the continuance of the Parliamentary allowance to the King of Hanover. He did not intend in any way to arraign the character of the illustrious person whose case he now brought under the attention of the House. It was impossible, however, to disguise the fact, that there were so many Members in this House connected with the aristocracy, that it was difficult to expect an expression of feeling against a person in the position occupied by his royal Highness. The only important point of objection which he had heard against the discontinuance of the allowance to his
 516 l l l "It had been always the policy of this country to make a suitable provision for the different branches of the royal family; it rendered them independent of Ministers, and bound them by interest and sentiment to preserve that constitution under which they enjoyed such preeminent and solid advantages." l 517 "That it appears that Ernest Augustus, Duke of Cumberland, received for many years under the sanction of acts of the British Parliament, a pension of 21,000 l "That he has been King of Hanover since 1837, and has received annually since that period the sum of 21,000 l "That the payment of a pension to an independent foreign sovereign from the taxes of the United Kingdom is a waste of public money, and unjust to the people of England; and, therefore, in the opinion of this House, the pension of 21,000 l 518 519 Hansard, "That an humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he will be graciously pleased to direct his royal attention to the nature and extent of Orange lodges in his Majesty's army, in contravention of the general orders of the Commander-in-chief of his Majesty's Forces, issued in the years 1822 and 1829, which strongly reprobate and forbid the holding Orange Lodges in any of his Majesty's regiments; and also, to the circumstance of his Royal Highness Ernest Duke of Cumberland, a field-marshal in his Majesty's army, having signed warrants, in his capacity of Grand Master of the Grand Orange Lodge of Deland (some of them dated so recently as April in the present year), which warrants have been afterwards issued for constituting Orange Lodges in the army. "I have received your dutiful address, submitting to me certain resolutions on the subject of Orange Lodges in the army, My attention has been, and shall continue to he directed to practices contrary to the regulations and injurious to the discipline of my troops. I owe it no less to the dignity of my Crown, than to the safety of the country, and the welfare of my brave and loyal army, to discourage and prevent every attempt to introduce secret
 520 "To leave out from the word "That" to the end of the Question, in order to add the words" it appears that Ernest Augustus, Duke of Cumberland, received for many years, under the sanction of Acts of the British Parliament, a pension of 21,000 l l "That the payment of a pension to an independent foreign Sovereign from the taxes of
 521 l
 Mr. Wallace  said, that having been a member of the Orange lodge committee, he could say that the most extraordinary facts came out before that committee. It might have been better not to have referred to the connexion of the Duke of Cumberland with the Orange lodges of Ireland; but the subject has been introduced already. When that Parliamentary committee was formed, the Duke of Cumberland refused to come before It to give evidence. The committee wished to examine the Duke as to the warrants—the
 527
 Mr. Wallace  thought that so long as both the factions in that House supported bribery and corruption in the unfortunate manner in which they now supported and backed it, so long they would encourage repeal in Ireland and Rebecca and her Daughters in Wales.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that supposing the whole of these allegations to be proved, what was the House to do? It was admitted that the petition was got up in that sort of way which his hon. Friend had stated, and that there had been corrupt practices at Nottingham. No doubt there were corrupt practices and gross bribery always, and at all elections at
Nottingham. One of these petitions referred to a former petition. But before he referred to that point, he would say, that although some of the hon. Member's expressions were rather strong, yet he was not surprised at the fact, when he considered how really frivolous and vexatious were the objections to his return. It so happened, that he had been at Nottingham at the time of the election, and really from what he could judge, he never saw less evidence of bribery than at that contest. He had said so at the time. He believed that election was one of the purest elections that had ever taken place in Nottingham. He remembered reading it stated as one evidence of bribery, that the sitting Member had absented himself from the poll between eight and nine o'clock, he being at that time in a minority, and the other party sixty or seventy a-head. The tide turned soon after, on which it was said, "Oh! Mr. Gisborne must have been bribing whilst he was
 513
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that before he called the attention of the House to the petitions which had been presented relative to the election for Nottingham, and which had been printed with the votes, he might be allowed to refer to the part he had taken with respect to those petitions. On the very day after that on which he took his scat, as Member for that Borough, two petitions were presented complaining of the return. He had never imagined that those petitions would be proceeded with. A petition from certain electors of Nottingham was forwarded to him, which he was requested to present, praying the House not to permit the petitions to which he had just referred to be withdrawn, and requesting that, in case of the withdrawal of those petitions, the House would institute an inquiry into the proceedings at the election. He informed the parties who forwarded this petition to him, that whatever might be their opinion as to the proceedings at the election, they had been called upon to appear before a legal tribunal to answer for their conduct at that election; and that until they had appeared before that tribunal, and had proved the propriety of their conduct, he felt it would not be right to proffer such a petition to the House, and under the circumstances he declined to present it. After the report of the committee had been presented to the House, he had presented those petitions to which he was now about to call the attention of the House. He was about to call the attention of the House to a borough in which the greatest abuses had for a long period prevailed at Parliamentary elections— abuses which
 485 "At the elections which took place in the months of April and June, 1841, for the said town, certain corrupt practices were carried on, which were afterwards fully inquired into and exposed by a select committee of your honourable House." "That in the month of August, 1842, an election of a Member to represent the said town of Nottingham in the place of Sir G. Larpent, who had accepted the Chiltern Hundreds, was held, and Mr. John Walter and Mr. Joseph Sturge were candidates. That at such election the said Mr. John Walter, by the expenditure of large sums of money, amounting, as your petitioners have reason to believe, to nearly 4,000 l "No case of casual bribery would have influenced his mind, as a member of the committee; but that the
 486 "The friends and partisans of Mr. John Walter the younger, and who had, before that time, been supporters of the said John Walter the elder, again resorted to a system of treating and promising money to induce the electors to vote for him, the said John Walter the younger," "That after the decision of the committee, which unseated the said John Walter the elder, and before the election of the said Thomas Gisborne, several persons who had been influential and active supporters and partisans of the said John Walter the elder, and who afterwards supported the said John Walter the younger, declared their determination to win the election if possible; but that if they could not, they would petition against the return, and were resolved not to rest satisfied until. they either succeeded in electing a member of their party, or procuring the town to be disfranchised, That in pursuance of such resolution, two petitions, signed respectively by Mr. William Hannay, one of the magistrates of the said town, and Mr. Thomas Hollins Smith, were prepared and sent up to your honourable House within four days of the return made by the sheriff; and that the partisans of Mr. John Walter the younger publicly boasted that such petitions were sent, and would meet the said Thomas Gisborne on his taking his seat in your honourable House." "Immediately after his (Mr. Gisborne's) election, a commission composed of the friends of Mr. John Walter sat at an inn called the George 4th, in the town of Nottingham, whence they sent forth emissaries—many of them of bad character—to all parts of the town, among the poorer classes, offering money to induce them to give evidence of transactions which had taken place, or which were alleged to have taken place, in the course of the election," 487 "That on the trial of the said petitions before a Committee of your honourable House, proof was given by several witnesses of money having been paid by the hands of the said John Douglas Cook, William Mark Fladgate,—Ratcliffe, and Edward Pilbeam Cox, to such witnesses for their having given evidence, and that, had the inquiry been further prosecuted, proof would have been adduced before such committee that, in a vast number of instances, money had been offered and paid to persons to induce them to give evidence before such committee; but the petitioners, fearful of the disclosure, hastily withdrew their case, in order to prevent such proof being given." 488 489 l l l l l 490 "We will put ourselves in a condition to petition, that if they have beaten us here we may turn their flank and beat them elsewhere." "With a view of exposing the transactions in the town, and laying the whole matter before the House of Commons; and if the House of Commons should see fit, showing grounds for the disfranchisement of the borough." "As parties who had some experience in getting up cases for committees of the House of Commons." 491 l l s 492 l l l 493 l s d "In criminal matters, particularly in prosecutions carried on in the name of the Crown, the payment of money for information is openly resorted to." 494 "Your petitioners were greatly surprised, on the trial of the said petitions, at finding that a gross conspiracy had been planned and executed by and amongst certain of the witnessess summoned on the part of the petitioners, and by and amongst other persons, to defeat time ends of justice, and that in con. sequence of such conspiracy the ends of justice were defeated, and the petitions were with-drawn." 495 "A select committee be appointed to investigate the circumstances detailed in petitions from Nottingham (presented on the 12th 21st, and 27th of June) complaining of proceedings at elections for that place."
 Mr. Gisborne  and the Earl of Lincoln again severally addressed the House confirming their respective statements.
 Mr. Greene  having moved that the petition of William Henderson, agent for Lord C. Townshend, praying that the delivering of an attested copy of the bill, etc., on Thomas Clarke, solicitor to the Marquess Townshend, may be deemed good and sufficient service on the said Marquess Townshend, be taken into consideration.
 Mr. Ferrand  said, that as a Member of that House, and as an Englishman, he was not ashamed to say that he respected and honored the King of Hanover. The King of Hanover had long stood up manfully against the taunts and misrepresentations of his enemiestaunts and charges which hon. Members only dared to make behind his back. The King of Hanover had met those charges boldly in the courts of law, and he had left those courts unspotted. And who was the Member who made this attack? A Member of that House who first obtained a seat within its walls by the influence and under the patronage of the King of Hanover, and who afterwards applied to him to use his influence in order to obtain for him a seat for the borough of Weymouth. He thought the hon. Member was the last person in that House who ought to have brought forward such a motion. Why had this attack upon the King of Hanover been made at the present time? Could nut our gracious Sovereign invite her own uncle to visit her? [Cheers from the Opposition.] What! did hon. Members opposite sneer at this? Would they deny to the Sovereign those privileges which even the humblest of her subjects might exercise? Her Majesty had invited her Royal uncle to visit her; and what had been the conduct of the hon. Member for Montrose? He firmly believed that if the hon. Gentleman had brought this subject forward as a substantive motion, every hon. Member would
 528
 Colonel Verner  said, that in the several regiments in which Orange lodges were found, the Duke of Cumberland was proved to be perfectly ignorant of their existence. The hon. Member for Montrose had not substantiated a single charge which he had made against the King of Hanover. He should vote against the motion.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  felt the force of the objection which the right hon. Baronet had taken as to the re-trial of cases already settled. There was, however, one point which had been brought forward by the hon. Member for Nottingham, and which had also been referred to by the
 514 "To inquire whether any witnesses before the Nottingham Election committee had been tampered with in defiance of the privileges of that House, either for the purpose of procuring evidence in support of the petition, or of deterring them from giving evidence in support of it."
 Sir Howard Douglas  deprecated the ungenerous feelings which led hon. Members, after two distinct decisions of this question in this House, to bring it forward again, at this particular time, to imbitter, as it would appear, the last days, and perhaps the last visit of the king of Hanover to the country of his birth, to the scenes of his youth, to pay his homage as a Peer of the realm to his sovereign, and to renew intercourse with his family and friends. It has been asked, what father of a family, who had made provision for the support of his younger children, would not withdraw his allowance from one, who should afterwards come into the possession of a valuable and independent estate. He would mention a case in point. When Greece was erected into a monarchy, and Otho selected, from among the royal families of Europe, to ascend that Throne, very considerable allowances, to be provided by the kingdom of Greece, were settled upon him, amounting to 1,000,000 of drachme a year. The king of Bavaria, his father, might have withdrawn from his son the appanage of about 10,000 sterling a year, which he enjoyed as a younger son. But the king and states of Bavaria disdained to do this, and sent Otho to Greece with his appanage untouched. This, he contended, was a case in point; it was a precedent of a kingdom, poorer than this, acting generously towards one of its princes, and it would be to the eternal disgrace of the British Parliament, and the British nation, if we, listening to the suggestions of the hon. Members opposite, make this discreditable saving, by breaking faith with the royal personage, the object of this attack.
 Sir James Graham  said, that within the last fortnight, a measure had passed the House of Commons, and had been sent up to the House of Lords, giving greater facilities to voluntary enfranchisements of copyhold and customary estates. That experiment had not yet been tried, and until it had been, he was not prepared to propose a measure of a compulsory nature.
 Sir James Graham, > in answer to questions put by Mr. Hawes, said, he believed that as the law existed, and as he proposed it to stand, it would be very much the same. At the present time, those who were subjected to the compulsory law were persons between the ages of nine and thirteen. It was proposed to reduce the age from nine to eight. At present children were liable to work in factories for eight hours, and to be educated at any period during the twenty-four hours. It was now proposed that the children should only work six hours and a half each day; and that they should not work both in the forenoon and the afternoon; but that the six hours and a half should either be in the forenoon or in the afternoon, and that in five days out of seven they should be educated for three hours, either in the forenoon or in the afternoon. By the present law, no notice was taken as to the place where the education was given, or as to the system of instruction that was adopted. Now, it was proposed by the present bill that the Privy Council should have the power to appoint inspectors to visit all the schools to which certificates were granted; and on receiving a report from the inspectors as
 484
 Sir J. Graham  would feel sorry to speak with the slightest disrespect of the late Mr. Petrie, whose acquirements and competency to perform the work undertaken by him were undoubted. At the same time, the hon. Member must be aware of the fact that very great delay
 482
 Sir R. Peel:  Sir, I know nothing whatever of this case but what I have heard in the course of this debate. I find that the parties in these transactions appear willing that an inquiry should be instituted into them. But I wish to call the attention of the House to the nature and effect of the precedent they would establish by agreeing to the motion. In the first place, would it be just to those hon. Gentlemen who may have gone through the ordeal of defending their seats, and have succeeded in defending them, that a petition should be presented after an adjudication by a tribunal appointed for the purpose by the House? Will it be right for the House to permit another committee to be appointed, not under the same sanctions, and not possessing the same powers, to inquire again into the matters of an election already decided upon? It is well to remember, that every hon. Gentleman might then be liable, after having by evidence upon oath succeeded in vindicating his seat, to another inquiry. I think it is of importance not to exclude any inquiry into improper proceedings which do not bear upon the tenure of the seat. No one is more anxious than I am for every inquiry; and that in this case the parties themselves are anxious for inquiry is quite clear. I, therefore, can have no other motive than to call the attention of the House to what may be the consequences of establishing such a precedent as this. A petition has been presented and referred to the committee; and that petition specially intreats the House to institute a strict and rigid inquiry by a committee of the House in to
 511 512
 Sir R. Peel  was sorry to differ from the noble Lord, but he really hoped the House would judge for itself. Decidedly they ought not to waive the exercise of their functions in order to satisfy any private individuals. For his own part he really saw no ground for this inquiry. He saw the hon. Member in possession of his seat—he saw him confirmed in it by the decision of a committee—he had heard
 515
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he would state shortly the grounds upon which, on the part of her Majesty's Government, he felt it impossible to consent to the proposal of the hon. Member, and those grounds were briefly that he considered it would be inconsistent with the good faith of Parliament to withhold that pension or allowance which Parliament had granted, and to the continuance of which he thought he should show to the House, the faith of Parliament was pledged. The hon. Gentleman, at the commencement of his speech, had taken credit to himself for having on former occasions, when he brought this question under the consideration of the House, studiously avoided all reference to personal and party feelings; and he must express his sorrow that the hon. Member should, on the present occasion, have been betrayed into a departure from the salutary rule he had before observed. He thought it would have been infinitely better had the hon. Gentleman adhered to his own principle, for he did not think
 522 523 "St. James's Palace, Feb. 26, 1836. "My Lord—I have received your Lordship's letter with the enclosed printed copies of the resolutions of the House of Commons containing an address on the subject of Orange lodges, and other similar societies, together with his Majesty's most gracious answer. Before I had received your Lordship's communication, I had already taken steps, in conjunction with several official and distinguished members of the Loyal Orange Institution in Ireland, to recommend its immediate dissolution, in conformity with the loyal principles of that institution. I have only to add, I shall take immediate steps to dissolve the Loyal Orange institution in Great Britain.—I have the honour to be, yours sincerely, "ERNEST "To the Right Hon. Lord J. Russell." 524 l l l l Hume: l l l l 525 526 l
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was the only remaining Member of the House, be believed, who was on the original commission for promoting these publications. The House would, perhaps, permit him to state generally that the labours of Mr. Petrie were for a considerable time very great indeed. Unfortunately, Mr. Petrie was a constant martyr to the gout, and for the last ten or twelve years of his life it was impossible for him to prosecute his labours. Still his natural partiality for an undertaking which he had himself suggested, prevented him from giving up the execution of it to other hands. With respect to remuneration, he could state, that it was Mr. Petrie's own express wish that no remuneration should be made to him until the commissioners, the House, and the public, were able to judge of the manner in which the work he had undertaken was executed. About ten or eleven years ago, the first volume was completed, all but the index; and he hoped that measures would be taken for completing
 483
 Lord J. Russell  reminded the noble Lord that the excluded clause contained what was sheer nonsense, and, that for that reason its postponement had been urged upon Ministers. Some hon, Members because the Opposition side of the House wished to omit nonsense, had been very angry, and had called the resistance factious. Even the first Lord of the Treasury had charged his opponents with debating the whole bill upon particular clauses. The clause now proposed was perhaps free from the objections taken to the other, but it was a point for the Chairman to decide whether it were not a new clause, and could not, therefore, now be introduced.
 Mr. Green  (the Chairman) apprehended that it was not a new clause.
 Viscount Clements  moved, that certain words in the clause should be omitted, and insisted that such a bill so forced upon Parliament, had never been seen since the days of Sir Edward Poynyngs. He utterly denied that any necessity for it had been established, and maintained that it was called for only by a few police-officers about Dublin Castle.
 Mr. T. C. Smith  was of opinion that the increase of the number of certificates would be very inconvenient.
 Mr. Pigott  moved an amendment; the substantial object of which was, that the magistrates at petty sessions should grant to a party who has lost his licence to keep arms, a certificate, by reference to the lists of licensed persons given to them by the clerk of the peace, without requiring a preliminary certificate of registry, signed by that officer.
 Mr. T. C. Smith  opposed the amendment as unnecessary, and involving considerable additional expense.
 Mr. Pigott  moved to insert in the 4th and 5th line of the clause instead of "produce before two or more magistrates,' the words "apply to,"
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  moved that "statement" be substituted for "description."
 Viscount Clements  objected to the penalty imposed on persons changing their place of abode, and not giving notice of such change, and moved, to substitute the words, "one pound" for the words "five pounds."
 Lord Eliot  opposed the amendment, and pointed out, that the penalty might be reduced at the discretion of the convicting justice.
 Lord Eliot  would not recur to the angry discussion of Thursday night, but merely state that the clause now presented was not
 560
 Mr. Thesiger  moved that this clause be expunged. He objected to the clause as it gave an  ex post facto
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  rose and justified the course which he and those who were opposed to the bill took on Thursday night, in respect to the postponement of this clause, and again urged the postponement of the clause. He was understood to add, that at a meeting of Irish Members held this day, it was determined to resist the further progress of the measure, in consequence of the defective manner ill which many of its parts had been framed.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, he thought that increased facilities should be given to parties who had lost their licences, to obtain certificates from the clerk of the peace instead of from the justices in petty sessions and proposed to leave out some words, and insert others, to carry out that view.
 Sir Robert Peel  was not conscious that he, for one, had betrayed any great degree of temper on a former night. He doubted, had the noble Lord been in office, whether he would have preserved his equanimity so well, considering that this bill contained seventy-two clauses, and, that now, after eight or nine nights of discussion, the committee had only arrived at the fourth or fifth clause. He and his friends were anxious to meet every fair objection.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought in these judicial cases every hon. Member should judge for himself. He contended, that the owner of the vessel would sustain an injury if this
 565
 Mr. Gladstone  was perfectly satisfied with the honour and the candour of the motives with which the hon. Gentleman pursued his object, and he was glad he was
 619 620 621 622
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that he was desirous that the whole question should be inquired into, and that the fund should be placed upon a system more simple, uniform, and satisfactory to all parties. It was not in its nature an eleemosynary fund.
 Lord Eliot  said, that the questions to which the hon. Member had called the attention of the House in his very able speech were so multifarious and so important, that it was impossible for him to do more than cursorily to deal with some of them. The questions of Church-rates, repeal, reform, municipal corporation reform, the Poor-law, and others, had been treated by the hon. Gentleman, any one of which would furnish subject-matter for a whole evening. He, therefore, felt the difficulty of replying to the hon. Member, but he did not like to pass them all wholly by without notice. The resolution contained four propositions; first, that there was discontent in Ireland—that he readily but sorrowfully admitted. The second was, that there were grievances in Ireland; that he was not indisposed to admit; though he thought they were of a social rather than a political character, and not of a kind that Parliament could
 698 699 " Our gracious and beloved Sovereign, it said, commiserated the state of Ireland, and resolved to confer upon her the inestimable blessing of religious peace. This great boon became the more acceptable to this country, because among the counsellors of his Majesty there appeared conspicuous the most distinguished of Ireland's own sons, a hero and a legislator, a man selected by the Almighty to break the rod which had scourged Europe, a man raised up by Providence to confirm thrones, to re-establish altars, to direct the councils of England at a crisis the most difficult, and to staunch the blood and heal the wounds of the country which gave him birth. The storm which almost wrecked the country has subsided, whilst social order, with peace and justice in her train, prepares to establish her sway in this long-distracted country. And is not the King, whom by the few of God we are bound to honour, entitled now to all the honour, and all the obedience, and all the gratitude you can bestow? And do not his Ministers merit from you a confidence commensurate with the labours and zeal expended by them on your behalf? Labour, therefore, in all things to promote the end which the Legislature contemplated in passing this bill for your relief, to wit, the pacification and improvement of Ireland. Let religious discord cease, let party feuds and
 700 " That our chapels are not to be used in future for the purpose of holding therein any public meeting, except in cases connected with charity or religion; and that we do hereby pledge ourselves to carry this resolution into effect in our respective discusses." "That, while we do not intend to interfere with the civil rights of those intrusted to our care, yet, as guardians of religion, justly apprehending that its general interests as well as the honour of the priesthood would be compromised by a deviation from the line of conduct which we marked out for ourselves, and impressed upon the minds of our clergy in our pastoral address of the year 1830, we do hereby pledge ourselves, on our return to our respective dioceses, to remind our clergy of the instructions we then addressed to them, and to recommend to them most earnestly to avoid, in future, any allusions at their altars to political subjects, and carefully to refrain from connecting themselves with political clubs, acting as chairmen or secretaries at political meetings, or moving or seconding resolutions on such occasions, in order that we exhibit ourselves in all things in the character of our sacred calling, as ministers of Christ, and dispensers of the mysteries of God." 701 702
 The Speaker  informed the
 611 "  Moncara Coorg, May th, " Sir,—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 20th February, transmitting me the resolutions of the House of Commons, expressing the sense of the House on my conduct, and on that of the general and other officers, non-commissioned officers and privates, as well native as European, during the several operations in China. " I beg to assure you I personally feel the highest pride at having obtained so flattering a testimonial, and I feel quite conscious that my companions in arms, to whom, in accordance with the desire of the House, I have communicated this high distinction, will equally feel so valuable and acceptable an honour. "Permit me to request you will convey to the House of Commons my grateful acknowlegments, as well on my part as on that of the force lately under my command; and that you will accept my best thanks for the kind manner in which you have conveyed the resolutions of the House of Commons.
 Mr. C. Wood  felt all the difficulty under which an English Member must labour in the present discussion, from want of accurate acquaintance with the country; but, on the other hand, he thought it would be extremely unfortunate, if the Members for England and for Scotland should appear to take no interest in the affairs of Ireland; and the present state of Ireland was such, that there was not one person in the remotest part of the empire, who might not find the danger brought home to his own door. He had listened, with great disappointment, to the speech of his noble Friend; for after the hon. Member for Limerick had pointed out, with too much truth, that the state of Ireland was fraught with danger, and the grievances under which she laboured, the noble Lord admitted the danger and admitted the grievances, but sat down without suggesting the views of the Government, or stating that they bad considered a single remedy for any one of the grievances which the noble Lord admitted to exist. Ireland was to be left in the situation in which it was, when its alarming state was first brought to their notice; and the Government who were responsible for the peace of the empire, did not state how they would deal with the dangers which existed, or whether they would apply any remedy for any of the evils. He was as anxious as any one to avoid personal matters, but the question of persons was one, which in relation to Irish affairs, could not be overlooked. Nobody denied the difficulty of applying legislative remedies to many of the evils which at present existed in Ireland, and, therefore, it was of primary importance That the Government should possess the confidence of the,
 712 Ministerial cheers. Cheers. 713 714 715 716 717 718 Member: 719
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the hon. Member for Gateshead, who had before
 623 ad valorem. 624 ad valorem, ad infinitum
 Dr. Bowring  could not help thinking that the tone and spirit of the proceedings of the Government, in reference to this matter, were such as were to be deeply deplored. The tolls which were demanded were most humiliating to the English merchant and passenger, were most annoying and vexatious to those who were exposed to them. He thought that the  ad valorem
 Mr. Blewitt : I rise most respectfully to make the inquiry of which I gave notice yesterday. It is necessary for me to state two or three facts for the elucidation of the subject, and to them I shall strictly confine myself. In September, 1841, soon after the right hon. Baronet opposite received her Majesty's commands to form an administration, a list was published, as from authority, in the  Times 612 London, June " Field Marshal the Duke of Wellington presents his compliments to Mr. Mulock. As it appears that Mr. Mulock has addressed the minister, the Duke concludes that he will give him an answer. He is one of the few men these days who does not meddle with questions over which he has no control." About the same time a Mr. Espy, the Secretary of an association in Dublin, transmitted an address from the society, and the Duke of Wellington acknowledged it in this way:— June 15, " A society or association in Ireland should address the Lord-lieutenant, or Chief Secretary of the government of Ireland, and not the Commander-in-Chief of the army, who never interferes in any affair over which he has no control." 613 " London, October " Field Marshal the Duke of Wellington presents his compliments to the members of the deputation from Paisley. " It is true that the Duke returned to town the night before fast, in order to attend at Buckingham-house, when her Majesty will be confined. " The Duke's time has been, and will be, much occupied while he will be in London, and he must again decline to receive the deputation from Paisley. "He pays every attention it is in his power to give to the distresses at Paisley, as well as elsewhere. "A meeting to discuss them is not necessary in order to draw his attention to those distresses, and his other occupations render it necessary that he should decline to receive the deputation. " He begs the deputation to observe, that he is not in the Queen's political service, that he does not fill any political office, and exercises no power or authority. "The members of the deputation from Paisley." " November " Whatever may be the nature of the appointment your Grace may hold as a Member of the Cabinet, we, as a deputation, and the whole country, consider your Grace one of the most influential of her Majesty's advisers, and one of the principal heads of the Government. We feel justified in entertaining this opinion from the public declaration lately made by your Grace from your place in the House of Peers, that 'you would take on yourself the responsibility of advising her Majesty to prorogue Parliament.'" 614
 Mr. Wallace  wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade if he had taken under his consideration the Complaints made by the seamen with respect to the constitution and appropriation of the merchant seamen's fund?
 Mr. Wyse  seconded the motion. He concurred entirely in the statements and sentiments of his hon. Friend. The proposition he had submitted to their consideration was a most reasonable one; it was a, just, a constitutional, a parliamentary proposition. It was within the strictest precedents, in accordance with the most usual practice of the House. It was not a resolution pledging them at an inopportune period to some future course of action, which, when called on to carry out, they might find impracticable, or at all events inconvenient: it was not an address to the Crown, requesting immediate proceedings, on questions, in which they were far front being generally agreed: it was not even a motion for leave to bring in a hill, which, from the little chance at this late period of the Session, of carrying through any contested measure, could not be introduced with any hope of proceeding beyond one or two stages. It was a motion for a committee of inquiry—of inquiry into grievances alleged, and more than alleged to exist, affecting many millions of their fellow subjects,—grievances stated to be many, enormous, unendurable—grievances, which it was the bounden duty of this House and of the Government to disprove, or failing in that, at once to proceed with their whole soul and strength to their investigation and correction. The question was not how parties might be affected by such a motion, or what might he the convenience of Members. It was of a far higher and vaster import. It concerned matters of the greatest moment, and embraced, he might truly say, a whole people. Were the allegations well founded? Were the grievances real? Was Ireland in the position represented? Were the causes of that position truly stated? Were there remedies to be found for these causes? Was this the time to apply them? Could they with justice, with safety be deferred? These were the questions, simple hut solemn questions, asked not by him, or by
 678 679 680 681 "In the year 1636, the Catholics (he quoted the American historian) took possession of the little place, and religious liberty obtained a home, its only home in the wide world, at the humble village which bears the name of St. Mary's." "That he would not, by himself, or ally other, directly or indirectly, molest any person professing to believe in Jesus Christ, for or in respect of religion." 682 683 684 685 686 687 communis sensus gentium, 688 de facto dejurc. paribus si legibus ambæ invicla gentesf 689 690 "de jure," 691 692 693 694 695 696 697
 Mr. Ewart  said, the President of the Board of Trade, had not told the House what the Government would do, and even refused the correspondence. He was
 625
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  spoke as follows. * " That this House will resolve itself into a committee, for the purpose of taking into consideration the causes of the discontent at pre-
 * 631 l l 632 633 " Dear Sir—I was just leaving Kilkenny when I received your letter, requesting me to attach my name to a requisition for a Repeal meeting. The matter was too important for me to decide at the moment. " I have always felt, that the very serious and onerous duties of my profession, left me but little time for matters of a nature purely political; and I have still so much reluctance to embark in political agitation, that I must beg most respectfully to decline signing the requisition you have sent me. " But I hope my feelings on the present subject will not he mistaken. I have always believed that domestic legislation must, of its own nature, be the best means of promoting the happiness of a nation; and daily experience convinces me, that the serious evils under which Ireland labours, cannot be so easily removed by those who are ignorant of their causes, or indifferent to their results. Besides, I cannot but feel, that Ireland is not fully represented in the Imperial Parliament. It is to be deplored, that when the enthusiastic exertions of the Irish people, and the patriotic firmness of the Irish representatives, carried the Reform Bill against English majorities, Ireland did not receive her fair share of the advantages then obtained. " It does not appear to me, that she has her due proportion of representatives in Parliament. She certainly has not a Parliamentary franchise equal in all respects to the English franchise; and, of course, she has not any thing like a proportionate number of Parliamentary electors. " Under such circumstances, we cannot wonder, that the wants and wishes of the Irish people, even when made known by a large majority of Irish Members, are frequently treated with neglect, if not with contempt; and while such a system is pursued, it would be vain to expect that a loyal and high-minded people would abstain from seeking, by legal and constitutional means, that equality of civil rights which has been so often professed and promised, but not yet fully granted to this country. " I have the honour to be, dear Sir, " Very truly yours," "ઠW M. KINSELLA. "JOSEPH H ACK ETT, ESQ." 634 635 636 
 
 Debt. Ann, Charge. 
 Funded debt of Britain in the year ended Jan. 5, 1801 £420,305,944 £15,800,106 
 Unfunded debt of Britain in the year ended Jan. 5, 1801 Exchequer Bills 26,080,100 766,480 
 £446,386,044 £16,566,586 
 Funded debtor Ireland, debt of Britain in the year ended Jan. 5, 1801 Exchequer Bills  £26,841,219 £1,150,284 
 Unfunded debt of Britain in the year ended Jan. 5, 1801 Treasury Bills 1,703,915 43,722 
 £28,545,134 £1,194,006 
 (Par. Paper, No, 256, Sess. 1824.) 637 
 
 Total annual charge for debt incurred by Great Britain previous to the Union £16,566,586 
  Total annual charge for debt incurred, by Ireland  1,194,005 
 Difference, being the amount of separate taxation to which Great Britain is fairly liable on account of debt incurred previous to the Union  £15,572,580 " Your committee cannot but remark, that for several years Ireland has advanced in permanent taxation more rapidly than Great Britain itself, notwithstanding the immense exertions of the latter country, and including the extraordinary and war taxes. The permanent revenue of Great Britain having increased from the year 1801, when the amounts were first made to correspond in the proportion of 16½; to 10. The whole revenue of Great Britain (including war taxes), in the proportion of 21¼ to 10, and the revenues of Ireland in the proportion of 23 to 10. But in the twenty-four years referred to by your committee, the increase of Irish revenue has been in the proportion of 46¾ to 10." 638 l l l 639 640 641 l l 
 
 Gross estimate for 1843–44.  To be expended in Ireland. 
 Admiralty Office  £125,459  none. 
 Establishments at home 126,813 about £500 
 Wages to artificers in establishments at home 591,951 about 500 
 Naval stores 1,117,895  none. 
 New works and repairs in yards  234,868  none 118  
 Packet service for the Post-office 430,702 noun 9,000  642 
 
 Remitted from the Irish Exchequer to the British Exchequer between 1795 and 5th Jan. 1842 £25,995,453 
 Remitted from the British Exchequer to the Irish during the same period  8,331,274 
 Balance remitted from the Irish to the British Exchequer  17,664,179 
 In order to show that the causes which have produced this result are still in operation, I may mention that of the above amount of 25,995,453 l £6,355,000 
 Whilst during the same period there was remitted from the British to the Irish Exchequer only  80,000 
 Balance of remittance from the Irish to the British Exchequer. 6,275,000 
 Being upon an average an annual remittance of about  700,000 643 644 
 
 Lord de Grey Lord Lieutenant Protestant. 
 Lord Eliot Chief Secretary Protestant. 
 Mr. Lucas  Under Secretary  Protestant. 
 Sir Edward Sugden  Lord Chancellor  Protestant. 
 Pennefather Chief Justice Protestant. 
 Blackburne  Master of the Rolls  Protestant. 
 Lefroy  Baron of the Exchqr. Protestant. 
 Jackson  Justice of the Com. Pleas  Protestant. 
 T. C. Smith  Attorney-General  Protestant. 
 Greene  Solicitor-General  Protestant. 
 Brewster  Advising Counsel to the Castle Protestant. 
 Litton  Master in Chancery  Protestant. 
 Mr. Long  Register to the Court of Chancery  Protestant. 
 Mr. Kemmis  Chairman of Kilmainham  Protestant. 
 Messrs. Tombe, Jebb, and O'Dwyer. Counsel to the Excise.. Protestant. 
 Mr. A. Bate  Clerk of the Crown for Co. Galway  Protestant. 
 Mr. Seed  Clerk of the Crown for the Co. Limerick Protestant. 
 Mr. Starkey  Account-Gen. to Ct. of Chancery  Protestant. 
 Mr. Welsh  Dep. Keeper of the Rolls  Protestant. 
 Major Cottingham  Inspector of Convicts., Protestant. 
 Mr. Shaw  Stipendiary Magistrate Protestant. 
 Mr. Brereton  Stipendiary Magistrate Protestant. 
 Mr. Butler Crown Prosecutor of Carlow  Protestant. 
 
 Mr. Coppinger  Assist. Barrister for Kildare R. Catholic, 
 Mr. O'Leary An Officer in the Ct. of Chancery   R. Catholic, 
 Mr. Kernan  Stipendiary Magistrate  R. Catholic, 645 646 l l l 647 l l l 648 l l s 649 l 650 651 cheval de bataille" 652 
 
 Members of the Established Church 852,064 
 Presbyterians 642,356 
 Other Dissenters 21,808 
 Roman Catholics  6,427,712 
 7,943,940 653 de facto 654 655 656 l l 657 658 659 660 l l l 661 l 662 663 l 664 Dublin Evening Mail, London Times " The Archbishop of Dublin is an Englishman; the Chief Administrator of the Irish Poor-law is an Englishman; the Paymaster of Irish Civil Services is a Scotchman; the Chief Commissioner of Irish Public Works is an Englishman; the 'Teller' of the Irish Exchequer is an Englishman; the Chief Officer of the Irish Constabulary is a Scotchman; the Chief Officer of the Irish Post-office is an Englishman; the Collector of Excise is a Scotch-man; the Head of the Revenue Police is an Englishman; the Second in Command is a Scotchman; the persons employed in the Collection of the Customs, &c., are English and Scotch in the proportion of thirty-five to one. But the  Times " Lords of the Treasury, Englishmen 4, Scotchman 1, Irishman 1; Clerks of the Treasury, Englishmen or Scotchmen 112, Mr. Fitzgerald (query an Irishman) 1; Members of the Lord Steward's and Lord Chamberlain's departments of the Royal Household, Englishmen and Scotchmen 225, Irishmen 4; British Ministers to Foreign Courts, Englishmen and Scotchmen 131, Irishmen 4; Poor-law Commissioners, Englishmen 3, Irishmen O. We presume," (adds the editor) "that these facts show that the natives of the three kingdoms are all placed upon an equal footing, the chances of access to preferments to an Englishman or Scotchman in Ireland, being in the few instances that have occurred to us while writing at 6 to 0; while the probability of an Irishman obtaining place in England, appears from an analogous calculation, to be in the proportion of 491 to 10, or as 1 to 50. We could easily swell" (he adds) "this list, were it necessary. Ireland has been always used by English ministers as a means of pro-
 665 " The Irish had long made a deuce of a clatter, And wrangled and fought about  mewn tuum, 'Till England stept in, and decided the matter, By kindly converting it all to a  suum." 666 667 668 l 669 * * Note by Mr. O'Brien. 670 d 671 672 ultimatum. " 673 674 675 676 677 " That this House will resolve itself into a committee, for the purpose of taking into consideration the causes of discontent at present prevailing in Ireland, with a view to the redress of grievances, and to the establishment of a system of just and impartial government in that part of the United Kingdom,',
 Sir J. Hanmer  seconded the motion. The hon. Member for Gateshead, had been long known as careful of every thing that fostered the interests of the country; and as the hon. Member's successor, he might justly say he had found his merits appreciated by his constituents. The question had been argued before, and was perfectly understood by Parliament and the country. The vagueness of the tolls, the pretensions on which they rested, and the general inconvenience which the commerce of this country suffered from them, were recognised, and what they now desired to ascertain was, the steps which had been taken to relieve British commerce from this burthen, which it was rather extraordinary to find existing in this year, 1843, considering the long connexion of Hanover with this country. He thought it was high time that the Government should explain what was the condition of the negotiations, and what was the hope of their being brought to a speedy and satisfactory termination.
 Sir R. Peel : I shall attempt to answer the question of the hon. Gentleman as respectfully as he has put it. With respect to the political position—that is, the official position—of the Duke of Wellington, I have to state that he is Commander-in-Chief of the British army. He is so far in the political service of the Crown that he is one of the privy councillors, honoured with the immediate confidence of her Majesty, constituting what is popularly called the Cabinet. As a Member of the Cabinet he is responsible for any advice he may offer. As to the control possessed by the Duke of Wellington, I should say that he has great control over the administration of public affairs—that is to say, that control which is implied by a willing deference to any opinion the Duke may offer, either upon civil or military affairs. I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman has been put to so much trouble in collecting the minute facts with which he has favoured the House, in order that it may be justly inferred that the Duke of Wellington is a Member of the Cabinet, because if he had asked me the question, I should have had no hesitation in at once avowing the fact; and in stating, on my own part, and on the part of every Member of the Government, that we are most proud to have the Duke of Wellington for a colleague. Has to the letters and communications, the hon. Gentleman has read, they amount to no more nor less than this, that the Duke advises those who have business with particular departments to address themselves to those departments. I apprehend, that from general confidence in the integrity and judgment of the Duke of Wellington, his Grace is overburthened with correspondence on matters over which he has no immediate control; therefore, he refers the writers to the heads of departments who, after due inquiry, are able to give an opinion. I cannot answer for the accuracy of any of the letters published, but I am quite sure that the Duke of Wellington as a Minister of State did not mean to say that he was exempt from responsibility, or that he did not exercise a control becoming his age, rank, and station; all that he meant was, and I myself follow that course, that when
 615
 Sir Robert Peel  felt that the Government could not, consistently with their duty, enter at large into this discussion, and he hoped that as this negotiation was not concluded, the House would give the Government that confidence which they had not forfeited, and which the House had been hitherto disposed to give them. He did not contest the principle on which hon. Gentlemen opposite contended that this dispute should be brought to an end. He did not think that any prejudice should be raised against the King of Hanover on the ground of the pension which he received, but, on the other hand, he should contend that the peculiar relations existing between this country and that Sovereign did not entitle him to require from Great Britain any concession of her just rights. At the same time, however, he thought that before this country resorted to their extreme right—an application to force—they ought to be perfectly satisfied of the justice of their claim. There was no doubt that this country might compel obedience to their demands, on account of the superior power which we possessed; but it was that very
 626 627
 Mr. Hutt  expressed his intention to adopt the course recommended by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Hutt,  in bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, said he could not allow another Session to pass without, calling the attention of the House to a question so intimately connected with the interest and prosperity of our merchants and shipowners. There was no excuse for the delay which had been exhibited in dealing with this affair. It was only necessary that the Government should have followed in the steps of their predecessors, and should have carried out with vigour the measures begun by his noble Friend, the Member for Tiverton, to have ensured the settlement of the question long ago. They had now waited two years, and the matter had not advanced a step; for the Government had in fact abandoned all rational attempts for bringing it to a satisfactory conclusion. It was a question of the greatest importance, the House was probably not aware of its intimate connection with our commercial prosperity. The United States alone excepted, Germany was the country to which the greatest amount of our exports went. During the past year, notwithstanding the depression of trade, the declared value of our exports to that country amounted to between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000, five-sixths of which passed into Germany by the channel of the Elbe, and this fell under the operation of the Stade dues. The Government would not dispute the injurious effects of such a toll on British trade—nor could they deny, that at least in the extent in which it was levied, this toll was illegal. Well then, why had the Government not interfered to remove it? There it remained exactly where it was when the present Government took office, and all the consolation which the right hon. Baronet could give him in reply to a question put by him not many clays ago, was an expression of his sorrow, that he could not give him the slightest notion when this
 616 617 618 " That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to direct that there be laid before this House, copies of any correspondence which may have taken place between her Majesty's Government and that of Hanover, relative to the taxes levied on British commerce and navigation in the river Elbe, under the name of Stade tolls."
 Viscount Palmerston  confessed that nothing could be less satisfactory to his mind than the course taken on this occasion by the Government, except that which they had pursued in reference to these tolls. He thought that the Government had given a great many very bad reasons for not producing the papers moved for by the hon. Member for Gateshead, and had made a great number of very indifferent statements of the steps which they had taken in the course of these negotiations. He should like to know whether the statement of his hon. Friend was true. He had stated that when the present Government had come into office, the first step which they took was to declare that they had adopted the views which had been followed out by their predecessors; but neither the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, nor the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, had admitted or denied this statement. As this was so, however, he was entitled to suppose that the proposition was true, and he must say that if it were, if the British Government, in the full belief that it was their duty to act upon those views, had submitted to further injustice, they had been guilty of the greatest injustice to their own country. He maintained that in the correspondence which had taken place before the late Government had gone out of office, it had been established that Hanover had no right whatever to levy any greater duty than 1–16th per cent., and if the right hon. Baronet stated, that it
 628 629 630
 The Standard  of Saturday was put in, and the article complained of was read by the clerk.
 Lord J. Russell  could not take precisely the same view of the case as his lion. Friend who had just spoken. It seemed to him, that the right lion. Baronet distinctly stated that he had heard nothing which would entitle any man to say, that either of the hon. Members had confessed themselves guilty of subornaation of perjury. It appeared to him, as far as he had heard it, that the libel was false and malignant, and, that what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet was in accordance with the general feeling of the House upon that point. The question of calling the printer to the Bar was, however, a different matter. He owned, that he always felt regret when questions of this kind were brought forward for any other purpose than refutation, and for the sake of pointing out the falsehood of the statement; and if on the present occasion any body had said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury had said anything to warrant the article in the  Standard,
 Mr. H. Berkeley  moved that the House do adjourn.
 Lord Worsley  moved that the order be discharged with a view of referring the bill to a select committee.
 Lord Worsley  said, that as it seemed to be the wish of the House, he would not object further to the adjournment of the debate.
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  moved that the debate be now adjourned.
 Mr. Aglionby  was sorry not to have been able to listen to the speech of the right hon. Baronet with that respect to which his speeches were usually entitled. 725 726
 Mr. Barneby  objected to any alteration in the remuneration of coroners, and moved an amendment embodying his objection.
 Mr. Barneby  proposed to omit the words which gave payment to coroners, when attending courts of justice in the ordinary routine of their business.
 Dr. Bowring  wished to know whether the Government had received any information respecting the failure or the success of the mission to Shoa; and if' the Government, supposing the mission to be terminated, had any objection to lay the despatches, before the House?
 Mr. Roebuck  moved that the Chairman report progress.
 Mr. Brotherton  moved that the House do now adjourn.
 Mr. Hume  proposed, that in case of a deputy acting, he should receive three-fourths of the fees and allowances to which the coroner would be entitled, in case the coroner himself had attended.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the amendment. It appeared that the increase of fees was only contemplated in consequence of the representations of the coroners themselves; but believing the amount already paid to be fully adequate, he thought that the House ought not to add to the burden on the various counties on such representations.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that it appeared to him that he was not fairly treated by the right hon. Baronet when lie threw
 727 Standard Standard l. l. 728 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 729 Standard,
 Mr. T. Duncombe  considered the explanation of the right hon. Baronet satisfactory, and as the noble Member for London concurred in the opinion, that no farther proceeding should be taken, he threw upon them the responsibility. The right hon. Baronet had now explicitly stated, that there was no justification for the libel in any thing that had been said  o
 Mr. T. Duncombe  then moved, that Mr. Charles Baldwin, printer of the  Standard
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to call the attention of the House to what he conceived to be a gross breach of its privileges. It was with great reluctance that he did so; and more particularly when that breach of privilege was one in which he was personally concerned. The publication of which he complained, would be found in the  Standard Standard—in Standard, " The confessions made last night by Messrs. Gisborne and Duncombe are a disgrace to the country. These men talk in Parliament of having hired others to the potential sin, at least, of perjury, doubtless frequently to the actual commission of that horrible crime, with as much levity as if they were mentioning their most indifferent or even laudable actions,
 721 722 Standard Hansard,"
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that all he sought on the present occasion was an opportunity of denying in his place in that House that he had, in the words of this paragraph, confessed being "a suborner of perjury," or that he had been guilty of corruption. With respect to his hon. Friend, it appeared to him (Mr. Gisborne) that the statement of the  Standard 723 Standard.
 Mr. Wakley  thought, that if this amendment was agreed to, it would introduce economy without reason. He did not believe, that there was any class of officers so badly paid as coroners, and this was well known to all who were acquainted with their duties. The existing fees were fixed ninety years ago, and propositions for increasing them had passed this House no fewer than six times, but had been subsequently lost. In order to perform the duties of his office, he was compelled to keep four horses, and two carriages, the amount of mileage which he received was less than 100 1.
 Mr. Wakley  thought that coroners were unnecessarily and improperly called upon to attend at Quarter Sessions and Assizes. If they had properly conducted an inquest, their documents ought to speak for themselves.
 Sir G. Grey  said that, before he withdrew his bill for the present Session, he wished to know whether the bill of
 720
 Sir J. Graham  said his bill would be before the House in a few days.
 Sir J. Graham  was bound to state, that he should vote in favour of this bill going into committee. He attached great importance to the last clause of this bill, and thought that the objections to it could only be properly discussed in committee.
 Mr. Pakington  moved, that it be recommitted that day six months.
 Sir R. Peel  was exceedingly sorry that the hon. Member should have imagined that he meant in any way to justify the imputations upon him in the paragraph in question; he lamented also that the line of politics taken by the paper should have induced the hon. Member to think that he (Sir R. Peel) was on that account disposed to treat the matter lightly. The course he advised was, that which, he assured the hon. Member he would himself have taken. If he were disposed to take steps against those who cast calumnious imputations upon him, not a day would pass without some matter of the kind for the consideration of the House. At the same time, lie admitted that the motion of the hon. Member was consistent with order and precedent, and if the hon. Member felt that his character was concerned in pressing for the appearance of the party at the bar, the hon. Member was certainly entitled to that remedy. He had thought that the object of the hon. Member was to elicit testimony from those who had heard the debate that nothing had fallen from him warranting the imputation that he had confessed himself guilty of subornation of perjury. He (Sir R. Peel) had been present, and had listened to the speeches of the hon. Member for Finsbury and of the hon. Member on his right hand, but he had not heard a single
 730 animus animus l.
 Sir R. Peel  remarked, that it was rather unfortunate to be called upon to come to an immediate decision, without having had any opportunity of referring to precedents. The breach of privilege complained of was contained in reflections by the editor of an article in a newspaper —severe comments on what had passed in the House, and an assertion that an hon. Member had made a declaration in his place which in fact he did not make. As to severity of comment in newspapers, if the House once began to punish upon that ground, he did not see where it could leave off. If calumnious charges in newspapers, with reference to speeches in debate, were to be thus noticed, the House would find abundant opportunities of vindicating its privileges by the exercise of its power. He had listened to the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury at the time, but he had not since had the means of referring to any report of it, and the  animus 724 Gisborne: Standard,
 Sir R. Peel  said, that a letter had been received from the Bombay government, which stated that Captain Harris had forwarded to the Bombay government the original treaty between the King of Shoa and this country. This was the whole of the information which had been received, and lie (Sir Robert Peel) inferred from this letter that the treaty had been completed so far as the King of Shoa was concerned. Captain Harris was at present on his way to England, and when he arrived the treaty would be laid on the Table.
 Sir B. Ferguson,  referring to the late period of the Session, suggested to the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) whether it might not be advisable either to refer the Irish Poor-law Bill, and the Irish Municipal Bill to select committees, or else to take them at morning sittings, with the view of expediting their progress.
 Mr. E. Tennant,  must express his surprise, that the hon. Gentleman, with his experience of the practice of the House, should have found fault with the course adopted by the Government, of resisting this motion merely because it was a motion for inquiry. The hon. Gentleman must know that no practice was more common, or none more deprecated, than that of avoiding a substantial vote upon the merits of a question, by the substitution of a committee to inquire; and he could remember one memorable instance on which it met with a merited rebuke. It was on the occasion of the Repeal debate. In April, 1834, when Br. O'Connell moved for a committee to inquire into the operation of the Union in Ireland, and stated that he asked only for inquiry, and those who voted with him stood pledged to nothing more, whilst those who were opposed to his principle would not surely oppose a fair inquiry, which, if he were in error would expose his error, confute it, and prove him in the wrong, Lord Monteagle said in reply, that—
 " He had often heard this most fallacious argument used, and as often as he had heard it he felt convinced of its sophistry. It would impose upon Parliament the duty of inquiry, not only into every subject upon which the Legislature could found remedial measures, but also into every question on which no practical measure could be founded." "As gross an attempt at delusion as ever was made; and that it was an insult to the understandings of the electors of Dungarvan to suppose they could be taken in by so flimsy and despicable a deception; but the fact was, that as a politician Mr. Barron had always been despicable." " From which, (said Lord Monteagle) I deduce, on the authority of Mr. O'Connell, that a motion for a committee of inquiry is so gross a delusion, that it would be an insult to our understandings to entertain it, and that the man who would vote for it would be despicable as a politician." 769 770 771 " It has been objected to us that we wish to subvert the present Church establishment for the purpose of substituting a Catholic establishment in its stead. Now, we do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure, any such intention; and further, if we shall be admitted into any share of the constitution by our being restored to the right of the elective franchise, we are ready in the most solemn manner to declare that we will not exercise that privilege to disturb and weaken the establishment of the Protestant religion, or Protestant Government in this country." 772 " We have solemnly sworn that we will not exercise any privilege to which we are or may be entitled to disturb and weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in Ireland. We can with perfect truth assure the hon. House that the political and moral principles asserted by these solemn and special tests are not merely in unison with our fixed principles, but expressly inculcated by the religion we possess. And we do most humbly trust that, as professors of doctrines which permit such steps to be taken, we shall appear to this lion. House entitled to the full enjoyment of religious freedom under the constitution of these realms. We can affirm with perfect sincerity, that we have no latent views to realize, nor secret or sinister objects to attain. Our object is avowed and direct; earnest, yet natural; it extends to an equal participation. of the civil rights of the constitution of our country equally with our fellow-subjects of all other religious persuasions. It extends no further." " British Catholics are charged with entertaing a pretended right to the property of the Established Church in England. We consider such a charge to be totally without foundation. We declare that we entertain no pretension to such a claim. We regard all the revenues and temporalities of the Church Establishment as the property of those on whom they are settled by the laws of the land. We disclaim any right, title, or pretension, with regard to the same." 773 774 " How small, of all that human hearts endure, "The part which kings or laws can cause or cure." But whether it were to be ascribed to the early misgovernment of Ireland, to the neglect of absentees, or to the defective franchise which gave a premium to the creation of a pauper constituency—to whatever cause it was to be ascribed, the effect had been observable from a period long antecedent to the Union; and Curran in the Irish House of Commons stated, in I787— "That the main source of the alarming violent outrages which had so long disgraced that part of the kingdom had its immediate origin in the poverty of the people, and the total inability to find profitable employment." 775 776 " His spirits exulted, be felt as though lie trod the air, when he looked around him, and felt himself surrounded by myriads of his countrymen who were resolved upon achieving the liberty and independence of their native country. He would take nothing short of Repeal—Repeal before everything—Repeal in preference to everything. This was what he was struggling for. Too long had he said that, if England gave us justice, he would not look for Repeal; but he now altered the tenor of his song. England had not the power of doing the Irish people justice otherwise than by the restoration of our native Legislature, for this was the only measure which could establish our commerce and manufactures upon a lasting basis. This alone could keep our rents at home—this alone could give Ireland to the Irish, and the Irish to Ireland. He did
 777 "To accept of no compromise. He might be offered the sacrifice of the Established Church, and an appropriation of its resources to the State; but that he should take all he could get, and give up nothing—and upon that advice, it was his fixed determination to act."
 Sir F. J. Norreys  observed, that as the hon. Gentleman admitted Lord Normanby had secured a temporary tranquillity in Ireland, by a judicious exercise of the patronage of tire Government, he wished to God that the hon. Member would induce the present Government to pursue the same course, so that they might at least attempt to gain a similar result. The speech of the hon. Gentleman had no reference to the motion before the House; for not only was there nothing in the motion respecting Repeal, nor had any lion. Gentlemen, in any of the speeches that had been addressed to the House in support of the motion, suggested this as one of the remedies which they would recommend. He was as little in favour of Repeal as the hon. Gentleman, and he had suffered as much, or more, for opposing it, than the hon. Member. He was prepared to suffer as much again; and, from what he heard, this would most probably be the case. His hon. Friend the Member for Limerick had made a most admirable statement of the grievances of Ireland. Still, however, he thought that his hon. Friend had not sufficiently dwelt on the great evils that arose from the social situation of the peasantry of that country. All other questions in comparison with this
 778 779
 Mr. Lascelles,  was not competent to enter into the details into which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had gone: he could only treat this as a general question. According to his view, the
 780
 Mr. B. Cochrane  said, that whatever might be the opinion of that House with reference to the advisability of going into
 746 747 l. l. " Do you think with respect to the establishments of the country, with respect to the existing Protestant Church Establishment, that would not remain a source of complaint and grievance?—Not at all, the Church Establishment is a temporal establishment, as connected with the constitution of the country; they have no jealousy on that score. Do you seriously believe that, generally speaking, in the minds of the Roman Catholic clergy, there is not any disposition to disturb or dispossess the Protestant hierarchy?—I do most seriously believe it, and would make the most solemn declaration to that effect—I can undertake to say that not a single Catholic clergyman will contradict what I aver, that they, as Catholics, have no views whatever to the disturbance of the establishment." " I know that the Catholics do not look to any such ascendancy know that there is a very warm and cordial feeling on the part of the Catholics towards all the Protestants in Ireland. I am of opinion that the Roman Catholics are made more zealous in the profession and practice of their religion by there being a Protestant ascendancy in Ireland." " It had been insinuated formerly, that there was a class in Ireland who wished for the establishment of a different church, let the noble Lord throw out of his idea such a contemplation—there was no wish in Ireland to forward or support any such plan." 748 Notion 749 [Cheers.] 750 " He broke no promise, served no private end, He gained no title, and deceived no friend." 751 "The nation (said Mr. O'Connell at Dundalk) is with me—man to man with me—aye, and ready, if it were necessary, to perish to the last man. Nothing could justify the exercise of the sentiment thus proclaimed, but the inevitable necessity created by an attack upon us, and I have the pleasure to tell you we ale too strong to be attacked. Sometimes there comes over me the temptation, and I am almost induced to hope we might be attacked. But I promise you as a perfect certainty they will not do it, and there is no concealing the certainty, that if they did attack us the result would not be doubtful." " A nation," (says Mr. Burke) "is not governed that is perpetually conquered—terror is not always the effect of force—an armament is not always a victory—the laws are powerful if carried into effect," 752
 The Speaker : The document, as a remonstrance, would not be received.
 The Speaker  said, if the document had been headed a petition, it could not be objected to, though it contained a remonstrance.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that in the speech just delivered by his hon. Friend, the Member for Kildare, there were many sentiments expressed and conclusions drawn in which he could not concur. Nevertheless, lie must compliment the hon. Gentleman upon the tone and temper in which lie had spoken, and the spirit of a rational, impartial, and enlarged consideration of Irish affairs, superior to mere party considerations, which the hon. Gentleman invoked from that side of the House, he most readily and sincerely reciprocated. He had been unwilling to take any part in that debate. Seeing the present state of Ireland, and that he could not approve of the course which her Majesty's Government were pursuing in that country; while, at the same time, his desire was not to weaken, but to strengthen their hands, and to give them every general support in his power; and still, if be spoke at all, that he must, of course, state his opinion truly, as he held it, however, the speech of the hon. Member for Sheffield that evening, and others in the course of the debate, made it impossible that lie should remain altogether silent. He regarded the occasion selected by his hon. Friend, the Member for Limerick, for bringing forward the present motion, as peculiarly inappropriate. Was it not obviously inadequate to meet the emergency?—as a remedy, totally insufficient for the evil it professed to deal with? Was it when an organised and revolutionary agitation was spreading dismay and danger throughout the whole of Ireland, that they were to be invited to go into a committee, for the purpose of calmly inquiring into and discussing theories and abstract principles, and suggesting remedies for alleged and imaginary grievances, which would consume the remainder of the Session, and about which, in the end, probably no
 789 790 "Inter army leges silent," 791 " When the Tories had done, then came out the Whigs upon us, who made the state of Ireland, a prolific subject of self. gratification, and declared it was they who kept Ireland quiet. Let the Queen,' say they turn out Peel and bring in Russell, and all will again be right.' Bah! you might put the Whigs and Tories into a bag together, and having shaken and tumbled them promiscuously, you might spill out the contents of the bag, and, from the first man shaken out to the last, neither was friend, Whig nor Tory, to Ireland." 792 793 l. l. 794 795 " I have more strength—more physical power—then ever monarch commanded or general led. We shall have our country to ourselves. The British army quailing before us. What! go to war with us. Bah I We will not attack anybody; but we hurl defiance against anybody that comes to attack us. We have abashed Wellington and cowed Peel." "We defy them all. This is a majestic struggle, to strike off the dominion of the foe and the foreigner." 796 "I wish you to disperse, but not until you have proclaimed that you will die to the last man of you, rather than live the slaves of oppressors. They call you my troops. Europe has heard our complaints and so has America. Yes, America has heard of our wrongs and our sufferings, and they are ready to assist us. The Association meets to-morrow, and on that occasion I'll hand in from America 1,125 l.
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  agreed with the hon. Member, that measures were required, and he trusted that all parties would unite, whatever might be their feeling, to come to some conclusion which might avoid the danger which threatened the country. He could not think it safe for the House to oppose itself to the great majority of the people of Ireland. At least, in doing that, some ground should be shown for what the House did; they should be careful to set themselves right when they were acting against the feelings and passions of their countrymen. The noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland said the British House of Commons might be as well informed of the affairs of Ireland as an Irish House of commoms; at least then let the Members of that House show themselves attached to the interests of Ireland, and ready to promote them. If that were the feeling of the House, and if the Members shared it, why should they
 781 782 783 784 785 786 a 787 788
 Mr. O'Ferrall  had said, that any concordat with Rome, which gave the Protestant Government a power over the Catholic Church, would not be received or enforced by the spiritual or temporal power of that Church in Ireland.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  believed, that as the document concluded with a prayer, it was not out of form. He should take the sense of the House upon its reception.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  had a document to present, to which he believed no objection, as to form, would be made, inasmuch as it concluded with a prayer, though it was headed a national remonstrance, and emanated from the London National Association, complaining of the grievances and sufferings of the working classes, praying for a better system of representation. He moved that it be brought up.
 Mr. Macaulay : Mr. Speaker, the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down commenced his speech in language presenting, I think, a somewhat singular contrast to its close. He began by saying, that he conceived it a sufficient reason for voting against the motion that he should thereby imply a want of confidence in the Ministers; and he closed his speech by declaring . 797 798 799 800 801 Stanley: 802 803 804 805 806 807 808 809 a
 Mr. Ward  said, that the hon. Member who last spoke, had done much to redeem the debate from the character, he was afraid, was about to attach to it. The hon. Member had expressed enlarged views, and kindly feelings, and had done justice to a people who generally had little justice done to them in that House or that country. He had told Ministers that they must base their future policy on justice and conciliation, and although he might not agree with the hon. Member in some of his conclusions, he thanked him for his admissions, and for the frank, liberal, and honourable spirit which he had succeeded in infusing into the debate. He could not but feel the other night, when there were not fifty Members present to listen to a motion, which would find a response among millions on the other side of the channel, that a proper interest was not taken in such a discussion. The hon. Member for Limerick had introduced his motion by a speech, to the tone and temper of which everybody had done justice, but the House would be putting a foolish faith in the stability of the power of this country, if it exhibited either indifference, or apathy regarding Irish matters. Nothing could be more fond or foolish than the notion that it was impossible to shake the stability of the present order of things. We had lived of late in too easy times, and had brought ourselves to the belief that there could be no changes among nations, or men that did not first receive the sanction of a majority of the House of Commons. He had lived in other countries, and had witnessed other scenes; he had seen more than one revolution, and had observed the growth of that sort of feeling, which led to great popular movements; he had narrowly
 753 754 " The discontent of Ireland was a child of the imagination, for except where laziness was attended with its never-failing companion, wretchedness, all in Ireland was a continued scene of content, and festivity;" " The King sees with great concern, that any Member of the House of Commons intends, at so delicate and critical a time, to agitate, in Parliament, questions that may, in their consequences, tend to interrupt the harmony, and affection, which it is his Majesty's gracious object to strengthen by every means in his power." 755 " That we will not obey, or give operations to any laws, save only those enacted by the King, Lords, and Commons, of Ireland." " The claim of any body of men, other than the King, Lords, and Commons of Ireland, to make laws to bind this kingdom, is unconstitutional, illegal, and a grievance." " Don't talk to me of peace in Ireland, Ireland is not in a state of peace, it is smothered 'war." modus operandi 756 l. 757 " What has altered these just, wise, and moderate sentiments, strengthened by the resolutions adopted by another general convocation of the Catholic hierarchy in 1834, published in the Ordo Divini Officii, of 1835? Why were the chapels, which were not to be used for public meetings, except in cases connected with charity or religion—now admitted to be the focus of the repeal agitation?" "The failure of the compromise attempted in 1835—the admission by the Whigs, when they abandoned the Appropriation principle, that they had no hope, or prospect, of carrying out their own plans, in however modified a shape—the use made of religion to justify a franchise different from the English and Scotch franchise, in the Municipal Act—the tone and spirit of Lord Stanley's Registration Bill—all these things presented to the quick and suspicious mind of the Irish nation the gradual extinction of their liberties, and the consequent return of the oppression and persecution of their religion, as within the range of possibilities, and against which Repeal was their only security." Were these suspicions unjust? A man as he said before, must have a convenient memory to think so. That was the answer
 758 not Standard, 759 Stanley: "N."] "Have you the confidence of the constituencies of England?— No! Of the clergy?—No! You do not pretend to that." " The Government of England is a Protestant Government. Its Members must not be the minions of Popery." " The Government of England is a Protestant Government, its Members must not be the minions of Popery." " He wished to make the Catholic priests the link, as it were, between the Crown and the people. That would have been a large, and comprehensive policy." 760 "It had been admitted that a Government could not appoint its opponents, and as almost all the Roman Catholics were opposed to the Government, it followed that the larger portion of those employed by it must be Protestants." "Political partizanship had never been considered as a ground for excluding men from promotion at the bar, and whatever had been the conduct of such partizans in Parliament, there never had been any partiality upon the Bench." "To dismiss from their official connection with the Government some notorious consciences, to give a visible, as well as a real, integrity to his Majesty's councils. The people have a personal antipathy to certain men, who were the agents of former oppression, and would feel a natural delight in the justice of discarding them." 761 " Volunteers, and soon, possibly, volunteers without property, will be the only government in Ireland, unless they are faced this year in a manly manner." " We have reaped the benefits of having armed the people, and now we must hope to avoid the inconveniences of it. Our volunteers here were ready to determine, in twenty-four hours, any question, in the whole circle of sciences, that could be proposed to them, and to burn any unfortunate person that doubted their infallibility." 762 " Who, out of Ireland, ever hears of Ireland? What name have we among the nations of the earth? Who fears us? Who respects us? Where are our Ambassadors? What alliances do we form? We sacrifice all that gives a nation consequence and fame to our connection with England; and what ought we to get in return? I say, an honest, an impartial, and a frugal Government. If we are to have expence, let us have empire, and not allow ourselves to be drained of our wealth for the benefit of others, without dignity, and without glory. Who governs us? English Ministers, or rather the deputies of English Ministers—mere subalterns in office, who never dare aspire to the dignity of independent thought." "To arm a country with power first, and then to treat it as if it were impotent, is the most preposterous folly; and it is a dangerous lesson to teach four millions of men, living in a most defensible country, that the attainment of every thing short of Separation, will not attain for them good Government." 763 [Iron- 764 ical Cheers from the Ministerial Benches.) [Hear, hear.] 765 " The Union is a living lie, until Ireland is placed on equal terms as regards its Church establishment with England and Scotland." 766 " It is the boast and honour of the Scottish people, that, in coming to the settlement by which they were united to the Crown of England, they preserved, by treating upon independent terms, their National Church, as a mark of the perseverance with which they resisted the dominant power of England, and secured to themselves the establishment of their free religion — upon which condition alone they could be induced to consent to the Union. I think, therefore, that, in discussing this question in the British Parliament, we are bound to regard it with peculiar care, We must look at it not with English feelings, or with the prejudices of Englishmen, but we are bound to regard it upon the principles of die Union—upon Presbyterian principles, as established by the act of 1790." " Such a final adjustment of the discontents, and jealousies, prevailing in Ireland, as may give mutual satisfaction to both kingdoms." 767
 Sir James Graham : Now, I beg those who call upon the Government to make declarations with respect to measures of this kind, to observe, what caution such a statement as that made by the hon. Member for Kildare prescribes, and how delicate is the ground, on which we are
invited to tread. The right hon. Member for Edinburgh has been quite explicit in stating his view of the subject. The right hon. Gentleman thinks that there ought to be two co-ordinate and co-existent establishments in Ireland, and some reliance was placed by the right hon. Gentleman, as well as by the hon. Member for Sheffield, on a supposed analogy with the Church establishment of Scotland. Now, I must say, that so far from seeing any analogy, I see the greatest possible difference. In the passage which the right hon. Gentleman did me the honour of
 820 Ward Ward: " 821 Wood: Wood: J. Russell: 822 823 [Cries of " from the Opposition side.]
 Sir J. Graham : Sir, before proceeding to address any observations to the House upon the subject immediately under discussion, I am anxious to avail myself of the earliest opportunity of refering to a topic introduced by the hon. Member for Kildare. That hon. Gentleman asserted to-night that on a former occasion I offered to him and to others of the same religious opinions as himself, an intolerable insult. When a gentleman of his calm judgment, of his spotless honour and high bearing, declares that anything which fell from me was regarded by himself as an intolerable insult, though I am not conscious of having used any expression justifying such an interpretation, I cannot fail to express my deep regret that I should have been so far mistaken as to induce the right: hon. Gentleman to think I meant the slighest insult to any of my Roman Catholic fellow subjects. thought what I said at the time upon this point had been received as an ample apology; but since an appeal has been so directly made to me, I may be pardoned if I express my personal feelings towards gentlemen of that persuasion. From my earliest years I have lived upon terms of the greatest friendship and intimacy with
 810 811 Macaulay: " John Russell: " 812 813 814 Howick: 815 816 [Hear, hear.] 817 818 l. l. l. l. 819 l. l. l.
 Sir R. Peel : Personally, he was ready to give any portion of his time to the expediting of the public business in that House; but it was a question whether it would be of any great service in furthering the object they had in view, to devote thirteen hours each day in that House, instead of nine, which were now occupied by Parliamentary business. The delay which had occurred in the progress of the business of the Session— not merely of the Irish business—was much to be regretted, but he did not see how the Government could be held responsible for it. He was sorry when impediments in the shape of adjournments of particular debates were thrown in the way of the progress of legislation: but when those impediments arose from the desire to debate the question fully, he did not see how they were to be avoided. It was greatly to be regretted that the progress of legislation should be suspended as it had been during the last three weeks, in which no progress had been made, but he saw no means of preventing it. If the hon. Gentleman would repeat the question on a future evening, he would give him a more precise answer.
 Mr. T. C. Smith  (the Attorney-general for Ireland) said, the hon. Member who had just sat down, observed, that everything he possessed was at stake in Ireland. That was also the case with a large body of Conservative members. It was important to ascertain what was the precise object which those who advocated a repeal of the Union had in view, and what would he the consequences if that separation was accomplished. In the debate on the question of
 873 "I know that it has been said that the inevitable effect of this measure would be to take the power out of the hands of one party and give it to another. I am aware that this has repeatedly been said, but, whatever credit may be attached to my assertion, I have no hesitation in saying, that if I thought that this
 874 875 " Whatever aversion I have to the church arises from its being raised as an obstacle to the liberties of my country. The Attorney-general has justly remarked, that instead of endangering the stability of the established religion, and of the gorgeous institutions by which it is attended, Roman Catholic emancipation would contribute materially to its permanence. It is because it is now opposed as a barrier to concession that we regard it with hostility, but if once it ceased to operate as an obstruction, we should, in all likelihood, submit in apathetic acquiescence to its abuses; we should look upon it as a state engine, and if it ceased to crush us, we should not desire to interfere with its operations, or to diminish the power of the vast machine." "Lord John Russell pretended to be a statesman, and yet he said that a nuisance should continue in Ireland, not by reason of any advantage arising from the nuisance, but lest it should injure the Episcopal church in England, or the Presbyterian church in Scotland. There was a statesman! There was a high-minded man, fit to govern a nation! Why
 876 Morning Chronicle 877
 Captain Bernal  said, however wearied the House might he with this protracted debate, they could not fail to be struck with astonishment at the speeches of the hon. and right hon. Gentlemen connected with the Government. They all admitted the grievances, they all lamented the causes, but they omitted to indicate an intention of bringing forward any measure to redress these grievances. He would pass over the speech of the lion. Member for Belfast (Mr. E. Tennent), because those who were curious in  Parliamentary Debates "I can conceive nothing more interesting than inquiry into the state of Ireland. As a great moral lesson, it demands earnest and immediate inquiry." 832 State Papers " I think the poor commonalty here he very true people, and conformable to all good order; the destruction of this land is wholly by the extortion of the lords and gentlemen of the country." d. s. l l " Are the landed proprietors absentee, or resident? If absentee, do they reside in any other part of Ireland?" "To what extent has the system of throwing small farms into large ones taken place in your parish? What has become of the dispossessed tenants?" " It is extensive, and the poor outcasts nestle where they can; they suffer great misery and anguish of heart; their feelings are excited, and this system produces all the sullen ferocity of despair, and many of the dreadful inroads upon the peace and order of society." " To a great extent; some tenants go to other parishes, some to America; some are living still in the ditches; some have died from hardships." "About seventy families within these last few years, many of whom have become desperate White Feet." 833 "A large proportion of the crimes committed are connected with the competition for land." " What am I now proposing for the sake of Ireland? I am not content that Ireland shall have some benefits as part of the British empire, but I am proposing that Ireland shall be allowed to participate of the blessings which England enjoys." " By the incorporation of Ireland with Great Britain, it would not only consolidate the strength and glory of the empire, but it would change our internal and local government to a system of strength and calm security, instead of being a garrison in the island." 834 l. " By what means are we to ascertain what are the principles of the Government which we are called upon to approve? In a case of doubt like this, and in the absence of other materials for forming a judgment, the House must resort to the principle  noscitur a sociis, " Resolved, That with respect to civil affairs, we feel we have grievous cause for complaint; First, by reason of a national system of education, which in its working is so diametrically opposed to the first duty and highest
 835 " The Roman Catholic hierarchy affected at this period to condemn the advantages of Scripture education,. I am sorry that there are in the community a class of men who do not love the light, for their deeds are evil." "I am sorry circumstances have arisen to induce us to believe that they have very little regard for the sanctity of an oath, or little hesitation to violate their compact. Lord Morpeth, in a speech delivered at Leeds, had called himself a friend to the Protestants of Ireland. May the Lord deliver us from such friends," " His Government had not yet gone to the full length of the promises held out to the Irish people, but I think they have gone entirely too far, and we are met here to prevent them going farther." " If there be a general election, these wretched men are brought forward, not to assert the right of franchise given by the constitution, but brought forward to carry on by bludgeon law, by force, by murder, if necessary, the objects set on foot by the association, and carried out to a man by the Roman Catholic priesthood." 836 837
 Sir Douglas :—Sir, in the course of what I have to say, I shall endeavour to show, in reply to what has fallen from the hon. Member for Wycombe, first wherein consists the difference between the state of Ireland in 1843, and that period to which the hon. Member adverts; why Ireland is "now a garrison?" and I shall prove, that the union has conferred upon Ireland, great, real, and increasing advantages; but which agitation is paralysing, or frustrating. But first, Sir,—I have listened with regret and surprise to many of the speeches made by hon. Gentlemen opposite; and not without apprehension when I observe in what manner the protracted discussions in this House, and the dangerous agitations elsewhere, act and re-act on each other, to the prejudice of the public interests. As I shall have occasion to make some observations on what has fallen from hon. Members on the other side, I beg first to assure those hon. Gentlemen, and the House, that I give them full credit for the best and purest intentions; I mean no offence; I entertain great respect for the hon. Member who
 838 839 animus " America has but one feeling towards that nation (England) — a feeling of deadly, irreconcileable hatred. I will say further, that I do not believe there is a single member of our Cabinet at Washington, who entertains the hope, that peace can long be preserved between the two countries. Let Ireland wait with patience her time, let her patriots and her people be firm and united in their resolve, and the martyred Emmett's epitaph will soon be written. I believe with the United States' senator, Benton (a man who bids fair to be President before long), that the man is now alive, with a beard upon his face, who will see au American army in Ireland, and an American general walking the streets of London." " War with England; that America may avenge the many bitter insults to which she has been so oft, by that haughty power, subjected—that she may burst the hydra folds which, boa-like, her foe is wrapping around her, and the constrictive power of which we feel oppressing and binding us at every point, from the balmy plains of Oregon to the sunny shores that border on the Bahamas, from Madawaska to the Lake of the Woods." " England's most posperous days have been in the reigns of her Protestant Queens, in two
 840 841 842 843
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  would tell the hon. and gallant Member that no individual in any way connected with Ireland would accept the offer he had chosen to make. The people of Ireland asked no favour of that House; but they demanded it as their undoubted right that they should be placed on the same footing as the people of Scotland and England, and they never would consent to have any measures for that purpose conceded to them as favours. He would ask the hon. and gallant Member whether he really thought that the course which he had that night pursued, and the language which he had used, was likely to allay the excitement which existed in Ireland. If the hon. Member really thought so, sure he (Mr. Stuart) was that there was no other Member of that House of the same opinion. He had listened to the speeches of the two Members of the Government who had addressed it on that question, and it appeared to him that their object was rather to defend and strengthen the Government, than to refer to the condition of Ireland. Instead of dwelling upon those matters which they conceived would strengthen them as a party and a government, they should rather look to the adoption of such measures as would lead to the allaying of agitation, and to the establishment of the union of the empire. He admitted that there were circumstances existing in the social situation of Ireland which involved considerations and matters of the greatest difficulty.
 Mr. Gaily Knight  said, that no one could have listened attentively, as he had done, to the noble Lord who had just sat down, without being impressed with respect for his abilities and his sincerity, and without appreciating his abstinence from those inflammatory topics in which others had too largely indulged. But he could not equally give his weed of praise to the remedies which the noble Lord had pointed out. He could not think that those remedies were so likely to restore peace to Ireland, as to render it expedient to accede to the motion which was now before the House. The noble Lord's three principal remedies were colonization, railways, and the spoliation of the Protestant Church. With respect to the first of these, he was
 894 895 896 897 898
 Captain Rous  was rather anxious to address the House, for he differed very much from many of his friends around him, and also he believed with the great mass of his constituents. He did not believe that the Arms Bill would at all contribute to the tranquillity of Ireland. The first measure of this kind emanated from the Irish Parliament, it had been continued by successive administrations, and he believed that measures of this kind had several times been brought forward by hon. Gentlemen opposite, and had received general support. When, therefore, he heard the hon. Gentleman oppose this measure in such strong terms, he would tell them the more violent the abuse they lavished on this hill, the greater was the shame to them for not having opposed it on
 867 1 l. 868 1 1 869
 Mr. E. Turner  asked Sir Robert Peel whether the Government was prepared to advise her Majesty to visit with her signal displeasure all persons who may hereafter become engaged either as principals or as seconds in any duel?
 Sir B. Hall  said, every hon. Gentleman who had spoken on the other side had, he believed, not only admitted the existence of grievances in Ireland, but had expressed a desire that redress should be afforded, and the only question of difference seemed to be as to the time at which that redress should be conceded. He understood the hon. Member for Nottinghamshire (Mr. G. Knight) to say, that any concession which might be made now would be regarded by the Irish people as having been extorted from the Government by agitation. He thought, however, that if any redress was to be afforded for the grievances of which the Irish people complained it ought to be given now. When hon. Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House sat on the Treasury benches at a time when considerable agitation prevailed in Ireland, they were taunted by the supporters of the present Ministry for neglecting to put down that agitation. He would now ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), "Why do not you take some steps to put down the agitation which at present exists in Ireland? Why do not you come forward with some remedial measures? He would himself supply the answer. In the first place, the Government dared not to oppose their Orange Friends, the ultra-Tories; and, in the second place, they dared not to oppose Mr. O'Connell. One of the great grievances complained of by the people of Ireland was the extravagant Church establishment. He thought the hest course that could be taken was, to pay the Catholic clergy out of the revenues of the Church of Ireland; for he was convinced that while such an extravagant State Church existed the people of this country would not allow such payment to be made out of the consolidated fund or out of the revenues of the empire. The hon. Gentleman who had last spoken had complained of the obstruction offered by hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House to the measures which had been proposed by Government with re-
 899
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he was not prepared. In stating that, however, he hoped the House would not infer that the Government felt any indifference to this important subject. But he could not help thinking that a declaration should be made only after mature deliberation, and that no weight would be added if it were
 831
 Sir W. Somerville  had just returned from Ireland, and could state, that the utmost which had been said with respect to the agitation prevailing in that country, was not in any degree exaggerated. The question of Repeal had sunk deep into the souls of the Irish people, and there was a general conviction among them that the object for which they were now contending was within their grasp. Awful would be the responsibility of the Government, and of Parliament, if they did not, without further delay, step forward in a spirit of decided conciliation and concession. It was lamentable to contemplate the difference which the present state of Ireland presented with its aspect in the time of the late Government. He was willing to admit, indeed, that there were causes of the existing discontent in Ireland which were unconnected with the present or any other Government—which were, to a certain extent, beyond their reach; but he would charge it against the present Government that they had given every obstruction to every attempt of the late Government to do good to that country, and that they had increased its evils by their mischievous legislation. It was expected that from the time of the passing of the Emancipation Act all religious distinctions should cease. He charged it upon the present Government that they had falsified that hope, and thereby forcer the people of Ireland into agitation more vehement than ever. He charged it upon
 870 ex officio 871 872
 Viscount Howick  said, that if assenting to the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick implied, that great evil existed in Ireland which called for remedy, he, for one, thought that upon that view the motion was fully entitled to consideration. If any one doubted the existence of these evils, he would refer him, not to the speeches made on this side of the House—not to the speeches of hon. Members connected with Ireland, impressive as they had been—not to the calm, useful, and argumentative speech of the hon. Member for Kildare—not to the touching appeal of the hon. Member for Drogheda, delivered this evening—but to the 'speeches delivered on the other side of the House, and especially to those made by Gentlemen more immediately connected with the administration of Irish affairs; for, if he did not mistake, the right hon. the Secretary of State, the noble Secretary for Ireland, and the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had admitted as distinctly as any Gentleman on this side of the House the evils which existed in Ireland, but to which they had suggested no remedy. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had contented himself with defending, or rather apologising for the Government; quoting speeches long forgotten and arguments to show that the present discontent in Ireland
 878 879 880 881 882 883 884 885 886 Hear," from the Ministerial Benches 887 888 889 890 891 892 893
 Viscount Jocelyn  in refusing to give his support to the motion, did so from considering that motion as a mark of censure upon
 900 901 902 903
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell,  on resuming the debate, said, there were two features in the debate last night which afforded some satisfaction. In one the satisfaction was of a negative character, and was to be found in the speech of the hon. and gallant General the Member for Liverpool (Sir H. Douglas), and the want of support to the extraordinary amendment he proposed. He called it extraordinary because the gallant officer's experience had not been confined to the routine of military duties, for he had acted in the civil affairs of a colony, and if the reports in the newspapers were true, had had some experience of popular discontents. He was glad to see that even on the gallant General's own side of the House, there was no one to second him. The other cause of gratification was the frank and manly speech of the Gentleman on the opposite benches, the gallant Member for Westminster. He recollected when, two years ago, he had read in the newspapers the astounding news of the gallant Officer's success in Westminster; he viewed it with alarm, foreseeing the majority that was coming, and that there would no longer be a fair chance of the redress of grievances. He owned, however, that he was not more surprised then than he was last night, though of course the latter surprise was of a more gratifying character. The gallant Officer was one of those who did not shut themselves up in the closet, but went abroad, and, as he believed, spoke the sentiments of those among his constituents who were not tied to the car of any party, whether Whig, Tory, or Radical, and who began to open their eyes to the true state of Ireland. To come, however, to the question immediately before the House, he did not think an inquiry into the troublesome state of Ireland was a waste of the time of the Legislature, for great as might be the inconvenience to the progress of public business, the neglect of the state of Ireland would create greater. He would not go back to a long history of past times, which had been so strongly deprecated, but he must go into the history of the last few years to find the causes of the prevailing discontent. Four years ago the right hon. Baronet, now on the
 911 912 913 914 l l 915 l l l l l l l l l l 916 l 917 l  918 919
 Mr. M. Manes  could not but congratulate the House and the country, and especially the people of Ireland, upon the quiet tone in which the present debate had been conducted. After hearing the manner in which the various Members on both sides had spoke of this subject, he should say, that if any man in or out of this House, should say that the interests of that country were not regarded in this House with the deepest interest; that the affairs of Ireland were not attended to in this House; that, in fact, their affairs were not the great cardinal point of all their debates; that man either misunderstood their feelings, or wilfully misrepresented them. Nor did he think the time unfit when this motion was brought forward. For when the affairs of Ireland were in that state that men of all parties asked of a morning, "What news from Ireland?" why should not they discuss" what news there was for Ireland? For his own part, he thought that the present relative position of England and Ireland was very important and imminent. He would not take upon himself to say, that the disturbances now going on in Ireland might not subside of themselves—that the passive resistance of the Government might not prove successful; but the event itself, and the probable recurrence of such a state of things were, in his opinion, sufficient to call upon her Majesty's Ministers to do something to prevent a repetition of such occurrences. The question agitated in Ireland was the repeal of the Union—in this House it was the grievances of Ireland. There was a connection between these, but not of so close a nature as some seemed to imagine. He did not think that any immediate remedy which Government could bring forward could so captivate the imaginations and please the Irish people as to disabuse them of the fatal error that a repeal of the Union would be advantageous to them; and lie hoped that it would go forth to the people of Ireland, that as yet, during these de-
 954 955 956 957 958
 Mr. G. A. Smythe  believed, that the difficulties by which the Government was at present beset, arose, not so much from Ireland as from England—from the Popery of Ireland, not so much as from the No-Popery of England. Some of our suburban pulpits were still disgraced by exhibitions which would be revolting if they were not ridiculous, Those feelings of
 920 921 922 923 l 924 " Back recoil'd, he knew not why, Ev'n at the sound himself had made."
 Lord John Russell  spoke as follows; ٭ I am ready to address the House even at this late hour (it was half-past one o'clock) but I trust the House will extend to me its indulgence, the more particularly as I labour under great disadvantage in rising at the close of so protracted a debate, and after a declaration from the first Minister of the Crown, which has naturally excited so much interest. I must, in the first instance, declare that I have heard with any thing but satisfaction the speech which the right hon. Gentleman has delivered. During the greater part of it I could have thought that I was listening to the address of some Member in opposition, who, finding the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, the hon. Member for Sheffield, and several others in power, was making use of the most ingenious arguments in order to show that the plans of their Government were totally inefficient. That line of argument, however proper from an Opposition leader, certainly did not seem to me to be the course suited to the position of the first Minister of the Crown in discussing so important a matter as the present. Disguise from ourselves, we cannot, that Ireland is in a most critical situation; that meetings not only attended by great multitudes, but, by persons of every class except the highest, assemble to promote the object which they seem to have at heart, but, which we consider—I hope, as the right hon. Gentleman has said, unanimously—as tantamount to the dismemberment of the empire. That this state of things is serious, no one can doubt; that it is alarming, few will deny; but the fear with which it ought to inspire us should be rather of that sort which the great Lord Chatham described as "magnanimous fear "—a fear of doing injustice—a fear lest we should not prove ourselves equal to the high duties which we have to perform—a fear accompanied by every consideration which should make us endeavour to be acquainted with the extent
 * 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 1009 " The Protestant ascendancy has been compared to a garrison in Ireland; it is not in our power to add to the strength of this garrison, but I would make the besiegers themselves part of the garrison." * * 1010 1011 * * 1012 1013 1014
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the Government seemed determined to leave matters to drift down the tide of opinion, and to trust to events to escape from the difficulties in which they were involved in Ireland. When he found that speeches like those of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and the noble Lord, the Member for Sunderland, were allowed to pass unnoticed by any Member of the Government, he could not hope that anything that he or any one else could say, would elicit any explanation; and that, therefore, the speeches made in that House might be supposed to be addressed to people out of doors. Any attempt to obtain information from the Government seemed a hopeless task. He would say, on behalf of the commercial interests of the country, that those signs of reviving trade which appeared some time since, had been materially checked by the conduct of Ministers with respect to Ireland. The allowing the present state of things to continue was most detrimental both to England and Ireland, and if care was not taken, a storm would be excited in England, in comparison with which, that which now prevailed in Ireland would be but as a summer's gale. He believed that the right hon. Gentleman was actuated by the purest feeling in passing the Catholic Emancipation Act, and he called upon him now to act upon the same principles that had then actuated him. The right hon. Gentleman then said, that by the concession of the Catholic claims alone could they hope to obtain tranquillity in Ireland. By that measure they might expect to benefit the Catholic nobility and clergy, but not the great body of the people. The right hon. Gentleman must have been then fully aware that he could expect no peace without popular concession, after granting the Catholic claims, for the right hon. Gentleman had stated as much himself in 1817. The right hon. Gentleman must also have been aware of this from the opinions of many eminent persons, given antecedent to the passing of the Emancipation Act. Dr. Troy, in his evidence before the other House, in 1825, said that—
 "After passing the Emancipation Act, if you did not endeavour to ameliorate the condition of the people, you would not have peace." 926 "The Irish will become Reformers. Ay, to a certainty they will, if you continue to treat them unjustly, and Reformers of the very worst description; they will ally themselves with any enemy that political corruption may have: Reject them—insult them—continue to deprive them of hope—and they will league with Beelzebub against you. Revenge is sweet, and the pride of a nation is like the vanity of a woman when wounded—it is relentless. They will repeal the Union. Yes, undoubtedly. The present generation will not pass if you continue the old system, until yon will find the cry for Emancipation turned into a clamorous demand for that very measure." " I have often heard these conversations amongst the peasantry. What good did Catholic Emancipation do us? Are we better fed or clothed, or our children better fed or clothed? Are we not as naked as we were, and eating dry potatoes when we can get them? Let ns notice the farmers to give us better food and better wages, and not give so much to the landlord, and more to the workmen; we must not let them be turning the poor people off the ground." " We are accustomed, and justly, to treat with contempt or indignation the grounds on which the Repeal of the Union is demanded; but if the Imperial Government refuses or neglects to inquire into the truth of these statements, or, supposing their truth to have been ascertained, to apply a remedy, that question will assume a very different aspect." 927 928 929 Hamlet Hamlet 930 931 932
 Mr. Ross  would endeavour to state what were the main causes of the afflictions of Ireland, and to seek for the remedies that he thought would be applicable and efficacious in their cure. No one could well deny that discontent existed in Ireland; and no one he believed could be disposed to affirm that discontent was a vice inherent in the minds of the Irish people. If any fault could be found with them, it was they were too ductile, too submissive to station, too deferential to authority, too ready to throw themselves into the arms of any one who professed to be a friend. No people could be more easily governed, if those in whose hands their destiny was placed manifested the desire to treat them with kindness, and exhibited the determination to do them justice. This experiment, however, had not yet been tried; one Government had gone on after another in the same beaten track, and their only means of ruling the country was that of coercion. Why not adopt an opposite policy? Why not do that which would alter the position of the people of Ireland, as compared to that of the people of this country? Any one who looked attentively at the state of Ireland, must see that its evils were of a social, religious, and political character. He thought, then, that those were in error who merely took up one class of the particular evils that afflicted Ireland, and who supposed that by the correcting these evils merely, he could restore Ireland to that state of tranquillity which it had enjoyed a little while ago. His countrymen were hopeful of good where the smallest sympathy was shown towards them—they were tranquil, they were content, when they believed that something would be done to relieve their distress. With respect to the Tory party, it had long been their policy to conjure up phantoms in order to terrify the misguided men who followed in their ranks. It had been endeavoured to counteract the prejudices thus excited by devising a system of education in which the children of both sects should equally participate. But this did not suit the views of those who agitated these prejudices, and in consequence of their resistance this
 950 s 951 952 953
 Mr. Colquhoun  would, in the first instance refer to the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, and he could but express his admiration of the eloquent and accurate history of the causes detailed by the noble Lord, which had contributed to the unprecedented increase in the population of Ireland, and some of the consequences which had flowed from this increase. He would instance the case of the Highlands of Scotland to show that great distress consequent on a rapid growth of population was not peculiar to Ireland. It was his opinion, therefore, that one of the
 933 " He had in the course of his business again and again received applications to invest large amounts of capital in Ireland; but when the state of the country was brought under the notice of these parties seeking investments, they abandoned their intention. He knew one party who wished to invest no less a sum than 500,000 l 934 " I never recollect the alarm and excitement
to be so great or so general amongst both Protestants and Roman Catholics. Some of the gentry about me are putting their houses into a state of defence to resist attack in case of the outbreak of the peasantry. Several families are leaving their homes. I, myself, have prevented my wife and family from leaving England to pass the summer here, as I do not consider that it would be safe for them to do so. We expect an insurrection, and the peasantry are full of hope and confidence of success. We know that England must ultimately conquer, but what is to become of ns in the meantime? Many of ns may be massacred, our houses burned, and our property seriously injured. The Romish priests are the most active and violent agitators. They never at any former period came forward so openly. In their speeches they tell the assembled multitudes that England has not the power to resist them. What is called passive resistance to the payment of rates, county cess, and rent, is becoming general here." " On Friday, night, the 16th of June, we perceived signal fires blazing in all directions for several miles round, and could hear the people collected about them yelling and shouting in a most ferocious manner. They were heard to cry, Repeal or blood.' As we were before led to believe that these fires were to be the signal for a rising and attack upon us, we remained up and armed the greater part of the night. We are in a very unprotected state in this part of the country." " There is an universal feeling of insecurity arising from the fact that the whole of the humbler classes are, through Repeal clubs, completely organized, so that the whole country is, as it were, covered with one huge train of gunpowder ready to explode on the slightest spark being applied." " I have lately taken a tour through the counties Roscommon, Leitrim, Longford, Westmeath, Kildare, Dublin, Meath, Cavan, King's and Queen's Counties, and Tipperary;
 935 "My conviction is that the outbreak will be local and partial, but that there will he one I can have no doubt. Collectors have been appointed to raise subscriptions, They go from house to house; they ask for 1 s " The display of these organised bodies. coupled with the inflammatory speeches of the agitators, and the power of the priests, have inflamed the minds of the lower orders of the people to such a degree that they are satisfied some great crisis is at hand. Many persons of rather a higher class, small farmers, are thus induced to join the movement, in order to prevent their being marked men; and although the great majority of respectable Roman Catholics have kept aloof, yet, unless protection be afforded by the suppression of these illegal meetings, I fear greatly that not only Roman Catholics but also Conservatives, will, for their protection, be obliged to join." " A general feeling of insecurity has arisen amongst the Loyalists who reside in remote districts, where they are surrounded by vast bodies of Repeaters; and I have heard instances of persons in such situations, small tradesmens, carpenters, &c., who have received sums of money from their employers, and who have requested them to take it back and keep it for them till better times, knowing that they would be the first to suffer from pillage in case of an outbreak." " The Protestants of this county have, in a
 936 " The names of those who refuse to subscribe to the Repeal rent are given in to the priest, who proclaims and denounces them from the altar. One Roman Catholic gentleman, a magistrate, has been held up in this way, and everything done to insult him and make his life miserable." Hear 937 Times "He had no hesitation in asserting that any assemblies of the people, held under such circumstances as to excite in the minds of the King's peaceable and loyal subjects reasonable grounds of alarm, in this respect were illegal assemblies, and liable to be dispersed as such. a  * * * " If bodies of the people were entitled to assemble, not in thousands, but in tens of thousands, to march with banners displayed, in military array, into the hearts of populous cities, and if the laws were not competent to assure the people of this country against the
 938 Hear. 939 " — Incedis per ignes suppositos cineri doloso." 940 l l 941 l Member: " Member: " s d l l l l l l l l 942 943
 Mr. Roebuck  My hon. Friend who has just concluded his observations to the
 959 960 961 962 963 964 965 sotto voce, 966 967 968 A laugh. 969 970
 Br. Bateson:  As an Irishman who had resided in that country, and had taken some pains to make himself acquainted with its wants, wished to make a few observations on the present subject of debate. It was almost unnecessary to say, he should vote against the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick, because he conceived that no reasonable person could imagine that any benefit, or even any practical result could be obtained if that motion were to be carried. And first, he thanked the right lion. the Secretary for the Home Department for his manly, honest, and straightforward statement the other night, that the Government were determined to maintain the Irish church in all its integrity. It would be most amusing, if the subject
 945 946 Member: " 947 cries of "Hear, hear," from the Opposition. 948 949
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  complained that none of the recommendations of the various committees and commissions which had been appointed, and of which the reports were on the Table of the House, had been alluded to. Not one remedy for the many evils which those reports pointed out bad been applied. Certainly, a general measure for drainage had been introduced, but that was very inadequate. Nothing had been done to give employment to the people. Nothing had been done to promote agricultural schools; every thing who which had been recommended was neglected. Again, the relation between landlord and tenant in Ireland, totally different from the same relation in England, was allowed to remain unaltered. It led to numerous ejectments, and lie believed as many as seventy thousand had taken place in the course of a year. That was one of the greet sources of the disturbances in Ireland, and it was impossible there could be any permanent tranquillity till that was remedied. The same relation led to the consolidation of farms. He did not say whether large or small farms were good, but be contended that the consolidation of farms at present led to enormous evils in Ireland. In Ireland the landlord put up no buildings on the farms; he made no improvements on the land; he left it all to the tenant; and when the tenant's lease was at an end, the landlord got all the improvements. He contended that the landlord should make the tenant a compensation for every improvement he made on the land. All these circumstances must
 944
 Sir R. Peel:  Sir, in considering the character of the motion which is now under discussion, and in noticing some of the topics which have been introduced in the course of that discussion, I shall commence by observing that I entertain the intention—an intention to which, I trust, I shall be enabled to adhere—of obliterating altogether the recollection of everything which may have passed during this debate of a mere personal or party character. It may be necessary for me, in the course of my observations, to defend the Government against charges which have been brought against it, but in doing so, I shall rest no part of that defence upon recrimination of others, or upon a vindication of the course which the Government has pursued, by attempting to show that it has not been more objectionable than the course which others had previously taken. I feel too deeply the importance of the subject before us not to wish not to be diverted from it by those considerations which are frequently introduced in the heat of debate, which, perhaps, are necessary in party conflict, and which adds so much zest and excitement to the debates. But, if I forego the advantages which belong to the interest that such topics excite, yet the attention with which all have been heard who have spoken in this discussion, and the disposition which seems to be entertained to attach due weight and importance to all that may be addressed to the House on the subject, convince me that I shall receive as much attention by confining myself strictly to the matter before us, as if 1 were to indulge in party feelings or recriminations. If I thought that the object of the motion which the hon. Member has brought forward were to obtain a calm and deliberate inquiry into matters connected with the condition of Ireland, my difficulties in opposing the motion would be immensely increased—but I do not believe that it has been brought forward for the purpose of producing that inquiry. We are charged with resisting inquiry—but many who support the motion admit that such an inquiry as I have described is not the object, and some will vote for the motion, because they believe it implies a want of confidence in her Majesty's Government, and an opinion that the settlement of the
 971 972 "That the committee in discharging the duty intrusted to them by the House, felt it their duty to refer in the first instance to the principle under which the Irish civil estimates were originally made a part of the public expenditure. By a clause of the Act of Union, the Parliament of the United Kingdom was bound to provide, that a sum not less than the sum granted by the Parliament of Ireland, on an average of six years, immediately preceding the 1st of January, 1800, in premiums for the internal encouragement of agriculture and manufactures, or for maintaining institu-
 973 " The sum so voted by the Irish Parliament was 73,277 l l l l " It was also necessary to call the attention of the House," proceeds the report, "to the additional sums voted under the head of Irish miscellaneous estimates and civil contingencies. On an average of six years preceding the 1st of January, 1800, they amounted to 127,860 l l l l l 974 l l animus 975 l l l 976 S. O'Brien: " Let it be understood that in respect to the church preferments you will act upon your own sense of duty, and on the result of your own inquiries; and, if that sense of duty prompts you to prefer the claims of professional merit, let your inquiries be directed to the ascertainment of those claims." " It is absolutely necessary, fur the best in-tests both of Church and State, that the patronage of the Irish church should be applied on such principles. I will willingly forego any Parliamentary support which would only be conciliated by the disregard of those principles; though, indeed, the fact is, that, (if such considerations are to be attended to), the interests of Government are in the long run much better promoted by the honest exercise of patronage than by administering it to favour individual supporters." 977 l Hear; Yes. No, no. Yes, yes. 978 979 980 No 981 S. O'Brien: l l 982 "I would demand a security from the Irish public. I would take a collateral guarantee, by requiring the counties to assess themselves to repay these advances." l l J. Russell: 983 984 985 " It is proposed to repeal altogether for Parliament, and for office generally, the declaration against transubstantiation. There is no object in retaining it as a test to be taken by the King's subjects in respect to any office or franchise for which the Roman Catholic is to he hereafter qualified. It was applied originally solely as the instrument of exclusion. It is the mere abjuration of belief in certain doctrinal tenets of the Roman Catholic faith; and I believe there are few Protestants who would not have rejoiced in being relieved from the necessity of making that declaration as a qualification for the enjoyment of a merely civil privilege, even if it had been determined to continue Roman Catholic exclusion, and if other means of effecting it could have been devised. But when exclusion is to cease, let us he spared the pain of pronouncing an opinion for mere temporal purposes, in regard to the mysteries of religion, and branding as idolatrous the belief of others." " It will perhaps be observed, that this form of oath omits some abjurations and disclaimers which are inserted in the oaths now required from Roman Catholics. Sir, it does so, and purposely and advisedly. Why insult the Roman Catholic, on whom we are about to confer the equality of civil privilege, by compelling him to reject, in terms, the impious position that it is lawful to murder heretics,' or to record his detestation of the unchristian principle that faith is not to be kept with heretics?' We cannot suspect the Roman Catholics of these countries of entertaining such opinions; and if we do suspect them, we have been wrong heretofore in giving them their existing privileges. I will neither detract from the force of those disclaimers, which the oath will contain, by the addition of useless incumbrances; nor mortify, by galling and unjust suspicions, the fellow-subjects whom we are inviting, in the spirit of peace and confidence, to share the blessings of equal and undiscriminating laws." 986 we s 987 988 989 Hear. "Before you disturb that which is established, look well at the consequences; see what are likely to be the legitimate consequences of your first step, and take care that you do not make one which can only lead to conflict and contention. Carry out your measure to its full and legitimate length when you determine upon taking the first step." 990 Member: " 991 l l 992 993 994 " I am not insensible to the force of those arguments which have been urged in favour of admitting the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland to a qualified and subordinate establishment, by giving stipends to the Roman Catholic priesthood from the public funds. This was the measure contemplated by Mr. Pitt in 1801, and uniformly urged by Lord Castlereagh, as an arrangement which ought to accompany the removal of the political disabilities of the Roman Catholics. But, on the
 995 996 997 998 999 1000 1001
 Mr. A. Stafford O'Brien felt  he had a right to congratulate the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. It was the advantage of extreme opinions such as his, that thus enabled the holder of them to act a straightforward part as the hon. Member himself expressed it. It had been a difficult matter to find out what was the opinion of hon. Gentlemen opposite, not as to the Government, but as to what was the proper remedy for the evils existing in Ireland; not so with the hon. Gentleman. Allusion had been made to several speeches delivered by hon. Gentlemen on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, and he, too, would also say a word or two respecting them. He would do so with sorrow and regret, in consequence of the friendship which existed between some of the hon. Gentlemen and himself, but when they remembered with what welcome those speeches were received by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, he would ask them to pause before they adopted a tone which did no credit to themselves or the party with which they were connected. Considering the quarter from which it came, he confessed he was never more surprised than last night to hear the attack made upon the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  was glad that he had afforded his lion. Friend that opportunity of explaining what his meaning had been, because he could assure him, that many hon. Members had looked upon his speech in the same light as he had. The speech of the hon. Member for Cork was important, inasmuch as it was the first with which the House had been favoured by a thorough Repealer. The hon. Gentleman told them that the party with which he was acting was the movement party in Ireland—the party who, lie said, were despairing of obtaining justice from England; yet directly after he added, that he had hope as regarded Ireland. Had he misstated the hon. Gentleman? He had given the hon. Member for Canterbury an opportunity of explaining, and would be happy to allow the same to the hon. Member, if he had spoken incautiously.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  accepted the explanation of the hon. Gentleman—the House and the country. would accept it for what it was worth. However, he had considered it a duty incumbent upon him, as a subject of her Majesty and a citizen of Eng- land, to call the hon. Member's attention to the mention he had made of foreign interference; he put the question, the hon. Gentleman had given his explanation; if he thought that was sufficient, he (Mr. O'Brien) would say no more, but pass on to remark upon the speech of the other Repealer. [Mr.  Roche 1052 1053
 Mr. Blewett  said, the noble Lord the Member for Bandon (Lord Bernard), in describing a particular grievance under which Ireland laboured, said that it was remedying itself. He thought that was a true description of the policy of the present Government, which appeared to be to let all the grievances of Ireland remedy themselves. He conceived that the speech delivered last night by the right hon. Baronet must convince the people of this country, that so long as the present Government remained in power, there was no hope of restoring peace and tranquillity in Ireland, nor was there any guarantee for the safety of the united empire. The right hon. Baronet had contended that his Government in Ireland had been conducted on a system of moderation, justice, and
 1064 [Loud cries of "Divide."]
 Lord Stanley  At this hour of the night, and after so protracted a debate, in which I had hoped I might have been spared the necessity of obtruding myself upon the attention of the House, I will confine my observations as shortly as possible to the subject immediately under discussion. I confess that I do not join in the regret and disappointment expressed by the hon. Member for Birmingham  (Mr. 1075 1076 W. S. O'Brien: " 1077 J. Russell: "
 Mr. Smythe  was anxious to state that the hon. Gentleman had entirely mistaken what fell from him. He had been totally misunderstood, if it were supposed that
 1051
 Lord J. Manners  hoped, after the allusions which the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had made to those by whom he was immediately surrounded, he should have the indulgence of the House while he offered a very few remarks. Whatever popularity or unpopularity might attach to the course which he had determined to follow on the present occasion, he assured the House he was influenced by no such feelings. He could not look upon this as a question of confidence or no confidence in the Government. He appealed to the terms of the motion itself, to the spirit and tone and avowed objects of the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the motion, whether it had not been brought forward frankly upon its own merits and without any unfair party objects? The motion then having been brought forward fairly, be must be permitted to treat it in the same spirit. If it were a mere miserable effete party manoeuvre, he should treat it as utterly indefensible, and defeat would be its due reward; but in a crisis so momentous as this, he could have no sympathy with those who would dare to palter with the convulsion of a kingdom as if it were the plaything of political intrigue. With these views, he should vote for the motion of the hon. Gentleman. At the same time, he must own that he did not think the House going into committee was the fairest and best way of producing all the good he wished for Ireland, instead of the House going into committee, he wished the Government had gone into committee on this subject. There were measures which might be adopted, which Tory lords-lieutenant such as Strafford would not have hesitated to adopt. Who was it that introduced in Ireland the cultivation of flax, and established the linen trade? The Tory Lord. lieutenant Strafford. It
 1061
 Mr. C. Buller  said, I shall not, Sir, occupy the attention of the House for any long time; but having taken an active part in a previous debate, when the state of Ireland was before the House, I cannot allow the present debate to close without saying a few words. I must say, that this discussion has been the most remarkable, as well as the most gratifying, which I have ever been present at in this House. I never heard, however, a debate in which a great question has been more calmly or more fitly discussed; and the remark may be extended to both sides of the House, and in all the different stages of the debate. Every one, Sir, has admitted that the hon. Gentleman who introduced this motion stated the grievances of Ireland with temper and with fulness. There have also been speeches, containing the exposition of sound principles, by my hon. Friends, the Members for Bath and for Sheffield; and, Sir, I must express my pride at belonging to a party, two of the leaders of which, the noble Lord, the Member for the City of London, and the noble Lord, the Member for Sunderland, have come forward, and, declining to avail themselves of the usual tricks and concealments of opposition, have stated large, comprehensive, and sound views, relative
 1055 1056 ab inconvenienti 1057 1058 1059 1060
 Mr. E. B. Roche:  As the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, stated his motives for opposing the present movement in Ireland, he hoped he should be allowed to avow those which actuated him in taking an active part in it. The hon. Gentleman said, that this great movement (for such it was admitted to be on all hands) was not of a national but a party character. We were not, the hon. Gentleman said, backed by the national will; and our only object was to bring back the Whig party to power. The hon. Gentleman then, however, proceeded to say, as if to prove that he came from the same country as he did, that the people of Ireland never placed any confidence in the Whigs. So that we were represented as agitating the country—as placing ourselves in a prominent and responsible situation, to bring back to power men about whom he did not care a fig. The motives of the leaders of the movement had been impugned; but whether they were corrupt or praiseworthy, the question arose—what gave them the power they possessed? The power must be derived from some source or other; and they say that they are admitted to the confidence of the people, because, knowing their grievances, and deeply sympathising with them, they have not hesitated boldly to proclaim them. It was true he came into that House a decided and pledged repealer; and he must say that, having listened with attention to all the speeches which had been delivered, if it were possible to make him a more thorough and uncompromising repealer, those speeches would have had that effect. To the speech of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, he had paid that attention which was due to his position and character. That right hon. Gentleman admitted the importance of this question —he admitted the intensity of feeling which prevailed on the subject in Ireland; yet neither he nor the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, who charged the Irish people with manifesting a "rebellious spirit," proposed a single remedy that could allay the excitement or give satisfaction to the people. The right hon. Baronet said our cause was "rebellious." 'Twas a hard word. In Ireland it called up the phantoms of '98, martial-law, pitch-caps, the lash, the gibbet, rapine, murder, the flogging of the priesthood before the faces of the people, and
 1048 1049 were a 1050
 Mr. E. B. Roche  in accordance with the wish of the hon. Gentleman, was perfectly ready to repeat what he had said. He said nothing about foreign interference—he had talked of foreign sentiment and sympathy. What he said was, that the Repealers did not look for foreign interference; they could not prevent foreign sympathy, and if they could they would not.
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy,  in resuming the debate, congratulated the House on the tone and temper which had been observed during the progress of this debate, and assured the House of his desire to promote and maintain the feeling which prevailed. He would not go at large into the subject of the admitted grievances of Ireland. There was one circumstance admitted on all hands, and that was, that viewing the social position of Ireland, united as that country was with England, the most prosperous and the most powerful kingdom of the world, she did suffer under great and heavy grievances; and the only point now to be decided, was, what was the remedy which was to be applied. The noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland had admitted, as he said with sorrow, that the grievances of Ireland were of a serious character. It behoved the Government, then, to look for a remedy to apply to them. The noble Lord had admitted the grievances; but he said—" Give us a remedy and we will adopt it." He, for his own part, maintained that it was the duty of Government to suggest the remedy. He denied that such duty devolved upon the Opposition; for the principle of a responsible Government was this, that where such grievances existed, it was the duty of the Government to discover and apply a remedy, and not to turn to those who pointed out the grievances, and say, "We will not apply a remedy, because you do not tell us what remedy should be applied." He asked whether there was no example of the sort of remedy which was wanted in Ireland? Could not her Majesty's Government, within the compass of the last six or seven years, find an example to satisfy them of the nature of the remedy to be applied? Let them look to the state of Ireland during the administration of the Marquess of Normanby. It was very well for the
 1018 1019 1020 1. 1. l. 1. 1021 1022 Member Sketches of Ireland, 1023 1024 1025
 Mr. G. Hamilton  was one of the many Members who had endeavoured to find an opportunity of speaking on the preceding night—and he should have been sorry to have given a silent vote on so important a question, and the more particularly, because the opinion he entertained with regard to the state of Ireland, or rather the causes of the discontent there, differed in some respects from any opinion he had heard expressed in that House. All parties admitted that Ireland was now in a state of the most alarming excitement. In consequence of that the minds of the people of all parties, had become unsettled. They had been withdrawn from their ordinary business. The improvement of the country had been retarded. There was a feeling of insecurity amongst all classes—trade and business had become stagnant—discord had been introduced. Irishmen were arrayed against Irishmen, and distinctions, recollections, and associations revived, which all good men must wish to see consigned to oblivion. To trace the causes of this excitement, was
 1034 1035 1036 1037 1038 1039 1040 "There were many who began to consider even Catholic Emancipation but a very partial remedy for the political and moral evils of Ireland. They looked to a regeneration far more sweeping and decisive. They believed that Ireland had out-grown the connexion, and could now set up for herself. They looked only to such a crisis as might, by its appalling force, loose the iron grasp altogether, and liberate the country from its dependence. They laughed at anything less than self-government in its amplest sense. Separation and republicanism were the two bead articles of their political creed. Such a party (he adds) had been rapidly increasing in Ireland. They calculated that there was no other emancipation for Ireland than the absolute assertion of independence: and that the attempt, if conducted with ordinary prudence and perseverance, quietly husbanding their resources, and awaiting with patience the propitious hour for the experiment, could not ultimately fail of the most entire success. Instead of confining themselves to mere relief from the penal laws, they attacked the Church, they attacked the corruptions of Parliament, they attacked the unfeeling pride of the aristocracy, they attacked the sub-letting and other bills; and, as often as occasion permitted, under the question of the Repeal of the Union, they attacked the connection with England itself. They flattered, in an especial manner, that natural pride of all countries, the love of self-legislation and self-rule. They appealed to passions and prejudices, which had slept, it is true, but had never been thoroughly extinguished in the public mind."
 Mr. Muntz,  without going minutelv into the subject of the Irish Church—a very dangerous subject, must say, that he did not believe that the Church question was the question now at issue. He could well understand, that the people did not like to pay tithe for a church that did not belong to them, and with the great pressure upon them he could well understand that the payment of tithe was felt as an additional pressure. But what he would refer to was this—It was said, "Why not treat Ireland as you treat England?" They did treat both countries too much alike. What were the Government going to do? Nothing. Were they going to inquire into the state of Ireland? Most distinctly not. They had the declaration of the right hon. Baronet last night that there would be no inquiry into the state of Ireland. Was there to be any inquiry into the state of England? No. Were not all the miseries and the unparalleled distress of England to pass without inquiry? Had the right hon. Baronet since he came into office, done anything for England? Every class of persons, whatever might be their politics, was asking what had been done for England, Ireland, and Scotland. The Government dared not look into the state of their own concerns. They shrank from that inquiry, but before it was too late they ought to make it. He stated to the House before, and he now stated it again, that he had not the least party feeling; but, without taking serious steps to alter the present condition of the country, the results must be much more formidable and extraordinary than were now contemplated. A wise man looked into his affairs before they were so desperate that he could not extricate himself. This remark applied not to Ireland, but to the whole of the kingdom, and never since it had been a United Kingdom, was it in such a state of difficulty and distress as now. The Government were mistaken when they thought the Protestant Church was popular. Let them remember the educa-
 1062
 Sir W. Barron,  denied, that the dispute in Ireland was between Catholics and Protestants, and he denied that the system of education in Ireland was deservedly called Catholic. He and his friends found fault with the Government for appointing persons to the highest stations in the Church, who were opposed to that system of education. That was one of the just causes of complaint which had made many persons, Protestants and Catholics, oppose the Government in Ireland. The appointment of Dr. Daly was, in this sense, most impolitic. He admitted, with respect to the appointments to the bench, that it was not to be expected that the Ministry should take their judicial officers from the ranks of their opponents; but he com-plained that they had taken the judges and other judicial officers from the roost extreme political opponents of the people. He himself had for many years stood aloof from all political associations; but within. a short time he had been compelled, by the conduct of the Government, to join a Repeal association. It was the act of the ministers which had driven him to this; and several of his neighbours, gentlemen of property and respectability, had been driven to adopt the same course. He was ' anxious to preseve the connection between the two countries. Any attempt to separate them would be fatal to Ireland. He
 1031 1032 1033 vox, et preterea nihil."
 Mr. Hume  said, the lion. Gentleman accused those on his side of the House with entertaining an opinion that the Church of Ireland was a curse, instead of a blessing; and accused them of allowing this wrong to exist, and taking no measures to redress it. If the hon. Gentleman had been longer in the House, he would have known that twenty years ago, lie had given this opinion roundly, as he did now, that the Established Church of Ireland constituted the grand grievance of which the Irish had to complain, and if he were an Irishman, he never would be content till the Church was removed. Everything that had taken place from that moment to this had convinced him of what ought to be done. What were we about to wage war against Ireland for? Why, the lion. Baronet said, it was to maintain the Irish Church. They were going to war, they were about to disturb the peace of the empire, for a sinecure church. There was a majority of 7-8ths against this, or it might be 11-12ths of the population. It might be, that the maintenance of the Church was important to the happiness of the 1-12th, but let them see what evils it inflicted on the other
 1054
 Mr. Ferrand  wanted to have a distinct explanation from the Government whether they intended that the vote the House should give, was one of general confidence in their measures, or one merely relating to Ireland; because, if it were a vote of confidence, he should betray himself, his constituents, and his country, if he voted with them. If, however, it were a vote upon an Irish question alone, he should vote with them. When the hon. Gentlemen opposite brought forward charges against the Government for doing nothing for Ireland, they did not come into the House with clean hands. What did they do for the last ten years that they held office? Nothing. They were the slaves of Mr. O'Connell. As to the Government, he would ask to what quarter of the empire could they point and say, — "Behold the prosperous legislation of a Conservative Government?" Let them look to Wales. There was a rebellion there more frightful and more dangerous staring them in the face. Was property safe in Wales? Could a person travel upon the high road in Wales during the night? Hon. Gentlemen who sat on the Treasury Benches, and who fed upon the crumbs that fell from the Treasury Table, must not control the independent opinion of an independent Member. He had never given a party vote since he sat in that House, and he never would, Ere they came to the close of this Session. he said that legislating, so far as England was concerned, was at an end; but was there no danger staring them in the face? Ho looked with fear and trembling to the results of this ensuing winter. Ill enough was it for his native country to be bandying party war-cries, but would to God they could exhibit one evening devoted to its service during the whole Session. With shame he said it, and they ought to feel that that shame belonged to them—for neither side of the House had done its duty during the Session. There would soon come the question before them, whether the people, united in dissatisfaction,
 1063
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  having replied amidst, great noise, and calls for a division, which
 1088
 Lord Bernard  was fully aware how desirable it was that the present debate should be brought to a close; and how necessary for him to make an apology for trespassing upon the time of the House. The ground upon which alone he could excuse himself, in his opinion, furnished an answer to one of the grievances put forward by hon. Gentlemen opposite, who complained of the restricted nature of the Irish franchise, whereas he came forward to throw himself upon the indulgence of the House as a Member, occupying the only seat in the hands of the Conservative party in the province of Munster. He was anxious to state the grounds upon which he should oppose the motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the county of Limerick, who had brought forward the motion in a speech of much ability and moderation. If the motion was simply for a Committee of the whole House, to inquire into the state of Ireland, it was impossible that at this late period of the Session it could lead to any practical result. If, on the other hand, it was a vote of censure on her Majesty's Government, he would give it his decided opposition. He gave his support to the Government, because they had declared their intention to maintain the integrity of the Established Church in Ireland. The hon. Gentleman opposite said, that grievance and discontent existed in Ireland. If the fact that life and property were insecure in Ireland, that the peace was interrupted by unprincipled agitation, and that large meetings congregated, causing fear to the peaceable inhabitants of the Crown, constituted a grievance, then a grievance certainly did exist in Ireland; but he denied that there was in other respects any national grievance existing in Ireland. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to the injuries Ireland had received from the Union; but he omitted to state the advantage from free trade in corn, and from the importation of cattle being placed on the footing of a coasting trade. He also said that there were no dockyards in Ireland; but let the
 1026 1027 " It (the Relief Bill) abolishes all civil disabilities on Roman Catholics, by repealing the oaths of Supremacy, Abjuration, &c., and substituting an oath of Allegiance to the Protestant succession of the House of Brunswick, binding the Catholics to defend the settlement of property as established by law, and not to injure or subvert the present Church Establishment." " Q. The Catholics are disposed to invade the temporalities of the Established Church—in favour of their own persuasion?—A. Very far from it. There are many Catholics lay impropriators, and in actual possession of these temporalities. There are many also who at this moment enjoy the right of presentation to benefices. These men cannot be induced to attack Church property—it is their own property. "Q. Are not their (the Protestants) lands secure?—A. Certainly. The Catholics swear ' That they will defend to the utmost of their power the settlement and arrangement of property in this country, as established by the laws now in being.' Catholics, besides, hold land themselves so generally under the same Act of Settlement, by leasehold or purchase, that any disturbance would affect them quite as much as the Protestant. " Q. Is not their Church secure?—A. Certainly. The Catholics disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Establishment for the purpose of substituting a Catholic in its stead; and further, they swear that they will not exercise any privilege to which they are or may be entitled, to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion, and Protestant Government in Ireland." 1028 1029  fide bona fide
 Viscount Palmerston  spoke as follows: Sir, this is one of the most remarkable debates I remember to have heard, not only on account of what has been said, but on account of what has been left unsaid. It is a debate remarkable for the ability, for the judgment, for the moderation, and for the knowledge of the matter in hand, which has been exhibited by my lion. Friend who has brought forward the motion, and by those who, on this side of the House, have supported him. The debate has been remarkable also for the speeches delivered on the other side of the House by Members usually supporting the Government, but on the present occasion materially differing from them; and I think the sentiments expressed by those hon. Gentlemen are pretty strong indications that those views upon great questions which have been hitherto entertained by a minority in this House, are likely at no distant period to be entertained by a majority. But, Sir, this debate has been peculiarly remarkable for the course pursued by the Members of her Majesty's Government, not less remarkable on the present night than those which have preceded, because although it is now past midnight, not one Member, I think, of the Government has risen in his place, but hitherto the debate has been principally maintained by Gentlemen on this side who support this motion, and by Gentlemen on the other side who do not well agree with the opinions of the Government. The question regards the state of Ireland, which has been admitted by all to be a subject of the greatest anxiety. The state of Ireland is acknowledged and felt by her Majesty's Government to be not merely a subject of deep anxiety, but of immediate alarm, for we have seen military movements and demonstrations, which it is impossible the Government could have been induced to make if they had not thought there was danger of some description, which required these prepara-
 1065 1066 1067 1068 1069 1070 1. 1. 1071 1. 1. 1. 1072 1073 1074
 Viscount Clements  again protested against the bill, and thought it the duty of hon. Members to oppose it. He complained of the system of Government, by which the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland was invariably a party man. Her Majesty had no party, and it was unjust to the Irish people that her Majesty's representative should act only from party motives and feelings. Until such a system was abolished, they could never expect Ireland to be in reality united in her own people, or united with Great Britain.
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  said, that he found he was already suffering from the misapprehension which his constituents were under, from its having been stated to them that he supported the Government Arms Bill, whereas he had only voted for the second reading of the bill, because he considered some Arms Bill necessary, and had voted against all the clauses which his Friends around him had opposed as too stringent. Notwithstanding the misapprehension which he was already suffering under he found himself on this occasion compelled to expose himself to probably further misapprehension, as he was not prepared to stultify his first vote by sup porting the amendment of the hon. Member. He should steadily oppose those clauses in committee which he considered objectionable; and that if he were not
 1094
 Viscount Clements  protested against having the arms of the Irish people marked or branded at all. He, for one, would never submit to the disgrace. He should divide the committee against the proposition for either marking or branding arms. He moved that the clause be omitted.
 Lord Clements  denied the correctness of the statement. The treatment he had received from Captain Warburton was unjustifiable, and he had found it his duty to complain to the high sheriff.
 Viscount Clements  was of opinion that every course which that side of the House could take for the purpose of impeding this most nefarious measure would be perfectly fair, He, for one, was determined to oppose this bill, stage after stage, in every possible manner.
 Lord J. Russell  concurred that as far as the debate had hitherto gone, it had been conducted with the greatest temper and fairness by the Gentlemen connected with the country to which the measure referred, and by the House generally. He would beg to remind his noble Friend, who seemed desirous of renewing the debate upon branding, because, in the clause before the House, the word branding happened to occur, that there had already been two divisions on the subject, and, at all events, the clause was not one
inflicting branding, but exempting from it. He denied that the Gentlemen from Ireland had resolved, either at the meetings they had held, or in the House, to obstruct the measure; but this question having been already decided, he recommended his noble Friend to withdraw his opposition.
 Mr. T. B. Smith  stated, that the word had hitherto been interpreted to mean guns, pistols, swords, and bayonets.
 Sir D. Norreys  showed that sword-canes, halberts, and spears had been registered as arms.
 Mr. T. B. Smith  admitted that halberts were arms. Hon. Gentlemen opposite did not discover this difficulty till they got into opposition. The hon. Gentleman who made this objection was himself Clerk of the Ordnance under the late Government, and ought therefore to know something of what arms were.
 The Attorney General  having been ap-
 1097
 The Attorney General  suggested that air-guns should be included in the same category as fire-arms.
 Mr. Bernal  would ask, if Government were prepared to say, that a respectable, or even for that matter a disreputable yeoman, or a gentleman out shooting, should be stopped at any time during the day that a person in the garb of a police or peace officer chose, and compelled to give up his name and place of residence. Such a provision would be insufferable.
 Lord Eliot  admitted that individuals might be subjected to inconvenience by the clause, which was only to be justified by stern necessity. He could assure the committee, that if they omitted or essentially modified the clause, the remainder of the bill would be good for nothing; the greatest number of murders against which the bill was intended to provide, took place during the day time. He contended, that by the English game laws and the Irish Fishery
 1099
 Lord Eliot  was willing to accede to the proposition for restricting the meaning of "arms" to fire-arms.
 Lord Eliot  promised to define the arms to be branded, and if it were possible the word should be confined to fire-arms.
 Lord Eliot  took the opportunity of defending Mr. Warburton from an imputation cast on him on a former occasion by the noble Lord who had just spoken, and quoted a letter justifying Mr. Warburton's conduct.
 Lord Eliot 
 1093
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt,  did not expect that an Attorney-general would have proposed an Arms Bill, and yet not be able to tell them what "arms" were, and this too, in a penal act. He thought the Attorney-general should tell them what the word arms meant.
 Mr. G. A. Hamilton  thought it would be quite sufficient for all the purposes of the act, that the meaning of the word "arms' should be restricted to fire arms and air guns.
 Mr. Muntz  thought the whole bill a ridiculous one. If people wished to kill each other, none of its provisions would prevent them. They first made bad laws for Ireland, and then punished the people for the effect produced by bad laws. As to what was to be considered arms, why, he could make a bow and arrow in five minutes, which would kill any of them.
 Mr. Oswald  denied that there was any strong feeling amongst the Irish in the west of Scotland, in favour of Repeal.
 Mr. Philip Howard  rose to support the recommendation of the hon. Member for the county of Dublin (Mr. Hamilton) as to the propriety of confining the operation of the branding clause to "Fire Arms"—it would greatly simplify the measure (supposing Ministers persisted in what would be deemed an obnoxious law) that it should be enforced only in the case of "fire-arms," and perhaps also in the case of "air-guns," which were among the most insidious of weapons. The unhappy declaration of Government made during the preceding debates, that the angry feelings which the "Arms Bill" might excite, were not to be softened and assuaged by any measures of conciliation, made him (Mr. Howard) doubly anxious to divest the bill under consideration of all that was irritating in its tendency. It was remarkable, that under the rule of Austria, even in her newly acquired Italian dominions, no regulation, so far as he knew, required the registration of arms, and in the Tyrol most certainly, the rifle was the daily companion of that hardy peasantry; dearer to them than the sound of music was the twang of their riles he would not advert to Switzerland, because there liberty bad taken its highest soar, but lie would ask, why was England the constitutional monarchy of England, to display a jealousy of those under her sway which seemed unfelt by many despotic powers? But leaving the more general question, he would again press upon the confining the operation of the bill, as much as possible to "fire-arms."
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  suggested that if the noble Lord would declare that arms meant fire-arms, it would at once get rid of all the difficulty.
 Mr. Wallace  felt justified in saying, that the entire course of the debate showed that there was no necessity for this bill; and, therefore, every Member attached to Liberal opinions should oppose it to the utmost. Such was his antipathy to this bill, that he should move that the committee on this bill be postponed until this day six months. The Irish in the west of Scotland were fast becoming repealers in consequence of the conduct of the Government.
 Mr. Wyse  objected to the clause, as being one of the most stringent and despotic of the bill. It gave power to mere policemen to examine arms, and interrogate their possessors, at any hour of the four-and-twenty. Peace-officers might intrude into private houses for these purposes at any hour of the night, and bring whom they conceive to be offenders before a justice of the peace, the clause would produce a great increase of that excitement and bad feeling which it was the declared object of the bill to control. The committee could judge of what would probably be the consequences of the powers given to the police and the justices of the peace by this clause, when they remembered the bad state of feeling between those functionaries and the people. He trusted that Government would not press the clause in all its stringency. He proposed to restrict the power on the part of the police of making inquiries to the hours between sunset and sunrise.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  seconded the amendment. He had once opposed the agitation for Repeal, as he hoped for justice from the United Legislature; but if this bill received the Royal Assent, he should say that they must either repeal this act, or Repeal the Union. He should offer every opposition to the further progress of this bill.
 Mr. Jervis  asked the Attorney-general for England what was the meaning of the word arms? No English lawyer could have any doubt on the subject. What was the meaning of the passage, "appearing in arms against the Government?" Was not being "in arms" the carrying of any offensive weapon?
 Sir R. Peel  admitted, that the bill had been considered with fairness and moderation, and all he asked was that it should throughout be discussed in the same spirit.
 Sir R. Peel  really thought that after the ample discussion which had been taken upon the principle of this measure, it was rather unfair to delay the progress of the measure before them, by offering opposition to a clause, as though it were a branding clause, whereas it was one which gave exemptions from branding. He trusted the committee would allow the remaining clauses to be discussed in the same spirit of moderation in which those already agreed to had been considered, and that no unfair obstruction would be offered.
 General Johnson  inquired whether the Home Secretary could give him any information as to the fund out of which magistrates' clerks were entitled to remuneration for preparing the returns ordered by Parliament. He k new of an instance in which one of those officers, who received no salary whatever, had been called upon to make out a return which would occupy at least three days in its preparation; he wished to know how he should be paid?
 Sir R. Ferguson  suggested that the clause had better stand as at present; because, in cases of riot, it might be desirable to withdraw licenses to bear arms, although the parties bad not been guilty of felony. He thought, however, that the magistrates ought to state in their notice of withdrawal the grounds on which they proceeded.
 The Attorney General  admitted the propriety of this latter suggestion, otherwise the notice given by magistrates might be altogether illusory,
 Lord J. Russell  supported the clause. If the magistrates had not the discretion of withdrawing arms from improper persons, they would show much greater unwillingness to grant licenses in the first instance.
 Mr. Bernal  said, that this was a most important clause, and one great objection to it was that it. conferred the power of search upon a single magistrate. He proposed, as an amendment, the insertion of words which would place this power in the hands of two magistrates; observing, that this alteration would tend to afford greater security to the rights and liberties of the subject.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  thought the hon. Member for Greenock laboured under some misconception as to the course which the great body of Irish Members wished to pursue with regard to this bill. He should not be dealing candidly with the House if he did not admit that it had been suggested that some such course as that alluded to by the hon. Member for Greenock should be adopted in opposing the measure now under consideration; but the almost unanimous sense of the Irish Members was against such a proceeding. They considered, that however obnoxious some of the provisions of the bill might be, it was not of a character which would justify such extreme opposition, At the time the suggestion to
 1194
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, that for his own part, not to speak of other hon. Gentlemen, he could not enter into such an engagement. It was his full conviction, that, by this time, they would have arrived at least at the 20th clause of the bill; but difficulties had arisen as much on the other side as upon that on which be sat. The consideration of the 13th clause, which it was thought would have been unopposed, occupied the House until Ten o'clock last night; and they had not got beyond the second line of the 14th clause. He feared, therefore, it was impossible to enter into such an engagement as that suggested by the right hon. Baronet.
 Lord Ashley  reported from the select committee appointed to try the merits of the petitions, that the committee had determined,
 "That the election of the right hon. Arthur Hill Trevor, Viscount Dungannon, as a citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the city of Durham, is a void election."
 Lord Eliot  said, that it had been proposed to place this power in the bands of a single justice of the peace because, in many parts of the country it would be a matter of considerable difficulty to obtain
 1200
 Lord Eliot  said, that the Government were desirous of meeting all fair and reasonable suggestions which were made to them, and they had endeavoured, in consequence of the discussion which occurred last night upon clause 13, to frame a definition of the term "arms." The definition was in these words, "That in the construction of this act, the word arms' shall be deemed and construed to include every description of fire-arms and air-guns, and no other weapon whatsoever." lie must say that he did not think his hon. Friend and himself were obnoxious to the censure which had been cast upon them, for in no former act of this nature had any definition been given of the word "arms." He would also state the nature of some amendments which it was proposed to introduce in clause 14. Some doubt had been expressed as to whether, if a person were brought before a magistrate under the operation of this clause, and entered into recognizances, he would be liable to the detention of his arms. It was therefore proposed to introduce a proviso, declaring that if security be not required, or if it be required and shall be given, or if the person apprehended shall be dis
 1196
 Lord Eliot  contended that the clause was a mitigation of the existing law. The magistrates might now withdraw a license whenever they pleased. The clause did not make it imperative on the justices to withdraw licenses in the cases supposed, but merely provided that it "shall and may be lawful" for them so to do.
 Mr. Ross  moved to insert the words "on account of any crime or misdemeanour connected with the use of arms." As the clause now stood  a
 Mr. Ross  begged to ask the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department, if he was aware, that the decision of the judges, as to mixed marriages, had caused great consternation amongst the Presbyterians in Ireland. He also wished to know, if the House of Lords adopted that decision of die judges, and whether the Government would introduce any measure to prevent the unpleasant consequences that must arise from such adoption of the decision.
 Mr. Hume  asked whether all the English measures now pending should also be delayed until this Irish Arms Bill was gone through? If they were, it was certain that many of them would be abandoned for want of time to carry them through. We were now in the middle of July, and he was sure, that with the utmost exertion t would be impossible to get the measures low pending through Parliament before:he end of August.
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  complained that this clause would have the effect of delegating to constables the duties of magistrates. The greatest excitement and ill-feeling had been occasioned by searches for arms having been conducted during the night, and he hoped some means would be adopted to prevent such proceedings in ordinary cases for the future.
 Mr. Wallace  hoped his countrymen would understand that the important mea sures in contemplation respecting the Scotch Church, which would effect an entire change in the constitution of that Church, were delayed in order that this obnoxious bill might be passed. He thought when those measures came before that House he should be fully justified in following the praiseworthy example which had been set by the Irish Members, and in offering every opposition in accordance with the forms of the House to their progress.
 Mr. Ewart  said, the progress of the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill, the County courts Bill, and several other important measures was entirely delayed by the course which had been adopted by the Government with respect to the Arms Bill. If that bill were allowed to take precedence of all other business, the whole course of legislation would be obstructed. Were the Poor-law Bill and the Factories Bill, which he should have thought the right hon. Home Secretary would have abandoned, to be delayed merely in order that this odious Arms Bill might be inflicted upon the Irish people?
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  moved as an amendment, that the further proceedings on the bill be suspended until the other measures relating to Ireland which are now before the House, be considered in all their stages. He thought that before this measure should be allowed to go further the House ought to know what was to be done with respect to the other Irish measures now pending. One of those measures was the Irish Poor-law Amendment Bill, which, he believed, he might say, that all the Irish Members deemed of paramount importance. That bad for a long time been cast aside to make way for the discussion of this bill. Next was the Irish Corporation Bill, which was introduced early in the Session, and which would, he believed, give general satisfaction if it were carried out. There was then the Pawnbrokers (Ireland) Bill, with respect to which many persons had come over here from various parts of Ireland, and were waiting for a considerable time at great personal inconvenience. It was a month since that bill was committed  pro forma, 1s. 1192
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  moved that the words be "ten shillings."
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the lion. Member must perceive that it would be impossible for him to give a positive answer to the question which had been put to him, he did not by any means undervalue its importance, and a strong opinion was entertained by the Government, that it was desirable the law should he ascertained, whatever inconvenience might arise from such a decision. The hon. Member must be aware that the judges only had as yet given their opinion. The House of Lords had not as yet decided on the subject, and as he could not anticipate what the decision of the Lords might be, it must be evident that the Government could not state, pending the decision of the House of Lords, what course they might take under the circumstances referred to
 Sir J. Graham  suggested that the hon. and learned Member for Weymouth (Mr. Bernal) should withdraw his amendment, in order that an opportunity might be afforded for considering the amendments which the Government proposed to introduce in this clause.
 Sir J. Graham  considered the subject to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had alluded, was well worthy the consideration of the House. Those returns were multiplied every Session of Parliament; in many cases they were very voluminous; they necessarily occupied very
 1190
 Sir R. Peel  understood that the Irish Members had disclaimed any wish to offer such opposition to the progress of this bill as that for which the hon. Member for Greenock gave them credit. The hon. Gentleman said that because he, as an individual Member of that House, entertained an objection to particular measures he would control and defeat the sense of a vast majority of the House by availing himself of its forms in order to obstruct legislation. It would be for the country to judge, whether such a course were compatible with the public interests; and whether, if other lion. Members—who had an
 1193
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Member for Kerry must see that, if the consideration of other measures were interposed, this bill might be delayed for some time; and objections might. then be taken to its further progress on the ground of the advanced period of the Session. If the lion. Member for Kerry, and other hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House, would give him any guarantee that there was a probability that this bill might be passed through committee in two or three days, and if they wished to have an opportunity of discussing the Irish Poor-law Bill, he would be prepared to take into consideration such a proposal, if made  bonâ fide 1195
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  said, that if before the committee there had been any evidence of extensive bribery, he would at once have consented to a postponement; but it appeared from the minutes of evidence that only three persons admitted having received one sovereign each at the late election. If the evidence had not been placed in the hands of hon. Members that morning, he would not now have proposed the issue of a writ; but he thought, an opportunity had been afforded to hon. Gentlemen of considering whether the evidence sustained such a charge against the constituency of Durham as ought to induce them to postpone the writ. Because three individuals had received the sum of one sovereign each for their votes, the whole constituency of Durham ought not to be deprived of a representative in that House; and if the hon. Member for Montrose pressed his amendment, he would take the sense of the House on his motion.
 Mr. V. Smith  said, that Salkeld was a witness on whose evidence the committee had stated they could place no reliance. The persons who had acknowledged the receipt of head-money had also stated that it had always been usual at elections in Durham to make such payments. If the issue of the writ were now agreed to, the hon. Member for Montrose would not be debarred from bringing forward the question of bribery at a future time; but he must admit, that there was some practical difficulty in the way; for while, during the suspension of a writ, a case attracted great interest and attention, immediately upon the issue of the writ that interest seemed to subside. There was at present great difficulty in obtaining proof of bribery against a Member or candidate; and it did appear strange, that after a committee had it in evidence that large sums had been paid to an election account by the successful candidate, they should declare that such an individual was not cognizant of the bribery which had taken place. When it was shown that a gentleman had paid 670 l s d. 1211
  Mr. Hodgson Hinde  moved, that the Speaker be directed to issue his warrant to the clerk of the Crown to make out a new writ for the election of a citizen to serve in Parliament for the city of Durham, in the room of Viscount Dungannon, whose election has been determined to be void.
 Mr. Bernal  had also desired to call the attention of the House to this point. He thought, that it was extremely doubtful whether, after such a return as had been here made, the unseated Member might not be a second time returned. He thought that it would be most desirable that some mode should be adopted, by which a perfect knowledge of the law should be placed within the reach of every voter.
 Mr. Berrial  said, that the utmost discontent prevailed throughout the country at the right hon. Baronet having retained any of the educational clauses of the Factories Bill.
 Mr. Bernal  repeated the objections which, on Friday night he advanced to the provision which gives power to a single magistrate to search houses for arms, and moved the following Amendment, page 11, line I7, after the words
 "Be it enacted, That (to insert these words) it shall be lawful for any two justices of the peace within their jurisdiction (upon information given to such justices on the oath of one or more credible witness or witnesses, that, to the best of his or their knowledge or belief,
 1224 "That those words be there inserted."
 Mr. Gladstone  moved the second reading of the Coal-whippers Bill. It was intended by the measure to enable the captains of colliers to discharge their own vessels, to allow them to be unloaded by machinery, and other regulations were contemplated for the unloading of colliers in the Thames. It was supposed that the new system would be expensive, but it was intended to establish an agency to regulate the hiring of the men employed, and to defray the expense by a charge of 2½ per cent. upon their wages, which, compared with the present system, would be a very slight commission. Commissioners were to be appointed by Government from among the coal-trade, such as merchants, factors, or coal-owners, who would obviate the objection that the delivery of colliers would not be so rapid as formerly. Again, the corporation of London were to have power to purchase ground for the erection of proper offices; but before completing the whole arrangements contemplated under the bill, it was proposed to hire temporary buildings to give the experiment a fair
 1250
 Mr. Liddell  believed that this was the first case in which a Member had been unseated for the payment of head-money. The practice of paying small sums as head-money, had existed in many boroughs for years, and was looked upon by the electors as payment for their loss of time. He believed the decisions of the committee in this case would have a beneficial effect in preventing the practice at future elections. He thought that the example which had been made, would have its effect on the constituency, and that the offence would not be repeated.
 Lord Ashley  begged to refer to the extreme importance of this decision. The committee had decided that bribery was constituted by the simple fact of money having been paid after the election, totally irrespective of any promise being made to the voter before the election, or of any proof bringing home to the candidate any cognizance of the payment. But when this decision had been arrived at, the committee, he believed, had come to the unanimous conclusion that this was not a case in which any grounds whatever existed for suspending the writ. He believed, that if the decision of the committee were generally known, much would be done towards effectually checking the pernicious system of bribery which had so long existed.
 Lord J. Russell  explained, that after the declaration which had been made on a former night by the right hon. Gentleman, the House had a right to expect, that all the clauses with reference to education should be omitted from the bill altogether. He had certainly expressed this opinion, and he adhered to it; but he did not remember that he had accused the right hon. Baronet of a breach of faith. As to the compulsory nature of these clauses, he had not said, that compulsory education was being introduced for the first time in this bill; he had on the contrary, frankly admitted that these compulsory provisions were founded on the existing law.
 Lord John Russell  hoped, if not to-day, that at some early day the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government would declare what bills he intended to go on with. The right hon. Gentleman when he was in opposition, was accustomed at about that period of the Session to ask, first Lord Althorp, and more recently himself, what measures the Government intended to proceed with, and what measures he intended to postpone. At the present time there were several bills before the House of very great importance, and it would be impossible to discuss the whole of them. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Greenock, the right hon. Gentleman said, that there was a bill before the other House to remove certain doubts as to the law of Scotland with respect to the appointment of ministers to churches there. He might be told that it had been fully discussed in the other House, but he understood that the noble and learned Lords who had given such elaborate judgments in the Auchterarder case, namely, Lord Brougham and Lord Cottenham, had stated, that that bill was not declaratory of the present law. After the very learned judgment of those two noble and learned Lords, who were of course so fully acquainted with the matter, and after their declaration that this measure introduced a new description of law, it would be for the House to consider what should be the future law relative to the Church of Scotland. With respect to other bills, he thought that the House should be informed whether it were intended to proceed with the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill. That measure had been greatly altered since its introduction, and be bad been informed by some of those persons whose arguments induced him to vote for the second reading of the bill, that it was now in such a state, that it was doubtful whether it would not do more harm than good if it were passed. Another measure was the County Courts Bill, the principle of which had not yet received any discussion in that House. With respect to the Factories Bill, he thought that upon the declaration of the right hon. Baronet that he intended to abandon the educational clauses in that bill, that the right hon. Baronet would have struck out of it all clauses which should enforce a compulsory form of education of the
 1219
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Gentleman was hardly correct in saying, that the payment of head-money had been Constituted an offence under the late act; all that that act had done was to declare that the payment of head-money amounted to the offence of bribery, and the offence resting on such grounds was not by any means so new as was supposed. He did not think, that in the present case sufficient reasons existed for the suspension of this writ. But it was of extreme importance, that persons and voters in general should be made fully aware of the provisions of the law with respect to election committees and the offence of bribery. By the act of last Session, if any petition complaining of bribery was withdrawn, or was not  bonâ fide
 Mr. Hawes  objected to the principle of the measure. as well as to the course which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to pursue. The evils which the bill sought to remedy had long been known, and affected a class of persons who were well able to take care of their own interests. The bill sought to establish a corporation for the remedy of evils affecting, not the public generally, but a particular class of adults. These evils, like other evils affecting classes, were not in any way to be remedied by legislative enactment; and if they passed this bill they would find that the result would be a speedy return to the state of things now existing—a return, too, very probably aggravated by ill results not now anticipated. Besides this objection, there was another, and a most forcible one,—he referred to the contemplated tax to be levied on the wages of the men for the construction of the expensive machinery which the bill would create. To try to pass a measure of such doubtful expediency in an imperfect form would be, he thought, highly inexpedient, and on that ground he should suggest to the right hon. Gentleman the desirability either of withdrawing the bill altogether, for the purpose of introducing another in an amended form, or else of referring the bill as it stood to a select committee up stairs. If the hon. Gentleman did not adopt the former course, he should himself propose to the House to pursue the latter.
 Mr. B. Escott  said, the report in this case had negatived the fact, that the sitting Member was cognizant of the bribery. He maintained, that upon such a return, Lord Dungannon was not disqualified from presenting himself again before the constituency to be returned to Parliament, for he could not be made responsible for the criminal acts of his agents. The same objection might have been urged, but was not taken, in the Nottingham case.
 The Speaker  acquainted the House that the Sergeant-at-Arms had a communication to make to the House.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that he rose, in pursuance of an arrangement with the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, to move, by way of amendment, the resolution of which he had given notice—
 "This House will resolve itself into a committee to consider so much of the Act 5 & 6 Vict. c. 47, for the better regulation of the Customs, as relates to the duties on the importation of foreign sheep and lambs' wool." 1225 1226 l l 1227 d d d 1228 1229
 Mr. Barnard  hoped, that the issue of the writ would be postponed. He had not been able to peruse the evidence, and he understood that extensive bribery had taken place at the late election.
 Mr. G. W. Wood  said, that it had been clearly demonstrated by his right hon. Friend who brought forward this motion, that while the trade of foreign countries was increasing, our trade was yearly diminishing. He did not think it was the duty of this country to look to the conduct of other governments, when we came to consider the relief of our own manufactures. When he had brought this subject forward last year, it was admitted that the case was clear in favour of the repeal of the duty on coarse wool. But the import of the inferior wools for the year 1842 had fallen short very considerably of the import of the former year, and this showed that the year 1841 was a year of extravagant import, from which no inference could fairly be drawn. The average import of coarse wool prior to 1834 was 3,000,000 lbs. per annum; but in 1834 it rose to more than three times that amount, but had afterwards declined. If they tried the effect of the duty on the importation of wool, they would find a considerable decline, which was to be traced to the effect of the duty since its imposition. The wools which were formerly imported ranged from 6 d s d d 1243
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that of all the difficult and painful duties which fell upon the individual who filled the office which he had the honour to occupy, none was so difficult or so painful as the necessity of refusing an ap-
 1237 1238 d s d d 1239 l l l 1240  à
fortiori,
 Dr. Bowring  opposed the bill. He considered it an undoubted interference with the freedom of the labourer.
 Dr. Bowring  wished to know whether, if the writ were issued to-day, any impediment would be interposed to future inquiry? The  primâ facie
 Mr. Wawn  opposed the bill, and moved that it be read a second time that day three months.
 Mr. Brotherton  was surprised at the assertion, that at the recent election for Durham only three persons received head-money. [Mr.  H. Hinde:
 Mr. Hume  said, there could be no doubt, that out of doors the general opinion was, that the right hon. Baronet intended the withdrawal of all the clauses respecting education. The right hon. Baronet greatly deceived himself if he thought the paltry alterations be proposed would satisfy the people. His only efficient plan would be, to withdraw the measure altogether, and prepare another
 1223
 Mr. Hume  objected to the issue of a writ until an opportunity had been afforded to hon. Members of becoming acquainted with the nature and extent of the bribery committed at the late election. The evidence taken before the committee had only been placed in the hands of Members that morning; and it was well known, that the committee had not taken more evidence than was necessary to enable them to declare the election void, and consequently the extent to which bribery had been carried by the payment of head-money had not been ascertained. He believed, that nearly all the electors who voted for the noble Lord who had just been unseated received 1 l.; 1208
 Mr. Philip Howard  supported the bill which had been introduced by his right hon. Friend, because the stern principles of political economy must sometimes yield to the cry of misery and to considerations of humanity. The bill under discussion went to propose a system of registration or enrolment which would render the laborious class of men whose interests it was their aim to protect, less dependent on the
 1251
 Mr. Cobden  was at a loss to conceive how, when such acts had been proved, as had been shown to exist in this case, the House did not take such further steps as would show their desire to put down bribery; and how it was that the Attorney-General was not instructed to prosecute those persons who had been found to have been guilty of bribery. He hoped to see associations formed for the purpose of prosecuting criminally, both the briber and the bribed, and if the House did not take proper steps, he should have no hesitation in belonging to such an association.
 Mr. Wallace  said that he had given the following notice:—
 "To inquire of the First Lord of the Treasury, Sir Robert Peel, whether it is the intention of her Majesty's Government to endea-
 1214
 Mr. Wallace  hoped the hon. Member for Montrose would not persist in his opposition to the issue of the writ. The hon. Gentleman must be aware that an immense proportion of the Members of that House had been returned by similar practices to those for which Lord Dungannon had been unseated.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought, his hon. Friend, the Member for Montrose had made out no case for the suspension of the writ. The issue of the writ would not preclude future inquiry into any bribery which might have taken place at the last election. The exercise of the franchise was a right of too much importance to be suspended without strong and sufficient grounds. The noble Lord had been deprived of his seat in consequence of head-money having been paid by his agents, and he hoped that example would have a
 1209
 Mr. T. Duncombe  was glad, at all events, to find that the Gilbert Unions were not to be interfered with this year. He would suggest that the pruning knife which Government had lately been using so vigorously, could not be applied to a better purpose than in cutting down the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill. They might rely upon it, there was no measure which would give them so much trouble as that, if they persevered with it. Their own Lord Chancellor said, he would not sanction it at this period of the Session. As to the Arms Bill, no Amendments the Government or the Opposition could introduce into it would make it otherwise than most exceptionable.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, it was a species of truck system of which they had to complain. They ought to make the truck laws more stringent. If they did they would find that complaints would be made. The same system was in existence in Staffordshire. There the labourer spent nearly the whole of his money in the public-house, where he had to pay for music and drink. They proposed to make a deduction from the labourer's wages in order to defray the expence of the commission. Why, that was a kind of income-tax upon the labourer. These commissioners were to have salaries. [Mr.  Gladstone,
 Mr. Sheppard  was understood to say, that he was sure neither the manufacturers nor the wool growers could prosper under the duty, or would be injured by its abolition. He had foreseen and predicted that the former reduction in the duty on wool would be attended by a rise in the price, of English wool, and so it had turned out. The wool-growers had been as much benefitted by that reduction as the manufacturer. It enabled the latter to work up the English wool with foreign wool which they imported, and without which the produce of our own flocks could scarcely be used. With respect to our manufacturers, they laboured under great disadvantages in consequence of the present duty, Before the close of the war such duties were of comparatively less importance, owing to the great superiority of our machinery, but since the peace and since a free communication took place between the continent of Europe and England, we had lost that peculiar advantage. The Germans, and particularly the Prussians and Belgians, had made use of our machinery and our system of manufacturing, and they were now enabled, he was sorry to say, to make many articles better than we were, and to send goods to the United States of a finer quality, and at a less cost than we could produce. The French were pursuing the same course with similar advantages, and underselling us in the foreign market. He was of opinion that our manufacturers ought to have the advantage of mixing our own Southdown wools with German wools at the lowest possible price. The Prussian manufacturer had now the advantage of our machinery. and he obtained the raw material 7 or 8 per cent. lower than our manufacturer.
 1242 l l
 Mr. W. Beckett:  The hon. Member for Halifax had submitted to the consideration of the House so much information upon the subject of his motion, and had detailed so many facts proving the injurious consequences arising from the tax upon foreign wool, that he should have been content to let the merits of their case rest upon the statements which the hon. Member had made, had not the observations which had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had a tendency to prove that the depression of the woollen manufactory had not been so great as was represented by the Member for Halifax. He felt too deeply for the ruinous condition of that large manufacturing constituency with which he had the honour to be connected, not to assure the House that their interests had been more heavily oppressed and more deeply injured by this tax than any other portion of the manufacturing community. The manufacturers of foreign wool felt that they have a double ground for complaint—the one from the actual injury
 1244 d s d s d l l
  Mr. Ewart  rose to call the attention of the House to the state of public business, and the expediency of adopting some decisive course respecting it. Considering the quantity of bills now before the House, the important quality of those bills, and the lateness of the period of the Session, he thought he was justified in this proceeding. Let the public only observe the number of bills now before the House, and those in reserve, and they might expect the House to expire of a plethora of legislation. He took the Order-book, and found in it—the Coalwhippers Bill, the Factories Bill, the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill, the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill, the Fines and Penalties (Ireland) Bill, two Apprehension of Offenders Bills, Hackney-coach Bills, Excise Bills, Arms Bills, and many more than he should be justified in enumerating. But he called attention, also, to the quality of some of these bills. Their length and vast importance rendered their enactment almost impossible in the present Session of Parliament. First, then, was the Factories Bill. To this bill there were two obstacles. It was his duty to apprise the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham)
 1216 Cedant arma togœ.
 Mr. W. Williams  thought that the right hon. Gentleman had shown too great a disposition to meddle with the details of trade. It would be much better if the right hon. Gentleman would let those persons look after their own affairs. This was the only free class of labourers in the city or port of London, for none could work in other pursuits than coal-whipping without obtaining a licence from the city. The whole body of the coal-owners were opposed to it. He could not conceive bow the right hon. Gentleman could prevent this class of persons from visiting public houses and spending their money. If the right hon. Gentleman would relieve other classes of labour in London from the restrictions which were imposed upon them by the corporation, he would do some good, but he certainly would not by a measure like the present.
 Mr. W. Williams  was sorry that this motion was confined to sheep's wool, for he considered that the duty upon cotton wool was still more injurious to the trade of the country. The duty amounted to nearly eight per cent., and he was sure the House must see the importance of relieving the raw material from taxation as much as possible. If not reduced to a nominal amount, it should certainly be reduced to the amount stated by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government of last year. It would soon be found that the export of machinery would make a material change in the trade and manufacture of cotton in this country; but if you remove the duty, this country could compete with all the countries in the world.
 Sir C. Burrell  was satisfied, that unless some act was passed of a more general nature than at present existed, stating the
 1212
 Sir George Grey  should be extremely
 1213
 Sir J. Graham  could assure the House and the hon. Member that no one could regret more than he did the postponement of the public business. He did not intend to cast reproaches on any one in consequence of this; for hon. Gentlemen, in
 1217 1218
 Sir J. Graham  begged to say a few words, he had been charged with want
 1221 1222
 Sir R. Inglis  thought, that unless there were such a  primâ facie
 Sir R. Peel  said it had always appeared to him that, unless a very strong case was made out, the House ought not to exercise the power which, though unquestioned, was easily capable of abuse, of suspending the issue of a writ. He did not concur in the opinion of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, that if an individual Member notified his intention to call the attention of the House to the proceedings at an election, that was a sufficient ground for the suspension of the writ; for he thought the intention of an individual Member ought not so materially to affect the decision of the House. He considered that if a committee appointed to investigate the subject of bribery—a committee which had opportunity of hearing the evidence, and of observing the manner and bearing of the witnesses—thought it necessary that further inquiry should take place, any recommendation emanating from them as to the suspension of the writ must have great weight with the House. He was surprised to find after the enactment of the bill introduced by the noble Lord opposite, that in this case head-money had been paid; for unquestionably the payment of head-money was bribery, and persons paying or receiving head-money were liable to all the consequences of bribery. The bill passed last session distinctly enacted that the payment of any sum of money to a voter, whether under the name of head-money or under any other name, should be deemed bribery. He thought, therefore, that it was wholly unnecessary to institute any investigation as to the cha-
 1210
 Sir R. Peel  did not think that the comments of the noble Lord were justified by the facts of the case. The noble Lord said, that they had got through the estimates at a very early period of the Session. True, but the noble Lord did not take into his consideration the number of government days which had been given up, in order to allow postponed discussions to be proceeded with. This had very much contracted the time which otherwise would have been devoted to the discussion of Government measures. He
 1220
 Sir R. Peel  could not acquiesce in the justice of the grounds of censure which had been passed by the hon. Member on his right hon. Friend, for he believed that no one could be more courteous in his bearing, or more anxious to perform his public duties in a way to give satisfaction to individual Members, than his right hon. Friend. With respect to the questions put by the hon. Gentleman, he would observe that her Majesty's Government had introduced a bill into the other House with reference to the Church of Scotland. This was a bill to remove doubts as to the appointments of ministers to benefices, and if it should pass the House of Lords, and be brought into that House, it was the intention of her Majesty's Ministers
 1215
 Sir R. Peel  said, although he could not concur in the motion of the hon. Member for Halifax, he would, nevertheless, take that course which was next best to concurrence—he would not make use of any argument which could prejudice the free consideration of his proposal for a reduction of duty, whenever the financial circumstances of the country would permit. He had lately had an opportunity of conferring with a deputation of most intelligent men from the woollen manufacturing districts, and he felt bound to say that the statements made and the arguments used by those Gentlemen had made a great impression on his mind. The hon. Member for Coventry contended for a reduction on the duty imposed on cotton as
 1246 l l l l l 1247
 Mr. Hutt  felt the bill was necessary, and thefore would support it. He believed that the coal-whippers and merchants were universally in favour of the measure.
 The Attorney-general  rose to move that the House do now take into consideration the communication of the Sergeant-at-Arms,', made on Tuesday evening. The ordinary course, in such a case, would be, he said, to give notice of a motion for to-morrow, but, unfortunately, the time would then have expired, within which the Sergeant at-Arms ought to have appeared; for, until he had communicated with the House, that officer had most properly abstained from taking any step whatever. The circumstances of the present case were precisely similar to those of the case before discussed, and after a great deal of debate on that case, the House had permitted the Sergeant-at-Arms to appear and plead to the action. He proposed, that the same course should now be adopted, not supposing that the House would, after the lengthened discussion and great deliberation on the former occasion, proceed in a different manner. He begged, therefore, to move—
 " That Sir William Gosset, knight, the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House, have leave to appear and plead to the action commenced against him by Thomas George Johnson Pearce."
 An hon. Member  moved that the House be counted, and forty Members not being present, the House adjourned.
 Lord Worsley  wished to have the Coroners' Bill committed  pro formâ
 Lord Eliot  said, he should oppose the motion, because he did not think the bill would realise the object the hon. Member had in view, and would entail considerable expense upon the country.
 Mr. F. French  said, he had not anticipated that her Majesty's Government would carry their hostility or their indifference to the interests of Ireland so far as to oppose going into committee on the sole remedial measure relating to that country at present before Parliament. He had not anticipated that they would endeavour to render the proceedings of the select committee, appointed at a very considerable expense to the country to inquire into the state of the medical charities in Ireland, as abortive, as the noble Lord the Secretary for that country had contrived to render their report. He had not anticipated that because the abuses of the system under which medical relief was administered to the sick poor in Ireland were not to be remedied in the objectionable manner proposed by the noble Lord, that the fiat of her Majesty's Government was about to go forth that they should not be remedied at all. Whether their powers of obstruction would ultimately prove equal to their inclination remained to be seen. He for one did not, rate their strength as highly as they did themselves. Placed in power by the united exertions of three great parties—the Irish Conservatives, the opponents of the New Poor-law, and the English agriculturists, how did they at present stand in respect to each of these bodies? The support they received from the Irish Conservatives proceeded more from shame than affection; the most sanguine adherent of the present Government could hardly, after the course they had adopted, anticipate any future support from the opponents of the Poor-law, and he believed the divisions on the Canada Corn Bill had clearly shown that more of the agricultural party than the Honiton farmer "had discovered there was a worse devil in existence than Lord John." His object in asking the House to go into committee on the bill was threefold —immediate legislation, central control, and medical inspection; and he should endeavour from the evidence to show he did not seek for anything unreasonable, or to
 1269 "The witnesses examined before your committee, whilst differing on other particulars, are unanimous in recommending the establishment of inspection; and your committee would observe, that the preliminary inquiries and suggestions to be made in the progress of such inspection will tend to render more satisfactory and complete the other parts of the plan they offer as a substitute for the present mode of maintaining and administering the medical charities of Ireland." 1270 " There might be danger in showing to men, that to have served you, was discouragement, to have warred against you was guerdon and grace." 1271 1272 1273 l l
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion. He was convinced that the House could not carry out its orders, unless they possessed some such power of committal as had been described. By the course proposed by the Attorney-general, the House was in a situation to be annoyed by any individual. After the able and unanswerable speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Worcester it was utterly unsafe for the House to abstain from enforcing its privileges in such a case as the present. It should be recollected that they were not acting for themselves but for the country; and if they had not the power of commitment, they would often be deprived of the means of redressing the grievances of the people. The House committed a great error in the former case, and he found that all who had given the matter careful deliberation agreed in this respect.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  believed that the hon. and learned Attorney-general was following the precedent established at an early period of the present Session, in the action brought by Mr. Howard, against Sir W. Gossett. The Solicitor-general on that occasion, moved that the Sergeant-at-Arms might be permitted to appear and plead to the action; and the learned
 1262 1263
 Mr. T. Duncombe  would move, as an amendment, that the notices be now read, with the view of taking precedence of the orders of the day to-morrow, and he did
 1260
 Mr. M. Gibson  objected to such a measure of importance emanating from an individual Member. The Government alone could properly introduce such a measure.
 Mr. Mackinnon  hoped that there would be no objection to his proceeding with the second reading of the Health of Towns Bill, as it had been several months before Parliament, and he introduced it in consequence of the recommendations of the committee of which he was chairman.
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, as the Government had taken up the subject be would with, draw his bill.—Bill withdrawn.
 Sir B. Hall  read the following account of inquisitions taken by the coroners for the county of Middlesex, in several successive years:—
 Sir E. Knatchbull  suggested that the bill should be postponed for the present Session. The right hon. Baronet moved that the bill be committed that day three months.
 Sir J. Graham  hoped that his hon. Friend would withdraw his bill; the subject was an important one, and he had to state that a report had been drawn up on the subject by an officer of the Government, which would be laid on the Table of the House. He hoped that the Government would be able to bring in a bill on the subject next Session.
 Sir R. Peel  observed that the whole question had been so fully discussed when the former cases were under the consideration of the House, that he thought it unnecessary to renew the discussion. It should be recollected that the mere commitment of the individual would not stop the proceedings, for in the mean time the action would go on, and all the consequences would ensue, which occasioned them so much consideration. If the action proceeded the jury might give a verdict, damages would be awarded, and the sheriff
 1264
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there were few parties more inconvenienced by there not being a House than he was, and he could assure them that the Government was no party to a House not being made. He came down to the House at twenty minutes past four for the purpose of answering a question of which notice Sad been given, and of asking the House to agree to the Lord's amendments to the Church Endowment Bill, and he had not the slightest intimation of there being no House till he reached the door. The hon. Gentleman would therefore see a material difference between an attempt not to make a House
 1261
 Lord Clements  moved to insert the words "in council," with a view of preventing the Lord Lieutenant from proclaiming any district except in council.
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  objected to the severe penalty of transportation imposed for the possession of a pike.
 Mr. AL J. O'Connell  moved to omit the words "transportation for seven years," and insert the words "for the first offence imprisonment not exceeding twelve calendar months, and for the second and every subsequent offence imprisonment for three years."
 Lord Clements  opposed the clause, on the ground of the inconvenience it would cause to parties bringing arms into Ireland.
 Lord Clements  objected to intrusting such a power to two justices, and contended that it should only be intrusted to the justices meeting at sessions. He was afraid that a district might be proclaimed without sufficient cause. He would not only have the power limited to the magistrates in Sessions, but he would require the Lord Lieutenant only to issue such an order after deliberating in council. He moved to leave out the word "two."
 Sir R Ferguson  moved an amendment to leave out some words, and insert others, to the effect that notice of importing arms should be lodged with the clerk of the petty sessions, the chief of the constabulary, or the chief officer at the port where the party landed. It was a mistake to suppose that the peasants coming from England could bring arms. They generally brought nothing but a bundle.
 Lord Clements  moved to omit the words from "no person," in the second line, to "the district," in the ninth line, being the enacting part of the clause. The noble Lord said he should not trouble the House to divide, for it was no use in persisting, as the Government was bent on maintaining all the worst features of the bill. It was clear the Irish magistrates were to be considered as nothing else but scape-goats to bear the odium of the coercive measures introduced by her Majesty's Government, and to be made the tools under which the inquisitorial police was to coerce the Irish people. There was no use in making amendments in this abominable bill, but he should propose them to give the public an opportunity of seeing the true character of the measures proposed by the ministers.
 Sir R. Ferguson  moved the omission of the words by which the forfeiture of the dealer's licence was incurred for a second offence.
 Lord Ashley  would take this opportunity of calling the attention of the right lion. Baronet, the Secre-
 1284 l. 1. 1. 1. 1.
 Lord Ashley  hoped the House would not consider him either captious or querulous when he announced his deep regret that the Government had postponed the Factories Bill for the present Session. After having devoted a period of ten years to the subject, it was natural that he should feel in it much interest. But since it was necessary for the purposes of the Government that other measures should be taken before that, and as the bill would in that case be discussed in the middle of August, in a House of forty or fifty Members, he did not think, that that consideration could be given to the subject this Session which its importance demanded. He should, however, take that opportunity of expressing a hope that the bill would be brought forward at an early period—he trusted he might add, at a very early period—in the next Session.
 Lord Eliot  thought that the noble Lord could not have been present the other night when the amendment of the hon. Member for Weymouth was discussed, which he understood was drawn up by the right hon. Member for Clonmel, and it was at complete variance with the amendment of the noble Lord. If the noble Lord's suggestion were adopted, persons would conceal their unregistered arms in districts remote from the scene of disturbance.
 Lord Eliot  observed that most of the murders committed in Ireland were perpetrated by persons who were hired from a distance. It did not, therefore, follow that because a crime was committed in Tipperary that the arms with which it was committed were secreted in that county.
 Lord Eliot  said, that the clause did not give power to the magistrate to proclaim the district, but only to report to the Lord Lieutenant. At the same time he must inform the noble Lord that the clause was in the other bill, and had never been complained of.
 Lord Eliot  replied that the peasantry, when returning from this country, were in the habit of surreptitiously taking arms with them to Ireland, and gentlemen must be content in order to put an end to this practice, to submit to some little inconvenience.
 Lord J. Russell  did not believe there was any variance, as the noble Lord supposed, between his opinions and those of his right hon. Friend the Member for Clonmel. His right hon. Friend, by the amendment which he drew up, wished to bring this bill as nearly as possible to resemble the present law, and acting on that view, his proposition was made, which, however, did not receive the approbation of the House. The question, then, was, whether the House should not be asked to apply the act which existed in 1819 relative to arms in England. This was certainly a very stringent law, and was thought by many to be contrary to the liberty of the subject, but it was only made to extend to seven or eight counties. That act gave the power to the King in council to proclaim particular districts in those counties, but it was not made to apply to Kent, or Devonshire, or other places. He did not conceive persons would go to a distance to conceal their arms, or that a man for that purpose would go from Tipperary to Down and Armagh.
 Lord John Russell  begged to support the suggestion of the hon. Member for Salford, so far as those measures were concerned, which had reached the third reading. He did not desire, that this course should be adopted this evening, because there had been no notice of the proposition; but he thought, that the suggestion was worthy of consideration.
 Lord John Russell  begged to make a remark on the general powers conferred by this clause upon justices in all parts of Ireland. The Government proposed by this bill to re-enact the existing law, and to require that all arms should be reregistered and marked. It appeared to him, that at the same time that the Government did this, they ought to take the opportunity of amending the existing law, and of very much restricting the powers now given to justices to search for arms. It was one thing o require all arms to be registered, but it was another thing to give to justices the formidable power to search for arms, and above all at night. By the 60th George 3rd, c. 2, which had given power to search for arms, it was provided, that the act should only extend to certain counties therein named; and it was said, that if there were any other places to which it was necessary that the powers of the act should be extended, it should be lawful for his Majesty, from time to time, on the representations of justices, by proclamation directed by the advice of the Privy Council, to provide that its enactments should be applied to those places. With respect to the power given to justices to enter houses at night in search of arms, which on some occasions, excited the greatest irritation, and feelings of odium against the persons who put it in force, it should, he thought, be confined to those counties in which there was reason to believe outrage and disturbance existed. There were certain counties, disturbed by no outrages, in which it would be exceedingly unwise to use the powers conferred by this bill; and therefore he thought that it would be better to suffer a single instance of non-registration of arms to pass unnoticed, supposing general tranquillity to prevail, rather than interfere with the general liberty of the subject for the sake of punishing a single offender. He should say, that the same rule ought to be adopted in this instance, with respect to those counties which were tranquil, and that it would be better, that the Lord-lieutenant should have the power to declare, in council, that
 1286
 Mr. Ross  moved, that after the word "except," shall be inserted "within a proclaimed district and." He considered that, at least, the provisions should only apply to those. parts of the country which were actually disturbed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied that about a year and a half ago a proposition was made to the Government to carry the mail direct from this country to Constantinople and Smyrna at an expense of 20,000 l. l. 1281
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that he rose to propose that the House should resolve itself into a committee, for the purpose of enabling him to propose a grant of Exchequer Bills towards the relief of the very great distress that had been produced in certain of our West India colonies by the late disastrous earthquake. The papers were on the Table, and hon. Members would be well able to see the frightful consequences produced in the course of a very few minutes by the earthquake, and they must also be aware of the admirable manner in which the labouring population had conducted itself in these colonies. He thought that it was impossible for the House to entertain a doubt that this calamity should be allowed to pass without making such a grant as he intended to propose. He intended to move that this grant should be made by an advance of Exchequer bills, the repayment of which was to be secured by the local legislatures passing a law for that purpose. He believed that under the circumstances the House would, without the slightest hesitation, come to the aid of these colonies. The amount which would be required altogether was between 200,000 l. l. 1. 1. 1292
 Dr. Bowring  understood that for an expense of from 5,000 l. l.
 Dr. Bowring  observed that, to some extent, steam navigation had been established with the ports of Smyrna and Constantinople, and it had been recommended that it should be extended to Syria, the merchants of which were wholly without the means of steam communication. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was proposed to make this extension?
 Mr. Brotherton  begged to suggest to the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) that, considering the approach of the termination of the Session, it would be exceedingly convenient, that those measures to which no opposition was intended to be offered should be forwarded in their respective stages in the course of the half hour preceding the commencement of public business, namely, from half-past four to five o'clock.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  moved to omit the words "require such person to produce a licence."
 Sir J. Graham  entirely agreed with his noble Friend, that the subject to which he had referred was well worthy of consideration. He did not imagine, however, that the law was defective, for he believed that it was imperative on persons charged with the maintenance of pauper lunatics to remove them immediately to the county asylum. Any omission of duty on such a head, in a paid officer, he had no hesitation in saying might be the subject of an indictment; in an unpaid officer the remedy would be more certain, for upon the facts being substantiated, he might be dismissed from his situation. If the noble Lord would forward to him the communication to which he had alluded, he assured him that the circumstances should be inquired into, and if they should prove to be as they had been stated there was no doubt that the officer would be immediately discharged.
 Sir James Graham  observed that it must be in the recollection of several hon. Members, that in consequence of a discussion which took place relative to prison discipline in the early part of the Session, he had been induced to state that it was impossible that the law on the subject should be allowed to remain as it was; and he added, that filling the office which he did, he should feel it to be his duty, before the end of the Session, to bring in a bill for the purpose of amending the law. He would at that late hour merely allude to one or two of the most important changes which he should propose. Representations had been made to him of the conduct of visiting magistrates and governors of gaols, and on these representations being made to him as Home Secretary, and being satisfied of their correctness, he had felt it necessary to express grounds of complaint, and to state that he entertained strong opinions on the subject of these complaints. He had therefore felt it to be his duty to represent to the various benches of magistrates that the Government thought that it was for the interest of the public that alteration should be made in the law in this respect. He should neglect his duty if he did not propose to give power to the Secretary of State to make or to rescind rules for the government of prisons. He believed, also, that it was desirable that power should be given to the Secretary of State for the Home Department to exercise control with the magistrates over the governor and the chief medical officer of each gaol. He regretted that he could not go at length into the grounds on which this rested, but Gentlemen he thought would find sufficient reason for this in reports of the inspectors of prisons. In addition to this, the House was aware that the Secretary of State, after every Hilary Sessions, had sent to him a copy of the rules drawn up by each bench of magistrates during the previous year, but if new rules were adopted they were not sent to him until the customary annual return; he should, therefore, propose, that if any rules relative to the prisons were adopted by the magistrates relative to the control or discipline of the prison, that
 1293
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he would take that opportunity of intimating to the House, as far as he was able, the course which the Government would pursue with respect to certain bills which stood on the notice book of the House. If hon. Gentlemen would refer to the Orders which stood for that day, they would find that there were twenty-four Orders of the Day: and although the number was very great, yet, with respect to several, he had no doubt the bills would proceed with little difference of opinion. That class of bills was rather at the end of the list. With respect to all the bills after No. 11, the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill, he did not think that the thirteen bills would create any material difference of opinion, or cause obstruction. He had now to state which were the bills with which the Government were most desirous of making progress; and with respect to the others, their progress must depend upon the advance of those deemed of the greatest importance. The bills which the Government considered of the most importance were the Arms (Ireland) Bill, the Scottish Church Bill, the Irish Poor-law Bill, and the Export of Machinery Bill. He was very desirous of being able to pass those bills. Of course it was difficult for him to be aware what the progress of those bills would be, but he thought it probable that they would occupy so much of the
 1282 1283
 Mr. Smith  begged to ask the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford a question respecting the statutes of the University and its colleges. In July, 1838 the Duke of Wellington, the Chancellor o that University, deprecated discussion it the House of Lords on the subject of them statutes, saying, that they were then it the course of revision, and that it would be well that all opinion on them should for the present be suspended. It was now five years since this declaration had beer made, and he wished to ask whether the revision alluded to had been completed, or was still in progress, and, if so, when would be completed, and whether there would be any objection to the publication of the revised statutes.
 Mr. V. Smith  begged to suggest to the hon. Baronet that he had not yet answered the questions which lie had put—namely, how soon the work which had been commenced would be completed, and whether the statutes might not be printed?
 Sir R. Ferguson  proposed to insert the words "not being licensed."
 Mr. O'Brien  objected to the whole clause, but particularly to the penalty of repairing arms without licence. He moved to leave out the words "mend or repair."
 Lord Clements  moved that the words be "twenty pounds."
 Mr. Collet  moved the omission of the word "repaired."
 Lord Clements  moved that! the words, "chief or under-secretary" be omitted. The committee divided on the question that these words stand part of the clause; Ayes 94; Noes 11; Majority 83.
 Lord Clements  moved to omit the words "trouble, &c."
 Dr. Nichol  objected to so important a measure being proceeded with at this period of the Session, and moved that it be read a second time that day three months.
 Lord Stanley  said, that the hon. Member was aware, that shortly before the change of Government, two years ago, the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) then Secretary for Colonial Affairs, found that so many of these orders had been issued, that it was impossible that the finances of the colonies on which they were charged, could meet the demands upon them. The outstanding bounty orders on the Australian colonies at that time amounted to a million of money, which was to be paid in the course of two years. The noble Lord, therefore, had felt compelled, and he was convinced that the noble Lord had acted correctly, after giving sufficient notice to the present holders of these orders, to declare that, after a limited time, these orders should not be considered as being any longer binding. It was stated, however, that if emigration or
 1299 l l l
 Lord Stanley  did not think that parties who had entered into these engagements two years ago had secured to themselves any preference in carrying out their undertaking.
 Lord Ashley  begged to inquire of the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government, whether the Government intended to introduce any measure in the next Session of Parliament to amend the laws relating to factories?
 Mr. B. Wood  trusted his hon. Friend would not oppose the introduction of the bill. So far from its being of an injurious character, he had heard that the most beneficial results had flowed from the alteration of the old usury laws by the present act.
 Mr Hindley  moved, [that leave be given to bring in a bill to amend the act 3 and 4 William 4th, c. 103.
 Mr. Hindley  said, that trusting that the promise of the right hon. Gentleman would be adhered to, he would consent to withdraw his motion. He knew that it was useless to press a bill of this kind against the wishes of the Government.
 Sir W. Barron  moved that the last three lines, enforcing penalty not exceeding 10 l
 Mr. Ewart  understood the noble Lord then to say that he did not think that the holders of the bounty orders had an equitable claim on the Government.
 Mr. Ewart  begged to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, upon the subject of what was called bounty orders, which had been formerly granted by the Government for the encouragement of emigration. The bounty orders, during the period of office of the late Government, had been suddenly suspended; and those interested in promoting emigration had been subjected to considerable suffering by that suspension. Many of them held bounty orders, and they expected that their cases would be taken into consideration when the system was resumed. The noble Lord had given notice of his intention to resume these orders, and he desired to know whether, in accordance with the views of these persons, their case would be considered?
 Mr. W. Williams  trusted that before any attempt was made to proceed with this bill, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consent to the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the operation of the present act. Many representations of the most serious nature had been made to him with respect to the previous operation of the act.
 Sir George Clerk  observed that they only intended by the present bill to renew the present act for two years, the period
 1307
 Sir George Clerk  moved for leave to bring in a bill to continue an act for exempting certain bills of exchange and promissory notes from the operation of the laws relating to usury.
 Mr. Elphinstone  defended the bill.
 Sir James Graham  trusted, that the hon. Member would not press his motion, as his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government had announced, at an early part of the evening, that it was the intention of her Majesty's Ministers to introduce a bill on the subject.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  took it for granted that the right hon. Gentleman was aware that the statutes were promulgated in Latin, and he did not know whether he
 1298
 Sir R. H. Inglis  would answer tile ques-
 1297 de moribus conformandis,
 Sir R. Peel  had no hesitation in saying that the postponement of the bill, which had been before the House, to a future Session, had not arisen from any doubt on the part of the Government of its importance or propriety, but only from the desire expressed by hon. Gentlemen on both
 1300
 Viscount Clements  objected to this provision; he thought that these arms ought not to be registered. There were no means of knowing whether a man was a yeoman or not, and no such class should be recognised. If any of the former yeomanry had arms in their possession, they did not belong to those persons, but to the Government, and should be returned, therefore, to the Ordnance stores. All these men considered themselves totally irresponsible to the Government.
 Sir R. Ferguson  said, it became his duty to move that this resolution be recommitted. He had been anxious if possible to direct the attention of the Government to the state of the Irish spirit duties, and to the condition to which the country had
 1311 s 6d. s s d s l 1312 Dublin Gazette, s d d s d s d s d d s d 1313 d s. s d s. d s d. s d 1314 s d s d s d 1315 d d 1316 s d s d
 Sir R. Ferguson  would not give the House the trouble of dividing.
 Mr. S. Herbert  moved that the House resolve itself into committee on the Admiralty Lands Bill.
 Mr. S. Herbert  was surprised that any one should describe the bill as an unconstitutional measure. Bills of a similar character, relative to the Ordnance and Customs' departments, were in existence, and the only difference between them was that the present bill was not nearly so stringent in its provisions as the others. The object of the bill was to enable the Crown to acquire lands, appealing to a
 1320
 Mr. S. Herbert  said, the House was generally inclined to place a certain confidence in the various departments of Government, and he hoped they would extend so much to the Admiralty Board, as to believe that the powers confided to them by this bill would not be misused.
 Lord Ashley  then rose and entreated five minutes attention whilst he moved for leave to bring in a bill to establish, regulate, and protect societies for the improvement of the industrious classes, by extending the allotment or field garden system, and the more general establishment of loan funds in England and Wales. The noble Lord said that the first object of his measure would be to extend the allotment system. At present landlords found it too troublesome and expensive to attend to the letting of small portions of land, and the consequence was, that a system of field gardens, calculated to prove so beneficial to the health and morals of the poor, was but rarely found to be in practice in any crowded vicinage. Now, waste and common lands applicable to this useful purpose were to be found in abundance near many large towns, and
 1323 l l l l l
 Lord Eliot  said, that all the official authorities acknowledged the existence of these corps, although they had not been called out for a long time. The clause was only similar in its provisions to one to be found in all previous Arms Bills. He could not conceive that they would be justified in calling upon the yeomanry to give up their arms.
 Mr. B. Wood  said, the effect of the bill would be to schedule all land within half a mile of every dock-yard for an unlimited period of time, interfering with the proprietor's right of disposing of it, and keeping the property around in a state of dilapidation and uncertainty. A man, for instance, might erect an expensive building on his ground, without any chance of being repaid for the outlay, if Government thought proper to take the land.
 Mr. Barnard  said, this was an unconstitutional bill. Its object was to empower the Government to take possession of certain lands near her Majesty's dockyards for the public service; but the particular lands were not defined, and persons possessing property near the sites were anxious and alarmed. He proposed that all the lands intended to be taken by the bill should be scheduled or otherwise described, and that no lands not so scheduled or described should come in any way under the operation of the bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had already stated the grounds why he proposed the additional duty last year. Every one agreed that spirits was an article on which the highest practicable amount of duty should be imposed; and from the information supplied him by persons resident in Ireland, and well qualified to form an opinion, he did entertain a belief that this duty could be made available; but as soon as the fact was established, that it gave rise to offences, he at once resolved to reduce its amount. The hon. Gentleman argued, that no higher duty should be imposed than 2 s d d d 1317 d
 Mr. Labouchere  supported the amendment, considering the proposition to give a onger duration to the present Arms Bill than had been given to former Arms Bills most unconstitutional, most unjust, and altogether unnecessary.
 Mr. Hume  thought the measure was a departure from principle, and an unjustifiable violation of private rights. He moved that the House resolve itself into a committee in three months.
 Mr. Hume  contended that the Government were asking for unlimited powers, and desired that the places should be specifically defined at which the Admiralty were to be vested with this power of purchasing, lands. Unless this were done he should move, that the chairman report progress.
 Mr. Blewitt  did not think the right hon. Baronet had answered the case which had been made out against the bill.
 Captain Jones  thought, unless they reduced the duty below 1 s., 1318
 Mr. Gill,  was afraid, if the lands were scheduled, the value of the property must be diminished, inasmuch as the proprietor's right of control over it was infringed. He was glad to find it was not proposed to take any lands at a greater distance than 700 yards from the dock-yards.
 Sir C. Napier  wished to ascertain what lands were to be taken in. If the Secretary of the Admiralty would give him information on this point, he would be happy to give his assent to the bill.
 Mr. F. Baring  could not, after the best consideration, concur in the view taken by the hon. Gentleman, or in that of a noble Friend of his (Lord Monteagle), whose opinion on any subject he sincerely respected. The question was, whether spirits would bear a duty of 2 s d. d l d s d s d s s d l s l s d s s d s d 1319
 Captain Pechell  wished to know whether the lands in question were to be exempted from the land-tax.
 Sir J. Graham  was not surprised, that the House should regard with jealousy the powers proposed to be given by this bill. With respect to the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, the hon. Member for Plymouth had given an opinion diametrically opposed to his theory. If this bill passed, it would still not be competent for the Government to make a bargain for the purchase of a piece of land without the consent of the House,
 1321
 Sir R. Peel  said, the object of the measure was to give power to the Admiralty to purchase land that might be necessary for the public service without being subjected to exorbitant exaction. The suggestion, however, that the places should be specified was, he thought, a fair one, and at a future stage of the bill the names of the great public establishments which it was proposed to invest with this power might be inserted. It would, however, be an inconvenient and clumsy proceeding to have a separate act every time the Admiralty might require to purchase a few square yards of land, and it would be better to have a general act for the purpose.
 Sir R. Peel  said the Government had evinced every desire throughout to meet, as much as possible, the wishes of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and he considered the reduction of the period now proposed by his noble Friend, of from five years to three, a convincing proof that this desire continued to actuate her Majesty's Ministers. There was, after all, but a difference of one year between the modified proposal of his noble Friend and that of the hon. Gentleman opposite.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, the intention of the bill was neither more nor less than to give legal effect in this country to the 3d article of the treaty of Washington. But as certain results must follow from that article in respect of the admission of this produce, both into the colony of New Brunswick and this country, he should abstain from entering into any further explanation.
 Sir H. W. Barron  asked whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to propose to the Primate of Ireland to vest the appointment of Judge of the Prerogative Court in Dublin in her Majesty, as Prerogative Archbishop of Canterbury has proposed to do in England, and to consolidate the courts of Prerogative and Admiralty under one judge. He put this question at the present time on the ground of an existing vacancy.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied that the whole matter rested upon the question as to whether under the Income-tax Act, the profits derived from the carriage of this specie as freight was not chargeable with that tax. The matter was not one with which he could interfere as Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice on the subject of national education, he feared that the discussion might not be quite so satisfactory as he could wish after the manifestation of excitement that had been recently produced throughout the country on the subject. His views however compelled him to take up the question in a different way from that in which it had hitherto been brought forward. He had not pressed the matter on the House during the present session, but had waited in the hope that her Majesty's Government —for it was a task which could be sucessfully prosecuted alone by them—would have been induced to adopt some such plan as he should suggest to the House. It was impossible for any individual member to carry any such measure as that for
 1330 1331 1332 1333 1334 " That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into her instant and serious consideration the best means of diffusing the benefits and blessings of a moral and religious education among the working classes of her people." " I have received your loyal and dutiful Address. " The attention of my Government had been previously directed to the important object of increasing the means of moral and religious education among the working classes of my people. " The assurance of your cordial co-operation in measures which I consider so necessary, confirms my hope that this blessing will be secured by legislative provisions." 1335 1336 1337 1338 1339 1340 1341 l l l l l l 1342 s s l l 1343 1344 1345 1346 Dictionary, l l. l 1347 l l l  l  l 1348 Hear, and laughter. "A bill for the establishment of schools to promote a sound education for the rising generation of the United Kingdom, at the public expense, without wounding the feelings or injuring the rights of any sect or class of the community, but confining the business of the schoolmaster to the secular and moral training of the children, and leaving all religious instruction to religious teachers distinct from the school; to the end that general instruction and a spirit of Christian brotherhood and good will may be disseminated amongst all classes and denominations."
 Mr. Christopher  begged to ask whether it were the intention of the Government by this bill, that the agricultural produce of the state of Maine in the United States was in future to be admitted into this country at a colonial duty, that produce now paying the duty chargeable on foreign produce?
 Mr. Ewart  trusted that it would be attributed to his zeal in the cause, if he undertook the duty of seconding his hon. Friend in favour of a more extended system of national education. He was happy in being able to do so on the general principles which his hon. Friend had advocated; though on particular points they might not entirely coincide. His hon. Friend had admitted the system of common religious instruction in the schools on those uncon-
 1349 1350
 Sir C. Napier  wished to direct the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to a matter of considerable importance, and of which he (Sir Charles Napier) was sure that the right hon. Gentleman could hardly have been aware. It appeared that an officer who had brought over specie as freight from China had been charged with the income-tax. He wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman was aware of the circumstance, for, most assuredly it never could have been intended to make such a charge by the Income-tax Act.
 Sir R. Peel:  The appointment of this office was absolutely vested in the Lord Primate. An act of Parliament had been recently passed with reference to that office, which continued the appointment
 1329
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, the question de-
 1354
 Mr. Fox Maule  moved for a return of the names of the different corps of Yeomanry Cavalry which have been or are to be re-established on permanent pay and allowances, under the estimate of the present year. The right hon. Gentleman reminded the House that under the late administration the Yeomanry corps had been reduced to the advantage of the country. The present Government had increased the yeomanry and he thought, without any necessity. At least, whatever might be the necessity in the manufacturing districts, there was none whatever for re-embodying the yeomanry of Mid Lothian, for there was no disturbance in Scotland. He considered that, under the present circumstances of the country, when economy was so desirable, and the people were in such a state of distress, that the additional expense of 25,000 l
 Mr. Fox Maule  did not dispute the high authority of the Duke of Wellington, but his Grace had recommended that the yeo-
 1356
 Lord Ashley  moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Industrious Classes Bill, for the purpose of having the Order discharged, it being his intention not to proceed with the measure this Session, but to introduce a similar bill next Session.
 Mr. Bannerman  then rose to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department (Sir J. Graham), whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to remove from their professorships in the Universities of Scotland, those Gentlemen who have adhered to the Free Presbyterian Church; and also whether he had any objections to lay on the Table a copy of any memorial addressed to the Government from the colleges of St. Andrew's, relative to the removal or disqualification of the Principal of that University, in consequence of his having adhered to the Free Church.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the complaint of the hon. Gentleman was founded on this—that an individual had been subjected to pay a sum of money which he had been adjudged liable to pay by the sentence of a court of law, and it was to get rid of that grievance that he had come to the House. The hon. Member now asked the Government to alter the ' law, which rendered persons who acted as factors for those who dealt in exciseable commodities liable to pay the duties of those for whom they acted, or in other words, to put factors in the position of  bonâ fide
 Mr. Milner Gibson  begged to make some inquiries of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, as to the present
 1351 bonâ fide l 1352 bonâ fide bonâ fide,
 Mr. W. Williams  moved, to leave out the words "and sixpence."
 Sir James Graham  had been ready to enter upon the subject when he moved the estimates, had he been called on, and he had no intention of opposing the returns moved for by the right hon. Gentleman. At the same time he was bound to remind the House of the circumstances of the country when the augmentation took place. It was found necessary, on account of the disturbed state of the manufacturing districts. But he could not do better on the subject than read to the House a letter which he had received from the Duke of Wellington, and which had been written by him when he no longer required the
 1355 " Sir—I have the honour to inform you that all the corps of Yeomanry Cavalry, placed at my disposal, and which, in consequence, have been acting under the general officers of the districts where the public peace has been disturbed, have been relieved from permanent duty, and have been permitted to return to their homes. The readiness with which both officers and men turned out for the service of their country, at a period of the year when it must have been very inconvenient to most of them to quit their usual avocations and business, merits the warmest commendation; and 1 must add, as especially deserving of praise, the activity, gallantry, discipline, and forbearance, with which they have performed the duties it became necessary to submit to them, in order to support the magistrates, and enable them to restore and maintain the public peace, protect property, and preserve to every individual of the community the right to labour, as lie himself might be inclined, upon the terms to which be may have agreed with his employer. It is a great satisfaction to me to be able to report thus favourably of this most efficient body; and so sensible am I of the merits of the yeomanry, and of the value of the services they have rendered on this occasion, that I deem it my duty to request that you will lay the letter before the Queen, with my earnest recommendation that I may be honoured with her Majesty's commands to express in general orders her most gracious approbation at their conduct, and her Majesty's confident reliance on their zeal, loyalty, and devotion whenever it may be necessary to call again upon them for assistance. I have the honour to be, sir, your most obedient servant, "(Signed] WELLINGTON. " The right hon. Sir J. Graham, etc."
 Sir J. Graham  would give all the information to the hon. Gentleman which he possessed. With respect to certain professorships, it appeared that many of the persons who held them had, upon conscientious grounds, and not in consequence of their being removed by her Majesty's Government, voluntarily surrendered their appointments, thinking that to retain them was inconsistent with their own views and sentiments. He was unable to give a general answer to the question of the lion. Member, because various professorships were held by peculiar tenures, and particular charters. Some of them need not be held by Gentlemen of the established religion: the right hon. gentleman the rector of the University of Glasgow (Mr. Fox Maule) was aware that the Greek Professorship of that University was held by an Episcopalian. The duty of the Government, in the cases of Dr. Chalmers and Dr. Welch, had been first to decide whether it were consistent with the charter under which they held their professorships that they should retain them. With respect to the second part of the question, respecting the memorial addressed to the Government from the college of St. Andrew's, relative to the removal or disqualification of the Principal of that University, in consequence of his having adhered to the Free Church, be was aware that Sir David Brewster, the gentleman alluded to, had ceased to be a member of the Established Church of Scotland, and it would be a question to determine according to law whether it was, therefore, consistent with the charter of the University that he should continue to hold the office of Principal. The matter had recently come under his cognizance, and he had referred it to the law-officers of the Crown in Scotland, for them to give their opinions on the subject.
 Sir James Graham  begged to remind the House that the Midlothian Yeomanry were in the neighbourhood of the metropolis of Scotland, and that in general there was only one regiment of cavalry in Scotland. If any circumstances made it necessary to employ them—if any disturbance arose, more cavalry might be required. It was that circumstance which made the Duke of Wellington recommend that a body of yeomanry cavalry should be organised in the neighbourhood of the metropolis, and justified the restoration of the corps to which the right hon. Gentleman alluded.
 Lord J. Russell,  in proposing the clauses of which he had given notice, said the House had already disposed of the question whether or not it would continue the act now in force in preference to proceeding with the present measure. In his opinion, the continuance of the present act would have been the wisest course, but the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland rejected that proposition without five minutes' consideration. He was about to propose a very considerable alteration in the most odious and offensive clause in the bill. He alluded to that clause, as one of those coming under the above designation, which enabled a magistrate or a constable under the warrant of a magistrate to open forcibly and to enter in search of arms the House of any person at any hour, whether by day or by night. There was nothing which in the eyes of Englishmen was held so sacred as immunity from all forcible entrance into their dwellings. The Englishman's boast was, that his House was his castle, and proverbial phrases such as these showed what deep interest was attached in this country to the sanctity of a private dwelling-house. With respect to the branding clause, many hon. Members on both sides of the House, and representing different counties in Ireland had expressed their opinion that the rich and the poor should be treated equally. The course which they pursued in this instance did them the highest honour. The clause to which he drew attention, however, was not likely to be enforced as against the rich. As the bill stood at present, it enabled any constable, at any hour of the night, to break into a man's house if refused admission. It warranted them to enter the bed-rooms of men's wives and daughters, and exposed women to the insult of having the privacy of their chambers violated and invaded. How would Englishmen feel if their country was proposed to be subjected
 1363 1364
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  agreed in the noble Lord's statement that the condition of England in 1819 was different from the present state of Ireland; it was worse, and yet this was a reason given by the noble Lord for not extending to Ireland that safeguard which England was then allowed to have. It was satisfactory, after all the annoyance which the Members on the Opposition side were supposed to have created during the discussion of this bill, to find the noble Lord referring to the amendments which had resulted from that discussion, as a reason for not acceding to the present motion of the noble Lord the Member for the city of London. The noble Lord (Lord Eliot) said, that a license for arms might be refused a man, and yet, under the clause now proposed, that man might keep arms, and the magistrates would have no power of taking them from him; but if no disturbance resulted from his keeping arms why should this power be granted to take them away? The noble Lord (Lord Eliot) had made the present bill less stringent in this respect than the old law; but if he consulted the real interests of Ireland he would adopt the amendment.
 The O'Conor Don  said the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland had alluded to the feelings expressed by grand juries in Ireland with reference to this bill, and he merely rose to state that he had lately been on the grand jury in the county of Roscommon, and that even the Conservative Gentlemen upon that jury were not favourable to this bill. He most cordially supported the clause moved by the noble Lord.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  observed, that in the former debate upon this subject he had not heard from Members of the Government, or any hon. Gentlemen opposite, any proof as to the necessity of introducing this new provision into the bill, the necessity of marking the arms. On the former occasion the noble Secretary for Ireland, and hon. Gentlemen opposite, had addressed them at some length, but in all that had been uttered by them he had heard nothing to convince him that the "marking" clause was required
 1369 1370 1371
 Lord Clements  remarked, that the lawless and desperate persons whom the noble Lord had referred to would in no way be prevented from possessing illegal arms by such a clause as this. Those persons kept their arms concealed in such a way that they could not be got at by any
 1372
 Mr. Smith O'Brien.  remarked, that the case of Edenderry was not without parallel. The appeal, as at present existing, to the Court of Queen's Bench, was not upon the merits of the question, but as to the legality of the acts of the Poor-law commissioners. Surely, the right hon. Gentleman would not say there was no remedy that could be applied to this evil. He hoped the case brought before the House would induce them to introduce some such
 1377
 Mr. Collett  moved, that it be struck out.
 Mr. T. B. Smith  said, the object of this clause was to prevent persons from evading payment of the poor-rates, by transferring their property to other members of their families. The clause provided that any property on the premises might be seized for payment of the poor-rates.
 Lord Eliot  thought the observations with which the hon. Gentleman had prefaced his amendment, would have been more applicable upon the second reading of the bill. The House on the second reading had affirmed the principle that some restriction should be put upon the use of firearms in Ireland, and during the progress of the bill whilst in committee alterations had been made which had confined its operation to firearms. There were other clauses still to be brought up which would modify the bill still further, so as perhaps to meet the objections of some of the hon. Members opposite. By one of those clauses, it was enacted that if the time allowed for registration should not be found sufficient, the justices of the peace should be empowered to extend it. By another, all persons at present on the registry would have a  primâ facie
 Lord Eliot  observed, that it was admitted by all parties that this clause was not one of those provisions which would prove inoperative, or which in its operation was liable to evasion. For his own part, he thought that if they required a registration of arms, they also required some proof that the arms found in any person's possession were arms which had undergone the registration. At present it was impossible to determine this point, and the object of the clause, instead of being to degrade the people, as was asserted on the other side, was merely to enable the authorities to decide whether the other provisions of the act had been properly complied with. The hon. Member said that the police were the originators of the clause, and that the police were not the most proper advisers of the Legislature. He perfectly coincided in that doctrine, but at the same time he would take leave to say that it was not only necessary, but highly advisable, to consult practical men on the subject of any bill submitted to Parliament, and it was as practical men that the magistracy and the police had given almost unanimously their opinion in favour of the clause. He begged also that Members would recollect that this clause only applied to firearms. With respect to other points, the hon. Member had said that no sufficient reasons in support of the clause had been alleged. Reasons, however, sufficiently conclusive had been stated, to induce the majority of the House to pass the clause in committee. The magistrates of Ireland, as high-spirited men as either the noble Lord or the hon. Member for Kerry, did not see that any disgrace would attend its operation; the opinion of the respectable farmers of the country was in favour of it, and the only class who murmured at the provision were those lawless persons who now found it easy to evade the law, but who, if this clause were carried, would hereafter find it difficult to possess any arms which were not properly and duly registered.
 Lord Eliot  said, the noble Lord had begun his speech by expressing some surprise that the Government had not acceded to his proposition, and renewed the existing law for a year; and the noble Lord then endeavoured to excite the sympathy of the House for those persons, the sanctity of whose dwellings might be violated under the present bill. Now he desired the House to mark the inconsistency of the noble Lord's argument. The noble Lord proposed to renew a law, under which the right of search existed to a greater extent than under the present bill; for the alterations made in the committee on the bill modified the right of search, as compared with the existing law. The noble Lord wished to restrict the operation of the bill to disturbed districts. What was the meaning of the word "disturbed?" The meaning of that word was expounded in the noble Lord's own coercion bill of 1834. He apprehended that a disturbed state was a state of circumstances when there was an open violation of the law, bordering on insurrection, and it would be impossible for the Lord-lieutenant to issue a proclamation declaring a district to be in a disturbed state, unless there were in it not merely the commission of murders and agrarian depredations by individuals, but
 1365
 Lord John Russell  did not exactly know what remedy his hon. Friend would wish to propose to the House, and he thought that, if he could devise one, he should prepare a clause embodying it. At the same time he must say, that with respect to the case which the hon. Gentleman had brought forward, he thought there should be some inquiry made, and some decision come to, particularly as the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had spoken last had stated, that the case of Edenderry was by no means a solitary one. His hon. Friend, in stating that case, had spoken of the appointments of commissioners in putting the Poor-law into operation in Ireland. Now, with regard to that Poor-law in all its main features, and also with regard to these appointments, he was certainly far more responsible than the right hon. Baronet opposite, who was not at all sanguine as to the results of the measure. He was not going to discuss the general question of the Poor-laws in Ireland, but as to the appointments spoken of, he would observe that they were certainly made in the same way as appointments in England—that was to say, it was left to the commissioners to find persons who they thought would be most fit for the duties to be entrusted to them. The Poor-law commissioners were originally appointed by the Prime Minister, and it was thought proper to entrust them with the discretion of select-
 1378
 Mr. Ross  contended that in many counties in Ireland, in Antrim in particu-
 1366
 Mr. F. French  supported the amendment. He believed, that if the Government pressed such measures, they would call another Rebecca into existence in Ireland. He was convinced, that under this objectionable law they would be unable to obtain payment of the rates, even with the aid of the 30,000 soldiers now stationed in that country.
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  rose to call the attention of the House to the memorial of the board of guardians of the Edenderry union; the facts contained in which could not be controverted, as they had already been sifted by the Court of Queen's Bench. He trusted that the right hon. Baronet, after considering these statements, would make such an alteration in the measure as should remove the grounds of complaint. He would observe that lie believed the fault was not so much that of the bill, as of those who had to carry it into effect. [The hon. Gentleman then stated the case of the Edenderry union, on behalf of the guardians, for which see  ante 1374 l mandamus certiorari,
 Mr. Archbold  thought that the commissioners had conducted affairs very unhappily; and he observed, that the bill formed a bad legacy from the last Government; but its management certainly had been rather improved than the reverse by the present Ministry. Still, there were strong grounds of complaint; and he himself could instance a case in which, despite all information and admonition, the commissioners had, neglecting numerous eligible situations for the workhouse, insisted on having it erected actually on a swamp, the only swamp in the country; passing by places where both dry ground and clear springs could have been found,—on the banks, too, of a good river, they pitched on a marshy position where hundreds would have to be spent in draining, and water could be got at with difficulty. Thus it was, that unhealthiness was actually encountered, and expense needlessly entailed. Affairs were rather getting worse than improving, and if the evil was not soon remedied the Government would learn the necessity of strong measures of redress.
 Captain Jones  thought it his duty to inform the Government, that the case stated by the hon. Member for Kildare was not a solitary one, and that the same complaint was made in many other Unions —the only difference being that in Edenderry the Poor-law commissioners committed a legal blunder in making an order which they had no right to make. In the Derry Union they committed the same blunder, and on sending a person down to inquire, they pared off a few of the charges. So badly was part of the work done in the workhouse of that Union, that when the paupers were in there, he himself saw the rain falling through the roof. This was by no means a solitary case; and he believed, that if every Gentleman were to state what occurred in his own district, he would make a similar complaint to that of the hon. Member for Kildare.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that in the case of county or grand jury cess no power was given to seize the property of lodgers;
 1380
 Mr. Ewart  condemned the policy pursued towards Ireland by the present Government. That policy was one of inaction, or in other words, it was this,—" Leave Ireland to herself, and possibly, in time, she will become tranquil." Now, was that policy consistent with a stringent measure such as that now under the consideration of the House? On the one hand it was said, 'Leave Ireland as she is," and on the other there was introduced a measure most calculated to increase ex-
 1367
 Mr. S. Crawford  rose to move, instead of the motion, the amendment of which he had given notice, and which he read as follows:—
 " That the unrestricted power of having, carrying, and using arms, for all legal purposes, is a right enjoyed by Englishmen and Scotchmen, and is one of the essential safeguards of freedom. That to limit or withhold this privilege, as regards Irishmen, creates an
 1360
 Sir C. Denham Norreys  agreed with his hon. Friend in thinking that there should be some mode of calling in question the discretion of the commissioners. It would give great and general satisfaction to the rate-payers to know that there was some cheap appeal open to them from the decisions of the commissioners.
 Sir James Graham  had had no conception that it was the intention of the hon. Gentleman to bring this question before the House, and he was bound to say, that connected as it was with minute detail respecting the administration of the Poor-law in Ireland, he had been but imperfectly acquainted with it. It was the duty of the commission, before bringing into operation the means of affording parish relief according to law, to cause a large number of workhouses to be built at once. This operation—under a law
 1375 l l l 1376 l
 Sir J. Graham:  Looking at this subject retrospectively, must say that he had not altogether neglected this subject. He had consulted Mr. Nicholls as to the construction of the workhouses, and also his brother commissioners in England. He had directed Sir E. Head to make a general inquiry on the subject. The outlay was said to be extravagant for the work done, and many imperfections were attributed to buildings, such as not being weather tight, but the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had admitted with perfect candour, that the architect was riot deficient in skill, and that he could alone be censured for having superintended so many works at the same time. Eighty workhouses wet e erected simultaneously, with the view of bringing the act into operation
 1379
 Mr. Vernon Smith  wished to make a few observations upon the speech of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to have mistaken some of the charges which his noble Friend the Member for the City of London had brought against him. In the commencment of his speech the right hon. Baronet had told them that he was not answerable for the delay which had occurred in carrying through the measures proposed by Government. Now, no such accusation, he conceived, had ever been brought against him. What his noble Friend complained of, as he conceived, was, that deficiency in the administration of business talents which had caused the right hon. Baronet to neglect to ensure the passing of his measures by consulting in their introduction the feelings of the House, at least those of his own supporters in it, and what was of even more consequence than them — the feelings of the country. At the opening of the present Session, the right hon. Baronet had put words into the Queen's mouth expressing her desire for the introduction of certain law reforms. These were not measures of a character which were likely to raise political or party feelings in the House. If the right hon. Baronet had been really wishful to pass them, he might have introduced them into the Upper House, and from thence brought them here. But lie adopted no such course, and the measures
 1443 1444 1445 1446 1447
 Mr. Williams  said, he rose to offer a few observations on the state of Wales, in which he felt deeply interested, connected as he was by property with that part of the country. If the Government only conducted a conciliatory course towards the people of that part of the country, if they acted as any just man would say, they ought—he was sure there would be no difficulty in restoring tranquillity. The Government had taken a wise course in sending a commissioner to investigate the grievances of the people, though he thought it would be better if the gentlemen were not connected with the police. if the people had any confidence in the representative of Government he was sure they would openly and frankly state their grievances; and, from all he had heard, he was convinced that the people would be satisfied to abide by any decision of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, if founded on sufficiently impartial information. There was no more peaceable and religious people than the Welsh. When the country was invaded by the French at Fisguard, the Welsh instantly took up arms in defence of their Sovereign. He was sorry to see that the right hon. Gentleman (Sir James Graham) thought it a laughing matter that so loyal a people should be driven to outrage.
 Mr. Williams  continued. He understood that twelve prisoners were taken up at Carmarthen. He hoped that they
 1452
 Lord Stanley—Sir,  among the numerous extraordinary misrepresentations of the state of affairs which have been made by the noble Lord who has just sat down, there is hardly any one more remarkable than that with which the noble Lord commenced his speech, namely, that my right hon. Friend, in the beginning of his address, had complained of the conduct of the noble Lord the Member for London in not moving directly, as was his bounden duty a vote of want of confidence in her Majesty's Government, whereas the very first sentence that fell from my right hon. Friend, was directly and diametrically the reverse of what the noble Lord has represented. So far from complaining of the course pursued by the noble Lord, my right hon. Friend commenced his observations by stating, that he did not complain of the course which had been taken by the noble Lord. He admitted, that the course taken was entirely within the noble Lord's constitutional right and privilege, and that he did think there was a fair and legitimate ground on the present occasion for not taking that course which the noble Lord, in his first sentence, said my right hon. Friend, in the outset of his speech, complained that the noble Lord had not adopted. But I confess that with whatever satisfaction I may have listened to the speech of the noble Lord, seeing the number of wasted days, I cannot but be of opinion that the public may somewhat think the business of the country has not been very materially advanced, or the time of the House very valuably occupied by the course which has been taken tonight. I do not complain of the course which the noble Lord has pursued, prudent, as no doubt it has been, in making such a statement, while he made it impossible that the sense of the House should be taken on any practical question. This debate has served as an opportunity for hon. Gentlemen on the other side to pay each other reciprocal compliments on their own vast superiority in debate, of assuming that there never were such speeches delivered as those which have been delivered on the other side during the present session, and of contending, that if my right hon. Friend has complained that the business of the session has been impeded, it has been so impeded in consequence of the acknowledged superiority in debate of our oppo-
 1472 1473 Nicholl: [Ironicalcheers] J. Russell: " 1474 l. 1475 Palmerston: " 1476 "Had he been reinforced with a single regiment of cavalry he felt convinced he should have been able to repress all the rebellious feeling in Candahar; and that if the assistance of a few troops were afforded him he would be enabled to march to Ghuznee and Cabul; but, though six months had elapsed since the outbreak in Candahar, no aid of any kind had been sent to him; and he was obliged still to confine himself to that point and its vicinity." Palmerston: "Read 1477 1478 Palmerston—" 1479 1480 tête noire 1481 Palmerston:—" 1482
 Lord Stanley  begged to explain. He should be exceedingly sorry if, even in the heat of debate, he had brought forward any charge against the late Government, or against any persons which he believed to be true in words but not in substance. All he could say with regard to the preparations for the Chinese war was this; that if the right hon. Gentleman would move for any papers which would show by whom and at what time instructions were given, and supplies furnished for the war with that country, they should be given without reservation, and the House would then be able to judge whether or not he had made an unfounded charge,
 Viscount Clements  said he had not intended to take a part in this debate; but the right hon. Baronet had done him the honour to lecture him on the course he had taken in respect to the Arms bill. Had the lecture been applicable to himself only he would have received it with the utmost resignation. As it came from the right hon. Baronet, he regarded it rather as a compliment than otherwise. He had heard the manner in which the right hon. Baronet had spoken of his policy in Ireland with great regret; nothing could be more unfortunate than that policy. He was in hopes that he should have been able to tell his countrymen that the measures affecting them had been drawn up with great deliberation and consideration for their interests; but he was deprived of even that consolation. The right hon. Baronet seemed to complain of too much time having been spent upon Irish matters, and that the result was the delay of measures for the amelioration of the people. If the right hon. Baronet would bring forward such measures, he (Lord Clements) was ready to attend the House until Christmas. He felt bound as a Member of that House to consider the interests of the empire, but more particularly those of that country which he came to represent. He would not trouble the House at that late hour, except to warn it, that if it placed chains upon the Irish people it must expect to hear them clank.
 Lord J. Russell:  I beg to say a word in explanation. I did not say that the meetings generally were illegal. I stated that after consulting with some friends of mine (and many of them very learned
 1451
 Lord John Russell  addressed the House to the following effect. I take this opportunity of bringing before the notice of the
 1390 1391 1392 1393 1394 1395 1396 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Peel.—To l l. l. a total l. 1397 l. 1398 1399 1400 [Cheers.] l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1401 l. Chancellor of the Excheqner: l. l. l. l. l 1402 Magnum vectigal parsimonia;" vectigal sapientia." 1403 l. l. 1404 1405 1406 1407
 Lord. J. Russell,  I said I think there may be good reasons for postponing the production of your instructions, but not for withholding the expression of your opinions upon the subject.
 Mr. Morris,  as a magistrate for the county of Carmarthen, could not allow the assertion of his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham to go forth without observation. He felt sure that his hon. Friend's reflection upon the magistrates was unjust, and that if complaints had been properly made, either with respect to the turnpike tolls, or any other grievance, they would have received every attention and redress. With respect to the people of Carmarthen generally, their loyalty and peaceful disposition were undoubted, and he, therefore, anxiously hoped and believed that by the efforts of the magistrates, aided by her Majesty's Government, peace and order would be speedily restored.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, that he had not intended to take any part in the debate; but from the speeches of the right hon. Baronet and the noble Lord, he felt bound to do what in him lay to extricate from the degrading and injurious consequences of a mere party  melée, 1448 1449 1450
 Mr. Muntz  explained. He did not live in Carmarthenshire, and he knew comparatively little of that county; but he lived in Wales, and he knew what occurred in his own district, and with respect to
 1493
 Mr. Muntz  observed, that he, for one, cared nothing about the party debates which took place in that House, and he was sure the same feeling pervaded the majority of the country. The people were perfectly careless as to what had been done in past years by either party, for they said, and they said truly, that nothing had been done for them, and therefore they called the present the do-nothing parliament; but they were very anxious as to what measures were to be introduced for their relief in future, and had lost almost all hope. He wished from his heart that the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire was as largely engaged in commercial affairs as he was, and then he would not say that Gentlemen on this side of the House exaggerated the commercial distress; yet the last time he had the honour to address that House, when he recommended Ministers not only to inquire into the distress of Ireland, but also of England, Scotland, and the colonies, the noble Lord in reply, added the world, and made him (Mr. Muntz) to say that the whole world was going to rack and ruin. He did not pretend to compete with the noble Lord in experience in that House, nor in ability as a debater; but he knew as well as the noble Lord, or any man in that House, what he said then—and he was quite confident that he never said any thing about the world; and if the noble Lord, or any other Member chose to tack words to his remarks, they should be responsible for them, for he (Mr. Muntz) would not. He now repeated his recommendation to Ministers to inquire fully into the causes of distress in England, Scotland, Ireland, and the colonies, for in all parts that distress was great and increasing; and he called upon them to inquire before it was too late. As to Wales, he feared the:disturbance there might become a very serious affair. Could the Government shut their eyes to the state of the districts in Wales? Ought they to forget the condition of the people in that portion of her Majesty's dominions? The upper classes there treated the lower with every kind of tyranny and oppression. And the House would see that the people had grave cause for discontent, when he assured them that a load of lime, used for manure, the first cost of which was 2 s. s. d, 1489 1490 " Man never is, but always to be, blest" 1491 1492
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved, that the House do resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he should not have risen, were it not that he felt himself called on to take notice of the extraordinary mistake into which the noble Lord opposite had fallen, in his statement of the condition in which he found the naval and military preparations of this country in reference to China. The noble Lord had stated that the late Government had made no preparations to carry on the China war with efficiency, and that they had not intended to augment the forces on that coast. Now, he took on himself to assert, in contradiction to the noble Lord, that if the late Government had
 1483 1484 1485 1486 1487
 Mr. Brotherton  agreed with the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose. As that hon. Member had stated, the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government must not flatter himself, from the increased demand for cotton, that the cotton trade was in a flourishing condition—that trade was really in anything but a satisfactory condition. As for the increased demand, it would be recollected that that might be partially accounted for by the fact of an enormous quantity having been burned in Liverpool. Upwards of 800,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that whilst he approved in most of what had fallen from the noble Lord who had just sat down, he did not think that either the noble Lord who had opened this discussion, nor the right hon. Baronet who had replied to him, had fairly placed the subject upon its true and proper basis. He thought at the same time that the right hon. Baronet had entirely failed of stating any satisfactory reason for the total want of activity which had prevailed during the present Session. The right hon. Baronet had come into power, backed by a majority apparently sufficient to enable him to carry any measures which he might think fit to propose; indeed, the right hon. Baronet had declared that he would not hold office unless such were his position. Yet he had heard to-night, with great regret, a speech from the right hon. Baronet, in which there was not one single reason stated, which could be satisfactory to the country, however it might be to the House, for doing nothing. He could only think that the Cabinet were not of one mind, and on that account they did nothing. He had expected that the noble Lord would have called the attention of the House to what really was the great point for their consideration—namely, a comparison between the state of the country at the present time, and that in September, 1841. There was not a single interest in the country that he knew of, which was not in a worse
 1436 1437 1438 l. 1439
 Mr. Christopher  said, that it would be in the recollection of the House that a committee was appointed some time back to inquire into a breach of the privileges of that House. Petitions had been presented to the House on the subject of the Corn laws from Epworth, which were represented to have forged signatures attached to them. The select committee which was appointed to investigate the matter, had come to the conclusion,
 
 
 1.—" That it appears to this committee that Samuel Potts was employed by John Hastie, of Doncaster, to obtain signatures to the Epworth petition for a repeal of the Corn laws; that when the said Samuel Potts received that petition, no signatures were attached thereto; that it is now in the same state as when the said Samuel Potts returned it to the house of the said John Hastie; that it never was out of the custody of the said Samuel Potts from
 1494 2.—" That the said Samuel Potts has been guilty of an extensive forgery of names to the said petition." "That Samuel Potts, in forging signatures to a petition to the House of Commons, has been guilty of a high breach of the privileges of this House." " That Samuel Potts, having been guilty of a high breach of the privileges of this House, be for his said offence taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House; and that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant accordingly."
 Mr. Milner Gibson  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, upon a subject which he thought might properly be introduced during the present discussion, he meant our commercial relations with the Brazils. He was informed that the executive government in the Brazils possessed the power of increasing the customs' duties by decree of the emperor to the extent of 6O per cent., and lie also understood that a decree had been issued by the emperor authorising the executive government to prepare a new tariff upon
 1442
 Sir Benjamin Hall  rose to say a few words with respect to the allusions which had been made to the disturbances in Wales. The subject had been introduced by his noble Friend near him, who had stated that the inhabitants of that portion of the country were generally peaceful, loyal, and anxious to submit to the laws to the best of their power. It was, therefore, natural for them to suppose that when they found disturbances breaking out, as they had done, not in a manufacturing, but in a purely agricultural district, that there must be some serious evil the bottom of these outrages. The
 1440 1441
 Sir J. Graham:  I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon. I could not exhibit so improper a feeling as to laugh at such statements as the hon. Gentleman made. It was the remark of an hon. Member behind me that occasioned the interruption.
 Sir Robert Peel:  My impression has I always been, that until the year 1844 no such power as that alluded to can be exercised by the Brazilian government.
 Sir R. Peel.  What is the difference between communicating the instructions and stating the views and intentions of the Government? Are the operations in the field yet concluded? In one despatch it is true, it was stated that not another shot would be fired? I am not so sanguine, and I cannot undertake to say, that the military operations in that district are entirely concluded, but I can undertake to say, that it is not consistent with the duty of the Government, while military operations arc proceeding, to lay before the House, in the shape of their instructions, their views as to the course to be pursued in the future Government of that country. I can believe that a premature disclosure of those views and intentions might seriously compromise British interests in that part of the globe. The time will come when her Majesty's Government will state the course they have taken, but until I know, that the military operations have been concluded, that peace has been restored, and that tranquillity has been established, it is our duty to withhold the production of the instructions we have issued, and which the noble Lord seemed so anxious to peruse. I do not apprehend that the noble Lord himself will think that while operations are going on in Affghanistan, or in any other part of the globe, that we ought to encounter any risk by laying before Parliament the instructions we have issued to our naval and military forces. It is difficult to lay down any rule or precedent, you must place confidence in the Government with respect to the instructions they issue, and while there remains a chance of British arms being engaged in warfare, or the risk that British interests will be com-
 1414 l. l l. l.  l. l. l. 1415 dictum 1416
 Sir R. Peel  spoke as follows:—It is not my intention to find fault with the noble Lord for the course he has thought fit to
 1408 1409 1410 Cheer.] 1411 1412 1413 " Why not lay before the House the instructions you have given, and enable us to judge of the course you mean to pursue?"
 Viscount Howick  said, that he was not aware until that morning that it was the object of his noble Friend to raise the present discussion, and he had not intended to take any part in the debate; but after the speech which had been just delivered by the right hon. Baronet, lie could not refrain, from a sense of duty, from expressing, and it should be very shortly, the great disappointment he felt in listening to that right hon. Gentleman, and the great regret he felt, when he found that her Majesty's Government still appeared to entertain the opinion that the situation of this country might safely be left as it was, without any interference on their part. That the situation of the country was very serious—that there were difficulties, not to say dangers, sufficient to excite anxiety ill the mind of every man capable of taking a calm view of the circumstances around him, was, lie thought, a fact that must be universally admitted. What did they see in Ireland? What was it, according to the description of one of the highest servants of the Crown, and who, he trusted, in this, went far beyond the truth, but who still affirmed that it was
 1427 1428 1429 1430 1431 1432 1433 1434 1435
 Viscount Palmerston:  I wish, Sir, before this discussion closes, to make a few observations on the speech of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. That right hon. Gentleman began by complaining of the course pursued by my noble Friend, and he made the sam complaint with regard to him that he urged with respect to me on a former occasion, namely, that my noble Friend, if he found fault with the conduct of the Government ought not have contented himself with making a speech explaining the reasons for condemning their conduct, but was bound to come to an issue, and propose a vote of want of confidence. The right hon. Baronet stated that no doubt my noble Friend was deterred from pursuing that course, from an opinion that I had pronounced in a former debate, that if the present Government were inclined to resign power, the opinion of the country was such as to induce them to resume it. I did undoubtedly express such an opinion on one evening; but the right hon. Baronet very conveniently for his argument, but I must say very unjustly towards me, neglected to add that I afterwards retracted that opinion; that I said I had grown wiser by the experience of the intervening month — that I cautioned the hon. Gentleman opposite against acting precipitately on that opinion, and that I warned them that I at least should not be responsible for the consequences if they did. But I must say, the argument of the right hon. Baronet is wholly inconsistent with the course of proceeding in this House and with the nature of our debates. It is very ' convenient no doubt for the right hon. Baronet, having such a majority as he has, to propound the opinion that the minority should not express any dissatisfaction at the conduct of the Government unless they are prepared to come to a vote which the Government know full well will be rejected by a majority, of which they have an arithmetical account. It is very well
 1453 1454 1455 1456 1457 l. l. l. 1458 1459 1460 1461 1462 1463 1464 1465 1466 1467 1468 exequatur, 1469 " A mighty maze, and without a plan 1470 1471
 Captain Plumridge  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to give any further remuneration to Sir Jas. Douglas, for his services in the ship  Cambridge,
 Lord J. Russell  said, that nothing which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman had in any material degree diminished the force of those objections which had been urged by his right hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Leith. He never heard, in a case of this kind, a speech which contained arguments more solid, or which required a greater weight of argument to overthrow it. He had waited with much anxiety to hear what defence a gentleman of such acknowledged learning and undoubted ability as the So-licitor-general could make of the bill before the House, and he was sorry to say
 51 52 53 54
 Mr. Hope Johnstone  vindicated the character of the ministers of the Church of Scotland. He gave credit for sincerity to those who had left the Church; and, although this bill might not have the effect of conciliating the seceders, he believed it would be hailed by the whole Church of Scotland as a very great boon indeed. The settlement which it proposes was a most reasonable one, because it afforded to congregations the means, not only of testing the character and attainments of presentees, but also their suitableness to the respective parishes into which they might be inducted.
 Mr. Campbell  said, Sir, I rise to oppose this bill, not in my character of a seceder from the Establishment, for it really can have no effect whatever upon the free Protestant Church of Scotland; but I oppose it because I consider it a most unconstitutional and destructive measure, and utterly unworthy of a Conservative Government; and I cannot in sufficiently strong terms state my objections, not only to it, but to the time and manner of bringing it forward. The right hon. Baronet, the Home Secretary, stated that they could not bring it forward till the veto was rescinded. Sir, here the Premier and the right hon. Baronet are at variance; for he, much to his credit, said, and I read his words on the motion of the right hon. Member for Perth,—
 "I wish most earnestly that the Veto Act, and all the impediments arising out of it, were removed; but, at the same time, I do not think it would conduce to an amicable settlement to absolutely insist on their removal." 64 reductio ad absurdum 65 in limine, 66 67
 Mr. Campbell  wished, after the personal allusion which the right hon. Baronet had made, to say one word in explanation. He never said that the Church of Scotland was bound to accept the bill which he had brought in. He applied to the leaders of the Church of Scotland with the view of ascertaining whether it was necessary to have their consent to the bill. They said, in reply, it was not necessary to ask their consent to the measure which he had introduced; for they had previously given their sanction to a bill exactly similar to the one which had originated with himself.
 Mr. Williams  moved, that the House do adjourn.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  moved as an amendment, that the bill be committed that day three months. The practical tendency of the measure was to give double labour to one bishop, in the event of any of his right rev, brethren being incapable, thereby justifying the inference, that every bishop was able to do double the duty at present imposed on him. The bill had been brought in too late, and they were called upon to legislate upon a most important subject too hastily, and he thought it would be far better to defer all legislation until another Session, when a comprehensive measure for the appointment of suffragan bishops ought to be introduced. He felt bound to protest against the present bill, because he thought its principle was anti-ecclesiastical, and he trusted the House would not agree to it.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, before the House came to a division, he thought it necessary for one who was looking on as it were from middle ground, shortly to state his opinions as to the course now proposed for the settlement of the question. He deeply regretted to say, that he found himself in the position of having been compelled, on the same grounds which had actuated a large body of the clergy of Scotland, accompanied by an immense number of the people, to separate himself from an Establishment which they looked back upon still with feelings of affection. He had not separated himself from that Establishment in any feelings of anger; he had done it with feelings of sorrow, and he had done it solely from motives of conviction. Speaking in his own name and speaking the feelings of those with whom he was connected, he must state to her Majesty's Government, that they would look with the most perfect indifference, as a party who had seceded from the Church, on the result of the bill now before the House. They felt that it could not and would not detract from their ranks, and they felt, also, that it would not prevent a single individual now remaining in the Church of Scotland who would join them on any appreciable motive, from coming out of the Church if they thought fit to do so. They scarcely took the slightest interest in this measure, and he had almost made up his mind to abstain from recording his vote against it. He did not think it was calculated to aid what remained of the Church of Scotland, but rather to advance the cause of the Church which the seceders called "the Church of Scotland," by creating differences within the Church as established by law, and giving the people who were still attached to that Church ground for hereafter separating themselves from it. The hon. Gentle-
 60 liberum arbitrium. liberum arbitrium liberum arbitrium; 61 liberum arbitrium. 62 liberum arbitrium. 63
 Mr. Fox Maule  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department; first, Whether he has it in contemplation to grant a charter to the College of Surgeons? Secondly, If so, whether he will have any objection to lay the draft of that charter before Parliament? And, thirdly, whether, if the charter be granted, he means it to be acted upon before the Government takes up the entire question of medical reform?
 Mr. B. Cochrane  never knew a bill on which it was more difficult to form an opinion. On the whole, however, he had come to the conclusion, that he would vote for the second reading, contenting himself with stating his objections. It was, in fact, the same bill which had been introduced by Lord Aberdeen in 1840. Its tendency certainly was to destroy all the patronage in Scotland. If the objections to a presentee were allowed to be weighed and considered by the Presbytery, it was clear that it threw the whole of the patron-
 31 "If objections were offered to the sdmission of a presentee, it was the duty of the Presbytery, being in the place of an ordinary, to take notice of the objections, and hear the reasons of dissent; but the power of determining rested with the Presbytery alone." "That the Presbytery were bound to give great latitude to the objections to the fitness of a presentee." jus devolutum 32
 Mr. Rutherfurd  said, that he could not avoid expressing surprise, that although it was declared that the subject of this measure had occupied the serious attention of the Members of her Majesty's Government, both in and out of office, during nearly three years, they only attempted now to force it through Parliament at a period when, as was generally admitted, so little of public business had been done, and so much remained to be done. And this surprise was not at all diminished by what
 33 34 35 "It is statute and ordained, that the examination and admission of Ministers within this realm be only in the power of the Kirk, now openlie and publicly professed within the samin, the presentation of laick patronage always reserved to the just and auncient patrones." "That all presentations to benefices be direct to the particular Presbyteries in all time cuming, with full power to give collation thereupon, and to put ordour to all maters and causes ecclesiastical within their boundes, according to the discipline of the Kirk; providing the aforesaid Presbyteries be bound and astricted to receive and admitt whatsumever qualified minister presented be his Majesty or laick patrones." "That nothing herein contained shall prejudice or diminish the rights of the Church, as the same now stands by law established, as to the trying of the qualities of any person presented to any church or benefice." 36 37 "Whereas it is expedient to remove any doubt which may exist as to the powers and jurisdictions of the Church as by law established in Scotland, in the matter of collation, and as to the right of the Church to decide that no person be settled in any parish or benefice having cure, against whom or whose settlement in such parish or benefice there exist any just cause of exception." "Church to decide that no person be settled against whom or whose settlement, there exist any just cause of exception." "If one or more parishioners, being members of the congregation, have any objection to the individual so presented, in respect to his ministerial gifts and qualities, either in general or with reference to that particular parish, or any reason to state against his settlement in that parish, and which objections, or reasons, do not infer matter of charge against the presentee, to be prosecuted and followed out according to the forms and discipline of the Church, the Presbytery are ready either then, or at their next meeting, to receive the same in writing, or to write down the same in their minutes, in the form and manner which such parishioners may desire." 38 "Presbytery, or other judicature of the Church, to whom the said objections or reasons shall be stated or referred, as aforesaid, shall in cognoscing and determining on them judicially, have regard only to such objections and reasons, so stated, as are personal to the presentee in regard to his ministerial gifts and qualities, either in general or with respect to that particular parish." "But shall be entitled to have regard to the whole circumstances and condition of the parish,—to the spiritual welfare and edification of the people, and to the character and number of the persons by whom the said objections or reasons shall be preferred." 39 "Particular circumstances and condition of the parish, to the spiritual welfare and edification of the people, and to the character and number of the persons by whom the objections are preferred. 40 41 42 43 44
 Mr. Villiers  denied that there was any evidence to warrant the hon. Gentleman saying, that this person had been employed or hired to go about the country to obtain names.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War whether the information which he had received that a soldier of the 5th Fusiliers, in the south of Ireland, fell dead on parade; and, that the unanimous verdict of the jury was, that death arose from apoplexy, occasioned by over-drilling was correct. All the witnesses examined on the inquest said that the 5th Fusiliers had of late systematically received double drill. He wished to ask whether the Government had received any information as to this inquest, and also as to whether it was true that this regiment was exposed to double drill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in order to make the case understood,
 10 Cambridge, l. Cambridge l. l. l.,
 Sir H. Hardinge  replied that up to the present moment he had never heard one single word on the subject; but after what had been stated, it would be his duty to make inquiries into the subject.
 Dr. Nicholl  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his motion. In answer to his hon. Friend (Mr. O'Brien) he would say, that his opinions were not in accordance with those of the heads of the Church, who had approved of the bill, and it had passed the House of Lords without opposition.
 Mr. Brotherton  moved that the debate be adjourned. It was unseasonable to go on with it at such an hour (quarter past one o'clock.)
 Mr. Christopher , after referring to the proceedings in the case on Friday evening, said, he thought it was clear beyond all doubt, by the evidence given before the committee, that this individual had been in the habit for the last two or three months of going about the country, and of extensively forging petitions to that House on the subject of the Corn-laws. If they had any wish to vindicate their privileges, they must notice a proceeding of this kind. In 1827 a person was committed to Newgate for forging only one name to a petition, but this person had forged the names of several hundred persons. Under these circumstances he had no hesitation in asking the House to consent to his motion, that Samuel Potts be committed to Newgate, having been guilty of a high breach of the privileges of this House.
 Mr. Wallace  in rising to oppose the second reading of the bill, said, that great praise was due to the right hon. Gentleman for the calm and deliberate manner in which he had introduced this subject—and, unacquainted as that right hon. Gentleman must be with the laws of Scotland, his speech showed a vast deal of industry. This was a question which very deeply affected the interests of Scotchmen; and he must say that its introduction into that House on the last day of July, was an affront to the people of Scotland not less than was offered by the Act of Queen Anne, which was carried in such breathless haste, that his countrymen were not allowed sufficient time to oppose it. As one of the representatives of Scotland, he felt it to be a very great affront, and, therefore, with all the calmness that was in his power, he should state the reasons why he thought it ought not to pass into a law. In the first place, it was said that the measure was not earlier introduced before, because the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland had been contumacious. Now, he asked whether or not they had been contumacious when Lord Aberdeen introduced his bill in 1840? No doubt they were. What, he asked, was meant by this bill? It was declared to be a bill for the purpose of removing certain doubts with regard to the settlement of ministers in Scotland. His belief was that the bill would be the direct and certain means of creating a great many doubts and much litigation. In the first place, he begged to deny that the bill was brought into the House at the suggestion of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. The original
 29 30
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that he, in common with those who had preceded him, deeply deplored the calamity which had fallen upon the Church of Scotland; but he felt it to be the bounden and imperative duty of the House to come forward with some legislative measure, to alleviate, as much as possible, the consequences of that calamity. It had been asked, why, if they intended to legislate, they had not done so at an earlier period? He did not think there was any ground for the censure implied by that question. He begged to remind the House, that as far back as the year 1840, his noble Friend, the author of this bill, was so deeply impressed with the necessity of averting the calamity which he saw was then approaching, that upon ascertaining the then Government had no intention to bring forward a measure on the subject, he did, as an individual Member of the other House of Parliament, bring in a measure to effect that object. But the General Assembly was as contumacious as it had been in the Auchterarder case. The bill of his noble Friend was submitted to the General Assembly. It was disapproved of by a majority of that body as then constituted, because they did not think it went far enough in giving weight to the objections of the people, and as being restrictive in its character and interfering with the rights of the Church. It was said, that the bill as then framed, did not go so far as the recommendations of Dr. Cook in 1833. Having been himself a Member of the General Assembly at the time, he had endeavoured to satisfy them that that bill gave them the same powers as they had had under the act of 1690. He was told, that if such were the case, they would gladly accept any such measure. He thought the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell)
 55 56 57 58 59
 Sir J. Graham  then rose to move the second reading of this bill. He said, I wish it were possible for me to entertain a hope that the House would adopt the idea of the hon. Member for Northampton, that it is the usual practice of the House not to oppose the second reading of a bill which has come down from the other House of Parliament; for then the duty I have undertaken of stating the reasons of the Government for introducing a bill to remove doubts respecting the admission of ministers to benefices in Scotland would be
 11 12 "And to the effect the calling and entering ministers in all tyme comeing may be orderly and regularly performed, their Majesties, with consent of the estates of Parliament, doe statute and declare that in case of the vacancie
 13 14 "With regard to alterations of the existing law to be made by Parliament, her Majesty's Government must observe, that the demand of the assembly is not a declaration of the law, which might remove doubts or smooth difficulties in the spirit of concord and good-will, fait a subversion of the existing law, and a total abolition of patronage. Her Majesty's servants have evinced no disinclination to prevent the collision of doubtful authority even by ex-
 15 16 obiter Dicta, 17 "In the hope of peace, Lord Aberdeen, one of her Majesty's present advisers, sought by legislation to remove doubts, which by some were supposed to exist, respecting the admission of ministers to benefices in Scotland, by declaring the law, and by defining with precision the respective rights and powers of the different parties interested in the settlement of a minister. In the same spirit I expressed, on the part of the Government, in the course of last Session, willingness to attempt legislation on the same recorded principles, hoping that both the church and people of Scotland might be found desirous to terminate this unhappy controversy on terms which are strictly conformable to Presbyterian discipline, and to established rights." 18 "The Church of Scotland, occupying its true position in friendly alliance with the State, is justly entitled to expect the aid of Parliament in removing any doubts which may have arisen with respect to the right construction of the statutes relating to the admission of ministers. You may safely confide in the wisdom of Parliament; and we shall readily give our assent to any measure which the Legislature may pass for the purpose of securing to the people the full privilege of objection, and to the Church judicatories the exclusive right of judgment." "The General Assembly of the Church of Scotland being met and constituted, and having again taken into consideration the report of the committee appointed at a former diet of this Assembly, for taking into consideration what steps should be taken as to the paragraph in her Majesty's letter with respect to the right
 19 "The committee are of opinion that it is most desirable that all doubts regarding the state of the law concerning the settlement of ministers be removed with as little delay as possible, and they rely with perfect confidence upon the intentions of her Majesty's Government." ad interim Rutherford 20 Fox Maule ad interim ad interim ad interim "The General Assembly declare, that in all cases in which a person is presented to a vacant parish it is by the law of the Church, sanctioned by the law of the land"—(I call the attention of the House to these words) 'sanctioned by the law of the land'—"competent for the heads of families in full and regular communion with the Church, to give in to the presbytery, within the bounds of which the vacant parish lies, objections of whatever nature against the presentee, or against the settlement taking place." "That the presbytery shall deliberately con-
 21 ad interim ad interim "Would men lay aside their passions and look calmly on the matter; they might see, that, as in any other case of clashing but co-ordinate jurisdiction, the contest on the judicial arena should cease; and the question, by consent of parties, be carried up, as it were, to the higher or legislative arena. Meanwhile there ought to be a cessation of hostilities between the co-ordinate courts. It is only by a new legislation, whether on the part of the State or on the part of the Church, that those difficulties can be extricated; and while such an interval lasts, all hostilities on either side ought to be suspended." 22 "Suitableness or meetness for the situation may be among the qualifications of a presentee, which the Church may inquire into, besides examining into his life, literature, and conversation; but then they must inquire into these matters themselves: it must be the subject of trial by them. It is the Presbytery, who must decide, and not take the decision of another body, that the presentee is qualified or meet for the parish; for of this they must be the judges and not the people." "The congregation is always to be consulted, and no one is to be intruded in face of their dissent; provided it be founded on good reasons. Before the act, 1834, this was uniformly the practice of the Church, which gives to the people the right of objection to the pre-
 23 "It is impossible to take the most general survey of the statute book without seeing the fallacy of any argument that would rest on two or three statutes alone as explaining and defining the constitution of the Church. They do not create but recognise an existing order of things. Their language is too vague to have been used, if it had been their object to create and not merely to acknowledge and to ratify an actual constitution, To see what it is that Parliament approved and ratified, you must look to the practice of the Church herself, and to her records; wad you must find in her statute books and in her practices the more exact definition and explanation of that constitution, which Parliament generally and by reference sanctioned and ratified. It is only by referring to the history of the Church, and examining the various ways in which the Church has exercised her judicial and legislative powers, that you can know and see what is the form and extent of her constitution." Rutherford: 24 "What is the nature of the objections against a presentee, to which when urged on the part of the people, the Presbytery ought in your opinion to give effect? They ought, in my opinion, to give effect to all just and fair objections against his literature, his orthodoxy, his morals, and his fitness for that particular place to which he is presented. Supposing, for instance, that the people were to say, We have nothing to object to the moral character of the presentee, but we find that his preaching is not edifying, that his prayers are not refreshing to our souls; we do not think, that he is calculated to minister comfort to us in our dying hours, or to instruct our families as we could wish in the great truths of the Gospel,' do you think such objections as these ought to be sustained?—I do not think that they ought to be sustained, if they are merely stated without some reasons for them being given; because such objections as those to an individual who could be but very slightly and imperfectly known to the objectors, could hardly be considered as founded upon experience or knowledge, Do you think if the
 25 bonâ fide "'It appeared to me, that if ever there was an opportunity, which I confess I am most anxious to see, for the settling of this question, I should be most desirous to see it settled; but, as I said, not only when in office, but also last year, when the present Government was in office, that if even it was settled, that the power must be given to the congregation of making an objection, that the Presbytery should judge of that objection, that the objection should be a real one, and that it should be one against the usefulness of the minister. I think a power to make a valid objection should be given, and a minister not placed if it were valid." 26 "On any question of a second induction, and wherein the ordination of the presentee is not at all concerned, he having been already ordained on admission to his first parish—on any such question of induction, and of induction alone, the Church Courts do put forth the very power, which it is said to be monstrous to conceive as possible. They call on the first congregation to appear at their bar, and cite their reasons, if they have any, why their minister should not be dissevered from them; and they call also on the opposite side to state their counter-reasons why the removal should take effect. The Presbytery sits in judgment on these reasons; and if their finding be the superior fitness of the presentee for his present over his proposed charge, they can put their authoritative interdict on the removal, an interdict the power of which has never been disputed that we know of; but as a matter of course is acquiesced in by all parties, though to the great disappointment it may be both of the patron and the presentee. So late as last year this very process was gone through to the very great disappointment of the patron." 27 l. l. l. l. 28
 Sir J. Graham  moved, that the Speaker do now leave the Chair for the House to Functions into a committee on the Episcopal Functions Bill.
 Sir J Graham  could state in reply to the right hon. Gentleman, that in his consideration of the subject, wish the view of framing some measure of medical reform which he could submit to the House, various changes of the present constituted medical bodies came under review. Some of these bodies were constituted by charter, and, of course, these could only be dealt with through Parliament—and others possessed their powers under charters issued under the prerogative of the Crown, which must be dealt with in another way. The renewal of the charter of the College of Surgeons was under consideration, and the draft of the proposed charter was now before the law officers of the Crown; but he could not give any assurance to the right hon. Gentleman that he would lay a copy of this before Parliament, previous to its receiving the sanction of the Crown. This was not the usual course, as the right hon. Gentleman must be fully aware. He could not pledge himself as to any prospective plan of medical reform, nor as to what would be the nature of the changes which he should propose in the new charter which was proposed to be given to the College of Surgeons.
 Sir R. Peel : It appears to me that many observations have been made in the course of this debate, which have no bearing on the question which the House has now to decide—namely, whether or no it is fitting that this bill should, as far as its second reading, receive the sanction of the House? We are not to discuss to-night the phraseology of particular clauses; we are not to discuss the question which has been raised by the hon. Member who has just sat down; we are not to enter into the question whether particular parties have or have not refused to give ground for the purpose of the building of chapels. Those questions have no bearing upon the immediate one before the House. The second reading of this bill neither implies a sanction of the refusal of the parties referred to by the hon. Member, nor does it afford any additional facilities for either giving or withholding that consent. The question for us is, whether or not in the present state of the Church of Scotland, after a conflict has prevailed between the civil and ecclesiastical courts there, and after a decision of the House of Lords has been had on the power claimed by the Church of Scotland of legislating on the matters in question—whether or not, I say, the Legislature should abandon altogether any attempt at a satisfactory adjustment of these questions that have unfortunately disturbed the peace of Scotland? and whether the principle of the bill now before the House for that purpose, is entitled to the support of the House by
 68 Campbell: Wallace: Campbell 69 "They They were asked to postpone this bill when the General Assembly were about to meet in three weeks, and it was a matter of immense importance that they should know, and that the people of Scotland should know, whether the Parliament of this country would or would not give its sanction to the principle involved in that particular measure." 70 "committee are of opinion, that it will be most desirable on all grounds if that state of the law concerning the settlement of ministers be removed with as little delay as possible, and they rely with perfect confidence on the intentions of her Majesty's Government." 71 72 73 74
 The Solicitor-General  owed an apology to the House for addressing them after the able and eloquent speech of his right hon. and learned Friend, feeling that he had not the same personal acquaintance with the habits and the feelings of the people of Scotland or with the law of the subject; but he might perhaps be pardoned a few observations in defence of the bill. His right hon. and learned Friend had alleged that it had been brought in too late, that a fatal secession had already
 45 Cries of "No." "No;" 46 dicta "Present to the congregation to be approved or disapproved, and if the congregation disapproved, the disapprovers were to give in their reasons to the intent that the matter might be cognosced upon by the presbytery, by whose judgment the minister was to be approved or rejected." "That the Presbyteries shall admit such qualified persons as shall be presented by the
 47 "It has been suggested that the Act of 1711, in enacting that the Presbyteries shall admit persons presented as before the Act, intended to observe the forms prescribed by the Act of 1690, and enable the congregations to state objections for the consideration of the Presbyteries, and liable to be overruled by their decision. If that be so, it would not affect the present question. That part of the provisions of the Act of 1690 would be consistent with what has often been contended for, and what in form, at least, prevails in ordinations. … "It would only add facilities to the Piesbyteries." obiter dicta 48 "Suitableness to the parish is one of the grounds of objection." "The important right of collation possessed by the Church in so far as it includes the sole right of pronouncing on objections, is by the Act of 1833 surrendered to the 'majority of heads of families' in the congregations, whose dissent, without any examination of reasons, is declared sufficient ground for rejection, although the Church in all its judicatories had hitherto always maintained the right of deciding." "The great advantage of this was, that while no man would be inducted without the sanction of the Church, after hearing every ground of objection urged by the people, neither could any one be arbitrarily rejected, without an opportunity being afforded to the Church of ascertaining the validity of objections urged, and seeing that they were not founded on mere causeless prejudices." "That objections before the church courts might be urged not only as to life, literature, and doctrine, but likewise on some other grounds recognised by law, as unsuitableness in point of utterance, &c., or other causes tending to depreciate his ministration in the particular parish, ignorance of the language of the majority, unavoidable connection with secular business, &c.; but I never held, that the unacceptableness of the presentee to the parishioners, or his not preaching according to their views of the 'edifying,' were relevant objections." 49 "That nothing therein contained should prejudice or diminish the rights of the Church as the law then stood, with respect to the trying of the qualifications of any person presented to any Church or benefice. If, therefore, he could find that since the establishment of the Presbyterian religion in Scotland the Presbytery had been in the habit, upon a person being presented to a benefice, not only of examining into the life, learning, and doctrine properly the subject of jurisdiction in the ecclesiastical courts, but also of hearing objections to the suitableness of the person for any particular benefice or parish." 50
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that it now became his duty to state to the House the general nature of this measure. The bill, although the title of it was not very inviting, was one which would materially affect the wellbeing and the comfort of a large and important portion of the labouring classes. He admitted that, as a general principle, the Legislature should not interfere with labour, but there were  prima facie 79 London journal of Commerce 80 81 82 l. s. 83
 Mr. Ellice  had heard with pleasure the language of the right hon. Gentleman, and although he agreed on the whole with the right hon. Gentleman, he had more hopes than him from an inquiry on the spot. He reminded the House of the conduct of the other House with respect to that bill, which had received the unanimous assent of the House of Commons. The House of Lords had acted in the same manner with regard to the borough of Stafford. In the case of Sudbury, when the bill was only a bill of indemnity for witnesses, the other House had refused to assent to it. In the case of the borough of Stafford they had refused to assent to the bill, though corruption at the last and previous elections had been fully proved, and the borough of Stafford continued to practise all its ancient bribery. He supported the motion for the commission.
 Mr. Bernal  wished to call the noble Lord's attention to the sweeping form in which his motion had been made. The resolution stated:—
 "That it is inexpedient in the present condition of the country to continue the existing
 116 117
 Lord Eliot  said, it was his wish to express his opinions on this important subject fully, frankly, and fearlessly: and in doing so it was far from his intention to wound the feelings of any individual, whether belonging to that Church of which he was a member, or to another religious persuasion. He could not say that the proposition of the hon. Member for Sheffield was vague in its character; on the contrary, it was one of the most distinct and definite that had ever been made in that House. If any doubt had existed in his mind as to the nature of that proposition, it would have been at once removed by the speech of the hon. Gentleman; and he regretted that the noble Lord the member for the city of London had not been present during the delivery of a great part of that speech, for he believed, that after hearing the hon. Gentleman's statements, the noble Lord would have hesitated before
 166 l. Hear. 167 168 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. 
 
 £ 
 "Total income of the Irish Church was 432,023 
 Deduct revenue of bishoprics £80,553 
 And of suppressed bishoprics 38,076 
 118,629 
 The gross property of deans and chapters (subject to heavy necessary deductions) is 57,800 
 Parochial clergy, rentcharge, and ministers' money 248,500 
 306,300 
 Interest on stocks and other funds 7,094 
 Total 432,023 l. l. l. 169 l. "Resolved, that a committee be appointed with a view to repeal the civil and politic disabilities which affect his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects on account of their religion Resolved that such repeal be made with due regard to the inviolability of the Protestant religion and establishments." "Whereas the united Protestant Church England and Ireland is established permanently and inviolably, and whereas it would tend to promote the interests of the same, at to strengthen the free constitution, of which the said united Church forms an essential part." "With respect to the Protestant establishment of the country, I consider it necessary for the security of all sects, and I think the there should not only be an Established Church, but that it should be richly endowed and that its dignitaries should be able to take their station among the nobles of the land Speaking of it in a political point of view, I have no hesitation in saying that the existence
 170 Cheers. "Quid faciam vis? Denique non omnes eadem mirantur amantque. Tres mihi convivæ propè dissentire videntur, Poscentes vario multùm diversa palato. Quid dem? quid non dem? Renuis tu quod
jubet alter; Quod que petis sanè est invisum acidumque
duobus," 171 brutum fulmen Cheers 172 "I beg to say that I ant thoroughly convinced that the object of the Catholic clergy and laity of Ireland is sincerely and honestly to concur with the Government in every measure that shall increase the strength of the Government in Ireland, so as to consolidate Ireland with England completely. Which do you think is the feeling which operates the most, an objection to pay where religion is not concerned, or to pay where a different religion is concerned? I do not think it makes any great difference. I am sure they would have great objection to pay their own clergy tithes and cattle, and fight as hard as they do with the layman or the parson on questions of property. Abstract points of faith do not enter much. I am quite convinced that the Catholic gentry would oppose as strongly as it would be possible for them to do, any transfer of the property of the established church from that church to their own. I am quite convinced they would oppose it. I am sure, for one individual, I should concur in that opposition most heartily." "Why should we pay for the support of any religion in the doctrines of which we do not believe? The first thing that I want is, that the tithe rent-charge should be done away with, that the ecclesiastical temporalities should be applied to public purposes." 173 "I think it would be unwise in Government, if emancipation were carried, to leave them un provided, and I think it would be extremely wrong in the Government to give them any part of the revenue of the present church establishment, and that they would not accept it. But I think a wise Government would preserve the fidelity and attachment of the Catholic clergy, by what I call the golden link—by pecuniary provision. …. Our wish would be, that the Government should have proper influence over them, which a certain pecuniary provision would give. The Catholic clergy would become in the nature of servants of the Crown." "As force has failed they are resolved to try what virtue there may be in intrigue, and hence the frequency of those propositions that are now made to link the priesthood with golden fetters to the Crown.… I have no hesitation in saying, that if the Catholic clergy were capable of listening to such overtures the doom of the liberties of Ireland is sealed." "In my answer I coupled the church with the State in my idea. I conceive that as long as the State is secure, the Church is secure. As it must be a Protestant State, the State will protect the Church, and all the State has to do is to guard itself against foreign influence." 174
 Lord J. Manners  said, that the spirit in which he had brought forward his motion had been in some measure misunderstood. He did not wish by the terms of his motion,
 118
 Lord J. Manners  said, he had given notice at an early period of the Session to call the attention of the House to the existing state of the law of mortmain; (and, however presumptuous it might be to attack the cherished prejudices of West-minister Hall, however hopeless the attempt to interest the House on so grave yet important a subject,) after all that had taken place during the Session, and still more
 100 101 "After all, he was afraid that the interference of the legislature would be of little effect, unless among the educated and wealthy classes the conviction could be pressed upon their minds that they were all to blame—unless they felt and were all convinced, manufacturers as well as landowners, those possessed of wealth, and the responsibility for the use of wealth, that they had all been individually neglectful of the education of the poor; and he trusted more to the moral effect of the demonstration of to-night encouraging individual exertion than he did to the interference of the legislature. 102 l. "That it would be a great hindrance to learning and other good and charitable works, if persons well inclined might not be permitted to found colleges or schools for the encouragement of learning, or to augment the revenues of colleges or schools already founded, by granting lands, &c. or to grant lands to bodies corporate for good and public uses. 103 104 105 106 l. 107 "If monasteries, instead of being swept away, had been reformed; if it had been reserved for persons not tied by monastic vows, but who, satisfied to endure hardness and content with poverty, were ready, from the pure love of God, to devote themselves to preaching, study, and prayer, our large towns would have been supplied, not, as now, with some three or four overburdened clergy-
 108 l. l. l. 109 "That it is inexpedient, in the present condition of the country, to continue the existing restrictions on the exercise of private charity and munificence."
 Mr. Hawes  said, the right hon. Gentleman could hardly proceed in the face of he declaration of the Chair. The decision of the Speaker was, that an additional duty could only be proposed in a committee of the whole House. He apprehended there could be no doubt that the bill did impose an additional tax.
 Mr. Hawes : Before the House went into committee, he wished to say a few words upon a point of form, which he believed was a complete objection to their proceeding with the bill. The act, the 1st and 2nd of William 4th, c. 76, and 1st and 2nd Vict., c. 101, allowed the corporation of London to raise a duty of 1 d. l. d. "That for the purpose of providing and fitting up stations for coal-whippers under this act, it shall be lawful for the said mayor, aldermen, and commons, in common council assembled, to borrow or raise on the credit of the duty of 1 d. l. 84 l.
 Mr. C. Buller  thought he need give no very laboured answer to the objections of the right hon. Baronet respecting the time at which this measure was brought forward. Objections of the sort not unfrequently afforded a very convenient means of obtaining a vote; but in the present case he did not think that the noble Lord for a moment supposed that he, on the 1st of August, 1843, and by obtaining assent to a general resolution, was about to take a step involving an entire change in the ancient statutes relating to Mortmain. The right hon. Baronet, however, had left unanswered a point of infinitely more consequence than that relating to "time." He had entirely neglected to touch the very important consideration that, after all, these enactments were mere cumbrous measures of legislation. Of course it went considerably against his grain to raise any objections to laws which gave additional employment to members of his own profession; but, at the same time, looking at the matter as it affected the general good of the country, he must ob-
 112 113 114
 The Speaker  observed, that undoubtedly an additional duty ought to be imposed in a committee of the whole House, and it could not be imposed by indirect enactment. But the question whether or not it was a tax, was not so much one of form as of law. There was nothing informal in the present clause, inasmuch as it empowered certain commissioners appointed by the bill to borrow money out of a particular fund. The objection was not one which would delay the progress of the bill.
 The Speaker  said, that his attention had been called to the subject by the hon.
 85 d. l.
 Dr. Bowring  seconded the amendment. He thought the proposition of his hon.
 88
 Dr. Nicholl  supported the motion of the hon. Member for Wallingford. The agents had admitted that the bill had failed because they did not produce the evidence which might satisfy the House of Lords. He believed, however, that a commission sent down on the spot might collect evidence which would satisfy the judgment of the House of Lords. He did not despair, if such a commission were appointed of discovering the individuals who paid the money. He spoke, he believed, the sentiments of his Friends behind him, as well as his own, when he said he should support the amendment.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that thanks were due to the noble Lord for illustrating the inconvenience of the statute of mortmain. He knew a gentleman who had left a large property to a Dissenting establishment to carry out certain charitable intentions, but which were defeated in consequence of the statute of mortmain. If it had been devised to Oxford or Cambridge instead of a Dissenting institution, the intentions of the devisee would have been able to hays been carried into effect. He believed that if the statute of mortmain were abolished, it would allow of many persons leaving their property for charitable purposes.
 Mr. Hume  thought there was no doubt that this would operate by a tax, and, therefore, that the objection was fatal. A thousand pounds were proposed to be levied, and he hoped the Speaker would state whether that was not to be viewed in the light of a tax.
 Mr. Hume  remarked that the right hon. Gentleman had laid it down as a general principle, that there should be no interference with labour, and that he would not do so in this case unless he could make out a strong case. Now, he was at a loss to understand what case the right hon. Gentleman had made out, unless it was one which showed the impropriety of any interference at all. The right hon. Gentleman virtually admitted that the interference of the Legislature had created a monopoly, and it had therefore been productive of all the evils that had been complained of. So long as the Legislature interfered with labour—for any attempt of this kind to keep up wages was an interference with labour—failure must take place. He believed, that the great evil which the coal-whippers had to complain of was, that there was a superabundance of labour in that branch of industry. Why not, on the same ground that you interfered with the coal-whippers, interfere with those who were employed in unloading ships laden with timber or sugar, or other produce, from different quarters? The persons thus employed were never in such a state of distress as the coal-whippers, because the Legislature had not interfered with their employment. If, by enactment, a coal-whipper could, according to a fixed rule of payment, earn as much money in three or four hours as another workman could only earn in double the time, it was evident many would flock to a trade so profitable, and hence it became overstocked. The system of paying the coal-whippers at public-houses had ceased, and they were now all paid at the capstan of the ship on board of which they were employed. They ought not to attempt any more legislation on the subject, but leave the coal-whippers in their natural state. This bill would also enable these coal-whippers to form combinations, which were always product-
 87 d. d. s. s. d.
 Mr. Borthwick  must say, that among other things, it was astonishing the rapid strides imagination had made among men. They had but to mention the word monastery to fill the mind with visions of all the things done in those institutions in ancient times. He believed, that by carrying the motion, there would be a wide channel opened to private charity. If pressed to a division, he would support the noble Lord. He thought that the statutes of mortmain ought to be subjected to a searching and thorough investigation. So strong was his belief in the excellency of the Church Establishment, that he had no fears in regard to her. There was an enduring principle in her—
 "Magna est veritas, et prevalebit."
 Mr. Carew : I rise for the purpose of seconding the motion which my hon. Friend, the Member for Sheffield, has just laid before the House; and, on the present occasion, when the interests of a large body of the inhabitants of Ireland are at stake, I trust that the House will pardon me, if I take up a short time in representing the views and feelings which my constituents entertain on the motion which is at present before you—a motion which, permit me to say, involves a principle which has been contended for ever since the Protestant establishment was first intruded upon Ireland, and which, growing with the power of the people, has at length, after the repeal of the penal laws, and the tardy acknowledgement of the Catholic claims, assumed such an aspect, that it is no longer either politic or prudent on the part of the Government or this House to refrain from legislating on the question, with a regard to Irish interests and to Irish feelings. I would request, then, the indulgence of the House on the present occasion, because I feel that the interests of Ireland, the prosperity of that country, the well-being of the various classes of which society is there composed, are closely and intimately connected with the measures which you are about to bring forward with respect to the Irish Church. And in entering upon this subject, I am fully, I am deeply aware of the importance of the question under consideration—a question which involves the religious interests, not of hundreds, not of thousands, but of millions, of souls—a question which you are now called on to settle, and which I am firmly convinced you ought to arrange upon a firm, upon a stable, and upon a satisfactory footing, before you are called upon by the pressure of events from without, and compelled to do so. First, then, I would ask, what is the intention for which a Church is established in a country? For what purposes are a body of men, in the situation of the Irish clergy, paid by the contributions of the mass of the people? Is it not to visit
 162 163 "I trust," says this gentleman, "that the extremes of both sides will give way, to adopt some course which may be practicable, and at the same time may conciliate the Church of the majority in this country." 164 l. "A Church from which the great body of the people do not partake the least, living, or dying, of instruction, or consolation." l. l. 165 l. l. l. "My decided opinion, (says that statesman), is, that all the three religions prevalent more or less in various parts of these islands, ought all, in subordination to the legal establishments, as they stand in the several countries, to be countenanced, protected, and cherished; and that in Ireland particularly the Roman Catholic religion should be upheld in high veneration and respect, and should be provided with all the means of making it a blessing to the people who profess it; and that it ought to be cherished as a good, and not tolerated as an inevitable evil."
 Colonel Rushbrooke , after a few observations which were inaudible in the gallery, moved that a new writ be issued for the borough of Sudbury.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that what the House of Lords had done in the case of Sudbury, they had also done in the cases of Stafford, Warwick, and Hertford. The House of Commons had partially disfranchised Hertford and Stafford by suspending the writs in 1833; but the Lords had thrown out the bills, and those boroughs had returned Members to Parliament at the general election of 1835. The House was not to follow the hon. Member for Oxford, and ought not to be bound by the opinion of the House of Lords.
 Mr. Gill  having been a member of the committee which sat for eight days, was convinced that there was a great deal of bribery at Sudbury. There was a stream of voters as described by the right hon. Member for Devonport, who were no doubt paid for their votes. He said it would be most unwise to issue the writ, and he should support the motion of the hon. Member for Wallingford.
 Mr. Greene  observed that the House of Lords could only be bound by the evidence produced before them, and their proceedings could not be regulated by that which had been given before the House of Commons. It was admitted by the counsel, Mr. Cockburn, that he could not make out a case of general bribery.
 Mr. W. Gladstone  said, if the object-
 86 de novo.
 Mr. W. Gladstone  said, that the object of raising this sum was to obtain the means of fitting up an office, and of obtaining a supply of books, and pens, and paper, for which future provision would be made. He denied that the loan was the main feature of the bill. As to the point of form, he must admit, that if there had been an intention to impose a new tax, it ought to be mentioned in the preamble. The loan was to be raised upon a terminable tax, which would not accomplish its purpose for several years, and in the meantime, the whole of this loan, which was not to be advanced out of the tax, but only on the security of the tax, would be repaid with the interest out of the means provided in the bill for carrying the provisions into effect, after the preliminary arrangements were completed, and the bill brought into operation. There was no intention whatever of imposing a tax of 1 d.
 Mr. Blackstone  expressed his regret at being obliged to interfere with his hon. Friend's motion, but a sense of duty compelled him. It was his intention to move as an amendment the motion which had formerly been submitted to the House by the hon. Member for Devonport, not now in his place—namely, for a commission to inquire on the spot as to the bribery alleged to have been committed in Sudbury. It would be recollected by the House that a bill had passed through that House to disfranchise the borough, which was founded on a report of a committee that gross, systematic, and extensive bribery prevailed in the borough. He did not state himself that gross and systematic bribery prevailed, but that was the conclusion of the committee, on which the bill for disfranchising the borough was founded. It received support from both sides of the House. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government saw reason to believe that the report of the committee was well founded. In his opinion, there were but few cases of bribery actually proved, and not enough to justify the disfranchisement of the borough. It appeared by the evidence, that Mr. Joseph Parkes, the agent for the petitioners
 93
 Mr. F. T. Baring  regretted that this bill, which involved such an important departure from sound principle, had been brought forward. The principle of this bill was fairly stated in the preamble, viz:—
 "Whereas the employment of such labourers, called coal-whippers, would be better regulated, and the interests of the said labourers and of the public at large would be promoted if the same were carried on under the superintendence of commissioners, &c. 90 91
 Mr. F. T. Baring  said, that the answer of the right hon. Gentleman had not satisfied him that this was not a new tax, and that it ought not to have been mentioned in the preamble. The bill had already been read a second time and committed  pro forma
 Sir G. Grey  rose, having supported an exactly similar motion when it was made by his hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. Tufnell), he wished to state some of the reasons which he thought should induce the House to support the amendment in preference to the original motion. There was no direct opposition offered to the motion of his hon. Colleague, but the right hon. Member for Montgomery, and the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, thought that an inquiry by a commission would not be the best course, and they recommended that an inquiry should be made into the circumstances attending the progress and abandonment of the bill in the House of Lords. That inquiry took place. The report and the evidence were now before the House, and from that hon. Gentlemen might form their own opinions. No one, he drought, could doubt that, by the consent of both parties, evidence had been withheld for the express purpose of defeating the bill, in order that they might have what was called a dry election: that was, that each party should retain one Member—that
 94
 Mr. Ward : * * 119 "I cannot dissemble from myself that this crisis is one of urgency—that it is no ordinary crisis—that great interests, that national safety and our position in the scale of nations are at stake. Any hesitation on the part of Government or of this House will aggravate the danger a hundred fold. If we falter, if we hesitate to repress that rebellious spirit, which has shown itself upon the subject of Repeal in Ireland, then the glory of this country has departed—the days of its power are numbered—and England, all glorious England, will present a melancholy spectacle to surrounding nations." 120 121 Shaw: 122 123 124 "Some of them (the Protestant bishops), whose dioceses are in remote parts, and out of the world's eye, doe not at all bestow the benefices, which are in their own donation, upon any, but keepe them in their own hands, and set their own servants and horse-boys to take up the tithes and fruites of them, with the which some of them purchase great lands, and build fair castells upon the same. Of which abuse, if any question be moved, they have a very seemly colour and excuse, that they have no worthy Ministers to bestow them upon." "Upon the seeming colour or excuse, that they had no worthy minister, upon whom to bestow these preferments," "Whatever disorders you see in the Church of England, you finde these, and many more; namely, gross simony, greedy covetousness, careless sloth, and generally all disordered life in the common clergymen." "Spared not to come out of Spaine, from Rome, and from Remes, to a land where they know that peril of death awaiteth them, only to draw the people to the Church of Rome; whereas some of our idle ministers, having a way for credit and estimation thereby opened to them, will, neither for love of God, nor zeal for religion, or for the good they may doe by winning souls to God, be drawne forth from their warm nests to look out into God's harvest." 125 "Whereas the province of Ulster in our realm of Ireland, for many years past, had, grossly erred from the true religion of Christ, and divine grace, and hath abounded with superstition, &c.—We, therefore, deeply commiserating the wretched state of that province, have esteemed it to be a work worthy of a Christian prince, to stir up, and recal the same province from superstition, rebellion, calamity, and poverty, which, heretofore, have horribly raged therein, to religion, obedience, strength, and prosperity. And whereas our beloved, and faithful subjects, the Mayor, and Commonalty, and Citizens, of our City of London, burning with a flagrant zeal to promote such our pious intention in this behalf, &c. We, therefore, of our special grace, do grant unto them certain lands,—on condition that the native population shall be expelled, and none allowed to live within their grant but men who took the oath of supremacy." 126 127 "That all distinctions might cease amongst his subjects, except those of English and French—Protestant and Papist." "That he had the curse of an Irishman upon him;—he had some ability, and tried to use it for the benefit of his native country." "That a Government cannot give them too much ease, nor trust them with too little power." "They are the common enemy; but, happily, too inconsiderable to be feared. Their lands are almost entirely taken from them, and they are rendered incapable of purchasing any more. Their priests are registered, and without permission (which I hope will not be granted), they can have no successors. And as to the common people, without leaders, discipline, or natural courage, they are little better than hewers of wood, and drawers of water, and are out of all capacity of doing any mischief, if they were ever so well inclined." "I was resolved never to be silent when toleration should be brought into debate, for I have long looked on liberty of conscience as one of the rights of human nature, antecedent to society, which no man could give up, because it was not in his own power, and which our Saviour expressly decided, by his rule, of 'doing as we would be done by,' and 'judging as we would be judged,'" "Because they contained some efficacious
 128 129 Chancellor of the Exchequer: l. "It was most unfortunate that a species of property, already abolished in most parts of Europe, should continue, in its very worst state, in that particular country where its existence presented the greatest possible anomaly with the state of society, and was productive of the greatest possible mischief." l. d. s. s. 130 "The Government contemplated measures of relief! A pretty contemplative Government it was, truly! It had been contemplating for twenty-two years, during which Ireland had been left a prey to every species of calamity." "Though warmly attached to the constitution of his country, he was by no means sure that he could continue a good subject, if compelled to pay one-tenth of his substance to the clergy of one-fourteenth of the population, and for the support of a religion which he might think heretical." "Tithes were a trust, and that the rights of the clergy, as proprietors, were limited. That the application of the tithe-fund might be changed, provided that existing rights were respected; that benefices were freeholds during life or good behaviour; an establishment was not a part of Christianity, but only a means of inculcating it." 131 "Hoped that the House would mark with its decided reprobation the line of argument pursued that night for the first time—he meant the doubts thrown out as to the nature of Tithes as property. It was no waiver of a man's title to his property, to say that he spent it improperly. Tithes, to all intents and purposes, were private property, held under the most ancient and unobjectionable of titles, and to be approached with a degree of delicacy and caution to which no other kind of property was entitled." 132 "To reduce the bishops is to touch, not only the Temporalities, but the Spiritualities of the Church, by diminishing the numbers of a sacred Order of Apostolic succession. Parliament is not competent to do it. The measure is contrary to the Coronation Oath, the Act of Union, the Emancipation Act, and the oath taken by the Members of this House." 133 "That to make the Church alone liable for its own support, was like maintaining the gaols of an Assize town by a tax upon the barristers." "That for the safety of the Church itself, the welfare of the Protestant religion, and for the sake of peace, tranquillity, and good order—it was essential that the revenues of the Church of Ireland should be differently distributed;" "In consenting to this suspending power, I strained my conscience to the utmost." 134 profession de foi, "Whether the Church Establishment in Ireland were not more than commensurate to the services to be performed, both as regarded the number of persons employed, and the incomes received by them." "That the Protestant Episcopal Establish-
 135 "I come before you to-day, to represent what I consider a just cause of complaint." "A well-considered measure of improvement." "That any surplus, which may remain, after providing for the spiritual instruction of the members of the Established Church, ought to be applied to the general education of all classes of Christians." 136 "That no measure upon the subject of tithes, in Ireland, can lead to a satisfactory and final adjustment, which does not embody the principle contained in the foregoing resolution." "The vote of last night implied the necessity of a total change of system in Ireland, so far as the Church revenues were concerned. The vote was one, the practical execution of which could not lie dormant. It was no abstract resolution. The House of Commons could not leave the tithe question in its present state, without destroying the authority, not merely of that particular law, but of all laws confirming the rights of property." "I tender this bill as the compromise of enormous difficulties, as an acknowledgment of the consideration due to the bulk of the Irish people." l. l. 137 "I will not support Church sinecures, for the maintenance of learned leisure, or pluralities for the benefit of men of high families." 138 "To mutilate this bill, would be to supply Mr. O'Connell with an argument in favour of Repeal, which I am unable to answer, because it will justify him in contrasting the determination of a united Legislature, with the probable decision of a Parliament sitting in Dublin. If the House wish to make the Union a real Union, not a mere paper bond, to be dissolved in the first moment of difficulty, it will give its most decided negative to the attempt to destroy the healing measure proposed by the Government." "You have given me one pledge, and one only. Retract it, if you please; but if you do, recollect that you proclaim, at the same time, to the people of Ireland, that they have no hope but in a Repeal of the Union." "He had given the English Parliament a trial of three years, and that all the promises made in the two first, were broken in the last of them." "The Union entitled the Catholics of Ireland—that is, emphatically, the people—to religious equality with the English and Scotch. It was distinctly promised by Mr. Pitt, in his negociations with the leaders of the Catholic people. In this respect the union was, for twenty-nine years a living lie. As long as the people of Ireland are compelled to do that, which neither the people of England nor the people of Scotland do, that is, to support the Church of the minority, so long will the Union continue to be in that respect a living lie." "Ireland has sought equality, identity. She has been refused—contemptuously refused! Her last demand is free from any alternative. It is the Repeal." 139 140 
 
 ACTUAL REVENUE OF THE IRISH CHURCH IN 1843, 
 Episcopal Revenues:— 
 Land and tithes—gross £151,127 
 Deans and Prebends, exclusive of those attached to Episcopal Sees 34,481 
 Minor Canons and Vicars Choral 10,525 
 £196,133 
 Parochial Benefices, Value of Glebes and Tithes, Ministers' Money, Easter Offerings, &c.;— 
 Province of Armagh £256,372 
 Tuam 42,738 
 Dublin 121,859 
 Cashel 189,682 
 610,651 
 Gross Receipts £806,784 
 Tithe Composition, taken separately;— 
 Parochial £486,785 
 Episcopal 9,515 
 Received by Dignitaries 24,360 
 520,660 
 Deduct 25 per cent., for rent charge, under act of 1838 130,165 
 Remain £390,495 
 Add Episcopal Revenues, after deducting 33,875 l. 162,258 
 £552,753 
 Population. Census of 1834, by Commissioners of Public Instruction;— 
 Protestant Episcopalians 852,064 
 Presbyterians 642,356 
 Other Protestant Dissenters 21,808 
 Catholics 6,427,712 
 Total 7,943,940 
 But the Wesleyan Methodists, who are all included in the Establishment, amount to 100,000. 
 Deduct these, and the Protestant 
 Episcopalians will be 752,064 
 Protestant Dissenters 764,164 s. d., s. 141 Inglis: Inglis: 142 "I take it for granted his successor will be an Englishman." "Whenever his Grace drops, I am entirely of opinion that the new archbishop ought to be an Englishman; either already on the bench here or in England. As for a native of this country, I can hardly doubt that whatever his conduct has been or his promises may be, when he is once in that station he will put himself at the head of the Irish interest, and he will naturally carry with him the college and most of the clergy." "I hope when a vacancy happens of an archbishopric, his majesty will not think proper to reward one with it, who has endeavoured to form a conspiracy of lay Lords against the bishops here, who are the persons on whom the Government must depend for doing the public business."—"If it be thought proper to send some bishops from England to
 143 "The promoting of his Majesty's service by obliging a number of persons who are all very well affected, and will, I doubt not, fill their respective new stations to the satisfaction of his Majesty's friends here." "That the Catholics are the natural enemies of his Majesty, while the Protestants in general are well affected, the title to their estates being visibly interwoven with that of his Majesty's to the Crown." refugium peccatorum 144 beau ideal "I take it for granted that I shall soon be favoured with his Majesty's pleasure respecting the bishoprics, the livings to be vacated in consequence of which, are very particularly called for at the present moment. Nobody can see the inconvenience of these arrangements more forcibly than myself; but my recommendations to his Majesty have arisen from engagements taken up at the press of the moment, to secure questions upon which the English Government were very particularly anxious." "Last Session, when it became difficult for county Members—(what a delicate mode of expression)—to give an uniform support to Government, I promised Mr. Coote to recommend him to his Majesty for this favour, upon conditions which he has very honourably performed." 145 l. l. l. 146 Member. l. 147 l. s. d. "Sir,—The privilege of Parliament, which throws its shield over every Member, permitting him to use what language he pleases, will, in this instance, prove your best protection from the chastisement, I felt that man deserved, who had made use of the following expression:—'That, until the Irish Church was reduced, the Union was a living lie.'—To such a man I should say, that I held his principles in equal contempt, and abhorrence; and that I doubted not, had he the power,"—he has the goodness to put the case hypothetically,—"that the flagitiousness of his practice, would correspond with the depravity of his intentions; and that he would delight to reduce the whole Protestant Clergy of Ireland to beggary and starvation, whose greatest offence had been that they had been deputed by heaven to set up the kingdom of truth and righteousness, in a land of moral darkness and turpitude." 148 "It is possible that an honest man may advocate the cause of a knave, or a traitor, unconsciously, but impossible he can continue to do so, when means of ascertaining the truth are put into his hands." Bulla Cœnœ Domini, 149 "But I am told," (said Mr. Fox,) "The Catholics have already got so much, that they ought not to ask for more. My principle is directly the reverse of this. Until men obtain ALL they have a right to ask for, they have compararively obtained nothing." 150 Regium Donum 151 152 153 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. Regium Donum l. 154 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. imperium in imperio 155 156 via media 157 "In good truth, my Lord, (he said), the accusation is not less ungenerous than unjust. We sought to give our people education at home, and you declared, by Statute, that if we presumed to teach, or they to learn, we should be treated as malefactors. We became a nation of peripatetics, and sought knowledge far from our native land, and, for having done so, you pronounced us guilty of misprision of treason. We staid at home in reluctant ignorance, and you reproach us for not being learned and refined." 158 159 "There are but two measures possible, in the present state of Ireland—reform, or force. We have offered you the former—you prefer the latter. Let us consider it! To subdue, to coerce, to establish unqualified submission—that must be your principle. An arduous, a most precarious undertaking. So it was, in the American business; and how did that
 160 "That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, representing to her Majesty, that, in the opinion of this House, it is not by measures for the repression of local violence, that the discontents of Ireland can be allayed, but by removing those grievances, which have formed, for many years, the subject of recorded complaint, and remonstrance between the two countries. "That amongst the most prominent of these, is the law by which the whole Ecclesiastical property of Ireland is assigned to the clergy of a small section of the population; and that
 161
 Sir J. Graham  said, that nothing had been further from his thoughts than to have addressed the House upon the present subject, as he had fully anticipated on coming down to the House that another motion of great importance which stood upon the order book would have been the question brought before the House for discussion this evening, The noble Lord who moved this resolution had sat down by declaring that it was now time to sweep away the cobwebs and meshes of antiquity, which unwise legislation had produced and which obsolete prejudice still fostered. The noble Lord proposed, that all such impediments to the free exercise of charitable and devout feelings should be immediately removed. He (Sir J. Graham) must say that the noble Lord proposed to effect his object in a most summary manner. On the 1st of August, and in a House which he (Sir J. Graham) almost felt it to be his duty to count—in a House prepared to discuss another subject, the noble Lord proposed by a mere resolution, not by a bill, to abolish a code of laws, which had existed since the time of Edward the 1st to the present day. The statute of mortmain had been introduced by Edward the 1st, who had been styled the English Justinian, and of whom Sir Matthew Hale had said, "That in the twelve or thirteen years of his reign, he had done more for distributive justice and sound policy than had been done in all the subsequent period to the time in which he spoke" From that period until now the restraints imposed by the statutes of mortmain had been applied to the alienation of real property for charitable purposes. Certain relaxations, to which reference had been made by the noble Lord, had been adopted but the law itself remained inviolate. The restraints and limitations were confined only to real estate, and not to personal property. At this moment funded property, to any amount, may be bequeathed to charitable and religious uses. The noble Lord had anticipated the chief objections which would be urged against him, and the first was, that if relaxations were made in the statute of mortmain in favour of the Church of England, they must also be adopted in favour of the
 110 111
 Sir Robert H. Inglis : When last he had called the attention of the House to the subject of Church-extension, the question of the abolition of mortmain had not escaped his attention. He could not, therefore, regard with disfavour the present motion. But nevertheless he could not altogether agree—first, in all the statements of the noble Lord introducing the motion; and secondly, he could not concur in the observations made by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, upon the equal claims which he seemed to admit the Dissenters and Roman Catholics had with the Church of England. He could not concur with the noble Lord (Lord. J. Manners) to revive those institutions which he had spoken of in the emphatic phrase of monasteries. He was not one who regretted the destruction of monastic institutions; he was not one who regretted the extinction of the convents here, and which still existed in other countries. On the other hand, he did not concur in the observations of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, observations which proceeded on the assumptions made by the other side of the House, but which never were made without being resisted by him, viz., that whatever restrictions were removed that pressed upon the members of the Established Church, the same boon must be allowed to Roman Catholics and Dissenters of all denominations. He was quite prepared from experience to acknowledge that the House would not be ready to receive his opinions. The right hon. Baronet did not regard the claims of the Church to the pre-eminent support which he had always thought her due. He contended that the constitution of England enshrined its religion, not in this or that sect, but as we had retained it for the last three or four centuries. It was that Church which her Majesty solemnly swore in the sight of God and man to maintain and uphold, and
 115 l.
 Sir Robert Inglis  did not rise to question the statement of his right hon. Friend, and he agreed with him the object of the parties in abandoning the disfranchising bill was, that at the next election a member of each polical party should be returned for the borough without any conflict; still he questioned the practical result of the motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Blackstone). Seventeen months ago a committee reported strongly against the borough, and the House on that report refused to issue a writ for the borough. At the beginning of the Session a new writ was moved for by the hon. and gallant Member who now made the motion. That motion was negatived and a bill passed to disfranchise the borough, which was sent to the House of Lords. There the case broke down in one day. Subsequently the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Devonport, proposed a com-
 95 primâ facie
 Sir Robert Peel  had given his vote on a former occasion, without hesitation, in favour of the bill for the disfranchisement of the borough of Sudbury. He found the bill was recommended by the report of a committee of that House, and the evidence taken before it, and on that evidence he had formed his own conclusion. After having read that evidence he thought it was impossible not to believe that the electors of Sudbury had been guilty of many acts of corruption which had been distinctly proved. He had acted judicially, and had formed his judgment from the evidence given before the proper tribunal. The hon. Member for Wallingford drew a different conclusion from his, but men had different minds, and he thought the evidence given before the committee justified the conclusion to which he came. But the bill failed before the House of Lords. The House was not satisfied with that, and he had supported the motion for a committee to ascertain the causes of the failure. From the report of that committee and the evidence it was impossible not to see that the cause of the failure was a compromise between the parties. He was convinced then that were they to allow of a new election, they would only promote corruption, and enable the electors again to evade the law. He feared that the result would be of the same nature as the result of former elections. The House had adopted the opinion that gross bribery and corruption had prevailed, but the evidence had not satisfied the House of Lords; and he despaired, from the nature of the subject, that the commission would be able to collect evidence to satisfy that House of the existence of gross bribery and corruption. He must say that the evidence taken before the committee to inquire into the causes of the failure of the bill had thrown some light on the transactions both in Sudbury and other boroughs. Strangers, it appeared, were employed to carry on the bribery. This was done at Stafford. In one borough these strangers were called the "men in the moon," and in another "rats". These strangers were employed in order to stifle all inquiry, and that no person connected with the borough should be implicated. The House of Commons had decided, if not unanimously, by a very great majority, that gross bribery had been practised at Sudbury; and a further inquiry might bring forward more proofs
 97
 Sir W. Clay  said, that if he could agree in the premises laid down by his hon. Friend, the Member for Montrose, he would vote for the amendment. If it was true that the bill established monopoly, promoted combination, or attempted to regulate the rate of wages, he would oppose it; but the bill did none of these things. Any person who chose might demand to be registered as a coal-whipper, so that there was no monopoly. There was not the slightest attempt in any part of the bill to regulate the rate of wages. He agreed with the general proposition laid down by his hon. Friend, that the rate of wages should be left to be regulated by supply and demand, but there were cases which were exceptions. The law interfered with labour in the case of hackney-carriages, for the benefit of the
 89
 Mr. V. Stuart  said, that he had not intended to address the House that evening, having on so recent an occasion expressed his sentiments with regard to the affairs of Ireland; but finding that no other hon. Gentleman seemed disposed to rise, he could not avoid taking the opportunity of saying a very few words, in consequence of
 216 217 218
 Lord Listowel  said, looking to the general tenor of former debates on the condition of Ireland, I think that it has been admitted on all sides that the present
 196 197 198 199 200
 Mr. B. Cochrane  had been glad to hear the determination expressed by the Government to uphold the Established Church in Ireland. The hon. Member opposite had dwelt upon the Irish Church Establishment as the great grievance of Ireland. But his opinion was, that if the whole Church of Ireland were destroyed that the agitation would not be destroyed Let the House consider the conduct of the Roman Catholics of Ireland after the Relief Bill, the Municipal Bill, the Tithe Commutation Bill, and the various other bills that had been successively passed to remedy the grievances of Ireland. If the Protestant Church of Ireland were destroyed, he did not think that agitation would cease, unless the agitators were
 210 "The man who votes for this address (said the hon. Member), I say it distinctly, can hardly hope to stop afterwards within the limits of Church temporalities and appropriation clauses. They were all very well ten years ago, as a beginning—as a first step—towards a great national compromise of a difficult question; and if you had chosen at that time to act in the spirit of my resolutions of 1834—to adopt the changes proposed by the bills of 1835, 1836, I believe, that that compromise, accepted as it was by the majority of the Irish Members, would have been satisfactory." 211 "He considered the Protestant Church a type of degradation—that it was to be viewed as connected with the State only as a part of the political system." "I hold it the very essence of the principles of the Established Church to be that you shall furnish to every member of that Church, whether they reside in a densely-populated parish or whether they be thinly scattered, the means of the worship of Almighty God, according to the rules and practice of the favoured religion. I am unwilling to see the time when the Minister of the Crown shall come down to this House, and in raising the clergy estimates congratulate the House that the diminution of Protestantism in fifty parishes has enabled him to take 5,000 l. "That they may have been accused of extravagance and of expenditure. I know not in what it consists; if they have been extravagant in anything it has been in their charities to the poor." 212 "He was on one of the estates of his grandfather, visiting, in person and alone, the cottages of the poor; seeing their condition with his own eyes, and leaving behind him a remembrance which will make his benevolence and condescension well known and loved with enthusiasm, even by the children of those to whose hearts he has imparted a hope to which they had long been strangers." "The charity of the clergy of Ireland was not only what it ought to be, but it was the chief support of the poor." "If (said he) you drive them from their homes, they will find shelter in the cottages of the poor, whom they have fed by their bounty—if you drive them from the land they have cultivated they will find refuge in uncultivated regions: they know that the first of Christian virtues is humility, and that the cross by which mankind was saved was of wood." 213 214 non tali auxilio 215 "He never would consent to enter the service of the country, if the terms w ere, that he was completely to adopt the views of any Minister. Could it be supposed that an head of an Administration ought to expect, or would any one that acted with him consent that he should be permitted to lay down his own opinions as a  formula "regendo in bona auctoritate magis quam in vera,"
 Mr. Hardy  said, that if the Church in Ireland was that monstrous grievance it was represented to be, it was very extraordinary that it had not been so considered by the prelates of the Catholic Church at the time of the Union; and that it was only in 1843 that it was discovered that the compact entered into at that period was unjust and intolerable. At the time of the Emancipation Act it would be recollected that so far from the Church being looked upon as a grievance, the framers of that measure solemnly provided for the security of the Established Church, and framed an oath by which every Roman Catholic who took a seat in Parliament swore "to maintain the Church of Ireland, as established by law." He contended that no one who had taken that oath could vote for the resolution now before the House for sequestering the revenues of that Church. He certainly thought that it was the duty of every Government to provide means for the education of the people. Religion was the foundation of all knowledge, and he thought that the Government of every state should be the authority to decide what religious instruction to offer to the people, He would not force that instruction upon them, but leave them to adopt it, if they thought proper. Instruction in the Protestant religion was offered to the people of Ireland; the priests prevented them from receiving it. Such was the arbitrary authority of the priests in Ireland, that if a man were known to have attended a Protestant place of worship, or to have read the Bible, he would be denounced from the altar as a black sheep, and his life and property would be immediately in danger. Was
 219
 Mr. Trelawney  addressed the House as follows: I believe I may say the facts—the important facts—with respect to the question in debate, are on all sides, undisputed. There is no doubt that the Irish Church establishment is upon a scale of most extravagant proportions, when considered in relation to the number of the Episcopal population. But this admission is not supposed to settle the question; reasons are still given why no essential change should be made in the condition of the institution, and some of these objections I now propose to examine in detail. It is contended that, however the existence of the Irish Church may be considered to be a degradation—a sign of most palpable inferiority, it is (at least) no pecuniary grievance to the Catholic people, because in fact, the landlords are liable to the charge on which the Church exists. This is a mistake. If the landlord pay the tithes, he must pay them out of some property he possesses. Now, he certainly does not own that portion of the revenue of land which is applicable to tithe, because he acquired his estate subject to
 176 "That any invasion of its rights would involve an invasion of the English Church." "In particular," it is said, 'if perfect equality between the two religions be conceded, how can you refuse the Irish Catholic bishops seats in the House of Lords?" I reply, remove all the Bishops from the House of Lords, and you will get rid of the difficulty at once." 177 178 179 180 181
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, the hon. Gentleman Mr. Trelawney) who has just sat down, commenced his speech by stating that the Established Church was an abstraction and that an abstraction could have n rights. He was pleased to admit, indeed, that individuals holding benefices under that Church, might have rights; and he was willing to respect their life-interest accordingly; but he denied that the Church, as such, had any real rights. Now I on the other hand maintain, that the Church is, even in the lowest point of view, a corporation, capable, like all other corporations, of receiving and holding civil rights
 182 183 "The Temporalities Act, and the appropriation clause were but the first steps."—"The time has come when all men must re-consider their views of Irish policy." "A new appropriation; it was a great and useful concession, made by the more judicious friends of the Church." 184 "My plan is to break up your present Establishment altogether."—"To have nothing to do with archbishops and bishops."—"To give back the churches to the Roman Catholics."—"To make the Roman Catholic clergy the link between the Crown and the people; and to atone for ages of misrule by a full and generous confidence." "I would break up (he said) the whole parochial system; and would substitute the congregational. I will re-distribute the whole ecclesiastical income of the Established Church in Ireland. I calculate that it is now 552,000 l. l. s. d. l. l. l. 185 186 187 M. J. O'Connell: Hansard Hansard's "He (Sir R. Inglis) was bound to admit,—no man who had read 'Archbishop Boulter's Letters,' or knew anything of the Administra-
 188 * "To Berkeley every virtue under Heav'n." * 189 190 191 192 "Can you disbelieve those men who are only now excluded from Parliament because they refuse to take an oath, when they tell you in this solemn evidence, that they would not receive any of the spoil of the Established Church, if it were offered to them; and that they do not even desire to injure or disturb it?" "Emancipation," he said, "would counteract any bias which they, the Roman Catholics, might have against the Church, which is connected with the State by an indissoluble union, and must therefore stand or fall with it." 193 "The most zealous Protestant will hardly deny that the capitulation of Limerick was most scandalously violated." 194 "Irish Catholics were to be capable of bearing employment, civil and military, and to exercise professions, trades, and callings, of what nature soever." "To be allowed to live in towns corporate and cities, to be members of corporations, to exercise all sorts and manners of trades, and to be equal with their fellow Protestant subjects in all privileges, advantages, and immunities accruing in or by the said corporations." 195 l. "Were to have liberty to ride with a sword and case of pistols, if they think fit, and to keep a gun in their houses, for the defence of the same, or for fowling." l,
 Lord Bernard  said, after the length at which Irish subjects had been discussed in this House, during the last three weeks, and indeed during the whole past portion of the Session, it was with no ordinary degree of reluctance he felt himself bound to address to the House a few observations. But on the present occasion, considering the object and aim of the motion introduced by the hon. Member for Sheffield, it was a duty which he (Lord Bernard) owed to those whom he had the high honour to represent—a duty which he owed to his brethren, the loyal and faithful Protestants of Ireland—not to remain silent—above all, he should be wanting in his duty to that revered Church of which he was a member, and to which he was most sincerely attached, if he did not firmly but calmly, state the grounds on which he should give to the motion of the hon. Member his most decided opposition. And he must say that he, for one, felt that he had reason, to complain that a motion of such great importance should have been brought forward at this late period of a laborious and extended Session—at a time when not only many who agreed with him in general opposition to the political views of the hon. Member for Sheffield, were in the ordinary course absent, but very many also were now absent, who, though in general adopting the same views with that hon. Member, were at least, he firmly believed and fondly hoped, not prepared to support any measure or motion for the destruction of the Protestant Established Church in Ireland. He said the destruction of the Church, for that at which the motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield aimed, was no more nor less than (as a similar suggestion had been properly designated in another place by the greatest of living men), an attempt to repeal the laws on which the glorious Reformation and the Reformed Church, with all its blessings and advantages, were based. It was, he (Lord Bernard) fearlessly repeated, no less than that. And here let him ask this House, let him ask the reasoning men of all parties—let him ask the Roman Catholics of this House and of the country if the existence in Ireland of the Protestant Established Church was deemed to be an offence and a grievance to that country, how long was it probable that a Protestant Government would be borne—how long was it likely
 201 202 "The light of the Gospel appeared at a very early period in her horizon, before St. Patrick engaged in the conversion of the Irish people." "The Irish followed the doctrines of her first teachers, and never acknowledged any subjection to the see of Rome." "This Easter, which I used to observe, I received from my elders, who sent me bishop hither, which all our fathers, men beloved of God, are known to have celebrated after the same manner, which, that it may not seem unto any to be contemned and rejected, is the same which the blessed Evangelist St. John, the disciple especially beloved by our Lord, with all the churches that he did oversee, is read to have celebrated. I marvel (he exclaimed) how such men call that absurd in which we follow the example of so great an apostle, one of whom was thought worthy of reposing upon the bosom of his Lord; and can it be believed that such men as our venerable father Columbkill and his successors would have thought or acted things contrary to the precepts of the sacred pages!" "We abide by the customs of our fathers, which was given to us by Polycarp, the disciple of St. John." Annals ad annum 203 "All the bishops that were in Ireland with most earnest study rose up conjointly for the defence of the three chapters, and when they perceived that the church of Rome did both revive the condemnation of the three chapters, and strengthened the fifth synod with her consent, they departed from her, and clave to the rest of the schismatics, animated with that vain confidence that they did stand for the Catholic faith while they defended those things that were concluded in the Council of Calcedon." "The lords of English descent irritated by a too successful rivalry—the Irish still brooding over the original treachery of the church, and its bitter consequences to themselves, and both turbulent, eager for ascending and accustomed to refer everything to the arbitration of the sword, would naturally rejoice in the downfal of this arrogant order. Accordingly, when Henry 8th asserted his claim to the complete sovereignty of the island, all the nobles arrayed themselves on the side of the crown. They abolished the subordinate title of lord, the only one which the Pope had permitted to be assumed, and proclaimed him King of Ireland and supreme head of the church."—(130 Phelan.) "Indentured the 26th of September, 34 Henry 8th, between the Irish chiefs and Henry 8th: They will accept and hold his said Majesty and the Kings his successors as the supreme head on earth, immediately under Christ, of the church of England and Ireland." 204 Policy of the Church of Rome in Ireland, "For eleven years her (Elizabeth's) measures were unmolested by the Papal government, and received without opposition by the great body of the Roman Catholics. The laity everywhere frequented the churches. Multitudes of the priests adopted the prescribed charges, and continued to officiate in their former cures, and the majority of the prelates, leading or following the popular opinion, retained their sees, and exercised their functions according to the reformed ritual." 205 l. l. l. l. 206 207 208 "The great desideratum towards the internal improvement of Ireland is instrumentality, a link between the Government, between the Legislature, between the great landed proprietor, and the people. It were folly, however, to speak of instruments in a mere mechanical sense. A moral instrumentality alone will cement together the frame of society, and in a country, from unhappy circumstances much demoralised, moral instruments are infinitely needful. Such instruments we have in the Irish clergy, to say the least of her as a body (with rare individual exceptions), an educated, liberalised, and well-conducted body of men, stationed at proper intervals throughout the country, regimented, so to speak, under the authority of superiors. Now, in what manner could we supply the place occupied by these men? Parliaments cannot create—Parliaments are not competent to create materials, such as we possess, at this moment. Let Parliaments beware how they destroy. They will be altogether powerless to fill up the chasm. Take away the fabric of our Established Church, and you take away the teachers of our national improvement. A resident gentry we have not. A substantial yeomanry we have not. A body of capitalist manufacturers we have not. Humanly speaking, I do not see what it is in the least improved parts of Ireland we have to rest on except the clergy. Here is the only provision extant for disseminating through all quarters of the land—the wildest and most remote equally with the most cultivated and peopled—an educated, enlightened, and morally influential class." 209 "Cœlum, non animum mutant, qui trans mare currunt."
 Mr. Gladstone  understood the first question to be, whether under the clauses of the Customs Bill, which purported to give effect to the third article of the treaty of Washington, the produce of the state of Maine might be sent through the river St. John to New Brunswick, and thence imported into England as colonial produce? There was no reference whatever to the produce of the state of Maine in
 223
 Mr. Roche  thanked the hon. Member for the course that he had taken on the part of his own constituents, and of the people of Ireland, for by doing so he had torn away the disguise in which that House masqueraded with regard to Ireland. He had remained in the House during the whole of the discussion, with the exception of a few minutes, and although the Members of the Government attended in their places, the leaders of the Whig party were all absent. This question of the Irish Church was the pet question of the Whigs, and was said by them to be the moving cause of the agitation in that country, but it appeared they were indifferent to it. He himself had seen, evidently, that there would be a count out, and considering how matters were going on, he had himself felt a strong inclination to count out the House; but he thought it might be said "Oh, that repealer is factious," so he refrained from carrying out his wish. He thought the hon. Member for Sheffield, whose speech displayed such transcendant talent—such immense research—was quite right in not renewing the question; it was for the country to pass its opinion upon the conduct of the English representatives, who upon a subject of such vital importance, did not think it worth their while to attend in their places. The event of last night was another proof that Irish interests could not safely be entrusted to other than an Irish Parliament.
 Captain Bernal  said, that when the hon. Gentleman attacked English Representatives for not having been in their places last night, he should not omit to mention the circumstance that when the House was counted out, there were but five Irish Members present, on both sides of the House.
 Lord Russell  stated, that he had received a communication from the Constitutional and moderate Committee of the Church of Scotland, informing him that a special meeting of that body was summoned for Wednesday next, to take into
 226
 Mr. Vesey  seconded the amendment. The rates at present caused great confusion and difficulty in making up the accounts,
 229
 Lord Eliot  defended the clause, on the ground that he considered it necessary, to preserve a uniformity of system.
 Mr. B. Escott  had listened with satisfaction to certain parts of the able speech of the Member for Sheffield, and if he chose to use the hon. Member's own hard word, nothing could be more childish, after so many sensible remarks, than the impotent conclusion at which the hon. Member arrived. He did not intend to say one word of harshness at the nonattendance of hon. Gentlemen in their places on such an important discussion. He did not think the rules of the House should be despised nor disregarded, and he did not think that those who took advantage of the rules of the House to ensure the discussion of important subjects in a becoming manner, should be taunted by the hon. Member and others who were not present. The hon. Member should have
 225
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  said, he would take that opportunity of calling upon the right hon. Baronet opposite to state the reasons for the dismissal of Dr. Phelan from the office of assistant poor-law commissioner in Ireland. Dr. Phelan was a gentleman of irreproachable character. Some time since he had been deprived of his situation, without any allegation that he had misconducted himself in any way. The result of this proceeding was, that Dr. Phelan and his family were reduced to a state of great suffering. The course of conduct pursued with respect to Dr. Phelan appeared to be most extraordinary, and if no case could be made out to justify that gentleman's dismissal, the act was disgraceful to the Government, and discreditable to the poor-law commissioners.
 Mr. Christopher  wished to ask his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade whether, under the 3rd article of the treaty of Washington, as introduced in the 25th clause of the Customs' Bill, the agricultural produce of the state of Maine might not be sent down the river St. John, to New Brunswick and thus find its way to this country as colonial produce; and if so, what security had the agricultural interests of this country that the agricultural produce of other American states might not be sent through the state of Maine to this country, and imported as colonial produce?
 Mr. T. Duncombe  hoped that her Majesty's Government would grant the prayer of the petitioners, the Marquess of Clanricarde, the Earl of Glengall, Lord Dunsany and others, and that the power of bringing actions would be extended from six months to six years. These petitioners he considered had acted rightly in not submitting their case to the House of Lords, as they were Members of that House. It was to be observed that Ireland had been exempted from the act of 1833, and he saw no reason now why it should not be included in 1843. In this respect English Catholic patrons were much more favourably situated than the Irish Catholics, for, in point of fact, English Catholics did present to Protestant livings; for instance, the Duke of Norfolk had twenty-nine livings. He proposed to strike out, as we understood, the words "six months," for the purpose of introducing the words "within six years."
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  moved an amendment to omit the first words of the clause, and substitute a provision, that after the passing of the act the expenses of all persons relieved shall be borne by and charged against the whole union with which such persons are connected, and shall be paid for by a fund levied on all the rateable property of such union. The effect of this would be to establish a uniform union rate, in place of the rating by electoral divisions, which was very irregular, and pressed with great inequality on the different districts. At present, the rates in some divisions were six times greater than in others.
 Mr. Ward  said, that he wished to take the earliest opprtunity of relieving the House from any uncertainty as to the course which he intended to take with respect to his motion regarding the Irish Church. He did not bring forward this motion without promise of support from many leading Members in that House, and he was led to understand that many hon. Gentlemen intended to have addressed the House on the subject, and he regretted,
 224
 Sir J. Graham  suggested that the objection should be postponed until the bringing up of the report.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the executive was not in the slightest degree responsible for the appointment or dismissal of the assistant Poor-law Commissioners. The Government appointed the Poor-law Commissioners, and held them responsible for the conduct of the assistant commissioners, and, therefore, it was wisely determined that the power of appointing and dismissing assistant commissioners should vest absolutely in the Commissioners. Of Dr. Phelan personally he knew nothing. He understood that his appointment had direct reference to a clause of the act which required the Commissioners to inquire into the state of fever hospitals and other charitable medical institutions. Dr. Phelan being a medical gentleman, and the publisher of a medical work, the Commissioners thought him well fitted to carry into execution the specific provision referred to. He was made an assistant commissioner, but the special object of his appointment was the execution of that particular duty. He was considered perfectly fitted for that duty, but not particularly well fitted for the discharge of the general duties of a Poor-law Commissioner. He was most reluctant to speak of Dr. Phelan's merits, but he was forced to do so by the course which had been taken. As to the tenure
 228
 Sir J. Graham  said, it was his intention to proceed steadily with the committee on that bill, either on Monday or Wednesday, but it was not his wish unduly to press forward the measure, and before it reached its final stages, the special commission, of which the noble Lord spoke, would have ample time for considering and giving an opinion upon it.
 Mr. M. Sutton  said, that the clause was inserted at the desire of the owners of cabs and omnibuses, as they alleged that passengers were in general much annoyed by the practice. One of the objections urged was, that on cold nights the drivers were in the habit of sitting in the cabs smoking, with the windows closed, and though they made themselves very comfortable, it certainly was anything but comfortable for those who got into their cabs immediately afterwards; and it was therefore, a decided disadvantage to the cab-owners.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  could not refrain from expressing his approval of the system of emigration. There were but very few measures which could afford such extensive relief to the sufferings and embarrass-
 236
 The Attorney-General  said, there was no dispute whatever as to the facts or principles to be dealt with, but he owned he was rather surprised at the practical result at which his hon. and learned friend had arrived. Though his hon. Friend's topics met a sympathy in the breasts of all who heard him, yet there was not a single suggestion or the slightest evidence adduced which should influence the Government to doubt the conclusions at which, after a lengthened investigation, they had arrived. His hon. Friend said, that the war was undertaken to obtain compensation for the opium. It might be a subordinate object to get the price of the opium and obtain the expenses of the war, but the primary, if not the sole object of that war, was to vindicate the honour of this country. His hon. and learned Friend also maintained, that the value of this opium, the moment it was seized, became a debt due by our Government. The Government, of which his hon. Friend was a Member, did not, however, view it in that light. The opium was seized in 1839, and though the hon. Gentleman opposite continued in power until August 1841, no step of any kind was taken for
 265 "My Lords request you will state to Lord Aberdeen, that they consider it to be of importance, that specific instructions should be transmitted to Sir Henry Pottinger (by the next mail) to make every necessary inquiry at the earliest practicable period, with a view to ascertain what was the actual value which each
 266 "My Lords at the same time direct me to suggest, that it may be proper that Sir Henry Pottinger's attention should be called to the trial which took place last year before the Supreme Court at Calcutta, in the case of 'Ramsabuck Mullick,  v. v. l. l. "In reply to your Lordship's letter of the 15th instant, I have the honour to state, that between the end of November, 1838, and the 27th of March, 1839, the date, that the 20,283 chests of opium were handed over to my order for delivery to the Chinese government, the traffic had been almost totally suspended, owing to the steady severity of the court against the consumers in all parts of the empire. "During the whole of that interval prices were chiefly quoted as nominal. The nearest
 267 Canton Register Price-Current 
 
 Dollars. 
 Patna 300 per chest 
 Benares 280 
 Malwa 250 "I believe there were no arrivals from Bengal and Bombay between that time, and the 27th of March; so that this scale may furnish fair means of judging of the relation which the respective descriptions of opium bore to each other at that period; in other words, commercially considered, the several kinds of opium would probably have risen or fallen in about that ratio." "It is not to be denied that the drug did depreciate very considerably indeed between the 5th of March, 1839, and the 27th of the same month. In that interval Commissioner Lin had arrived, published his first violent proclamation, laid a close embargo upon the whole trade of the port, confined the foreign community in Canton, and insisted upon the delivery into his hands of one of the chief British merchants. "Weighing all these circumstances, and their necessary effect upon the opium market, with all the attention in my power, it has appeared to me that the least price mentioned in the scale of the 5th of March (250 dollars) as not procurable for the least rated description of opium, would certainly constitute a most liberal maximum point for the highest description of the opium on the 27th of March, between which point and the Chief Justice's decision at Calcutta, would be the rate of compensation for the highest class." 268 l. l. l. l., l.
 Mr. B. Wood  also supported the views of the claimants: the Government were decidedly wrong, and were taking only a conjectural value.
 The Speaker  (who had been referred to) appeared at the Table, and said, when es-
 295
 Colonel Sibthorp  moved the omission of the words imposing a penalty for smoking.
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to that part of the clause, which he thought was extremely arbitrary and harsh.
 Mr. Ross  moved the omission of the last four lines of the bill limiting the power of the rate-payers in certain cases.
 Captain Polhill  regretted that so little encouragement was given to dramatic literature in this country, and that royal patronage and favour was so slightly extended to the national drama. He could not conceive any better school for moral instruction than the seeing one of our best dramas with a good moral.
 Mr. Shaw  asked, would the right hon. Gentleman object to repeal the emigration clause in the former bill, and to give power to raise 6 d.
 Mr. Shaw  had no objection to emigration, although there were some who held different opinions. He was afraid that the clause in question would lead to inconveniences. He would state to the house the opinions on the subject of a guardian in the South Dublin Union. That Gentleman informed him that there were 600 old women, 300 old men, 265 girls, and 249 boys under fourteen years of age in the workhouse of that union. If any of these were removed by emigration their places would immediately be supplied; and if emigration was not adopted out-door relief and other expenses would ensue. In the South Dublin Union the grant of another shilling in the pound upon the rateable property would yield the yearly amount of 40,000 l. 235
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, in the event of the conclusion of the treaties with the wine countries, it was his intention to extend the allowance to the holders of the ten-guinea wine licenses who were wholesale dealers. But it was represented to him that many of the holders of ten-guinea spirit licenses dealt largely in wines, though only retailers. Seeing that, and that these holders of ten-guinea spirit licenses were subject to the visitations of the excise, it was his intention to extend the allowances to them as well as to those to whom he had at first referred.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the two hon. Gentlemen who had just spoken, although they objected to the amount of compensation proposed by her Majesty's Government, had afforded very little information as to the grounds upon which they thought that proposal an improper one, or of the principle by which
 249 250 251 l. s. l. s. 252 l. s. l. s. l. l. l. l. 253 l. 254
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not alter an estimate submitted to Parliament.
 Mr. Labouchere  wished to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman on a former evening said, that in the event of treaties now pending with some of the wine countries being brought to a satisfactory termination, it was his intention to make certain allowances of duty on stock in hand to wholesale dealers, and to those who had ten-guinea wine licenses. Now, it was well known that there were many retail dealers, particularly in the country, who, though not holding ten-guinea wine licenses, were owners of as large stocks as many wholesale dealers,
 237
 Mr. Lindsay  rose to explain. The right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had referred to the prices, or the supposed prices of opium at Canton
 255
 Mr. Lindsay  said, that if this had been the case of merchandise seized which belonged to merchants of Leeds or Man-
 248 bona fide
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the value ought to be taken disentangled from the political difficulties existing at the time in Canton: they might take the fair Chinese value, stripped of these circumstances, even if they would not take the value in India. They all knew how property was sometimes depreciated during disturbances, and how touch depended upon the faith in the English Government. During the Peninsular War the Government documents and the commissaries' notes were often at a discount of 60 or 80 per cent., and many Englishmen made large fortunes, relying on the good faith of the
 294
 Mr. Leader , in opposing the provision said that he had an interview, with some coach and cab proprietors, who said that at a meeting of 200 of them it was agreed that this bill was too stringent and arbitrary; and that it was calculated to damage them very much.
 Mr. J. A. Smith  must express the greatest satisfaction at hearing the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because, having often endeavoured to draw from him elsewhere some indication of the principles on which he intended to act upon this subject, but in vain, he felt there could be but one reason for his refusal to enter into the details of it with him, and that was the weakness of any argument he would be able to use in support of his view; and he now confessed that the right hon. Gentleman's speech of that night had confirmed him in the impression he had formed. He was satisfied; but if it was intended that hereafter any faith should be placed in the representations of English agents—if any regard was hereafter to be paid to public faith and public honour, then the claims of the opium owners would ultimately be satisfied. He complained of the decision of the Government on three grounds, none of which had been disputed. First, the opium had notoriously cost more than double the amount now offered as compensation; secondly, the opium had been, to a great extent, bought of the Government, on the ninth of January, preceding the month of March, in which it had been delivered up, at a price exceeding more than one-third that now offered; thirdly, because it was certain that no one person in Canton, in 1839, understood the engagement with Captain Elliot in any other sense than as an engagement with the British Government that they should receive a full compensation and in-
 269 "In a situation to reimburse the foreign claimant fully for his opium." "The price of opium in this city (Canton) is certainly not under 1,200 dollars, and I learn that late deliveries have been made outside at about 600 dollars a chest. Your Lordship will judge how easily the Chinese government may form a sufficient fund to defray the charge of indemnity. Let her Majesty's Government then respond to these tidings with an immediate and strong declaration, that it will exact complete indemnity for all manner of loss." "To vest and leave the right of exacting effectual security, and full indemnity for every loss directly in the Queen," "With a view to uniformity and general clearness, that claims for British property left behind, should be drawn up, as far as practicable, 'on invoice cost.'" "Reimbursed fully for the opium." 270 271 272
 Mr. Hume  thought the right hon. Gentleman had made a very poor defence of the magistrates. That the people were not to meet in darkness was quite a new doctrine and a new law. While the meeting was quiet and peaceable it was not a good ground for dispersing it that darkness had commenced. If, on such grounds, the magistrates might disperse public meetings, a great inroad would be made on the liberties of the subject. Neither was it a reason for refusing the inquiry that the occurrence took place so long ago as April. If the right hon. Gentleman extended his doctrine to Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, as well as England, he would have enough to do. Why, all the meetings in Wales were held after dark; it was natural when the people were in distress that they should meet to petition Parliament, and he thought it was proper and desirable. But when could the working classes meet except after dark, for they were at work as long as it was light? He hoped, if the committee were refused, that his hon. Friend would, at some future time, move a direct censure on the magistrates, which they deserved.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the Speaker whether he knew of any case where a treaty was referred to, in any resolution of the House, the treaty not having been laid on the Table.
 Mr. Hume  differed in opinion, both as to the facts of the case, as stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and also as to his reasoning upon those facts. It was necessary to consider what was the actual position of Captain Elliot at the time he made the treaty. He was in a state of duress when called upon to deliver up all the opium belonging to British subjects. The opium was delivered up, because the agents were compelled by act of Parliament to obey the orders of the superintendent of the British Government. This being so an obligation was contracted, on the part of the British Government, to compensate the owners of the opium so given up. Then came the question, how was the amount of compensation to be estimated? Now, he thought it was a fallacy to regard this matter as one peculiar in its nature merely on account of the article in question being opium. Suppose, instead of opium, the Chinese government had demanded that all the cotton and all the woollen goods sent to China should be delivered up, would any one then have refused to compensate the parties at a fair value? Why should there be any difference between paying for opium and for other goods. When British property was destroyed at Canton, the Hong merchants sent to every individual demanding a list of the property destroyed. This was made, and the invoice price was returned; to which the Hong merchants added per cent. So in the case of the Danish claims, the invoice price was taken. The claims made by the sufferers by the French revolution were estimated by the invoice price, and upon that value the claims were granted. When the Neapolitan government laid art embargo upon a quantity of corn which had been purchased and shipped by British merchants to supply the British market, the loss occasioned by this (amounting to several thousand pounds) was demanded by the British Government from the Go-
 291 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  hoped it would not be understood that the door hereafter was shut against unsatisfied or dissatisfied claimants. He had no interest in the decision of the question beyond the anxiety he felt that national faith and honour should be preserved, and he considered the question in this point of view, as one of the highest importance. He strongly disapproved of disclaiming the acts of an accredited minister, and thereby absolving the country from demands which it was bound to discharge. It was not for the present Government to put the matter off upon the last, and when the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) said that the owners of the opium had surrendered it without stipulation, he seemed to forget that they were in danger of their lives at the time, and that they were obliged to relinquish their property at a few hours' notice. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had misstated an important fact, for of the 20,000 chests surrendered, not a single chest was within the power or jurisdiction of the Chinese authorities. It was a dangerous interpretation of indemnity to say that the amount was to depend upon the arbitrary decision of Ministers, and nearly all the arguments used on the other side savoured more of an empty treasury than of a disposition to do justice. He contended that the claimants were not used fairly, if the house in its collective capacity only answered the demands to the extent recommended by Ministers. They
 293 l.
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  objected to the bill giving the guardians of unions that authority. It was the belief of many people in Ireland that giving relief out of the workhouse was of advantage. The nursing of children out of the workhouse could be done at the rate of 5 l., l. s.
 Mr. Mangles  was very much surprised at what had been just proposed by the hon. Baronet, and also that the hon. Baronet had not thought fit to state distinctly and clearly the principles on which he proposed the present vote. The hon. Baronet had contented himself with saying that this was a very handsome compensation, and that this was the sum which the Emperor of China had paid, and that these holders of opium who had surrendered their property upon Captain Elliot's requisition ought to be very well contented with such a grant. There appeared to him no ground whatever, to believe that the sum given for the surrendered opium was sufficient. The hon. Baronet had used no argument to show that. Upon what grounds was it that this sum was demanded from the Emperor of China? If it were not the value of the opium, why was not a larger sum demanded? He was quite sure that the public would never sanction the notion of an indemnification to individuals if that indemnification were not to the full amount of that which was justly due to them. The whole amount, the full value of the opium ought to be paid. It was no argument to these holders to tell them that those who had the power did not demand a full compensation for them. He did not feel himself competent to enter into the legal part of this question. He left that to persons learned in the law; but he ventured to speak to this question, because he felt a very strong interest with respect to the natives of India, and he felt he might be permitted to say, a very deep interest in the character that was maintained by the British Government in India. He knew how much depended upon that character. He begged to say at once that he had not the smallest pecuniary connection with this question of the amount of compensation nor had any of his connections the least interest in it. Three-fourths as nearly as he could learn, of the whole of the opium surrendered to the Chinese was the property of Indians and British subjects of her Majesty. He knew that the name of the British Government would be greatly dishonoured if this vote were now taken without any further explanation respecting it than the mere statement which had been made by the hon. Baronet. He was quite
 243 244 245 "During this journey, I had frequent opportunities of hearing the opinion entertained by these Malays, of the Government and manners of the English, their present masters. They discovered a determined rancour and hostile spirit towards them, and greatly reviled their manners, of which, however, the worst they knew was, that they indulged too freely in wine, and that the sexes mixed together in social intercouse. None, however, impeached the justice of the Government, which they contrasted with the oppression of their native princes; and although they bestowed upon the British the same opprobrious epithets with which the fanatic Moslems everywhere revile Europeans, they never failed to add, 'but their government is good.' I have overheard many similar conversations among the Indians at Djedda and Mecca, and also among the Arabian sailors who trade to Bombay and Surat; the spirit of all which was, that the Moslems of India hate the English, though they love their government." 246 247 "The said barbarians begged that we should give of foreign money 21,000,000 dollars. On examination it is found that the said barbarians originally wanted to extort 30,000,000 of dollars; but Chang-e and his colleagues argued the point strongly again, and a third time, and at length the sum was fixed at 21,000,000 dollars. They said that 6,000,000 was the price of the opium, 3,000,000 for the Hong merchants' debts, and 12,000,000 for the expenses of the army. The Shewei (an officer of the Emperor's body guards), Chang-e, and his colleagues, represented that the price of the opium had already been paid by the city of Canton, in 6,000,000 dollars; how could payment be extorted a second time? and the debts of the Hong merchants should be liquidated by themselves; how could the officers of government be called upon to pay them? As to the necessary expences of the army, why should China be called upon to pay them? and these matters were discussed again and again. The said barbarians exclaimed, that opium was not produced in England, but that it was all sent from a neighbouring country. That upwards of 20,000 chests had been destroyed, and it required no small sum to pay for them; the 6,000,000 that had been paid did not amount to half the prime cost, and, therefore, the deficiency must now be supplied."
 Mr. Mangles  said that he had heard no reply to the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Worcester. [ A laugh.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to call the attention of the House to the petition presented by him on the 9th of May, from the inhabitants of Hull, complaining of the illegal manner in which a public meeting, convened in that town for the purpose of petitioning Parliament, had been dispersed by the police. On the 13th of April last, a public meeting of the inhabitants of Hull, assembled for the purpose of petitioning Parliament with reference to the case of William Jones, who had been sentenced to transportation by Mr. Baron Gurney, on a charge of sedition. The meeting was composed principally of the working class, but its proceedings were, in the highest degree, orderly and peaceable. There was no obstruction whatever of the highway, no alarm occasioned to the inhabitants, as could be proved by hundreds of respectable witnesses; yet all of a sudden, a large body of police bore down upon them, and without any notice to them, or provocation from them, drew their staves and began a brutal attack upon them, wounding many of them in such a manner that they were unable to resume their ordinary occupations for several days. No redress whatever was given by the magistrates, and it was the bounden duty of the right hon. Gentleman opposite to permit an inquiry into this very gross case. The inquiry would not occupy any length of time. If a committee were
 238
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought the clause ought to be omitted. It was hard to say that a coachman should be prevented from smoking for the first fifteen miles from London (the extent of the metropolitan police district), and when he got beyond that distance he might smoke his passengers all the rest of the journey.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  had reason to believe, that the reason why the proprietors of Covent-garden theatre could not get a tenant, was in consequence of the high rent they demanded, So far from this
 233
 Mr. T. Duncombe  proposed that the power of granting licences by the Lord Chamberlain, instead of extending, as was proposed in the bill, to all theatres (not being patent theatres), within the Parliamentary boundaries of the cities of London and Westminster, and of the boroughs of Finsbury, Marylebone, the Tower Hamlets, Lambeth, and Southwark, should extend to the whole of the counties of Middlesex and Surrey. If this were not done, there still would remain conflicting authorities as regarded dramatic licences. The anomaly of licensing places for dramatic performances would be as great as it now was in Oxford-street, where, on one side of the way, a theatre would be licensed by the Lord Chamberlain, and on the other by the magistrates.
 Mr. Gisborne  thought the explanation given by the right hon. Gentleman was far from satisfactory, and justified neither the conduct of the magistrates, nor that of the police. Darkness was no reason for dispersing a meeting. In his opinion, the police were not the proper judges of the legality of a meeting, notwithstanding the startling doctrines laid down by the right hon. Gentleman not long ago on that subject. There were, in his opinion, good grounds for an inquiry, and he should support the motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. S. Crawford  entreated the Government to reflect upon what the consequences of that measure would in all probability be. What were they doing to secure that the poor people sent out of their own country would be better off or placed in a better condition in the colonies than at home? The Government should consider whether the money spent on emigration could not be better expended. He conceived, and he believed it was an opinion very generally concurred in, that those poor people should be supported by the landlords of the country. He had no objection to emigration, provided it was free and voluntary, but he believed that emigration conducted upon the principles proposed in the bill would be compulsory; under those circumstances he opposed the clause.
 Sir G. Clerk  was understood to say that the first vote which he meant to propose to the committee was for giving compensation to the holders of opium that had been surrendered on the requisition of Captain Elliot, in the month of March, 1839; a certain quantity of opium had then been surrendered to the Chinese Government; and on the cessation of hostilities the Chinese paid to England the sum of 6,000,000 dollars, which was agreed to be paid by the Emperor of China to the British Government as compensation to the holders of the opium that had been given up to them. By the return which had been laid on the Table of the House, it would appear that the amount of the 6,000,000 of dollars, when brought to the Mint and assayed, was 1,315,158 l. l. l. l. 242
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the official statement which after hearing of this petition, he had procured upon the subject, from the authorities at Hull, was at variance with the more important allegations advanced by the petitioners. He was at all times indisposed to interfere unnecessarily with public demonstrations of opinion, and he had every reason to believe, that the magistrates of dull like himself, would not unnecessarily interfere, unless there was actual danger to the peace. As to the facts stated by the magistrates they were these. The meeting took place on the 12th of April, in the evening at eight o'clock. Now, at eight o'clock on the 12th of April darkness had commenced, and he had the authority of the magistrates for stating, that till darkness had set in, the meeting was not dispersed. The magistrates added, that on the following day, when an investigation was made, the parties concerned did not complain that a
 239
 Sir J. Graham  could not adopt the right hon. and learned Gentleman's suggestion, as the rate-payers would not consent to it.
 Sir J. Graham  entertained no great jealousy of proposing in this bill the enlarging of the power of the Lord Chamberlain as regarded licensing places for dramatic performances, for he presumed that the power could be safely entrusted to that officer. The being made responsible for the exercise of his duty in Parliament was infinitely better than the irresponsible power of the magistrates. If the suggestions of the hon. Gentleman were adopted, they would curtail unnecessarily the power of the magistrates in the country districts, and they would be placed on a different footing from the magistrates of any other part of England, for they would have the power of granting music licences, but not dramatic licenses.
 234
 Sir J. Graham  said, that if the rates were always to be collected by the consent of the majority of rate payers, it would make the working of the Poor-laws ineffectual. He had discussed many important provisions in the Irish Poor-law Bill, but that was the most difficult and not the least important. He had always feared that there would be a strong tendency in the workhouses to become foundling institutions. Guardians choosing among the destitute would naturally choose those most so. He would take the case of female children. Nothing was more touching to the feelings than the case of an orphan female child. The guardians had admitted them in large numbers to the workhouses, and there they had continued until from their numbers they must be turned out on the streets, to commence a course of life ending too often in their ruin. The guardians could not make up their minds to discharge the inmates, and the workhouses were crowded with them. He entirely agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Kildare, that the poor people who were willing and able to work in their native country, but who unfortunately had no demand for their labour or their industry, would be most required in the colonies, and that they would be most useful there; but the question was from what source or funds the money for their conveyance to the colonies was to be had; he differed altogether from his right hon. Friend the Recorder of Dublin, for if Government were tomorrow to supply money for defraying the expenses of emigration, similar demands would be made year after year, and the guardians would ultimately find themselves pretty much in the same condition as they were at present; he felt very strongly the urgent necessity of emigration, but he objected to the Government bearing the burthen. The suggestions made by the hon. Member for Kildare were well entitled to serious consideration He felt that the arrangements made under the original law were now inexpedient, but at the same time he could hold out no expectations that the Government would entertain the proposition made by that hon. Member.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the bill was brought forward with the intention to improve the dramatic art. He believed, that the best course that could be pursued was to place the power of making regulations for the drama in the hands of one responsible person, and to afford opportunities for having dramatic performances of a respectable character. At the present time, it was notorious that the chief plays of this country were now only to be seen at the Haymarket theatre, and that theatre was within the jurisdiction of the Lord Chamberlain. The patent theatres were closed for such a period of the year, that but for the Haymarket theatre, it might be said that Shakespeare's plays could not be played in London, for several months in the year. It had been determined in the reign of William the 4th, by the Lord Chamberlain, and three of the judges who sat upon a petition of Mr. Arnold, for the enlargement of the licence of the English Opera House, that the King in Council had the power of making what alterations he pleased in the privileges of the patent theatres.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that though be had very strong opinions on the subject of the trade in opium, he was quite willing to admit that no consideration of that kind should influence his mind on the present occasion. However strong might be his opinion on the subject of the opium trade, and of the constant fraud and frequent crime which had attended the introduction of opium into China, yet he would not allow considerations of this kind to enter his mind in forming his decision on this question; nor, could he consider the amount of taxation to which the admission of a just claim would subject the people of this country. He would consider, to adopt the words of the hon. Member for Montrose, the value of the articles confiscated, and he concurred with that hon. Member in saying that the principle upon which the committee should decide, was precisely the same whether the article were cotton, wool, or opium. But the conclusion to which he came, was not the same as that arrived at by the hon. Member. How was the value of the article best and most easily ascertained? If they took the invoice even of articles of more unquestionable character than opium, they could not always secure the desirable result; for all trade was open to variations. He would state a case in point. At the January sale in Calcutta the merchants had just completed their
 292
 Sir R. Peel : The House had had official notice of a treaty having been concluded with China because her Majesty informed Parliament of the fact, in her gracious Speech from the Throne. Her Majesty said:—
 "The increased exertions, which, by the liberality of Parliament, her Majesty was enabled to made for the termination of hostilities with China has been eminently successful. The skill, valour, and discipline, of the naval and military forces employed upon this service have been post conspicuous, and have led to the conclusion of peace upon the terms proposed by her Majesty." "As soon as the ratifications of the treaty shall have been exchanged, it will be laid before you."
 Sir R. Peel :—It is nothing, Sir, but a very strong sense of duty that can induce persons in the situation of my right hon. Friend and myself, presiding over the treasury of the country, and having great public duties to perform—I say it is nothing but a strong sense of duty that can induce us to refuse our acquiescence in claims of this nature. It was easy to foresee that there would be raised, partly from sympathy, and partly from other causes, a feeling in favour of such acquiescence. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has referred to a letter which he has lately received from a distinguished native of India in which he said that the natives of India had no representative and no organ in this House. I entertain a different view upon that subject from that individual. I am perfectly convinced that party opinions and patty considerations will not operate in matters of this kind; and if we wished merely to consult our own ease, and abandon our own duty, we should rather have acquiesced in claims of this nature than have resisted them. But the facts of the case cannot be overlooked. A treaty was entered into by which the Emperor of China stipulated that 6,000,000 dollars should be paid as the value of the opium that was surrendered to Captain Elliot. Why was that sum fixed upon by Sir Henry Pottinger? Because, as I apprehend, that sum was named at the instance of the noble Lord then the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. I have not the document by me, but I have a strong impression that the noble Lord, in writing to Sir Henry Pottinger on the subject of the demands that should be made of the Emperor of China for the debts of the Hong merchants, for the indemnification of the expenses of the war, and for compensation to the merchants who had delivered up the opium, named 6,000,000 of dollars as the amount that ought to be demanded as compensation; and the reason why 6,000,000 dollars were demanded, and subsequently inserted in the treaty, was that the noble
 273 Mangles. "As to the smuggling trade in opium, which forms the subject of your despatches of November and December, 1837, I have to state that her Majesty's Government cannot interfere for the purpose of enabling British subjects to violate the laws of any country to which they may trade. Any loss, therefore, which such persons may suffer in consequence of the more effectual execution of the Chinese
 274 "Then the profits of the opium trade were very high?—They were sometimes very high and sometimes very low; I have known people totally ruined by it. There is an instance of a gentleman now living in China, at Macao, who, many years ago, was totally ruined by fluctuation in price; he lost a large fortune in it. To what would you attribute the great fluctuation in prices?—Sometimes in India, for instance, we have had a report from Malwa of some 6,000 or 7,000 chests more coming on in the season than had ever come on in any season before from Malwa; it perhaps has not turned out eventually that so much did come; but that report has immediately operated upon the market to a most fatal extent. Have those losses and variations in price ever arisen from the acts of the Chinese Government?—Of course, every temporary stoppage of the trade, occasioned by the mandarins, probably to enhance their own squeezes, had the effect of altering the price. The parties engaged in that trade were glad to do it, with the prospect of very high profits, and sometimes they were subject to great losses?—Of course it was, in its very nature, a very gamb-
 275 "It is specially to be understood that the proof of British property, and the value of the opium so surrendered, are to be taken on the principle and in the manner to be hereafter defined by the British Government." Mangles T. Wilde 276 "The Government did not consider it to be consistent with their public duty to recommend Parliament to lay such a burthen on the public, and they could not make any proposal to Parliament for a grant for the purpose." l. l. 277 278 Lindsay: 279 280 "I certainly do admit I have a leaning, and I hope it will be thought natural that I should have, to the side of the best price to which I think the opium claimants have any sustainable title in the most liberal consideration of their case." "On the other hand, I must uphold this principle, that you shall not exact from the Chinese Government a greater sum than you could be fairly entitled to demand, looking to the market price of the article." "On the other hand, it would not be proper to exact from the Chinese Government a larger price than there is reason to believe would have been recovered for that class of opium if it never had been taken from the merchants?" 281 "I was the party that compelled the surrender of this opium; to protect the lives of British subjects who were detained, I asked the surrender of the opium; it was delivered to me in honourable confidence—I promised indemnity." "You who were on the spot, you who knew the value of the opium, you who knew the principle on which the surrender took place, tell us your opinion as to the principle which should guide us in giving compensation." "I will; My leaning is in favour of the claims, but, on the other hand, you cannot exact from the Chinese authorities a greater sum than that opium, if sold in the market at the time, would have brought to its possessor." 282 "The inquiries which I have instituted have only tended to satisfy me that it is impossible to arrive at any conclusive or satisfactory opinion as to the value of the opium delivered in." 283
 Sir Thomas Wilde  said, that he had been at first so utterly at a loss to perceive the justice of the course adopted by Government with respect to the opium claims, that he thought that he himself must have taken an erroneous view of the case. He had attended closely to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the hope of finding out where his error lay; but after hearing it be could only come to the conclusion that a more unjust offer never was made than that which was now attempted to be forced upon individuals whose property had been sacrificed for public interests. There were two or three matters connected with this subject, which he thought were not quite correctly understood. He had heard with great surprise the illegality of the opium trade alluded to as a reason why the compensation should not be greater than the sum proposed. How could the Government stand before the country and talk of the illegality of this trade? It was their own trade. The right hon. Gentleman opposite had pressed upon the House directly and indirectly the illegality of the trade. How did the matter stand? The Government of India raised a most important part of its revenue from the growth and manufacture of opium—that revenue belonged to the Crown. It was the Crown and the Government, therefore, which derived benefit from this trade. A committee of this House, when sitting to inquire into this subject, reported that the trade must be encouraged, for that the revenue arising from it could not be parted with. The Government were acting upon that princi-
 256 257 258 ipse dixit 259 "See what a fluctuating trade this is; there are large quantities of opium arrive at one time, and small ones at another." 260 "Give it up, and I will pledge myself, that the British Government will indemnify you, on a principle to be hereafter ascertained." "The Emperor of China agrees to pay a sum of 6,000,000 of dollars as the value of the opium taken as a ransom for the lives of the
 261 "I hereby require all British subjects to make a surrender to me, for the service of her Majesty's Government, to be delivered over to the government of the Chinese, all opium belonging to such subjects, or under their control, and I, chief superintendent, in the most full and unreserved manner, hold myself responsible to such owners, and I hereby caution all such owners, that if the opium be not delivered by six o'clock this evening the Government will be free from all responsibility." "By six o'clock you must not only agree, but the opium must be delivered over." 262 263 "That was to say, when he came to the extremity of starvation, and he and all the British population wanted subsistence, he was under the necessity of prevailing with all of them to give up the opium, and of taking it in the name of her Majesty, undertaking at the same time, that the Government should pay for all that was given up. But he had no authority by an order in council to enable him to perform that service. He performed it at his own risk, and this country and the Government owed him thanks for performing the service at that risk, and by an act of courage and self-devotion, such as few men ever had an opportunity of showing, and probably still fewer would have shown." "The noble Earl confined the charges against his noble Friend to this point, but he had made a most severe, bitter, and in many respects most unjustifiable attack on the gentleman to whom were committed the interests of this country in that quarter of the globe, and who had conducted himself throughout with the greatest coolness, ability, and judgment. It afforded some presumption in favour of Captain Elliot, that considering the nature of the debate, and the asperity with which the whole of this question had recently been discussed in all its bearings upon the Government, no complaint had been made; on the contrary, there was a general assent as to the prudence, propriety, and wisdom of that officer's conduct in the trying and noble circum-
 264
 Mr. Hutt  was understood to defend the
 240
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the resolution before the committee was, that a sum not exceeding 1,281,211 l. 284 285 l. l. l. 286 Chancellor of the Exchequer 287 l. l. 288 289 290
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that in his opinion it would be improper to refer in a resolution to a treaty of which the House knew nothing, and which might be wholly useless inasmuch as it might never be ratified.
 Viscount Palmerston  suggested that the words relating to the treaty, which might never be ratified, should be left out. The resolution would be perfect without it, and the insertion was really too absurd.
 Lord Stanley  thought that the intention of the article of the treaty, which the right hon. gentleman had referred to was obvious. The right hon. gentleman had spoken of corn; but he must be well aware that no corn was grown in the district, and therefore his answer would he confined to the timber which was grown there. It was perfectly well known that the timber cut on the banks of the St. John had at all times been practically introduced into this country as British American timber, without reference to the side of the river on which it was cut. From the nature of things, it was impossible that it should he otherwise; for the timber cut in the winter was left upon the ice, and when the ice melted, the timber floated down the river; all attempts to ascertain the side on which it had grown would be fruitless. The timber once brought into the port of St. John was treated as British-American produce. What had heretofore been the custom was now confirmed by the treaty of Washington, and the timber, without reference to the side of the river on which it grew, would be entitled to the privileges accorded to timber the produce of our North American colonies. Whether it would be necessary to alter the Custom's Act passed last year in order to give effect to the treaty, he could not now undertake to say, but if that should prove to be necessary, her Majesty's Government would bring in a bill for the purpose. Could any one say, then, that explanation was not explicitly given on this subject in the early part of the session? Again, the noble Lord, the member for Tiverton, dwelt on this topic, and much magnified its importance, when he brought his motion forward respecting the Ashburton treaty. This treaty must, however, be regarded as nothing to the state of Maine, as such, but as merely relating to those districts which formerly constituted what was called the disputed territory, and which were essentially British, and as such, enjoyed the same privileges as other colonies of Great Britain; and now, although it had passed under foreign sovereignty, it had claims upon this country, and these had
 310
 Mr. Hawes  contended, that some specific ground should be given for the introduction of the special clause. It was absurd to suppose, that it was done in consequence of the re-manufacture of sugar from sweet-meats imported from the Channel Islands. He did not believe, that any sugar had been made, or that it would be worth while for any one to attempt to produce sugar by such means. The introduction of such a provision showed that there was a constant desire on the part of the Government to interfere with trade, and to impose more petty paltry restrictions on it.
 Mr. Hawes  observed, that it might be said of other trades as well as of the wine trade, that they had of late been placed in considerable embarrassment. He would remind the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, that on the motion of the Member for the City of London, to allow a drawback for the timber in hand, he distinctly refused, and declared that he did not conceive that a Government was justified in departing from a general rule.
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, he was by no means satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. gentleman. He felt that if those who thought that they had reason to complain of this matter, did so now, that they should not be liable to blame, for they had had no other opportunity afforded them either of obtaining explanation or of stating their objections. He should propose as an amendment, that in the 24th line of the clause "except the produce of agriculture" be inserted. His right hon. Friend had not explained what
 311
 Mr. G. Bankes  did not mean to say, that there should not be a literal adherence to the provisions of the treaty, and that we should fulfil it to the very utmost, but what he contended was, that the provision proposed in this clause, was not necessarily the true construction of the treaty.
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, that after what had passed, he would not divide the House
 Mr. G. Bankes  complained that this bill had been allowed to proceed to its present stage without some explanation on the part of the Government as to the precise objects of the measure. That portion of the bill to which he and other Gentlemen around him attached the most importance, was the last clause, which had reference to agricultural produce. He should be glad to know whether the former portion of the bill had been framed with a view to remedy that extensive system of fraud which had lately been discovered connected with the Custom-house—which had forced itself on the attention of the public by the great loss which had resulted to the revenue, and the loss which it had occasioned to our trade and manufactures. There was no reference in the preamble of the bill to this effect, or to lead any one to suppose that this was the object of it. Certainly the first part of the bill had reference entirely to
 297 W. Gladstone; 298 299 300
 Mr. Darby  agreed that timber and corn came under the same terms of the treaty, but he certainly did not put the same construction upon the letters of Lord Ashburton, on the terms of the treaty, as the right hon. Gentleman.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the wine trade had been made an exceptional case, because that trade had of late been placed in a peculiar position. A change had, during the last three years,
 304
 Mr. Henley  thought they were perfectly justified in opposing the clause, which went further than the treaty, though they had previously given approbation of its provisions.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  objected to the introduction of such a clause. He could not conceive why our colonial possessions in Europe should be put on a different footing from those in America. Why should they not allow foreign corn to be ground or manufactured into flour in Heligoland, and imported into this country, as well as allow American corn to be imported into Canada, and there ground? He should divide the committee against this clause.
 Mr. W. Gladstone  observed that the hon. gentleman had complained that no exposition had been given to the House as to the purport and object of this bill; but this arose from the very circumstances of the case. In bills such as this, which formed a part of a general system, it was necessary that an exposition given of its objects must be in general terms. In the present case it would not only be difficult, but almost impossible to give a general explanation of the bill. If his hon. Friend asked the intention of the bill he would reply, the intentions of the bill were as numerous as the clauses of it. There were twenty-five clauses, of which there were scarcely two connected, or had any relation the one to the other. When he introduced the Customs' Bill, he stated, as clearly as he could, the various provisions in it. With respect to the clause on which the hon. Gentleman laid so much stress, he had also stated its purport on the introduction of the bill, and any discussion upon it he thought must be postponed till they got into committee. His hon. Friend stated that the first clause in the bill had reference apparently to the recent frauds which had been committed on the customs, and he had asked whether it was anticipated that the Government would be enabled to check smuggling, and to prevent the recurrence of similar frauds, by means of such clauses? No doubt there were clauses in the bill which had that object in view, so far as they went; but he did not mean to say that those clauses provided a comprehensive and adequate remedy for the evils to which they referred. Those frauds had been investigated by two tribunals—by the commission appointed by the board of customs, and by the commission appointed by his right hon. friend, on his accession to office, for the purpose of examining the entire state of the cus-
 301
 Mr. W. Gladstone  observed, that it was British produce according to treaty, but foreign produce according to law.
 Mr. Gladstone  replied, that reasonable evidence in the treaty would not be construed exactly in conformity with our legal interpretation of the term. According to our own law, we might call for similar certificates of growth as were required under the enactments of the Customs' Acts of last year, but special provisions would be made under this treaty to distinguish between colonial and foreign produce.
 Mr. W. Gladstone  had no objection to the introduction of the  bonâ fide
 Mr. Gladstone  said, he would take this opportunity of stating his views upon the points raised by his hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes) in reference to this clause. The hon. Gentleman had said that the House could not be held as bound to legislate to give effect to a treaty, in the negotiation of which they were not parties, and upon the stipulations of which they had had no opportunity of expressing any opinion until it had been ratified by the Government. Certainly it was for the House to determine what course it would take in maintaining the national honour. The Government had no right to call on the House to protect them from the consequences of their constitutional responsibility. That was a principle he fully recognised. But this was a peculiar case. Here they were not dealing merely with a treaty which had been ratified by the Government, but they were dealing with a treaty which had been the subject of an express vote of thanks of the House of Commons. But then his hon. Friend said this 25th clause put a construction upon the 3rd article of the treaty which was not borne out by the terms of that article. Now, as to the construction of the 3rd article, taken by itself, he believed opinions had varied whether it was sufficient to include agricultural produce, but it must be taken in connection with the whole circumstances, and with the explanations given as to what the intention was of the parties by whom the treaty was effected on behalf of their respective Governments. Parliament, he apprehended, must be bound by its own judgment, which having all the correspondence and all the explanations before it, it had given in
 306 "That the concession would cover the introduction of the goods privileged under the treaty, and whatever they might be they were to have free access to the British ports." "When the proposed line shall be properly described in the treaty, the grant by England of the right to use the waters of the river St. John, for the purpose of transporting to the mouth of that river all the timber and 'agricultural products' raised in Maine, on the waters of the St. John, or any of its tributaries, without subjection to any discriminating toll duty, or disability, is to be inserted." "The admission of those products was to be allowed in the British markets." "I have attentively considered the statement contained in the letter you did me the honour of addressing me the 27th of this month, of the terms agreed to for the settlement of boundaries between her Majesty's provinces and the United States, being the final result of the many conferences we have had on this subject. This statement appears substantially correct in all its parts, and we may now proceed to draw up the treaty." 307 "Whether under the treaty of Washington it was intended that, the pro
duce of the ceded, lately the disputed, territory, should be admitted into this country at the same duty as if it were the produce of the colony of New Brunswick; and if he should be answered in the affirmative, he would then ask whether it would not be necessary that the sanction of Parliament should be obtained to carry the arrangement into effect?" "That the intention of the treaty was certainly to legalise what practically was hitherto the case. Timber was the only produce of the territory alluded to; it was cut in the winter, was laid on the ice, and when it broke up it was floated down altogether, and it was impossible for any one to say whether it had been grown on the right or left bank of the river, and it was proposed by the treaty to admit it all as colonial produce. If there was any doubt of the legality of the proceeding, of course it would be the duty of the Government to introduce a bill to carry the intention of the treaty into effect." "He admitted with regard to the navigation of the St. John, that the admirers of free-trade, who objected to duties and customs of all kinds, would feel pleasure at the concession. For, by the article in the treaty, the corn and timber of Maine were to come not only into New Brunswick, but even to Great Britain." 308
 Mr. F. T. Baring  said, it appeared to him, that by the third article in the treaty of Washington, certain privileges were granted to the agricultural produce of that part of the debateable territory which, by the treaty had been given up to the Americans. He had some doubt about the construction of the article, and, therefore, he should be glad to learn whether corn and timber, the produce of that part of the territory described in the article of the treaty, might be introduced into this country at the same rate of duty as if they were the produce of the North American settlement at New Brunswick?
 309
 Mr. F. T. Baring  objected to making alterations for the benefit of one trade, and excepting all others. He could not see why a difference should be made in favour of wine. Drawback was refused on timber and other articles, and why was wine to be an exception to the rule? Was this to be looked upon as the first step to the abandonment of that principle upon which the Government of this country had so long acted? If the rule were good, it should be made general; if it were bad, it should not be adopted in any case.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  would be glad to know, whether Sweden and those countries with whom there was a reciprocity of treaties, would not have a right to demand the same advantages, that their produce should be placed on the same footing as the produce of this portion of the State of Maine, He did not see distinctly how the produce of the latter district could be called British produce—if it was so, what necessity was there for coming to Parliament?
 Mr. F. T. Baring  very much doubted, whether the most favoured nations, by treaties of reciprocity, had not a right to complain of such a provision as this. There no doubt were very peculiar circumstances attendant upon this district; but he confessed that he did not see how they could draw the distinction. He also thought, that it was a very dangerous doctrine to lay down, that they might apply an exception in the case of a reciprocity treaty in such a case as the present. He very much doubted, also, whether they had the power of giving to any territory which had been added to another power by treaty, the rights and privileges of a British colony.
 Mr. F. T. Baring  did not see why they should not apply the same principle to the small colonies of Malta and Heligoland which they so readily allowed to Canada. He presumed, that the Government would not have the courage to extend this clause to Canada.
 Sir R. Peel  thought that it would be rather hard, after the House had expressed its approbation of the treaty, and an expression favourable to the Government which had completed it, if it determined to reject a clause which was absolutely necessary for the carrying out the treaty. What would be the consequence if they left out
 312
 Sir R. Peel  said, when he had refused to accede to the motion of the hon. Member for London on timber, and in that refusal he had been supported by the hon. Member (Mr. Hawes), he had not laid down one general rule, that under any circumstances whatever, no drawback should be allowed. Certainly, in a case
 305
 Sir R. Peel  observed that the treaty made no distinction between agricultural and other produce; but if such an objection as that raised by his hon. Friend was pressed, the United States would have good reason for saying that you are willing to preserve the treaty as regarded timber, but you have some peculiar sensitiveness regarding corn, therefore you wish to leave it out. The fair way was to consider what was the meaning of the parties when the treaty was agreed to, and gathering that meaning from Mr. Webster's and Lord Ashburton's letters, he had no doubt that his interpretation of it was the right one. Mr. Webster, in summing up the whole subject in his letter of July the 27th, said:—
 "When the whole line shall be properly described in the treaty, the grant by Great Britain to use the waters of the river St. John, for the purpose of transporting to the mouth of that river, all the timber and agricultural products raised in Maine, on the waters of the St. John, or any of its tributaries, without subjection to any discriminating toll-duty or disability, is to be inserted." That the great advantage to the state of
 313 "This statement appears substantially correct in all its parts, and we may now proceed without delay to draw up the treaty."
 Sir R. Ferguson  admitted the general inexpediency of the principle of out-door relief, but he thought that an exception should be made in favour of orphans.
 Sir R. Ferguson  said that clause 3 had been inserted in the bill for the purpose of entitling the tenants in Ireland to deduct from their rents, whatever might be the distance at which they had fallen due, any advances for poor-rates made by them on behalf of their landlords. The object of this clause was to guard against a system which prevailed in Ireland. The Irish tenants were generally in the habit of paying their rents six mouths, a year, and sometimes a year-and-a-half after they became due, and their landlords did not allow them a deduction for the poor-rates advanced on their behalf, until the payment of the particular rent for the term for which the rates had been assessed. It was thus a long time before they got a return for their advance, and thus a feeling had sprung up among the lower classes that it was entirely withheld from them. Another question has arisen upon this clause in the Poor Law Bill, as to the deduction on tithes. The word "yearly" had been used in the Act, and this had led to the idea, that deductions on rates could not be made on half yearly or other payments. Though the law had been declared to be opposed to this, yet there existed an impression to the contrary, and he thought that after the word "rent," the word "tithe," should be introduced. The hon. Member moved a clause to enable a tenant to deduct his rates from the rent.
 Mr. Gladstone  could assure the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this motion, that in remaining silent on its being put, he had intended no disrespect to him or the subject which he had taken up. The subject was one which involved the most important considerations; and he could assure his hon. Friend that he had listened to his speech with very great attention. But, at the same time, he was not of opinion that any advantage could be obtained by a discussion of the subject of this motion, at any rate by Members of Her Majesty's Government at the present moment; indeed, he was not certain that any good would result from the discussion of it by any Gentleman at the present state of the session. He thought even that positive mischief might result from the discussion of questions of this kind at the present moment. The hon. Gentleman said that there was great distress prevailing throughout the country; but he would ask him whether he thought that if the present motion were adopted it would afford any alleviation of this distress of which he complained? Why, the state of the House during the present discussion showed not that they were indifferent to subjects of this kind, but that from exhaustion, physical and mental, they had not the power to give proper attention to questions which had already been largely discussed during the present session. He could not help remarking, also, that the hon. Gentleman's own side of the House showed, judging by its numbers, even less inclination than the ministerial side to entertain this discussion; for, few members as there were on this side, there were at one period of the discussion, three or four times the number on the ministerial than on the opposition benches. The hon. Gentleman who had last spoken said it was only by repeated pressure from the opposition that that the Government of this country could be made to move in any direction of improvement. He did not think the assertion borne out by the experience of Parliament. If they could go back to the period of Mr. Huskisson, who was in the same Government with his right hon. Friend at the head of the present Government, they would find that the commercial policy then adopted was not undertaken in consequence of any such preference for the op-
 336 337
 Lord Stanley   said, that in addition to the reductions in the troops which had already been made, the Government hoped to withdraw two battalions in the course of the present year.
 Mr. Williams  said, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had given a distinct assurance that the whole amount of the works should not exceed 150,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. V. Smith  said, if the right hon. Baronet had that good faith in the opinion of the commission which he believed all persons entertained, why should not the right hon. Baronet refer to them that particular point, whether there were any portion of the new Houses of Parliament which would be proper for such statues as had been suggested by the hon. Member for Lambeth? He understood that Westminster Hall was to form one of the means of access to the Houses of Parliament; and he did not see why Westminster Hall should not he one of the means for accomplishing the object desired.
 Lord J. Manners  said, that the speech of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, in answer to the speech of his hon. Friend, was by no means satisfactory to him, and would not be considered satisfactory by the country. The present condition of Spain was not in any respect to be attributed to Don Carlos. His hon. Friend (Mr. Borthwick) had gone fully into the difference between the treatment of Don Carlos and that which Queen Christina had received from the French government, and it would not therefore be necessary for him to enlarge upon that point. He confessed he did not understand the principle on which that prince was now detained, and he knew not how his liberation at any future time could be justified more than at present. The detention of Don Carlos was opposed to all precedent, and appeared to him to be fraught with all possible evil. He was sure there was no one in that House who would say that Don Carlos or any other person ought to be detained, and deprived of liberty, without even the form or pretence of a trial. Whatever might be said of France or of England, it was generally
 348 "His noble Friend had very justly and correctly said, that when those two princes had returned from the Peninsula the object of the treaty had been accomplished; the designs and wishes of the contracting parties to that treaty were fully satisfied." "From the preamble—from the additional articles themselves, nothing could be more apparent than that the expulsion of the two princes from the Peninsula was the real object which the contracting parties had in view." "This country was unquestionably bound to give her assistance to Spain as long as any of the hostilities arising out of the attempt by Don Carlos, to dethrone the Queen continued to exist. Beyond that the treaty did not bind the Government of England to any interference in the affairs of Spain." 349 350 "Stone walls do not a prison make,
"Nor iron bars a cage;
"Minds innocent and quiet take
"That for an hermitage."
 Mr. B. Cochrane , in rising to second the motion, said, that he should abstain from entering into the general question of the political circumstances which had led to the painful position in which Don Carlos was at present placed, and should simply confine himself to the manner in which that Prince of the Blood was treated in his captivity. When he was last in France he went to Bourges, and, in an interview which he had with Don Carlos, that Royal Prince assured him that the whole of his allowance for his entire family and establishment did not exceed 1,200 l.
 Mr. Hawes  took the opportunity of repeating the suggestion that these public honours should be extended to persons who had rendered memorable services to the country in other departments, beside those of the naval and military professions. However willing he might be to recognize and commemorate the merits of men who, either in the field, or on the ocean, had done gallant deeds, by which the honour or the safety of the country was sustained, still, to those who served mankind in the arts of peace, public gratitude was due. In his opinion, to such men as Newton, Herschel, Davy, and others, who in science bad contributed to the happiness and renown of England, some testimonial of public esteem should be erected. He would therefore submit to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury whether the question, as to the practicability of erecting monuments or statues to men eminent in science and literature, might not with propriety be referred to the commission that was now in existence for considering the decoration of the new Houses of Parliament? As to expense, he thought the competition among artists, and the fame to be acquired, would materially diminish the cost.
 Mr. Shaw  objected on the ground that it would be admitting the principle of outdoor relief. It would also entail an enormous expense on the country; these places where the children were located would be regarded as so many foundling establishments, and children from all parts would be brought and left in the unions.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that both public buildings and private property had suffered, particularly the former; and the Government in this country would find it difficult to undertake the distribution of the money. It was, therefore, deemed expedient to intrust that business to the Colonial Legislature; but there was no hardship in the measure.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observing that it was not very easy to understand the hon. Gentleman, said he had no wish to withhold information, and had already stated that the allowances had been by way of additional batta, six months to the men in one branch of the service, and three months to those in another, so that it was not an operation very easy to state the amount actually appropriated.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Member was wrong in his idea of constitutional law, for when the Crown compounded for the surrender of so many of its ancient financial prerogatives, that of disposing of prize money was expressly reserved by Parliament.
  Sir H. Hardinge  said that, in asking permission to introduce a bill "to render more effective the service of such out-pensioners of Chelsea Hospital as may be called upon to assist in preserving the public peace," he would remind the House that last session a measure was passed authorizing certain half-pay officers living
 360
 Dr. Bowring  said, that in the policy which we had pursued towards Spain, we had evinced great ignorance of the habits and feelings of the people. What could be more absurd than the attempt to familiarise people with forms which had been the growth of centuries amongst us? There were two ways in which Spain might be regenerated; the first was by carrying into effect the system of local and provincial Government, as opposed to the system of centralization; and the other was by the establishment of a Government on the principle of universal suffrage like that of 1812. That Government worked more good for Spain than any which had succeeded it. The noble Lord below him (Lord Palmerston) was, he believed, anxious to do good; but he was led astray by the erroneous notion, that what suited this country must suit all others. He hoped to see a change in our policy, and that we should set about redressing grievances at home, instead of resolving those which were distant, and of which we were ignorant.
 Mr. Bright  said: I feel great reluctance to take up any of the time of the House, especially so soon after having taken my seat here, but the strong interest I feel on this question, and the duty I owe to my constituents, call upon me for an expression of opinion. It appears to me that the country has a right to know whether the Government continue friendly to the principles of free trade which on former occasions they have admitted to be true. A large portion of my constituents are of the working class—men who have no property but their labour, and no income but their wages. These men have too few representatives in this House; the rich here are attended to—the poor are too frequently neglected. There can be no doubt that the state of the country is such as to call for immediate attention; and the conduct of the Ministry and the House during this Session is such as to reflect the deepest disgrace upon them. I do not speak this from any hostility to the present occupants of the Treasury Benches—I have no strong wish to see any change of men at present. On both sides of the House there has been far too much reliance upon the miserable system of protection. From the conspicuous part I have taken out of doors on the question of the Corn Law, and being here not only as one of the representatives of the city of Durham, but also as one of the representatives of that great and benevolent organization, the Anti-Corn League, I think it right now to avow my opinions, and to plead for the total abolition of the Corn Law, and for the adoption of the principle of perfect freedom of trade. The Corn Law is the main pillar in the system of
 339 340 s. 341 s. 342
 Mr. Hume  hoped the question would be distinctly discussed one day, for he thought the reservation of the prize-money prerogative was only made in consideration of the then existing practice of the Crown's defraying the expences of wars, and, as now those expences were paid by Parliament, the prize-money should be under Parliamentary control.
 Mr. Hume  asked why this country should pay a farthing for military force in a colony which had been for some
 353
 Mr. Hume  said, if it could be shown that this canal would be beneficial, he would not object to the vote. They had already expended 1,000,000 l l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  was pleased at hearing the opinions expressed by the right hon. Baronet as to the desirableness of some suitable place being found for the erection of public monuments. He would ask the right hon. Baronet why all the public statutes now standing in Westminster Abbey and St. Paul's Cathedral should not be removed. If it were proposed to erect a building for the express purpose of afford-
 358
 Mr. Hume  observed that the Government came boldly forward last year with free trade principles, and avowed a determination to stand by them; but their conduct during the Session that was now on the point of closing had induced him to believe they had altogether abandoned their recent professions, and reverted to the old and favourite system of monopoly. Otherwise the right hon. Gentleman would not have opposed the resolution of his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries, which merely embodied a recapitulation of those principles. What he wished to hear from the right hon. Baronet was a declaration that his sentiments on the question of free trade were not changed. But, as far as could be judged by what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, both on the present and on former occasions, he had reverted back to his old track, and had given symptoms of his backsliding by introducing several monopoly measures during the present Session. The Government, at all events, was bound to make some declaration upon the motion of his hon. Friend. Let the right hon. Baronet opposite look at the resolution, and he would find no such danger in it as there was said to be. It merely stated that—
 "The trade and industry of the country require further and more effectual relief, by the removal or reduction of duties which press upon the raw material of manufacture and on articles of interchange with foreign nations, as well as on the means of subsistence of the people." 338
 Mr. Borthwick , rose to move for copies or extracts of any correspondence which had taken place between the Government of Great Britain and France, relating to the detention of Don Carlos in France. His motion was one which appealed to the general humanities of our nature, which rested upon the broad principles of the law of nations and which had a direct and immediate influence on the policy of Britain, of France and of Spain. Two members of the Royal family of Spain were now in France—the Queen Dowager and Don Carlos. The one palaced, applauded, nobly entertained a Paris—the other guarded, closely watcher at Bourges—and yet which of the two had acted in a manner most calculated to disturh the peace of Spain and of Europe? Justice would answer the question in favour of Don Carlos. A little before the death, the actual not the rumoured death of Ferdinand 7th, the royalist volunteers
 344 345
 Mr. Blewitt  wished to be informed respecting a certain 1,000,000 of dollars included in the Chinese prize-money appropriations, of which he had formerly been promised an explanation, but of which the neglect to give any satisfactory account seemed to fully justify him in moving the chairman to report progress. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had only evaded the explanation when originally asked for; and some information on the subject was due to the House.
 Mr. Blewitt  observed, that there was certainly no authority in the Crown to dispose of any prize money without the approbation of Parliament.
 Mr. M. Milnes  thought it was extremely creditable to the hon. Member for Montrose that, with all his economical propensities, he had always shown himself extremely generous with respect to matters of art. He believed there were great difficulties in the way of opening the Cathedral to the public, and from conversations he had had, he could state, that their guardians were as anxious to open all to public, and in every respect to accomplish the wishes which, from time to time, had been expressed.
 Mr. Milner Gibson  expected some of her Majesty's Ministers to rise. He did not now wish to speak; his only wish was to prevent any misunderstanding. If any of her Majesty's Ministers were prepared to speak he was ready to give way. He was willing to give way to the President of the Board of Trade. He must confess that this appeared to him to be a most unusual course of proceeding. The state-
 331 Edward Knatchbull: 332 333 334 335
 Mr. Wyse  said, he had always been opposed to the general principle of granting out-door relief, but he conceived it was highly desirable that the clause should be adopted, as it made a salutary provision for the maintenance and care of orphan children.
 Mr. Blackstone  was quite ready to adopt the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that late as was the period of the Session, and much as he regretted the absence of many Members peculiarly qualified (and far more qualified than he was) to state and prove the necessity of further and more enlarged fiscal and commercial reforms, he yet could not allow the Session to expire without a parting glance at these important subjects. He considered, that a comprehensive, yet simple, system of reformation in our import duties, was indispensable for the country—such a system as was developed in the evidence taken before the Import Duty Committee, for originating and concluding which, the country was so much indebted to the views and the efforts of Mr. Deacon Hume. The conclusions of that committee had been adopted as the basis of his commercial system by the right hon. Baronet. But how far had he carried them? What had he accomplished? What result had he produced by their adoption for the country? He saw them adopted as a text, but with only a scanty commentary. It was free-trade in detail, protection in the gross—a mingled mass of professed commercial freedom, and practical commercial monopoly. Such had been the reform of the right hon. Baronet. One of the first principles which he had professed to borrow from the Import Duties Committee was, the free admission of the raw material of manufacture. Last Session the Government had adopted some of the detailed reforms of Mr. Deacon Hume on this principle—they had admitted colours, furniture-wood, gums; but what had they done in the present Session to sustain this great principle? They had made no preparation for removing the duty on the elementary materials of our woollen and cotton manufactures, raw cotton and raw wool. In the present competition which this country had to encounter, the repeal of these duties was indispensable. The necessity of repealing the wool duty, had been maintained and proved. An equal necessity, he believed existed for repealing the cotton duty. The reasons for repealing that duty were strong at all times. They were much stronger now. Those nations in which
 325 "I would take what I wanted from foreign nations. If we imported from any country any considerable quantity of goods, and the manufacturers of that country were protected, the producers of those goods would very soon find the difficulty they had in getting returns; and instead of our soliciting the Government of those countries to admit our goods, the advocates of that admission would be in the country itself."
 Mr. Mackinnon rose  to remonstrate against the measure. The bill went to advance 150,000 l. l. l. 359
 Mr. S. O'Brien  proposed a clause to regulate the law of parish settlements in Ireland. If it was not received he threw upon Ministers the whole responsibility attached to rejecting it.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  moved an additional clause, allowing guardians to send orphans out to nurse. The workhouse was the worst place for the education of children, and he believed that the plan he recommended would be found much more economical than keeping them in the workhouse.
 Sir G. Clerk , in moving "25,300 l.
 Sir G. Clerk  contended, that the completion of the canal would be attended with great benefit to the people of Ireland as well as to those of Scotland. The whole of the engineering works were now undertaken by substantial contractors, some hundreds of pounds within the estimate given by Mr. Walker; and the Government had, therefore, redeemed the pledge they gave last year, that they would not expend a shilling on the undertaking till tenders had been obtained for the full extent of the works. If the
 354 l.
 Sir G. Clerk , in moving a vote of 821,020 l.
 Sir J. Graham  was most decidedly opposed to the clause. He thought that the hon. Gentleman who had brought it forward must himself see what would be the consequences of adopting it. The hon. Gentleman by the very next clause of which he had given notice, and which he was about to propose to the committee, intended to give out-door relief to other classes of the poor in Ireland besides orphans, and if the principle was admitted in one instance, it certainly would be difficult to refuse to assent to it in the other. He was of opinion that it would open a door not only to claims of an enormous amount, but that it would be dangerous in the extreme to the landed interest in Ireland; he, therefore, felt it his duty to oppose the clause.
 Sir J. Graham  objected to the introduction of such a clause at present. The time had not yet come for an alteration of
 323
 Sir J. Graham  took a practical view of the subject. The Irish tenant was generally in debt to his landlord for three half year's rent. If, while in arrear to this extent a moiety was paid up to the landlord, that (were the hon. Baronet's clause carried into effect) would enable the tenant by deducting the amount of poor-rates advanced by him, to sweep away the whole of that moiety.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that without in any way dissenting from the principle of the bill, he wished to call attention to a point affecting the privileges of the House. This bill delegated to the Crown the power of appointing a commission, which commission might directly interfere with the might of returning Members to Parliament. He could state on the highest legal authority that there was no precedent whatever for a commission so appointed; and as this was a matter of great importance, he thought that when the bill was in committee, it would be worth consideration whether, instead of leaving the appointment of a commission to the Crown, they should not themselves name, say two persons, barristers of eminence, to constitute the court of enquiry? In that case the other House would either agree at once to the bill, or, if they made any alteration in it, then it would be open to the Commons to object to such amendments thereby preventing any control of other parties over so important a matter as a question affecting their privileges.
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, with respect to the point to which the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken in seconding the motion has referred, namely, the treatment to which Don Carlos is subjected in his detention at Bourges, I can only say that it is the wish of the Government of this country that he should be treated with as much indulgence as it is possible consist-
 346 347
 Sir Robert Peel  could not see the slightest objection to the measure which the hon. Gentleman proposed—namely, the erecting statues, or in some other mark of public respect for men of eminence in science.—He, for one, could see no reason why, a testimonial of public esteem should not be conferred on any great and eminent mathematician, who had done honour to his country, as on any military or naval hero whose services the country, was proud to acknowledge. The knowledge that such a public record of their merits would exist to perpetuate their memory, would, he had no doubt, operate as an incentive to exertion among scientific men. But the difficulty which occurred to him was, as to the place where these monuments should be erected. There was a growing objection to placing them in ecclesiastical buildings. Some of those objections were on religious grounds. It was not deemed right to make sacred buildings places of public exhibition; but unless the public could have free access to them, he confessed that his opinion was that no great public monument ought to be erected within them. But then, if such monuments were not to be erected in sacred
 356 357 genius loci.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not wish that the commissioners should go beyond their original line of duty. At the same time, if' it should be within the original design to afford means of receiving statues within the new building, he should not have the slightest objection to suggest the point to the commissioners.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, he was not now going to enter upon the question of the Quadruple Treaty, which had been sufficiently discussed in its time, and on which he had frequently expressed his opinions. Nor was he now disposed to enlarge on the present situation of Spain, which he admitted was a disagreeable topic. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, the First Lord of the Treasury, in his statement of what had passed on the original detention of Don Carlos. The Governments of England and France were agreed at the time that it would not be expedient to permit Don Carlos to return to Spain. So far, therefore, as the motion of the hon. Gentleman was intended to show that the British Government took a part in the detention of Don Carlos, he was quite ready on the part of the late Government to admit the fact. With regard to what had been said of the character and conduct of Don Carlos, he thought he was not called on to discuss the merits or demerits of that prince; still he thought it right to call on the House to bear in mind the facts that preceded that Prince's detention. When Don Carlos took shelter in Portugal from the pursuit of a Spanish army, it was by British interposition that he was saved—it was to British interference that he owed, perhaps, his life, and certainly his escape from a captivity and treatment far more severe than any he had experienced in France. Now, there was certainly a distinct understanding, when this interference had taken place, that, in coming to England, Don Carlos would not take advantage of his position here to return to Spain, and rekindle the flames of civil war in that country. By returning to Spain, in defiance of that understanding, Don Carlos was certainly virtually guilty of a breach of faith. The object of the present motion seemed to me to show the
 351 Estatuto Real;
 Mr. Williams  considered his hon. friend's motion one of the most important that had been made during the session, and he was satisfied that if there were time for a free and searching inquiry into the facts, it would lead to the most important results. He considered the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer greatly to blame for having so long neglected the subject, after the malpractices had been detected and exposed. If any gentleman detected a domestic servant in the habit of defrauding him, would he not, at least, discharge him from his service? Why should not the affairs of the public be as
 397
 Mr. S. Wortley  was so confident in the ability and integrity of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in investigating these frauds, that he would oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. He concurred, however, with that hon. Gentleman in his remarks upon the Board of Customs, and regarded them, from the report before the House, to be just and well founded.
 Mr. Hume's  motion withdrawn.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that Mr. Burnby, before going to France, gave the information to Government which led to the exposure of the Customs' frauds. He had been obliged to go to France, not as Mr. Duncombe had said, but to avoid certain threats of personal inconveniences by parties since proved to have been guilty of gross corruption, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have neglected his public duty if he had not re-called Mr. Burnby, and assured him that the protection of Government would be extended to him. He (Lord G. Somerset) would consider it to be a great objection indeed, if the evidence of the facts connected with these frauds was not, when the Government could conveniently do so, laid before Parliament. If the House insisted on the
 401
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that there was no desire or intention on his part to keep back any part of the evidence. But the premature publication would prevent the prosecution of the offenders; and if he had so frustrated justice, the Hon. Member for Montrose would be the first to condemn him for it. He thought, however, then when the time came, the publication was not only necessary, but that it would be attended with great advantage to the public; and he believed that the exposure of the nefarious transactions that had taken place would be more effectual even than punishment to prevent the repetition of them. With regard to the commissioners he should not be just to honourable men, if he allowed this opportunity to pass without expressing his perfect confidence, that as far as anything had yet appeared, nothing had occurred to shake the opinion entertained of their integrity and honour. A reference had been made to the extensive fraud committed by an individual high in his own department; but he denied that it was in the power of any Government to have taken precautions against such a fraud. He had received a plan for detecting the fraud by which he must have been a party to corrupting the officers still farther, but he refused to resort to such a means of discovery. The consequence had been that more time had been necessary to bring the evidence together. The whole transaction was of a most painful kind; nothing could be more painful than to find that men, in whom confidence was placed, were ready to yield to temptation, except the fact that among the trading community of England, so many supposed to hold a high position in the honourable
 398 ceteris paribus,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was ready to acquiesce in the first part of the motion, but could not accede to the last.
 Dr. Bowring  said that the hon. Gentleman had raised but one solitary objection to the motion of his Friend the Member for Montrose—viz., publicity. The Custom-house department, like too many other portions of the Executive, was subject to abuses from its being too independent of the Treasury; and as to its own internal management, there were few instances of men rising therein through the lower regions to the Board of Commissioners. Looking at the statistical reports of the imports to this country, and the exports from abroad, the latter exceeded the former by one-half. Brandy was said to be an exception, but that arose from the fact that the quantity of it exported here was not preserved. The notion in the city certainly was that the Board of Commis-
 399
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to call the attention of the House to the frauds on the revenue committed in the Customs department. The report of the commissioners appointed to inquire into the extent of those frauds had been laid upon the Table, and it disclosed such an extent of frauds committed by the very men who had been appointed to control that part of the public revenue as could scarcely be believed. It was admitted that the revenue had been defrauded to the amount of millions of pounds, and if the system in which the fraud originated had been checked when the effects of it first became known, it would have been unnecessary now to impose the income-tax. He regretted that the evidence collected by the commission-
 395 396 The Times The Times "So long as the high duties were kept up, no salary could could secure the officers from the temptations which were held out to them." "That an humble address be presented to Her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to direct that a copy of the evidence taken before the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the frauds in the collection of the revenue of Customs be laid before this House, in order that the extent and nature of the frauds may be known, and measures adopted by Parliament to put an end to such proceedings, which are injurious both to Her Majesty's revenue and to the fair trader."
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that although it was stated that it was at present inconvenient to place before the House the evidence in question, yet the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not pledged himself to give it at a future time. The suspicion of the public was, that there were high parties who were culpable as well as those who had been openly accused; and if such was the case, why should they receive protection which Mr. Candy was denied? The report and enquiry of the Board of Commissioners of Customs had not given satisfaction to the public. The report then before the House contained upon the face of it reflections upon the conduct of the commissioners, and their irregularity in attending during business hours, From the 10th of August to the
 400 l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  moved,
 "That it is the opinion of this House, that henceforth all Orders made by the Lords of of the Treasury, the Board of Trade, and the Commissioners of Customs, relating to the importation or exportation of goods, and trade generally, should be entered in Minute Books, to be lodged for public inspection with the Bench Officers in the Long Room, and with the Landing Surveyors of the Customs:—Also, That, on the first day of each month, every new Order made during the preceding month by the Lords of the Treasury, the Board of Trade, or the Commissioners of the Customs, be printed, and furnished to the public at a reasonable price:"—
 Mr. F. T. Baring  agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was advisable that for a time the evidence of the Customs' frauds should not be made public. Publicity was a very good thing, and ultimately it was right that the facts of the present case should be made public; but in the mean time, till the evil was fully detected, it was proper that the information should be withheld. The hon. Member for Bolton spoke of the bad effects of allowing the Custom-house to defray the expenses of its own establishment before paying the duties collected by imports into the Treasury, and if it had been so he would have concurred with him; but for the smallest sum expended in the Customs the Treasury was responsible, and much more responsible than for the expenditure of money granted by vote of Parliament.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that the taxation of 1d. per ton on coals, as provided by the 15th clause, was to be continued by the direct enactment of another Bill, until all the purposes of the fund created by the 1d. a ton duty should be accomplished, and no longer; but as there were certain words in the clause on which a doubt might be raised as to the continuance of the tax, he was willing that all those words should be struck out, when they came to the clause; but he would first take the opinion of the Speaker on the question of form, as to whether the irregularity referred to, did not vitiate the Bill, and whether it might not be necessary to bring in a new Bill?
 Mr. Gladstone  moved, that it be an instruction to the Committee on the Bill, that they have power to introduce clauses for the relief of coal-fitters by staying actions which might have been or may hereafter be commenced against them for penalties imposed by the 1st and 2d of William IV., or the 1st and 2d of Victotoria, until the Lord Mayor for the time being should give his consent in writing thereto, and for fixing the re-payment of costs out of pocket.
 Mr. Gladstone  intimated his willingness to abide by the sense of the House. The patronage of the proposed board would not be in the hands of Government. The Bill provided, that the power of appointing officers should be in the hands of the Commissioners, subject however, to the Board of Trade, which would have the power of dismissing these officers upon proper cause. The registrar would be the person upon whom the principal share of the business, under the Bill, would devolve; but there would be very many by-laws, in the construction of which the advice and co-operation of the board of Commissioners would be necessary. He thought that the Corporation of London would dicharge the duties of appointing these commissioners honesty and efficiently.
 Lord Seymour  opposed the Bill, as unsound in principle, though he gave full credit to its promoters for their good intentions.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that nothing was more fallacious than to confound the loan of money on the credit of a fund with a loan from the fund itself. He moved that certain words in the clause objected to by the Solicitor-general be omitted.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  said, the debate which had taken place that night was one of the very few gratifying discussions which had occurred connected with Ireland during the present Session. He was pleased with the tone of the debate. Hon. Members not only gave vent to expressions of sympathy, but there existed strong reasons to hope that the subject to which the motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale referred would, during the course of the next Session, be considered by her
 422
 Sir D. Norreys  said, that the subject under discussion was one deeply connected with the best interests of Ireland. The melancholy state of the starving peasantry of that country demanded their patient and earnest consideration. It was a matter of little consequence what they did with the franchise with municipal rights, so long as the social condition of the peasantry of Ireland remained unimproved. It was that which gave rise to the agitation which prevailed in that country. He had a right to complain of the manner in which the right hon. Baronet treated the proposition of the hon. Member for Rochdale. The right hon. Baronet had first referred to the preamble of the bill, and then to the doctrine of the fixity of tenure; at the conclusion of the right hon. Baronet's speech he stated that that subject should be considered by the Government during the recess. With regard to the bill before the House, he was bound to state that it contained many clauses which would be totally impracticable. His name
 423
 Lord Stanley  said, that on a previous occasion he had stated to the hon. and Gallant Officer, that in his opinion the Midshipman in question having so demeaned himself as to lower the authority of the Governor in the eyes of those I amongst whom he was acting in that capacity, the Governor, in the moment of irritation, had taken the tiller out of the hands of the officer. Further, he had stated, that on that account he could not altogether acquit the Governor of having acted with indiscretion; but looking to the circumstances of the whole case he must
 424
 Lord Stanley  said that he owed some apology to the House for detaining them a single moment upon a subject so little worthy their attention. He wished merely to observe, that there was nothing could
 426
 Lord Clements  said, they were now about to close the session, and the only exhibition of strength the Government had shewn was their determination to press this odious and irksome measure. Early next session he would expect the noble lord would furnish reports shewing the whole of the arms which had been registered, the quantity seized, and what proportion had been returned to their owners, and also an account of those districts which had been proclaimed. Whenever the bill became law he would take care that wherever he had any influence it should be carried into effect; he would counsel all his countrymen to follow the same course; and it would become so irksome and harassing, and it would be but very short lived. He moved that it be read a third time this day six months.
 Captain Bernal  seconded the amendment, and contended that the bill was hateful in principle and contemptible in its provisions. He protested against the principle of the bill, and the period at which it was sought to be enacted. He believed there were now 25,000 troops in Ireland, exclusive of marines and police,
 427
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, that, when in opposition, the Ministerial party had been accused of making Ireland their  cheval de bataillle, 431 432 433 434 435 436 437 Tros Tyriusve 438
 Mr. Smythe  said, that his chief object in rising was not so much to make a speech upon the worn-out topic of an Arms Bill, as to vindicate the course which he had taken; and he had reason to complain of the mode in which that conduct had been interpreted. On that (the ministerial) side of the House, the right hon. Baronet told them, that they had no right to pursue any course but that which "he" might entertain. The noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire had made use of no such intolerant expression, and he (Mr. Smythe) was sorry he should countenance it by his cheers. When hon. Gentlemen talked of the intolerance of our Roman Catholic fellow subjects, he thought that the intolerance might at least be matched on the benches below. That that was felt to be the fact by some Gentlemen near him on that side, was shown from their cheering him more than they had the right hon. Baronet. But when majorities were counted by units and not by hundreds, such was not the ministerial language used. It had been urged against the course which he had pursued, that he should not make it a question of personality, but he for one did not understand playing with his constituents, nor did he think that this was a time, when, as the hon. Member for Shrewsbury had shown, men were rather prone to substitute persons for principles, that men should forego their convictions and opinions. He should not shrink from saying, that when persons became principles, personality became a duty with those that followed them. He looked upon this do-nothing policy as not Conservative, and not constitutional Conservative? Who so blind as not to see that it was charged with disturbance? Constitutional? Who so blind as not to see that it was charged with revolution. He knew those opinions were not fashionable; he knew the feelings of the right hon. Baronet were those of sanguine expectation; but the House would recollect the remarkable language of Prince Metternich, in July, 1830: "I should be less anxious if Monsieur Polignac were more so." That was the language of Prince Metternich, and he (Mr. Smythe), believed that the people of this empire would
 443
 Lord Northland  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government, whether it were the intention of the right hon. Baronet to repeal or extend the act, the 2nd and 3rd William IV,, which related to party processions in Ireland?
 Lord Eliot  moved that the Arms (Ireland) Bill be read a third time,
 Mr. Hawes  objected, that it was a fresh tax on coal. The Speaker had the other day overruled his objection, and stated that it was insufficient at that time to
 406 l., Gladstone l. l.
 Mr. Hawes  objected to the Bill, on the ground, that the plain construction of the 15th clause would lead to a doubt whether it did not continue a taxation levied by a former Act.
 Mr. B. Wood  differed from his hon. Friends who opposed the Bill. The coal-whippers one week with another earned from 26s. to 30s. a week, but of this sum they did not carry home to their families more than 15s. or 16s. This naturally
 404
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that the grievances under which the coal-whippers suffered were so great, that he was inclined to
 405
 Mr. C. Buller  having on a former occasion expressed his opinion upon the general policy of the Government in relation to Ireland, would confine himself to the bill before the House, and to a few remarks upon the effect which, as now framed, it was likely to produce upon the tranquillity of Ireland. In the gallant Colonel who had just sat down the House had a specimen of the spirit in which the bill would be likely to be administered in Ireland by those in whose hands it would be placed for administration. The gallant Colonel, he believed, was not a magistrate, but he was the organ of a large mass of opinion in Ireland. He was the representative of a class who thought that the vigour of the Government had been too long delayed, and who were anxious for the moment to arrive when they were to be let loose to administer the full severity of this or any other law. The vigour which the gallant Colonel wished the Go-
 439 440 441 442
 The Speaker  said, it was clear that there was an irregularity in the former Bill in the clause referred to, which might, perhaps, render it necessary to withdraw the present Bill, and bring in a new one; but he would suggest, that they should first go on with the Bill, until they came to the 15th clause, and then strike out the words which created the doubt; but if the omission could not wholly cure the defect, then let the Bill be withdrawn, and a new one be introduced.
 Mr. Wall  began by saying that he agreed with his hon. Friend, Mr. Milnes, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government was better able than any other man to introduce remedial measures for Ireland. The greater, however, his power, the greater his responsibility. His was the strongest Government the youngest member would live to see, and he should take care that the opportunity of settling at least some of the questions was not lost. The great moral of all Irish Debates seemed to him to be, that every
 429 430
 Mr. Hume  thought several parts of the Bill most pernicious in principle. The House had some years ago past an Act to put down combinations amongst trades or employments, but this. Bill would encourage combination, while it pretended to hold out protection. If it was necessary to protect the coal-whippers, he did not see why they should not have similar Bills for other trades. He moved that the further consideration of the Bill should be postponed to that day three months.
 Mr. Hume  protested against the appointment of so many Commissioners. The effect of appointing too many persons, would be merely to realize the proverb. "What's everybody's business is nobody's." He would suggest that the commissioner to be appointed should have a proper salary, he would conclude by moving an amendment, that one instead of four commissioners should be appointed.
 Mr. Forster  moved "to strike out the word 'four' and insert the word 'two' instead.
 Mr. Forster  moved to omit the words "above twenty years of age."
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  alluded to what had been said of the Roman Catholic clergy, and expressed his satisfaction that justice had been done to their character. He had pleasure in acknowledging that, and in saying that the feeling which the
 469 470
 Mr. M. Milnes  remarked, the hon. Gentleman was singular in his objection to these precautionary measures which all men must admit to have been imperatively demanded in Ireland. Precaution was the essential concomitant of the moderation of the Government; and, perhaps, the prudence was as much necessary to restrain the enthusiastic loyalty of one party as the excited hostility of the other. At all events, he hoped the latter would be as anxious to merit a compliment for observing the law, as to deprive their opponents of it. But he was as desirous of telling his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government, that the support which the bill had met with was not founded on the conviction that Arms Bills alone were necessary for Ireland. His supporters had entertained the hope, that if not in the
 428
 Mr. M. Milnes  said he would now put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary relative to a girl of the name of Jane Ward, who was committed to the House of Correction on Tuesday, the 1st of August, as he thought the case involved important matter for consideration. A person of the name of Jane Ward was brought before Mr. Combe, a magistrate of Clerkenwell police, charged with begging in the street. Her accuser, who was the sole witness against her, was a man who called himself an officer of the Mendicity Society, who declared that he saw her beg. The girl denied the charge. No police-officer remembered having seen her before; no police-officer knew her,
 411 primâ facie
 Mr. M. O'Ferrall  thought that a lengthened discussion upon a question of this sort at so late a period of the Session would be most impolitic; and her Majesty's Government, in promising to consider the subject, had done as much as they ought to do. The question was in a very unsatisfactory state. He had never held that those who wished to amend the law in respect to it, wished to rob the landlords; on the contrary, he thought those who said so were exceedingly wrong. His hon. Friend, the Member for Rochdale, was himself, in his own character and conduct, the best evidence in disproof of such a notion. There was not a better landlord or a man who gave a more practical proof of the purity of his intentions; for while he displayed a fair desire to maintain the rights of property, he was constantly promoting the comfort and happiness of those who were connected with or dependent upon him. If the example of his hon. Friend had been followed at an earlier period, we should not now have to deplore the evils and crimes that marked the present day. The landlord was the victim of the law; he was compelled to carry it out. He submitted to her Majesty's Government the propriety of instituting such an inquiry for the purpose of ascertaining all the consequences of the present law. He believed that the landlords were more interested in the settlement of this question than the tenants. But the subject ought to be taken up so as to command the respect and confidence of both.
 Mr. Sheil : As I have a far higher opinion of the Prime Minister than the gentlemen who sit immediately behind him, and those on his right wing, who condemn him without hesitation, and vote for him without remorse, I shall commence the observations which I mean to make, by adverting to a remark made by him, many years ago, in opposing the Reform Bill—a remark which appears to me to be peculiarly applicable to an opposition to the measure before the House. He said, in answer to a very eloquent and a very exciting speech made by one of his present Colleagues, that his resistance to Reform would be unavailing, but that it would not be fruitless. That our resistance will be unavailing, is beyond doubt. It is equally, I think, beyond question, that it will not be unproductive of salutary results. The people of this country will be led by the discussions to which this measure has given rise to enquire, why it is the Legislature should be united, and our legislation should be distinct, and how it comes to pass that a bill should have been carried by large majorities, which for England, under circumstances of extreme hazard, no minister was sufficiently adventurous to propound. Nor will the people of this country confine their con-
 444 445 suave mare magno, 446 447 448 l. 449 l. l. ignis fatuus 450 451 452 453 454 455
 Mr. T. Duncombe  had, a question to put to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with reference to a petition which he had presented a few days ago, and which was signed by the present high-sheriff of Buckingham, three of his predecessors, and a number of the freeholders of the county. The petitioners complained of considerable irregularity in the nomination of the high-sheriff by the Privy Council. It appeared by the petition,—
 "That at the summer assizes for the county of Buckingham for the year one thousand eight hundred and forty two, John Palmer, Esq., the then high sheriff, returned to Mr. Baron Alderson the senior judge of assize on the Norfolk circuit, a list of gentlemen qualified to serve the office of sheriff, namely, John Lee, of Hartwell-house, Esq.; John Kay, of Fulmer, Esq.; Anthony Davis, of Misbourne-house, Chalfont St. Giles, Esq.; William George Cavendish, of Latimer, Esq.; William Jones, of Chalfont St. Giles, Esq.; Thomas Tyrwhitt Drake, the younger, of Shardeloes, Esq. That your petitioners cannot but believe that the same list
 408 Gazette
 Mr. S. Crawford  rose to move the second reading of the Landlord and Tenant (Ireland) Bill. It was of the utmost importance, the hon. Member said, to amend the laws relating to landlord and tenant in Ireland. Under the present system the tenant was compelled to take his land upon any terms the landlord or his agent thought fit to impose, and he vas obliged to erect buildings and make every improvement at his own risk and cost, and in case of his removal he could obtain
 413 l. l. 414 "They would be cutting their own throats if they laid out their money, for, where the lease is out, the rent is raised; were it otherwise they would plant trees and build walls; but I never knew an instance of a landlord, on the expiration of a lease of land improved by the tenant, taking one farthing less than he (the tenant) had made it worth." "Though most of the small occupiers and labourers grow apple-potatoes and cup-potatoes, they do not generally use those kinds themselves, except as holyday fare, and as a little indulgence on particular occasions. They can only afford to use lumpers, an inferior kind, fit only for pigs and cattle, and they sell the others for the payment of their rent." "A landlord in passing the door of one of his tenants—a small occupier who owed some arrear of rent—saw one of his daughters washing potatoes at the door, and perceiving that they were of the apple kind, asked her if they were intended for her dinner. Upon being answered that they were, he entered the house and asked the tenant, what he meant by eating apple-potatoes when they were fetching so good a price in Dublin market?" 415 "That whereas it appears by returns made to Parliament of ejectments entered and decrees pronounced in the several courts of law, that an extended and progressively increasing system of ejectment of the small holders is in operation in that country, and that from this, various outrages and disorders have occurred." 416 depopulatores agrorum 417 l., l. 418
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, that he would act upon the advice which had been given and withdraw the bill.
 Colonel Verner  wished that the bill were not restricted to fire-arms only. He was happy to hear the terms of approbation in which the conduct of the Protestants in Ireland had been spoken of by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and by a noble Lord in another place. He was glad that so much justice had been awarded them.
 Sir A. Brooke  was understood to say, that he believed very few landlords in Ireland would object to the principle of the bill. He agreed with the hon. Member for Rochdale that it was very hard for tenants to be ejected without remuneration for the improvements they had made upon the estates of their landlords. There was one proviso in the bill on which he wished to make an observation, that relating to the emigration of the tenant. Should the tenant wish to emigrate he should apply to his landlord for liberty to dispose of his right in his farm which he occupied. Should that request be acceded to, it ought to be considered as a privilege, and not as a right. He was glad to hear the right hon. Baronet say, that he would give the subject his best consideration between this and next Session; and that he would examine into the relative condition of the Irish landlord and tenant. It was a general impression among a certain class, that the Irish landlord had acted harshly towards his tenantry. The wretchedness and misery so generally prevalent in that country were attributed to the hard and cruel conduct of the landlords; but these impressions were erroneous. He fully concurred in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government on a former occasion. The right hon. Baronet observed,
 "I said before, and I say again, that the indiscriminate and inconsiderate expulsion from the soil of whole families, without some refuge or means of relief being provided for them, may be a legal, but it is not a moral or a humane act. It is an act with which I cannot concur. I say it is not only the duty but the interest of those who throw those unfortunate persons on the world to consider the dreadful situation in which they place them by such violent exercise of the power which the law places in their hands. I say it is possible to blend improvement with humanity."
 Sir C. Napier  rose to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies, whether he (Lord Stanley) had given his attention to facts which had been formerly brought under the notice of the House relating to the treatment which a Midshipman had received from the Governor of St. Kitt's? and whether the noble Lord had come to any other opinion on the subject different from that which he had previously given expression to?
 Sir C. Napier  said, that the noble Lord having declined to communicate his opinion to the Governor of St. Kitt's, he was driven to the painful necessity of proceeding with the case. Somewhere about January last, Mr. Cunningham, the Governor of St. Kitt's, embarked on board the Clyde, a packet belonging to the West India Steam Navigation Company, for the purpose of proceeding to Basse Terre. After the packet had departed the Governor was informed that he could not be landed at Basse Terre, but that the ship's-boat should put him ashore at "the point." A boat, under the command of Mr. Jericho, was accordingly launched, and the Governor, his secretary, and the postmaster, got into it, and were pulled towards the shore. As they approached it the Governor insisted on the boat's course being changed, and on his being landed at Basse Terre. The Midshipman replied to him that he had orders to the contrary, and insisted on steering to the point. An altercation took place, and the Governor told the Midshipman that if he did not go to Basse Terre he would fling him overboard. Mr. Jericho insists that the Governor suited the action to the word, and that on being "thrown" or "pushed overboard," he laid hold of the rudder and was hauled into the boat. The Governor then again insisted on being rowed to Basse Terre, but the young officer still refused to deviate from his orders. He then again threatened to throw him overboard, when the strokesman of the boat interfered, and told the Governor that they knew no other governor in the boat but that youngster, and that if he (the Governor) attempted to touch him he would cram his oar down his throat. Ultimately the Governor desisted, and was landed at "the point." The consequence of this altercation, however, was, that during the time it occupied, the steamer had proceeded on her way without the boat; and finding this, by the change in the position of the ship's lights, Mr. Jericho landed, got some bread and water, hoisted a sail in the boat, and ran
 425
 Sir C. Napier  seconded the amendment, and hoped that the sense of the House would be taken upon the subject.
 Sir C. Napier  supported the Bill, which was rendered necessary by the frauds, extortions, and impositions of the publicans who employed coal-whippers. He would support this and any measure which would tend to improve the condition of the seamen and workmen in the river.
 Sir James Graham  was not disposed to undervalue the importance of this subject, nor to complain of any jealousy that might
 409
 Sir James Graham  observed that the hon. Gentleman had put the facts of this case in his own way. He had, however, the deposition on oath of the party, by whose evidence the individual had been convicted. The House would bear in mind, that by the law of England, destitution was provided for as a matter of right, but it also provided that mendicancy should be considered an illegal act. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that it would not be desirable to strain that law; but still it could not be denied that in this metropolis the general habit of begging should be restrained. Now, in this case, he found the facts very different from those that had been stated by the hon. Gentleman. The statement was quite true that this case rested only on the evidence of one witness, a person employed by the Mendicity Society. This officer deposed to his seeing the person in question, on the day named by him, begging more than once—that he saw her begging from two individuals—that he saw her receive money twice, and that on a former occasion he had seen her begging in another part of London. On these facts being proved the magistrates considered himself justified in treating this woman as a common beggar, and in coming to the conclusion that she ought to be committed for seven days.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that as he found he should not be out of order in alluding to this subject, he hoped to be allowed to
 412
 Sir R. Peel : The act to which the noble Lord had alluded did not expire in the present Session, but its operation was
 410
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the hon. Baronet had accused him of treating the question before the House with unbecoming levity. He denied the imputation. He had not addressed any observation half so strong against the bill as had fallen from the hon. Baronet himself.
 Sir R. Peel  could assure the hon. Gentleman, and the House, that he was little disposed to view this bill with any prejudice on account of the character and motives of the hon. Gentleman by whom it had been introduced, for he had a strong impression that the hon. Gentleman was influenced by pure and disinterested motives. So far as he had any knowledge of the hon. Gentleman, his character was not founded upon his professions in that House, but his practical conduct as a landlord, entitled the hon. Gentleman, he was sure, to the respect of all those who knew him or who had the happiness of being connected with him; but he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not ask the House to come to any decision upon this question. It was one of such extreme delicacy and difficulty, that if her Majesty's Government were to express any opinion, it would be of the greatest importance, whatever principles might be affirmed, that with respect to the relation of landlord and tenant, they ought not to leave the matter in a vague state for several months; but having affirmed a principle as to the object of the measure, and as to the possibility of its being carried out, they ought then to proceed at once to the details by which its principles were to be developed. With respect, therefore, to a measure of such extreme difficulty as the relation of landlord and tenant, if they were to legislate for this part of the empire, or for Scotland, he should be strongly disposed to advise the House not in one Session to avow a principle, and in another to carry it into effect. He had given the question as much consideration as he had been able amidst the claims of many other subjects, upon the attention of her Majesty,s Government; but so far as he had been able to refer to some of the acts quoted in the preamble of this bill, he thought, that there must be some misapprehension as to the intention and effects of some of those acts. The third part of the preamble of the bill was this:—
 "And whereas, by the ancient laws of England it is the acknowledged right and duty of Parliament to protect the occupiers of lands from the unjust, arbitrary, and excessive exercise of the powers of eviction conferred on the owners thereof, as shown by va-
 419 "Whosoever decayeth any town or house of husbandry, or doth convert tillage into pasture, shall forfeit to the lord of the fee half, of the profits thereof." 420
 Sir R. Peel ; I am anxious to separate the question of the Arms Bill from the more general considerations affecting the state of Ireland to which the right hon. Gentleman has adverted with an eloquence to which I am not unaccustomed from him, and in a tone and spirit of which, towards myself, personally, I can have no reason to complain. The House is called upon to decide to-night whether it will give its final approval to a measure for the prevention of crime in Ireland, the frequency of which all lament; or should the prevention be found impossible, for the punishment of offenders. The bill, give me leave to say, was framed with no immediate reference to the present state of Ireland; It was framed before the excitement which now unfortunately exists,
 456 457 458 459 460 461 462 463 464 465 concordat 466 l. l. Member 467 468
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that the amount stated by the hon. Member as the cost of the public parks was swollen by the unwarrantable introduction of sums which in no way belonged to the permanent expenditure. With reference to the arrangement under discussion—although, in his opinion, it was one of great public utility—it had not originated with the present Government, but with Lord Duncannon, by whom it was advanced so far that even had it not been so desirable in itself as it was, it would have been difficult to break it off. As to the suggestion that when the park was laid out as a place of public resort, Lord Haddington, or some other favoured person, would be named ranger, with a salary and other advantages, the possibility of any such arrangement was precluded by words which he had introduced into the bill, in committee, which provided that no person should be appointed ranger of this park, or, at least, that no salary should be paid to such ranger if appointed. The Earl of Haddington had as clear a right to the property in this park as any gentleman in the House had to his property. The greatest pains had been taken by the Government throughout the transaction to ascertain the exact claim that Lord Haddington had to this property; and although, no doubt, his right to it was of an anomalous kind, yet some of the highest legal authorities in Scotland, to whom the case in all its bearings had been submitted, as the case of a disputed title, were unanimous in declaring that the noble Earl's right to this park was as clear and indisputable as that of any person in the country to his private estate. The amount which was to be paid to the noble Lord was only twenty-seven years' purchase. This arrangement would involve no sacrifice of public money, while it would effect a great public advantage, by throwing open to general use a park which had been hitherto monopolized by a few graziers.
 Sir D. Norreys  said, that it was really lamentable to see the present Government, this strong Government, that were to do so much practical good, leaving everything of any practical value to the end of the Session, and then throwing it overboard because it was the end of the Session and there was no time for attending to it.
 Mr. Gladstone  said that, in moving the second reading of the bill, assured the House that he had never approached any question with a more clear and entire conviction of the policy and justice of the course that he recommended. He was aware that some gentlemen took a different view of this question, but at the same time there were many who were prepared to give their hearty approbation to the proposition which he was now about to make. He entreated of the House to look at this question in a practical point of view. For his part, he should only look upon the question as bearing upon the trade and labour of this country. He called upon them to consider the results likely to occur from a perseverance in the law, and, on the other hand, the results to be expected from an abrogation of the law. The object of the present bill was to do that openly and legally, which was now attained by indirect means. Those who objected to the exportation of machinery did so, saying that the question was, whether certain manufactured goods should be made in this or in other countries. If they kept the machinery here, they considered the goods would be made at home, and, therefore, they would increase labour and employment at home. If they allowed the machinery to go abroad, then those goods would be manufactured abroad, and they considered it desirable to prevent that. Now, he was prepared to contend that a removal of all restrictions on the exportation of machinery was, under the existing circumstances of trade, the best course that could be pursued by Par-
 494 "Much more had been stated in the evidence, to show the inefficiency of the law prohibiting the exportation of machinery and tools. The law could not be executed, and, therefore, it became necessary to have it amended or totally repealed." 495 496 497 "That whereas a very useful and profitable invention, craft, or mystery existed in this country for the making of silk stockings and other articles; and that, whereas, some machines had been exported out of England, whereby the said commodities in foreign parts, which heretofore had been only made in this country, much to the detriment of the manufacturers of this country, and that, therefore, be it enacted, that such exportation of the machinery be prohibited." 498 499 "Recommending that, until some alteration was made in the law on this subject, the Privy Council should exercise a discretion to permit the exportation of tools and machinery in those cases where it appeared not to be prejudicial to the trade of the British empire." 500 "That the law prohibiting the export of machinery should be repealed, and the trade of machine-making be placed upon the same footing as other departments of British industry." "The committee could not recommend an immediate and unconditional repeal of the laws prohibiting the exportation of machinery." l., l. 501 l. "The conviction of the memorialists that a relaxation of the law would occasion orders to be sent to Lancashire to the amount of not less than 300,000 l. 502 503 504 505
 Mr. S. Wortley  must take leave to say, that on a subject involving interests of an extensive and important nature, it would have been more becoming to have laid this bill on the Table—he should not say on the first, but on an early day of the Session—in order to give Members a fair opportunity of considering the subject, and also to enable the country to take some opportunity of noticing its provisions. He did not, however, think this a sufficient reason for giving a decided opposition to the bill. Supposing we had a decided advantage in the manufacture of any article, he did not hold the doctrine that we were not perfectly justified in retaining it. Nations, like individuals; were justified in taking advantage of peculiar circumstances or natural advantages. The question now was, whether under existing
 509
 Mr. Duncan  said, that he had not heard a single individual engaged in the flax manufacture express any objection to the bill.
 Mr. Williams  said, that if the working classes of this country were in the same position with respect to the prices of food as the working classes of foreign countries, there could be no objection to the proposed measure: but one-half the wages of the English artizan were taken from him by the laws which regulated the prices of corn, and other articles. He wished Government not to deal thus with parts, but to bring forward rather a great and comprehensive measure embracing the whole of our commercial policy. Let Government do this, and he would have no ap-
 514
 Sir R. Ferguson  said he would not have risen, but that the right hon. Gentleman, in reading the statement of Mr. Herdman, had stopped in the middle of a sentence, and he (Sir R. Ferguson) was anxious to complete it. Mr. Herdman went on to say:—
 "But if we give them the weapons by which we have obtained the commercial victory, without any corresponding concessions on their part, we shall only deserve what in a few years must take place—the total annihilation of the mutual trade between the two countries."
 Mr. Collett ; Before proceeding to a division, I wish, Sir, to say a few words, and I can assure Gentlemen opposite, that if favoured with a moderate degree of attention, I shall not only not occupy the House for ten minutes as promised by the hon. Member for Aberdeen, but I shall not trespass on its patience for upwards of one minute. The same reason which induced me, Sir, to support the measure last under our consideration, will oblige me to vote against the present. I voted, Sir, for the second reading of the Machinery Exportation Bill, because, like the Canada Corn Bill, I considered it a step in the right direction—a little step it is true—but still a step in favour of free-trade, and I vote against the Church of Scotland Benefices Bill, because, I consider it a step in the wrong direction. I am, Sir, for free-trade in corn, I am for free-trade in machinery, and I am for free-trade in parsons. And it is because I consider this bill to militate against this principle of free-trade in parsons, that I shall give my humble but determined opposition to it.
 Mr. Mackenzie  objected to the bill, and moved, that it be committed in three months.
 Lord Clements  was satisfied, that this bill was of a most objectionable tendency, to enable the Government to bring out these men as an aid to the army. He thought also, that the measure was a great hardship to these men, who might be called away from their families at a moment's warning to perform their duties.
 Mr. Collett  asked, as the measure was to apply to Ireland, where the arms were to be deposited?
 Lord Eliot  said that the object of the bill before the House was not to alter the fundamental principle of the former measures, but merely to correct certain technical errors and defects. At the present period of the Session, it would be quite impossible to go into so important a question as that brought forward by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Bannerman  asked the House to reject the bill. He had expected, after the lengthened discussion which this measure under went on its second reading and after the very small majority on that occasion in favour of the bill, that her Majesty's Government would have withdrawn it, and not have pressed forward so uncalled for a measure at this late period of the Session. He confessed he was surprised to see the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department supporting this bill. It could only operate as a salve to the consciences of some sixteen clergymen who were anxious to remain in the Church of Scotland and receive their stipends, and one of whom had lately declared in the Presbytery of Edinburgh that Ministers were solemnly pledged to carry this bill, without the slightest alteration or amendment. It professed to remove doubts existing as to the right of presentation and of rejection of ministers to the Church of Scotland. And what was it that the right hon. Gentleman had himself been doing for the last four months? He had been filling up livings for Scotland without entertaining any doubt at all as to the right of the Crown to make the appointments. Had the right hon. Gentleman been giving the congregations the opportunity of rejecting the presentees, or of making objections to be considered by the Presbytery? No such thing. The right hon. Gentleman had been acting according to the law of Scotland; and now he came down to Parliament and asked diem to stultify himself by passing an act to remove doubts, while he himself had been acting without entertaining any doubts at all upon the subject. He could not conceive what possible object the Government could have in passing such a bill. But the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government it seemed, was determined to carry this bill, and declared the other evening that he would summon the whole forces of the Government, in order to enable him to pass it. There was a pretty strong muster to-night; and, perhaps, the right hon. Baronet would even condescend to solicit Young England to unite with Old England, in passing the measure. He hoped, how-
 526
 Mr. Pringle  trusted, that a measure which was now so near its final stage, and which was calculated to set at rest the excitement which had for some time prevailed in Scotland, would not be postponed, but that, on the contrary, the House would lose no time in passing it. It was said that the Church of Scotland had had no time to take the measure into consideration; but no question had been more discussed than this of the Church of Scotland. If the General Assembly wished to discuss the question, they might have long ago called the meeting which was held yesterday; but the fact was, that that meeting was only the usual quarterly one. If there was any one legislative measure more desirable than another, since the Auchterarder decision, it was the one then before the House. An ample opportunity had been afforded parties in the Church who were opposed to this bill of expressing their opinion upon it; and if two Presbyteries had petitioned against the bill, all other Presbyteries had had an opportunity of following their example if they had chosen to do so. It had been said that this measure was opposed to the wishes of the Church of Scotland, but such was not the fact. It was the most anxious desire of the Church that this bill should be adopted. He believed that if this bill was passed into a law, and fully carried out by the patrons, the Church would continue to embrace as large a proportion of the Inhabitants of Scotland as were in connection with her before the recent secession. It was, however, true that many individuals in the Church of Scotland were opposed to this measure.
 525
 Mr. Hawes  thought the effect would be an addition to our standing army, but if the Government believed it required that addition for the public peace, he would not resist the measure.
 Mr. Hindley  regretted that he was obliged to offer any opposition, or to impose
 506 507 508 "Would it not be unwise to try any experiments which would have the effect of disturbing a prosperous manufacture in our own country?—Certainly; unless there was a reasonable expectation of deriving a greater benefit than the loss in amount received." "But is not the obvious policy to be content with a prosperous trade, when once established?—I should say so, unless there were good reasons for making a change." "And without strong reasons, you would not make any change?—Certainly not."
 Mr. Hindley  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet whether there was any disposition shown by Queen Pomare to be connected with France. And he also wished to be informed what course the Government was prepared to take in case the Queen was not disposed to yield.
 Mr. Ross  said that this measure was a direct violation of the pledge which had been repeatedly given by Ministers to assimilate the government of Ireland in every respect to that of England.
 Mr. Ross  said that a general desire prevailed amongst all parties interested in the flax manufacture in the north of Ireland that the bill should not immediately become the law of the land. The flax manufacturers of Ireland were at present labouring under difficulties which had resulted from the restictions imposed by France on the importation of linen yarn. He knew that some manufacturers had carried on their business during the winter at a very small profit, whilst many had suffered severe losses. On this occasion, he spoke the sentiments of his constituents for himself was a free-trader, and thought that the arguments of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade were unanswerable. His constituents, also, were free-traders, and, with them, the passing of this bill was only a question of time.
 Mr. Darby  said, that the Attorney-General had given him an assurance, that there should be a discussion on this measure upon the third reading.
 Mr. G. A. Hamilton  said, the question for the committee to decide was simply this—whether or not the bill was to be regarded as a party measure, opening up the whole subject of municipal corporations in Ireland. He had regarded it as a measure brought in with the consent of all parties, for the purpose of remedying certain admitted defects in the existing law. That certainly was the understanding of the Government, and he thought was also the understanding of the House. In proof of this, he would mention that his right hon. Friend and Colleague had given notice of certain amendments, in reference to the boundaries of corporate towns, which appeared to him very important; but feeling that they might be considered as opening the general question, he had abandoned them. It was, no doubt, competent for any hon. Member to propose any amendment; but considering the great inconvenience of discussing the municipal franchise at this period of the Session, he would be prepared, for one, to move or support a motion that they report progress, and thus postpone the bill till the next Session.
 Mr. G. Wood  said, undoubtedly the people of the north owed gratitude to the Government for their prompt energy on
 535
 Sir H. Hardinge  replied, that when he introduced this bill, he explained the object of it, and stated, that last year he introduced a measure, which received the sanction of Parliament, by which it was enacted, that the out-pensioners of Chelsea Hospital should be paid for the future, by half-pay officers named by the proper authorities. These men, when under proper control, might be found to be a most fit force to assist the civil power, and they might be called out tinder the command of the half-pay officers who paid them their allowances, and might be armed in case of emergency, for the maintenance of the peace. Last year it was found necessary to call out bodies of these men in various parts of the north of England, and they could only be armed with staves. The men when thus called upon to serve, had no option as they were old soldiers in receipt of pensions from the Crown. He conceived, that it was not just, that they should be placed in such a position, that they could hardly defend themselves when called out to maintain the law against those who were breaking it. There was no constitutional ground to object to such a body, for objection might be raised on the same ground to any yeomanry or volunteer force. This body could only be called out and armed on the responsibility of the Government, and when the Secretary for the Home Department declared that it was necessary for the maintenance of the public peace. At present, the men could only be summoned by the magistrates to act as special constables, whereas, it was
 533
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that the Crown could now at any time compel the service of these men, and this certainly might at particular times be attended with hardship. In 1819 he felt this, when ten veteran battalions were formed from these men. All that was now proposed, was, that these men should act as it were as leaders of armed special constables, and not in veteran battalions or in garrison, as they might be called to do at present. The bill, therefore, as far as it went, was an exemption for this class of men, and could not operate against them.
 Sir H. Hardinge  replied, that there would be a depot in the barracks of each town, and they would only be issued when required.
 Mr. Labouchere  would give his support to a bill for abolishing the last prohibition
 510 511
 Dr. Bowring  said, that there could be no danger to our manufacturers in allowing the exportation of machinery, for, of course, machinery would continue cheaper in the country whence it was exported, than in those to which it would be carried.
 Dr. Boyd  knew nothing of late years which had so much agitated the Presbyterians of Ireland as the state of the Church of Scotland, as well as the question of Presbyterian marriages, which he should not then go into. The Presbyterians who settled in Ireland upwards of two centuries ago, had persevered against the greatest difficulties in introducing peace and order into the province of Ulster, and had raised it to the position it now occupied. The question of Repeal of the Union, had been attempted to be urged and advocated in Ulster, but the Presbyterians of the north would not listen to those attempts. The Presbyterians of the north of Ireland had since their settlement
 524 l.
 Mr. Brotherton  could not support the amendment proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Ashton. It was impossible to prevent the exportation of machinery. During the past year 500,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  was delighted in comtemplating the proceedings of the House that evening, involving as they did the recognition of a great principle for which he had long contended in spite of much opposition, and the ultimate triumph of which he now witnessed. The law respecting the exportation of machinery had hitherto been a dead letter; it would now he placed upon a proper footing. He would mention a fact which would show the injurious effect upon the employment of labour which resulted from the absurd restrictions in the exportation of machinery which at present existed. Last autumn a gentleman whom he knew, received an order to make a 100,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion, because it affected Scotland in a particular degree, and it came before them with powers to alter the constitution of the Church of Scotland. The Church of Scotland was a popular body; the bill would place in the bands of an oligarchy a power which would destroy that constitution. He wished, then, for a little time. What purpose could it answer to force on the measure? No man demanded it. The Government incurred a great responsibility in taking this course to hasten a measure altering the constitution of the Church of Scotland, which ought not to be done without great deliberation.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  said, nothing but a knowledge of the importance of this subject to the country with which he was connected, would induce him to add even a few minutes to the length of this expiring session, by any remarks on this ill-timed and ill-advised bill. The dilatoriness of the Government in introducing this bill was only to be equalled by the precipitancy with which they were now hurrying it through, at a moment when the Commission of the General Assembly had met to judge of the merits and demerits of the measure, all tending to raise suspicion against the measure. The Church of Scotland had been allowed no time to take the measure into consideration, and pronounce an opinion on it, as she had undoubtedly a constitutional right to do. Coming down from the other House, denounced by all the great authorities of the law, and only upheld in that House by a political majority of eighteen, if he looked on the bill as a party measure, he would be content to leave it where it was. If the sentiments of the representatives of Scotland who were most interested in the question, and best able to appreciate its bearings, were to have any weight with the House, he begged to remark that the bill had been opposed by a majority of two to one of the Members from that country; and such had been the preponderating majority of Scotch Members on every occasion, when this subject was discussed; but the indifference with which Scottish affairs were viewed here, induced a disregard of the consequences which the course pursued in settling them might produce. He did not complain of any unkindness of feeling towards Scotland on the part of the representatives of England, but this indifference had always prevailed, even so long ago as the time of Lord Clarendon, who remarked that, at the commencement or the troubles of 1638,
 518 519 520 "An election is the choosing of such persons as are most able for the office of minister, by the judgment of the eldership and the consent of the congregation." "Patronage, though not abolished at the Reformation, was subjected to the strict control of the Church judicatories, which invariably required the concurrence of the parishes." 521 522 ——"Your faults—they are but two; There nothing good you say, there's nothing right you do." "Every struggle for liberty in Scotland since the Reformation has been by Presbyterians. Under an administration favourable to liberty they have been cherished, while under
 523
 Mr. Cobden  expressed regret, that any
 513
 Mr. Sheil  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether any proposition had been made as to the settlement of the Oregon territory question by the United States? He wished to know if there had been any official correspondence on the subject, and if there had been, he desired to be informed whether it would be laid on the Table of the House now, or in a future Session?
 Mr. T. Duncombe  did not see why these men should be placed in a better situation as regarded their being armed, than special constables. It appeared, that this measure was to follow up the act of last year, by which these men were placed under the orders of half-pay officers. From what had fallen from the right hon. and gallant officer, it almost appeared as if it were intended, that the half-starved people were to be put down by the bayonets of these men. The right hon. Gentleman did not mention Ireland, but it was obvious, that this bill was introduced in reference to that country. He understood, that 500 of these pensioners were to be found in Liverpool,
 534
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to know what was the object of this bill, as it appeared to him, that it was of a dangerous character. Was it a bill for increasing the army, or was it intended by it, to make a new constabulary force in England and Ireland, as the Home Secretary might think fit. He should be glad if the gallant Secretary-at-War would furnish some explanation as to the intentions of the Government with respect to this bill.
 Mr. Wyse  supported the amendment. It was not a proposition for altering fundamental principles, but for removing
 491
 Mr. Cripps  opposed the motion, which he thought ought not to be pressed at that late hour of the night in the absence of the Attorney-General.
 Mr. W. J. O'Brien  complained of the manner in which the exercise of the municipal franchise in Dublin was impeded. No fewer than sixteen rates were required to be paid before the elector could give his vote; he moved, therefore, that instead of the words, "payment of the several cesses, rates, and taxes," the words, "poor-rate and "borough-rate," be inserted."
 Mr. W. Williams  stated, that the 30,674 l. l. s. d. l., l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 489 l. l. l.
 Mr. Elphinstone  moved, that the Moveables (Scotland) Bill be committed.
 Sir J Graham  informed the House, that the Lord Advocate of Scotland, whom he had consulted, was opposed to to the bill. The learned Lord described
 532
 Sir J. Graham  could assure the House he would not trespass many minutes on their attention, and if he wanted any additional reason for that assurance, it would be found in the fact that of the last thirty-six hours he believed he had spent twenty-six within the walls of that House. Nothing, he could assure the House, but a sense of duty could induce him to address them on the present occasion. The hon. Member for Montrose had reminded the Government that a heavy responsibility rested upon them for the present measure. He (Sir J. Graham) was conscious of the full weight of that responsibility, and feeling most anxious to consolidate the strength and to secure the permanent safety of the Church of Scotland, with a view to promote the interests of that Church and of the people of Scotland—he implored the House to allow this Bill to proceed. The hon. Member who just sat down had stated that he (Sir J. Graham) in the discharge of his official duty, had nominated, or advised the Crown to nominate, ministers to the livings become vacant by the late secession from the Church. The fact was, he believed, that he had nominated fifty ministers, and he believed that nearly forty livings still remained to be filled up, and it was with regard to this state of things that he felt most anxious that the Bill should pass. He believed that the admission of the ministers so nominated was not yet complete, and that not one of them had been as yet inducted into his living, and this Bill would impose a salutary check on the patronage of the Crown, and would give to the people a full opportunity of stating their objections to each presentee. With respect to the present Bill, he believed that it was strictly consonant with the Presbyterian principles of Church discipline, and that it was calculated to give effect to non-intrusion, and that in each parish the congregations would have the largest right to object, and the Church Courts the most ample right of adjudicating. The hon. Member opposite (Mr. P. M. Stewart), who, on a former occasion,
 527 528 529 530
 Sir James Graham  moved the order of the day for a committee of the whole House on the Church of Scotland Benefices Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  moved, the third reading of the Law of Evidence Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  said that the bill had been brought in by her Majesty's servants, on the clear understanding that it was a measure of regulation, and not one bearing upon the principle of the franchise. It was, no doubt, competent to the hon. Member for Limerick, or any other hon. Gentlemen to raise the whole question of the franchise, but if he persevered, it would be the duty of Government, at this period of the Session to withdraw the bill.
 Sir Robert Peel  replied, that he understood her Majesty had declared that she had signed a certain paper, of which she did not understand the import. There had been some British ships of war at the islands of her Majesty; but whatever course their commanders might have taken, was entirely their own voluntary act, and not under the authority of the Government. He must decline, however, saying, in case the Queen of Tahiti should adopt a certain line of proceeding, what course her Majesty's Government might be disposed to take.
 Sir R. Peel  said, there was one argument of the hon. Member for Coventry on which he was desirous to make a few observations. The hon. Gentleman alluded to the proceedings of some foreign governments, which, notwithstanding the reduction that had taken place in this country in the duties on their produce, had nevertheless, increased the restraint on the introduction of British manufactures. No doubt some foreign countries had acted in such a spirit, but he (Sir R. Peel) wished that those who directed public opinion in those foreign countries could hear some of the complaints that had been made in this country with respect to that course. He wished they could hear the statement of a Gentleman of great judgment and experience, Mr. Herdman, of Belfast, whose evidence on the subject now before the House had been more than once referred to that evening. Mr. Herdman was an opponent of the measure under discussion, and complained much of the recent restrictions imposed by France and Belgium on the introduction of linen yarn. He called those countries our commercial enemies; but he wished that the manufacturers of those countries could hear what, according to Mr. Herdman, had been the effects, on time linen manufacturer of those restrictions. Mr. Herdman said:—
 515 "The policy of France in this case has been most injurious to her own interests. Under the system of admitting English linen yarn, she had increased her native manufactures, was becoming almost independent of Belgium, and was beginning to compete with us in foreign markets. On the reduction in the price of linen yarn here, caused by the French tariff, the price of the manufacture has been enhanced to the French consumer, and a great part of her own people have been thrown out of employment; at the same time the reduction in price of yarn has enabled us so effectually to compete with French linen that we have completely driven it out of the foreign market. The Belgian manufacturers, in consequence of the enhanced price, have lost nearly every foreign market, except France. "As matters stand, I consider that by the hostile tariffs of France and Belgium those countries have lost much more than we have lost."
 Sir Robert Peel  replied, that he was not in a position to lay the correspondence on the Table of the House; but he was prepared to state how the Oregon territory question stood. The right hon. Gentleman might recollect that in the message of the President, which had been delivered, he thought, on the 6th of December last year, a reference was made to the question of the Oregon territory. The President then felt that it would be very desirable to have, if it were possible, this matter adjusted in the treaty, which was then concluded by Lord Ashburton. The President, however, said—
 "It became manifest at an early hour of the late negotiations, that any attempt for the time being satisfactorily to determine those rights, would lead to a protracted discussion, which might embrace in its failure other more pressing matters, and the executive did not regard it as proper to waive all the advantages of an honourable adjustment of other difficulties of great magnitude and importance, because this, not so immediately pressing, stood in the way. Although the difficulty referred to may not, for several years to come, involve the peace of the two countries, yet I shall not
 493
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, there must be some Gentleman on that side of the House connected with the manufacturing districts, who knows what was the state of those districts last year, and what pressing applications were made to the Government for the despatch of military force to preserve the public peace. And what was the consequence? In order to fulfil that paramount duty, we had to send a battalion of guards to Manchester, thus making an unpleasant display of military force throughout the country. Whatever may be the distresses of the people (and which we are most anxious to alleviate), they can afford no justification for any breach of the public peace, and do not exempt the Government from the responsibility of that which, indeed, is the first duty of a Ministry—protection of property, and the preservation of the peace. It is really for the interests of the people themselves that those who are disposed to disturb the public peace should be curbed at the outset. This is a force which will lay dormant till actually required, and then will only be used on the responsibility of one of the chief Ministers of the Crown. With men accustomed to military discipline, it is far better that their old habits of obedience and order should be maintained; rather than that they should be allowed to act in small isolated independent bodies, with none of the organization to which they are habituated, exposed on the one hand to the likelihood of inefficiency, and on the other to the probability of abuse. Those who know what was the responsibility of the Government last year, will not only deem them justified in bringing forward this measure, but bound to do so by their duty to the public, and I hope the House will see how serious are the dangers against which it will guard, and how great the advantages which it will secure.
 Lord Ingestre  deeply felt the importance of such a measure from his experience of the evils attending the intimidation practised by immense mobs such as those which disturbed the northern counties last year. He thought a less objectionable mode of strengthening the hands of Government could not have been devised. And every one admitted the measure would be justified by the necessity suggested, he would ask, how could the exigency be met unless provided for before it actually arose?
 Mr. Gladstone  moved the order of the day for the House to go into committee on the Exportation of Machinery Bill.
 Mr. S. Wortley  thought the exportation of machinery rested upon grounds peculiar to itself, and had no connection with any other question. There was no other article the export of which was prohibited, and the prohibition in this instance had entirely failed to prevent foreign countries obtaining machines, while it deprived this country of a valuable branch of trade. The export of machinery already took place under the authority of orders of council, and there was no reason why the House should not sanction the exportation as a direct general principle.
 Mr. Gladstone  said the bill related to a branch of manufactures purely domestic, the materials for which were produced in this country, and which carried on entirely by British artizans The object was one which we all had in view, the increase of employment and the improvement of the trade in this country.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, the House, though it might refuse to carry a treaty into effect where an Act of Parliament was necessary for that purpose, could not alter or modify a treaty itself. Lord Aberdeen had made the most favourable arrangements for this country that he could. Though England, no doubt, had made concessions, France had made others in return of much value to our fishermen.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that there had been reciprocity, to all intents and purposes; for, in return for allowing the French boats to anchor, during the herring fishery, within three miles of our coast, our fishermen were to be allowed to anchor their oyster boats within the port of Chaussée, a concession of which they had been greatly desirous. Whether the one concession was a return in full for the other, was a different question.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Treasury respecting the transactions of Scinde. The hon. Member for Bath having abandoned his motion, there was no chance at this period of the Session of having a discussion of the question. He did not mean
 549 "Thus has victory placed at the disposal of the British Government the country on both banks of the Indus, from Sukkur to the sea, with the exception of such portions thereof as may belong to Meer Ali Moorad of Khyrpore, and to any other of the Ameers who may have remained faithful to his engagements."
 Lord Stanley  begged the hon. Gentleman not to run away with the notion that the clause was confined to any specific object. The design was to benefit parties desiring to emigrate, and at the same time to confer no mean advantage on the colony. The hon. Gentleman could not condemn more than he did the shovelling out of the pauperism of this country upon the shores of its colonies. It would be most cruel and barbarous. He had in the course of the present year had to complain of, and remonstrate with, certain emigration societies who had sent out emigrants who were in a state of destitution and not likely to be able to obtain their living by their industry. By the same post that he wrote to those parties, pointing out the cruelty of their proceedings, he wrote out also to the governors of the colonies to which the emigrants were bound, warning them of the circumstance, and entreating them on the arrival of the emigrants to
 564
 Mr. V. Smith  should be glad if it were possible to exclude fugitive slaves altogether from the operation of this bill; but he did not see how it could be done. He should confine some suggestions he wished to make to amending those clauses which related to fugitive slaves, hoping that he should induce some expression of opinion from her Majesty's Government, as likely to have effect in the interpretation of the bill across the Atlantic. It appeared to him that a fugitive slave about to be committed by a magistrate should have some opportunity of offering exculpatory evidence. He thought too, that it should not merely be discretionary on the part of the Governor of a colony to send the documents relating to the committal of a slave to the Colonial Secretary, but compulsory. Again, it was said that the slave might be committed for every species of robbery and theft. What was to constitute these offences? Was it to be said that the clothes which a slave had on when he escaped, the boat he came in, or the horse that enabled him to effect his flight, were stolen? Again, supposing he was really guilty of some crime, was he, when taken back, to be treated as a slave or a freeman? The conditions of trial were very different, and so were the punishments of slaves and freemen. In the case likewise of a slave committed by a magistrate unjustly (and he supposed magistrates in the colonies were not wiser than any where else), and afterwards acquitted, what became of him? All the vindictive feelings of the owner might be exasperated against him on account of his flight, and he might be inclined to wreak his vengeance on him when thus restored to his possession. There was a great apprehension entertained by one who had devoted his life to mitigating the horrors of slavery—he meant Thomas Clarkson—that slaves who had been long inhabitants of free countries would have their settlements disturbed by false charges being preferred against them. For himself, he
 565
 The Attorney-General  said the object of the right hon. Gentleman seemed to be to exempt fugitive slaves wholly from the operation of this bill. He did not see how, if any attention was paid to the law of nations, such a general exemption should be made. In the case of the Creole it was the opinion of the law officers of the Government, that, according to our law, it could not for a moment be permitted that the slaves should be restored. They were as safe in the Bahama islands as they would be in the exchange; and whatever were the consequences her Majesty's Ministers were prepared to act up to the law. He thought he might pledge the Government to the declaration, that on any similar occasion they would pursue a similar course. The right hon. Gentleman had put the case of a slave effecting his escape in a boat, and asked whether, if he were charged with stealing the boat, he would be surrendered to the American Government? He did not hesitate to say that under such circumstances the man would not be surrendered; and for this reason, that it was a principle of our law that a slave was not guilty of theft in taking and using the property of another, be it a horse or a boat, for the purpose of assisting him in effecting his escape. But even if a fugitive slave should take property not with the view of aiding his escape—suppose he should steal the property—still that would not form a ground for delivering him up to the American Government, because theft was not one of the crimes enumerated in the treaty. No crime was recognised in the treaty except such as were acknowledged to be such by the universal assent of all civilized nations, namely, murder, assault with intent to commit murder, piracy, arson, robbery, forgery, and the utterance of forged paper. It was urged that cases would be got up,
 566 567 status "Provided that this should only be done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged should be found, would justify his apprehension and commitment." 568
 The Attorney-General  said, that in all the cases put by the right hon. Gentleman no doubt could arise. The bill expressly said, that the fugitives must be tried by the laws of the country where they were found.
 The Attorney-General  said he was of opinion that an English magistrate would not be at liberty to enter into the question as to whether the fugitive brought before him was a slave or not. He could only enter into such questions of common law as might arise out of the case, and if the accused person was not shown to be a criminal, no extradition could take place.
 Lord Stanley , before be proceeded to speak of the treaty itself, would say one or two words in answer to the noble Lord who had just sat down. He (Lord Stanley) had not been aware that the noble Lord intended to put any questions on matters so remotely connected with the subject under discussion, and not having the papers now before him, it was not in his power to give as complete an answer as he would have done if he had known of the noble Lord's intention to put these questions. With respect to the destruction of the barracoons on the coast of Africa, the noble Lord seemed to believe there was some difference of opinion between the present and late Government. He believed that no such difference existed, for if he understood the noble Lord aright, the noble Lord admitted that if the destruction took place against the consent of the state in the territories of which the barracoons were situated, the act would be an offence not justifiable by any international law; but where the chief or the sovereign of the country lent his sanction, an officer destroying the barracoons would of course not be guilty of any violation of territory, and he agreed with the noble lord that no step could be more effectual in putting down the slave trade. So far, therefore, as, the law of
 575 Palmerston: 576 577 "You will remark that I have considered as inadmissible the proposal that fugitive criminals, flying from the Danish colonies, shall be tried by the British colonial tribunals for the crimes committed by them in the Danish colonies. It has appeared to me, however, that where the criminals whether slaves or freemen, shall be satisfactorily proved to the British colonial authorities to have been guilty of murder, or any other heinous crime, which the laws of all nations visit with condign punishment, the safety of society demands that such a criminal should be brought to justice, and that it will become the duty of all governors of colonies to afford every assistance for his apprehension and restitution, to take his trial in the foreign colony in which the crime may have been committed." 578 "You will be guided by this principle in any case of this description which may come under your consideration, and should the law of the colony under your government offer any obstacle to the adoption of the course I have laid down, you will take an opportunity of recommending such a revision and amendment of the law, as may be required to attain the object in view." "It cannot be denied that cases may possibly arise in which the slaves may have committed crimes demanding exemplary punishment, and in such cases the servile character of the offender cannot properly be admitted as an excuse for shielding him from that punishment." Macaulay "To render our colonies the place of refuge
 579 580
 Mr. Gladstone  objected to the amendment, which was withdrawn, and clause agreed to.
 Lord Clements  said, that by the 147th clause of the Irish Municipal Bill it was
 587
 Mr. Gladstone  moved the insertion of a clause in lieu of clause 14, to render manufactures of Gibraltar, Malta, and Heligoland, made of materials of foreign produce liable to duty, like the produce of a foreign country.
 Lord Eliot  said, he believed that the object of the clause was to put a stop to the litigation which had so long been carried on between the Irish Society and the Bishop of Derry. Now, this had nothing whatever to do with the bill before the House, which was intended for the better regulation of the Municipal Corporations in Ireland. He must strongly object to the question of the right of the Irish Society being opened one way or the other in this bill.
 Mr. Hawes  moved the insertion of the word "free" in the ninth line, before the word "persons."
 Mr. Hawes  feared, that although between free states these treaties might be very beneficial, yet between free states and slave-holding states, they would produce continual subjects of dissension. When a fugitive slave was charged with committing a robbery, the question of slavery must necessarily be raised. He was apprehensive, that the treaty would lead to an encroachment on the principle to which England owed so much of her glory—the principle, that a slave, the moment he touched her soil, became a free man. He should feel it to be his duty to vote against the bill on this ground.
 Mr. C. Buller  rose to move the omission of the 16th clause, which enabled the guardians of the poor to assist destitute poor persons to emigrate. Looking at the title of this bill, nobody would have supposed that any of its provisions could have had reference to the subject of emigration; and he had not the most remote notion that emigration came within the scope of the bill until his attention had been drawn to the fact by an article which appeared in  The Times 562 l. l. l. Eliot.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, he had understood, that however large and general were the terms of the clause, the Government had a specific object in view—the emigration of young women. But if it was not the intention of Government to send them to Canada, but to the Australian colonies, still his objection to the principle of the clause was not removed
 Mr. Hindley  had opposed the bill in the first instance, but, as the House had so far sanctioned it, he should vote for its being considered in committee; he con-
 547
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought it was not a fair or manly course to bring in a measure of this kind while the majority of the county Members were absent. If the right hon. Gentleman went on in this way, he must be called the President, not of the Board of Trade, but of the Board of Free Trade. As the bill was a dangerous step towards that free-trade, which he hated, he would move that it be committed that day three months.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet a question. He had learned from the ordinary sources whence they derived their information of what occurred in another place, that a noble and learned Lord had introduced a bill, for the purpose of reviving a portion of the Coercion Bill for Ireland, and giving to the Government the power of changing the venue on the trial of any description of offences from one county to another. He asked the right hon. Gentleman whether the Government meant to take up that bill, he asked whether the Government meant to support it, and, if it did mean to support it, whether it supported it on the military reasons which had been assigned for it by the noble and learned Lord? He asked the question because most of the Irish Members had left town, and it was a matter of necessity, on a question of such importance, that the speediest information should be obtained of the intention of the Government.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  could not feel otherwise than satisfied with the answer of the right hon. Gentleman. But, at the same time, as the bill was in the other House, he would put it to the right hon. Gentleman, whether it should be proceeded with in the absence of the leading Irish Members.
 Mr. George Hamilton  had to move the adoption of the clauses of which he had given notice, they related to the mode in which persons in Ireland, entitled to receive rent-charge in lieu of tithe, were at present assessed for the relief of the poor.
 557 pro tanto 558 l. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. 559
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he conceived that the bill would only enable the pensioners to be called out in the different localities, and he believed that the number which might be armed were about 5,000 for England, 2,000 for Scotland, and between 1,000 and 2,000 for Ireland, making in all between 8,000 and 9,000. He repeated that these persons would merely act in case of a local demand for their services, in the towns where they reside.
 Mr. Forster  warmly approved of the
 546 "A tax levied on an article produced in this country—an element of manufactures, necessary to manufactures, tending by its export to increase the competition with our own manufactures." "Operating as few taxes do, to the encouragement of native industry."
 Mr. Sheil  said, that he had given notice of a question regarding the Irish Registration Bill, and that it would be necessary for
 554 "That the Committee desire to call the instant and serious attention of the House to the state of the law, as it materially affects a very considerable portion of the parliamentary franchise in Ireland. They allude especially to the conflicting decisions which are so frequently given by Committees of this House, in respect to the issue technically termed, the opening of the registry, and to the impracticability of affirming, with the contradictory opinions of learned judges before them, the right meaning and application of the words 'beneficial interest,' with the terms 4 'clear yearly value.' That the Committee are unanimously of opinion, that without some declaratory act, it will be impossible for any future Committees to arrive at any consistent or satisfactory conclusion." 555
 Mr. T. Duncombe  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary at War, respecting the bill which was read a second time last night, and which he considered a bill to augment the standing army. He begged to ask how many men this bill would enable the Government to place under arms?
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, it was quite clear, under the 10th article of the treaty, that the instructions given to the naval officers of the two squadrons on the coast of Africa were to be in the possession of each government, and, therefore, the right hon. Baronet must be in possession of the instructions issued by the United States government to the officers of their squadron. He wanted to know whether America had, equally with England, fulfilled the tenor of the 8th article, and whether in the instructions given by that Government, this passage was not to be found? He would not say they were the precise words, but he believed this to be the sub-
 581 "That the primary considerations with the American government was not the suppression of the slave-trade, but the protection of their own flag, and the assertion of their own rights."
 Mr. Milner Gibson  contended that the clause would have the effect of making the Corn Bill of last Session more restrictive than it was at present, by subjecting corn from Heligoland to a duty; and proposed the insertion of the words, "Provided that nothing in this clause shall be deemed to affect flour or meal."
 Mr. Macaulay  asked, whether he were to understand, then, that an action not criminal in a free man, could not be held to be criminal in a slave?
 Mr. Macaulay  had hoped that his hon. and learned Friend would have given such an explanation as would have rendered it unnecessary for him to address the House on the question; but, with great concern, he must declare, that, after listening to the observations of his hon. and learned Friend, he felt more uneasiness respecting the bill than he did when the discussion commenced. He could assure the right hon. Baronet opposite that he had not the smallest intention of making any charge against the Government on this occasion. He was aware that a similar treaty was in contemplation when the late Ministry was in office, and he gave the present Ministers full credit for having intended nothing, but to connect more closely the relations of amity between the two countries, and the promotion of justice. He, however, looked with some anxiety to some portions of the bill, and he seriously entertained an opinion, which would probably startle his own Friends as much as the hon. Gentlemen opposite, namely, that the best course the Government could take would be to drop the bill, and cancel that part of the treaty to which it referred. He could not concur in the fundamental principles which his hon. and learned Friend had laid down on the subject of extradition—a word, by-the-bye, which seemed to be introduced into the English language, and which, therefore, he might be excused for employing. No doubt it was a great evil that murderers and robbers should escape punishment—it was an evil to the country from which they fled, as well as to that in which they sought refuge; but, nevertheless, he must be allowed to observe, that in another part of the world in which he had had an opportunity of hearing the
 569 570 571 572
 Mr. Sheppard  supported the amendment. He was opposed to the bill, because it would deprive this country of all the advantages it possessed in superior ingenuity and superior machinery, and the result would infallibly be, a free-trade in corn.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  said, that he would much rather see the appointment vested in the Executive Government, who would be responsible for the manner in which power was exercised by them, than by the Poor-law commissioners, who afforded a proof of their irresponsibility in the manner they had treated Dr. Phelan.
 Sir C. Napier  said, the right hon. Baronet had evaded his hon. Friend's question. It was invariably the practice to attach the instructions issued by both Governments to the treaties and conventions formed between two powers for the suppression of the slave-trade. He contended that the right hon. Baronet was bound to follow the rule that had hitherto been observed, and let the country know clearly and distinctly whether or not the Government had given up the right of visit that had been so long contended for, and whether or not it was perfectly true, as he (Sir C. Napier) sincerely and conscientiously believed it was, that we were to go to the African coast, and hunt in couples, yet that the English cruisers were not to interfere with the American vessels, or the American cruisers with English ves-
 584
 Sir C. Napier  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman relative to the General who commanded and relative to the army in Scinde. After the termination of the war in Affghanistan, the army and Generals Pollock, Nott, and Sale, received the
 552
 Captain Pechell  complained that the treaty, which had been entered into with France, for regulating the fisheries of the
 548
 Sir J. Graham  said, he did not propose to lay on the Table a Registration Bill for Ireland during the present Session. Early next Session it was his intention to submit the question to the consideration of Parliament. The Right hon. Gentleman had referred to a declaration made last Session, with respect to this measure, and he was prepared to state to the right hon. Gentleman and to the House, that during the last recess, the attention of Government was directed to this subject, more particularly to increasing the county constituency, which would be inevitably narrowed by the direct rule of beneficial interests, according to the legal construction which had been put upon them. The effect of that construction, combined with a more rigid scheme of registration, would inevitably be productive of a diminution of the county voters; and that being the case, her Majesty's Government found it necessary to apply their minds to some scheme of compensation. The Government had directed their attention to the Poor-law valuation, and the result of that consideration, led them to the conviction, that it was impossible to found any uniform scheme of franchise on the valuation as it existed at present, since, under circumstances perfectly identical, they found the valuation to vary frequently as much as twenty-five per cent. The right hon. Gentleman asked, what was the intention of her Majesty's Government as to any future measure; and whether the Government would give any general outline of the mea-
 556 quoad
 Sir J. Graham  said, that a report had recently been made by the Poor-law commissioners, which would make it necessary next Session to introduce a measure for the purpose of regulating the whole question of tithe rent charge. He admitted there was some disadvantage to the Irish tithe owner, in consequence of his not being rated on the books, and he should have no objection pending the general measure which would be brought in next Session to put the Irish tithe owner on the same footing as the English one, but these clauses went further, and claimed deductions on account of curates' salaries and other charges for which no deduction was allowed in England, and to this he could not consent.
 Sir J. Graham  thought it extremely inconvenient, at the present advanced stage of the bill, to introduce a clause so closely bearing upon its principle, and the constitution of the Board by which it was carried into effect. The proper remedy in cases of abuse in these appointments would be by address to the Crown. If it were proposed to add the labour of all the details of the Poor-law upon the Home Department, he apprehended that that duty alone would fully occupy all the time of the Secretary of that department. He must, therefore oppose the clause.
 Sir J. Graham  said, the subject had been fully discussed before with respect to colonization to which the hon. and learned Member had directed so much at-
 563
 Sir R. Peel  certainly did not consider himself bound to lay on the Table of the House the instructions which the Government of the United States had given to its officers for the suppression of the slave-trade. It was for the government of the United States to determine whether or not it would publish those instructions. They had in compliance with the 8th article communicated those instructions to the British Government, but he conceived it to be no part of his duty to communicate those instructions to Parliament. Those instructions contained a reference to the various devices by which vessels engaged in the slave-trade, might attempt to elude discovery, and carry on the trade, and that alone, would be a reason for refusing to produce their instructions. As he did not consider himself entitled to give the instructions, he certainly should not consider it his duty to answer any question
 582 583 animo furandi,
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was precluded, by the rules of the House, from answering the observations of the hon. and gallant officer, but he trusted that the House would allow him to say a few words. The hon. and gallant Member had said, that on the signing the convention concluded by Lord Ashburton, the Government had relinquished their principles in regard to the right of visit. That question was brought under the consideration of the House at an early period of the Session, when some language that had been used by the President of the United States was adverted to, and he (Sir Robert Peel) then stated to the House most distinctly, that in acceding to that convention, the Government never meant to relinquish, and never had relinquished, any one of the principles in regard to the right of visit which this country had maintained, and he stated that a communication had been made by this Government to the Government of the United States maintaining the principles which he had always avowed. He apprehended that in consenting to that convention neither country had waived the principles they had maintained, but as they could not agree as to those principles, they thought that by having squadrons acting in union on the coast of Africa, important progress might be made by such a co-operation in putting down the slave-trade. That, he apprehended, was the
 585
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there was not one word which the gallant officer had used, in reference to the brilliant exploits performed by General Sir Charles Napier, in Scinde, respecting his great military skill and courage, and respecting his great devotion to the public service, in which he did not most cordially agree. He could not but feel that the gratitude of the country was due to the general, officers, and troops, for the achievement of one of the most brilliant exploits that was to be found in military annals. He did not say anything as to the rewards that should be given to such merits as those of Sir Charles Napier. It was true that a command of a regiment had been given to him, and the grand cross, the highest order of the Bath, had been conferred upon him. He hoped, then, that he had said enough to prove to the gallant commodore, that her Majesty's Government recognised on the part of Sir Charles Napier, that he had the strongest claims on the gratitude of his country for his great military skill and merits. He did not believe that there was an instance in all the records of our military engagements where greater
 553
 Sir R. Peel  was sure that the right hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord must be aware, from their knowledge of public business, that he must postpone answering the question till be had had a full communication with the Governor-general of India.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he thought he could undertake to assure the hon. Gentleman that it would not be necessary for him to call his friends to London on account of that bill.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Member had given him an intimation of his intention to ask him a question respecting a bill which had been introduced into the House of Lords. The hon. Gentleman was better informed upon the bill than he was; for until the hon. Gentleman told him of the bill he was himself ignorant of its existence. The hon. Gentleman would no doubt take that as a complete proof that he was no party to the introduction of the bill. The hon. Gentleman must be aware, that if, in the opinion of her Majesty's Government, such a measure was necessary—that if they thought it proper that a measure of that nature should be proposed to Parliament, they would propose the measure themselves, and take on themselves the responsibility of introducing it and conducting it through Parliament. He must also say, that if her Majesty's Government had thought it expedient to introduce such a measure, they would certainly have deemed it ad-
 551
 Sir R. Peel  had stated to the House on a former occasion, in answer to a question whether he would lay on the table the instructions, in order to enable the House to form an opinion, that he did not consider it consistent with the duty of the Government, to lay before Parliament the instructions sent to the Governor-general of India respecting the operations of Scinde. He had said that he would take an opportunity to give a full explanation, but that then there were some points on which the information was defective, and some points on which it was altogether wanted, and that he could not go into the subject. The right hon. Gentleman now asked him to state his opinion, as he could not lay the instructions on the table; but he thought the right hon. Gentleman must have sufficient acquaintance with public business to admit that it was not possible to answer his questions, and he must, therefore, decline.
 Sir W. Somerville  proposed a clause, to take away from Poor-law commissioners the power to appoint or dismiss any assistant Poor-law commissioner in Ireland without the consent of the Secretary of State. He wished to prevent the recurrence of such a transaction as that which occured in the dismissal of Dr. Phelan, with respect to whom it was a general feeling in Ireland that he had been sacrificed to prejudice.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, what his right hon. Friend wished was not that the right hon. Baronet should give his opinion prospectively as to the operations, but to learn what opinion the Government had formed of the operations which had taken place, and whether it thought the advance
 550
 Viscount Palmerston  thought that the third regulation was opposed to the articles of the treaty, which gave to the fishermen of each country the exclusive right witin three miles of their respective shores. The third regulation, however, permitted the French fishermen, during the herring season, to come within the limits of the British fisheries. This permission would practically put an end to the limitation laid down by the treaty, as far as the French fishermen were concerned. It was said that the concession was reciprocally advantageous; but there was no reciprocity in the matter, for our fishermen never required to go within the French zone. It was an unwise and unnecessary concession; and indeed, in his opinion, the commissioners, in making it, had exceeded their powers.
 Viscount Palmerston  explained, that he did not object to the principle of the treaty, nor did he wish that this country should afford impunity to slaves who had really committed offences. The noble Lord had imputed to him rather too broad a construction of international law, as to the destruction of slave barracoons. He said, that, as between independent states, it was contrary to international law that the forces of one should land on the territory of the other, for the purpose of committing violence and making war; but, that if persons were abstracted from the territory of a state by third parties who took forcible occupation of it, and if these parties committed acts of violence against you, you would be justified in redressing the injuries.
 Viscount Palmerston  did not go so far as some of his friends in his apprehensions as to the effects of this bill, and the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had gone far to remove the apprehensions which he might have entertained. He understood that in no case where a slave was charged with the offence of murder or robbery, would any English magistrate be justified in delivering him up for trial, unless the offence he was charged with was one that was looked on as a murder or robbery by the law of England; and he apprehended that any act that a slave might commit in resisting the coercion of his master, could not amount to murder, and would not justify a magistrate in giving up the fugitive. His chief object in rising was to touch on a subject connected with this bill, a subject on which, on a former occasion, he had endeavoured to obtain some explanation from her Majesty's Government, and on which he now wished to receive some clearer information than he had then been able to obtain. In the correspondence which had passed between Lord Ashburton and Mr. Webster, and which had been laid before Parliament, there were several letters on the question what was to be done in an English colony if a ship with slaves on board was to be driven into the colony by stress of weather. America demanded that in such a case no
 573 574
 Viscount Clements : In pursuance to the notice that I have given, I beg to call the attention of the House to the state of the Charitable Loan Funds generally, and more particularly to that
 639 "We be men of good Government, being governed as the sea is, by our noble and chaste mistress, the Moon, under whose countenance we—steal." 640 "The injury occasioned to the butter trade by the loan funds is, that the farmers, to pay up the weekly instalments, are obliged to send their butter to market in small quantities of two and three pounds to meet their weekly payments, little attention is paid by the females in making these small quantities. The markets are glutted with small quantities, and a new trade has sprung up, that called 'packers,' who buy up all small quantities met with, and melt all together, colour it with some dye, and put it into tubs, sending it to Dublin, Newry, and elsewhere. Butter made in this way keeps good, I understand, a very short time, and in a foreign market is despised, lessens the value, and lowers the name of Irish butter." "Clerk and manager obtaining loans for
 640 * "Clerk a defaulter to the amount of 125 l. "False reports sent to the central board, making the amount of fines appear less than what they really were, p. 34. "100 l. "Clerk absconded with 128 l. l. "Greater interest given for large sums deposited than for smaller sums, pp. 25, 26. "Fictitious borrowers put forward, and the securities actually receiving the loan, p. 28. "Acting as a bank of discount, and doing very extensive business, p. 29. "Building a fever hospital, dispensary, and cottages, out of the profits which ought to be turned to charitable purposes, pp. 29–31. "Winnowing machines and ploughs bought, and a school-house built out of the profits, p.35. "The Mount Shannon case, p. 41. 
 
 1838 The total profits were £ 2,547 
 1839 11,047 
 1840 15,477 
 1841 14,853 l. l. l. l. 640 2* "This does not include returns from all the Loan Societies in Ireland, as there are about 100 in operation, legally exempt (under the provisions of the last clause of the Act 1 & 2 Vict. c. 78), from rendering any account of their proceedings, as having loans from the Irish Reproductive Loan Society in London, and about thirty more working illegally, under colour of the operations of this exemption clause." l. l. l. l. l. 640 3* Parliamentary Debates 640 4* l. 
 
 Calcutta £18,944 5 0 
 Madras 8,971 0 0 
 Bombay 2,000 1 3 
 St. Helena 280 8 1 
 £30,195 14 4 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 640 5* 
 
 A balance on hand £24,040 17 2 
 There was also an additional remittance from Bombay 5,059 13 10 
 There was also an additional remittance from Calcutta. 140 0 0 
 Total £29,240 11 0 * l. * l. s. d. † See Tables (as notes) following pages. ‡See Table, p. 610 18 * 640 6* "The anomalies caused by the operation of this exemption clause are very numerous, and some of them very unjust and dangerous; but the board feel it unnecessary to enter at further length upon the subject in this report, as what has been above adduced will amply suffice to point out the mischief which may arise from the continuance of such an exemption from the provisions of a public statute." 
 
 DOWNSHIRE, JOHN BARLOW, 
 ERNE, JAMES JOHN BAGOT, 
 COURTOWN, THOMAS HUTTON, 
 CLANCARTY, JOHN N. V. VERNON, 
 J. W. L. NAPER, GEORGE ROE, 
 A. BURGH CROFTON, THOMAS MC KENNY, 
 R. OWEN, C. FITZSIMON, 
 THOMAS HINCKS, ROBERT MAUDE, 
 JOHN D'ALTON, WILLIAM HODGES, 
 CHARLES VIGNOLES, JOHN LENTAIGUE; "I must express my regret, at the introduction of the clauses exempting societies in connection with the Irish Reproductive Loan Fund from the control of the commissioners, I can see no public object whatever to warrant such an exemption, but on the contrary, great
 640 7*
 Sir R. Ferguson  hoped the noble Lord would withdraw his opposition at present, and allow the bill to go into committee, where he would have an opportunity of resisting the obnoxious provisions.
 Mr. Collett  considered this measure even more objectionable than the Irish Arms Bill, and as such he should oppose it.
 Captain Bernal  suggested, that when any part of the force was called out, the county in which it happened ought to be held responsible for the cost.
 Mr. Hawes  was strongly in favour of limiting the bill to two years, and to the end of the then next Session of Parliament.
 Mr. Hawes  said, it had been his misfortune the other evening, when the bill was brought forward, and when his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury took so strong an objection to it, to differ from his hon. Friend, and he had made up his mind to repeat to-night the vote he had given on that occasion. He understood the Government to state that they considered the public service required this bill as a precautionary measure. He could not regard it as an addition to the standing army, for even as the law now stood, it was in the power of the Crown to call out the whole of this force, even at great inconvenience to the very parties in whose favour his hon. Friend had made so eloquent an appeal to-night. Under existing powers, the whole class might be called out and marched to a certain spot, where selections were made, and the rest sent back to their homes. But this bill went to remove this inconvenience, and gave power to select from the whole body those who were able and effective; and what was the constitutional objection to that course? It was not adding to the powers already possessed by the Crown, but it operated favourably to those liable to be called again into active service. He would always stand up for the preservation of the public peace, because upon its preservation depended the best security for the progress of rational liberty. He, therefore, differed on this occasion from his hon. Friends on his side of the House; and though he advocated views different from those entertained by the Government, he should do all in his power to aid them in maintaining the peace of the country.
 Mr. Hawes  said his friends behind him seemed to think that this body might be enrolled and called out to perform regular military service. He did not understand anything of the sort, and for his own part, if they were to have a military force, he thought it would be better to have a disciplined than an undisciplined corps. The Government opposite was unpopular, but it was not the way to oppose it, to obstruct its measures for the preservation of the public peace.
 Mr. Hindley  could not understand how his hon. Friend (Mr. Hutt) could propose to give the present Government the control of what almost amounted to an additional standing army. He would not consent to give such powers to the present Government. From that Government he had no hope—there was, in his opinion, no hope for England, as long as that, Government remained in power. Yet there was every prospect of their having the means of prosperity at home. The harvest promised to be a good one; all was good as far as Providence was concerned; but every thing appeared had that depended on the Government. They on that side were determined that the Government should not govern the country by force. Let them govern by reason. They should not dragoon the country,—at least, he, for one, would offer a determined resistance to all attempts to give them the power of doing so. He would give them the power of doing all that was right to preserve the peace, but no more But the truth was that the people, whatever might be their distress, had no desire to break the peace. There was his own district (Ashton), where there were 10,000 men out of employ; yet there was no necessity for any force to keep the peace. The right hon. Home Secretary himself knew that there were not more than five or six policemen there to keep the peace. He would give Government a guarantee that Ashton would keep the peace, and he believed that the peace would be preserved throughout the country if the Government and the Legislature were prepared to do the people justice. But he would not consent to give the Government this force for the purpose of enabling them to commit injustice.
 Mr. Newdegate  was understood to say, that to the Members of the Anti-Corn-law League and their agitation must be attributed a large portion of the excitement that at present prevailed in different parts of the country. He approved of the proposed bill, which would give the Government the services of men whose known good conduct might prevent the effusion of bloodshed, if, unhappily, the same excitement should prevail this year as did last year about this time.
 Mr. Newdegate  in explanation, was understood to say, that a member of the body to which he had alluded had taken a very decided part in the late turn-out.
 Colonel Sibthorp  supported the bill, and thought both the House and the country were greatly indebted to the right hon. and gallant Secretary at War for its introduction.
 Colonel Sibthorp  recommended her Majesty's Government to make no further concession; they had conceeded too much already.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  thought they were borne out in offering to this bill a strenuous opposition; let them call it a factious opposition if they would; but they were
 687
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, that at the end of a Session which had lasted above six months, during which nothing had been done to alleviate the miseries or to redress the abuses of the people, it was not wonderful to him that an attempt should be made to repress the discontent of the masses by the exercise of force. The right hon. Gentleman had declared the measure to be within precedent—he had asserted that the pensioners had on former occasions been called out. If that were the case, what was the necessity for passing the bill at all? If they had these powers before—if they possessed them now, why ask for still stronger measures? Was it that the people were more discontented—was it that the political horizon was looking darker? If so, why not boldly state the fact? As a Government presiding over the destinies of a country like this, it was not by force of arms, but by force of reason and by force of justice, that they ought to guard against the coming storm. In looking for a precedent for this bill, the right hon. Gentleman had referred to the arming of the police in Ireland. He recommended that allusion to the attention of the English Members. When next they were passing coercive laws against Ireland, let them remember that the precedent might be quoted against themselves—that those who would not object to carry out the principle as regarded Ireland would not object also to carry it out as regarded England. The gallant officer stated that when those pensioners were called out they could not be used for any other than local purposes. That might apparently be true, but substantially it was otherwise. Though the clause said their services were limited to local districts, yet the Government might make these districts as extensive as they thought proper. The 4th clause gave those pensioners the power to volunteer for garrison duty, and clothed with the authority of the present bill the Govern-
 658 s. s. d. 659
 Mr. Protheroe  said, he could not participate in the fears which had been expressed respecting a standing army. The experience of the hon. Member for Durham in his progress through England, might of itself have convinced him that his fears in this respect were visionary, and he would ask the hon. Member for Cork whether his Colleague's progress through Ireland furnished any evidence that the free expression of public opinion was prevented by reason of a military force. Let the army be ever so strong, public opinion would have its weight in this country. He confessed he entertained not the least dread of the effect which the measure now proposed by the Government might have upon public opinion. He drew a broad distinction between public opinion and violence. He looked upon the bill as a measure of police—as a measure necessary for repressing violence; and he must say, that he could perceive nothing that was inconsistent with sound sense in the observation of the right hon. and gallant Gentleman, that under particular circumstances a standing army was conducive to the preservation of public liberty. He happened to be in the neighbourhood of the borough which he represented, in Yorkshire, during the disturbances in the manufacturing districts last autumn, and he knew that the desire which was then uppermost in the minds of the staunchest Whigs and Radicals was to obtain the means of affording protection to property. They represented the danger which was incurred, owing to the want of troops, and complained of the Government for not having acceded to their proposition for having a barrack in that neighbourhood. He thought that much greater danger to liberty was to be apprehended from violence than any force which might be maintained for its suppression. He knew not how his sentiments might be received by
 669 670
 Sir H. Hardinge  would lose no time in answering an observation of the hon. Member who had just sat down, who had declared that no dependence was to be placed in the British army. [Mr.  Williams. 655 T. Duncombe. 656 657
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that by the warrant of 1806, which followed the act called Wyndham's Act, which warrant was signed by General Fitzpatrick, it was declared that any out-pensioner not offering himself upon any proclamation being made by the Crown, or not joining garrison or the veteran battalions, should forfeit all claim to pay or pension. By every subsequent warrant, that rule not being revoked, every pensioner not obeying the summons of the Crown to attend and be enrolled was liable to the same penalty.
 679
 Sir H. Hardinge  replied, that it would be impossible to estimate the cost of calling out the corps, because there might be no necessity whatever for calling them out. When they were called out they would be paid 2 s.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said the difference of expense between calling out a militiaman and a pensioner would be just so much as the difference between 7s. and 2s. a day. The former sum was the pay of a cavalry yeoman, the latter item was what he proposed to give the pensioners. It was quite a mistake to suppose that this force would be called on to perform military duty; as he had before stated, their services would be limited to their own districts.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said it was perfectly true that these men were not now under the provisions of the Mutiny Act, but it was also true that every other description of force in this country, when they were called out in aid of the civil power, and arms were placed in their hands, was liable to the provisions of the Mutiny Act. This was the case with the yeomanry force, and the law had been so for the last forty years. These pensioners were now liable to be called out in aid of the civil force, and the experience of last year had exhibited the inefficiency of this force when so called out, and it was therefore deemed necessary that they should be armed when called out; and when they were armed it was not prudent or safe that they should not be under the provisions of the Mutiny Act. This was the case of the volunteer corps in 1804, and even gentlemen belonging to them when called
 643
 Dr. Bowring  called on the hon. Gentleman to name the individual to whom he had alluded, and he would venture to say, that the Anti-Corn-law League would most anxiously investigate the charge. With respect to the measure before the House, he could look upon it in no other light than as an addition to our military force. It could not but add to the expences of the country, and it could not but exasperate the public discontent that already existed. If, at the termination of a long Session, which, laborious as it had been, would be known hereafter as the Do-nothing Session, the Government had nothing to show as the result of their labours but an arms bill for Ireland and an arms bill for England, could they suppose that great dissatisfaction would not be produced? He must say that they would have to meet their constituents with mournful countenances, and among those constituents, he fully believed, the conviction would be strengthened that nothing but a change in the representation would afford the people the relief of which they stood in need.
 Mr. Bright  said, that the Government claimed the right in the Queen's name to call for the military services of the whole population. Now, he denied any such right. There was no right to impress men for the navy, and none for the army. They were now arriving near to the 16th of August, the anniversary of one of the greatest outrages that ever was committed in the manufacturing districts. Ministers were now contending for a maintenance of the same sort of measure. The real question, after all, was not different in the present day from what it was twenty years ago.
 Mr. Bright  said, I believe the opinions of military men on questions of constitutional liberty have never been held to be of much value, and certainly the speech of the right hon. the Secretary at War is not calculated to make those opinions stand higher in the estimation of the public. The right hon. Gentleman has asserted that a standing army is one of the greatest safeguards of constitutional freedom, and that, in consequence of the existence of an overwhelming military force, the Government is enabled to permit great freedom in the expression of opinion, and to tolerate the holding of great meetings, and to allow what the right hon. Gentleman is pleased to term, even a licentiousness of liberty, and this from the consciousness that whenever these demonstrations become serious, and likely to produce evil results, they have the power to come down upon them with the soldiery, and to prevent any danger to the public peace. But does not the right hon. Gentleman know that the very existence of this loud clamour on the part of vast masses of the people, and the holding of these large meetings, is in some degree evidence that already there has been some infraction of constitutional liberty, and that there are grievances unredressed which the people can no longer bear? I would regard that as more favourable to constitutional freedom, which calmly, but anxiously, investigated the grounds of complaint, and honestly removed them, then that which permitted even a licentiousness of liberty in meetings and speeches, and yet enabled the Government to deny that justice for which the people called. I know not if this be the first time a standing army has been held in this House to be an ally of constitutional freedom, but I trust so monstrous a doctrine will never again be uttered here. But whatever may be the opinions of honourable Members opposite on this point, I am sure, out of doors, there is a great unanimity of feeling upon it. A standing army favourable to constitutional freedom! I hold it to be impossible that when men have relinquished the dignity of
 662 "Is it not a great hardship, I think I might say a great injustice, that poor fellows who have served upwards of twenty years, or may
 663 "We find, in connection with the large earnings of this class, industrious habits of no common stamp, regulated and secured in great measure by the peculiar nature of their em-
 664 "We feel assured that the sufferings of a population, whose general character and condition are such as we have described them, will meet with sympathy land consideration from all classes of their fellow-subjects; and that the interests of that branch of trade which has furnished such a population with employment, will be held entitled to peculiar attention from the legislature of the country." 665 666 667 668
 Mr. Brotherton  believed the measure to be intended solely for the preservation of the public peace, and although he was in favour of all those measures which had been referred to by his hon. Friend near him, and which were for the amelioration of the condition of the people, and calculated to promote the welfare of society, yet he had always the spirit in the House to say he was not in favour of physical force, or of anything which tended to a breach of the public peace. The view he took of this measure was not that it would augment the standing army, but that it merely gave power to call out the pensioners in case of disturbances in any district to aid the civil power. Having a desire for peace, and having also full confidence in the peaceful habits of the people in the manufacturing districts, he never thought it would be necessary to call out the pensioners. If the public peace was preserved there would be no necessity for this bill, but if the peace was disturbed there was no man who would not wish that means should exist for its preservation. Although his Friends near him were in favour of liberal measures, they seemed not to be averse to the people showing their feelings in a hostile manner, Now, he would never countenance that mode of proceeding, and he must say, he did not feel with regard to the measure, in the same way as his hon. Friend had expressed. He had great deference for their opinions, and whether he should vote for or against
 676
 Mr. Hume  rose on a point of order. He thought it was now proposed to take a course different from that which the House had ever taken. He was not aware that the pensioners were other than civilians. He was not aware that they were subject to martial law, or liable to penalties for the breach of martial discipline; and, therefore, he thought that they could not be placed under the provisions of the Mutiny Act, unless the House first determined the number to be employed. The House must first resolve into committee, and settle the number, By the sixth clause of the bill, the pensioners were to be made subject to the Mutiny Act and the articles of war, and he wished to know whether there was any precedent for proceeding with such a bill without the House first deciding the number of men to be employed? He had also an objection to the House passing the bill without provision being made by Parliament, for the pay and expenses of the men.
 Mr. Hume , after what had fallen from the hon. Member for Halifax, felt bound to express his opinion that the House of Commons, as at present constituted, did not represent the feelings and wishes of the people. He believed that much of the dissatisfaction which prevailed, had its origin in the conviction which the people felt that they were not fairly represented. There was only class representation in that House; it represented merely the rich landed proprietors; but the mass of the working classes were not represented. It was most unwise, on the part of the Government, in the present state of the country, to press forward a measure such as that before the House. There was already a sufficient military force for the service of the country; and if Ministers thought more was required, they ought to have proposed an estimate for it, in the regular way. Ministers had now been in office for two years, and during that time the distress of the country had gone on increasing. The people were borne down by excessive taxation, and yet Ministers proposed to add 10,000 l. 671
 Mr. Hume  had no doubt this was a better force than the yeomanry; indeed, he would much rather see an increase of the regular force than have recourse to the yeomanry; but why should they not limit the amount of this new force? When grievances were admitted to exist, and when no attempt was made to remedy them, a call for additional forces would
 683
  Mr. Hume  hoped, if that amendment were not acceded to, a clause would be introduced, as in the Irish Arms Bill, limiting its duration to a certain number of years.
 Mr. Hume  protested against the further progress of this measure. He complained
 * 678 Oh!
 Mr. Hume , in explanation, begged to say, that in 1819 an estimate had been laid on the Table of the House, and all the details relative to the 10,000 men then called out were given. He however wished to ask whether there was not an express statute which enabled her Majesty to accept the services of volunteers who were a wholly different class from that comprised by the bill? The objections to the measure had not, he thought, been answered.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that the Chairman do leave the Chair. He was determined to offer every opposition to the bill.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government could not be fairly charged with not doing everything in his power to remedy the distress of the country; and as to the principles of free-trade, the right hon. Baronet had done more to carry out those principles than all the Whig Governments that had ever been in office. Now, the hon. Gentlemen opposite called on the Government to carry those principles still further, and told them, in spite of all that had been done, the distress was greater at present than it had ever been. What encouragement was this to proceed with measures that had been found to be utterly inefficacious? He had given his support to her Majesty's Government, but in so doing he had not acted like those towards the farther end of the Ministerial benches), who reminded him of a quadruped celebrated in sacred history, that on a memorable occasion had exclaimed:—"Am not I thine ass, upon which thou hast ridden ever since I was thine unto this day?" When Government came to the House, and asked for power to put down dangers which, although contingent, were of a formidable character, and not distant in prospect, he did not dare to take on himself the responsibility of refusing the demand. He had not been able to hear, in the speeches made from the opposite side, one reason why, in the present state of things, this bill should not pass into law. It was often said, that Government were bound to protect the property of the landed interest, and the property of the manufacturers; but he thought there was another description of property which they were not less bound to protect—that of the misled multitude, who were harangued almost into insurrection by the speeches of hon. and eloquent Gentlemen, in this country and in Ireland. He would not enlarge on this topic; but he would express his opinion, that a broad and conciliatory policy would do more to pacify Ireland than all the Arms Bills which Government could introduce.
 Mr. Cobden  rose to defend the members of the Anti-Corn-law League, against the attack of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. Of all men none were less likely to desire popular commotions. The property of those gentlemen was not invested in broad acres, which would remain though cavalry and artillery crossed them in hostile array. The property of the gentlemen of the Anti-Corn-law League was invested in a manner that made it peculiarly liable to injury from popular violence. No; to put down that body, something must be said more effectual than accusing them of a desire to encourage the employment of physical force. With regard to the measure now before the House, he could not say that he entertained any apprehensions that the liberties of the country would be endangered by embodying the small body of men whom it was proposed to embody. Nor, on the other hand, did he look upon the army as the means of working out any project for the improvement of civil liberty. Still he would advise the Government not to rely upon the army for the maintenance of
 672 673 s.
 Mr. Cobden  wished to know whether there was any ground for the report, that an individual of high rank had arrived in this country from Portugal for the purpose of negotiating a treaty?
 Mr. Cobden  did not think, that any Member of that House ought to be restrained from opposing a measure of that nature, merely because he was connected with an establishment which might be exposed to injury from physical force. He thought, that he ought not to be twitted with anything that might have happened at Chorley in his absence. Application might have been made to the magistrates by persons connected with his establishment; but such a circumstance was not to preclude him from exercising his independent rights as a Member of that House.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  observed, as the bill was supported on account of the disturbances in Wales and Staffordshire, he was induced to ask if it were contemplated that those disturbances should last more than two years? If the Government agreed to two years, there would be an end to any other than a reasonable opposition to the bill; but certainly on one point a stand would be made—the number of men to be enrolled—which ought not to exceed 10,000.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  would move, that the warrant calling out any part of the force should first be published in the  London Gazette.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought he should be quite in order if he now moved that the order of the day for the committee on this bill be read this day three months. The sooner the bill was stopped the better. He should oppose the bill in every stage, and take the sense of the House upon it. He had declared that intention the other even-
 644 645 646 perdu 647 648 "With what reckless haste is the Government legislating to compel 76,000 men to take arms against their country; not one of them knows a single clause of this bill which so much concerns them. I am a pensioner myself, I have served several years and I am now receiving nothing near what was contracted with me at the time I enlisted I should receive after a faithful period of service. The country is now only performing its part of the contract towards me. I am not a pauper; on the contrary, I am not beholden to the Government—especially such a Government as the present, who would force me to take arms against my starving countrymen. I am at present employing myself as a schoolmaster, and therefore am not liable to be called upon to serve as a special constable; but under the bill am I to be compelled to leave home? If you cannot stop this infamous bill you can perhaps pass a clause to exempt persons from being called out who are already exempt from serving as special constables. Many pensioners are now in comfortable situations, and in different employments, and if this bill passes they would be obliged either to give up their pensions or their living. Would they in such a case act with the Government or take part with the people? The refusal to serve as a special constable incurred a penalty of 5 l. 649 650 651 652
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the bill went much further than that. If a pensioner were called out to act as a special constable or to do garrison duty, and refused, he would forfeit his pension. But was that all in the bill? The right hon. Gentleman, as Secretary at War, could make certain regulations for these men when they were called our in aid of the civil power. When had we that law in England before? When were these men put under the Mutiny Act before? [Sir  H. Hardinge: 680
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought the right hon. Gentleman was quite wrong as to the employment of the force. The services of the men were not to be confined to one particular district. The fourth clause of the bill enacted that they should serve as garrison soldiers in any place to which they might be ordered.
 Mr. Williams  moved in line 10, after the words "Her Majesty," to leave out the words "from time to time," in order to insert those words—"during twelve calendar months from the passing of this bill."
 Mr. Williams  wished to know what would probably be the expense of calling out these corps?
 Mr. Williams  said, the whole of the matter was this—there were 47,000 men capable of serving, and that number, in-
 681 l.
 Mr. W. Williams  wished the right hon. and gallant Gentleman to state the legal authority upon which the pensioners were to be called out in the way proposed.
 Mr. Williams , in seconding the motion, reminded the House that already there was a standing army, including engineers and marines, of 145,000 able-bodied men; there were 80,793 men on half-pay, out of which 25,000 were described in the army estimates as unfit for service. Taking the number proposed to be put into active service by this bill, the military force would be increased to 202,000. No fewer than 17,600 yeomen were mentioned in the estimates for this year, to which five regiments had since been added. Then there was the Irish police force of 5,000 men, essentially a military body equal to any of the like number in Europe; the county and metropolitan police force amounted to 11,490 men; altogether the whole available military or armed force at the command of the Government would be 240,000 men. No one who had any regard for the rights and liberties of the nation could view such a state of things without alarm. It was the pride of our ancestors that they were governed without military force, and one of the greatest sovereigns of Britain had boasted that her guards were her people. Every man who was interested in the preservation of life and property in this country must resist every despotism and attempts to establish a military despotism. This measure would not remove the distress and dissatisfaction which pervaded every class in this country except the oligarchy, who lived by taxation and derived their power and influence from monopoly. Let the Government take warning from experience. Large masses of their countrymen were reduced to a rate of wages upon which it was impossible for them to live. They were not pressed down by their employers without necessity, for their employers were as greatly distressed as themselves. A million and a half were receiving relief from poor rates. Ten millions were living on the lowest description of food, potatoes and oatmeal, and food searcely fit for hogs; and even of such miserable fare they could not get enough. Their dwellings, wretched
 653 654
 Mr. W. Williams  said, every man in England as well as the pensioners, might now be called out in aid of the civil power, and was obliged under a penalty to serve as a special constable. But they would not be liable to be brought within the operation of the Mutiny Act, as would the pensioners who might be called out under the bill. He should be glad if the right hon. Baronet the Secretary at War would point out the Act of Parliament which placed the pensioners in that position. He was not aware of the existence of any such statute.
 Mr. Williams  would withdraw his amendment if Ministers would agree to the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose.
 Mr. Williams  would move for the in-
 688
 Sir C. Burrell  observed that this measure was justifiable on the ground that prevention was better that punishment. When confusion and anarchy prevailed it was then late and difficult to take measures against them. A little timely precaution in the provision of such a measure as this might prevent bloodshed.
 Sir C. Napier  hoped the case of appropriating the prize-money to pay the expences of the war would not be drawn into a precedent.
 Sir C. Napier  repeated the question which he had asked a few evenings ago, whether any prize money was to be given to the troops and seamen who had distinguished themselves at Canton? He trusted he should obtain a satisfactory answer. The officers had been rewarded by honours, but the seamen, to whom the prospect of prize-money was a great inducement to enter the service, had received no prize-money.
 Sir J. Graham  said, the House of Commons would have the same check in this case as had existed for forty years with regard to the yeomanry. Every year a vote in supply would give the House of Commons a control over the whole expenditure of the force. Last autumn he had received repeated and most urgent representations from the magistracy to send down arms to be given to volunteers; but, on constitutional principles he had felt the strongest aversion to such a measure unless the parties had been subject to military discipline and control. He had rejected the urgent applications he had received to arm those men, and considered it much safer to leave their forces comparatively inefficient when not armed, rather than arm men who were not subject to military control. Last year at Wigan, at Bury, at Preston, and Blackburn, there were bodies of soldiers stationed, but gentlemen came up from Chorley, distant, not more than nine miles from those places, and pressed the Government in the most urgent manner that soldiers should be stationed at Chorley. Persons intimately connected with the hon. Member for Stockport were understood to be parties to that application. The Home Office was beseiged by day with deputations from all the manufacturing districts, requesting that soldiers might be sent into every quarter, and if there had been 10,000 men at his disposal they would not have been more than sufficient to meet the applications that were made. He was quite satisfied, that the prudent and moderate use of this measure, if it should pass into a law, would supersede the necessity of all that uneasiness, and would provide in various localities, a moderate sufficient military force, at the smallest cost to the public, and in a manner
 684
 Sir J. Graham : If the hon. Gentleman would give notice of the amendments they intended to propose in the usual form, they should receive the consideration of the Government; and the bill might be proceeded with to-morrow without loss of time.
 Sir J. Graham : He thought that the period of two years was too limited for the operation of the act, and he had originally suggested that the period should be five. Any arrangement that might lead to a general agreement for some prolongation of that period, coupled with an assurance of something like unanimous support, would be worth considering, otherwise he could not consent to an alteration the effect of which he believed would not be conducive to the public peace.
 Sir R. Peel  said this bill would be no extension of the powers of the Crown. In point of fact, it substituted voluntary for compulsory service. The Government was only actuated in this instance by a desire to preserve the public peace, and as for establishing military rule it was ridiculous to suppose that they contemplated any such object. In point of fact, their power was much greater under the present system than it would be under that proposed to be constituted. He thought this would be a popular corps. When the yeomanry cavalry were called out in the course of last year, nothing could equal their devotion to the public service and their exemplary forbearance; but if disturbances arose in the great manufacturing towns, and the yeomanry corps coming from the rural districts, it was impossible to eradicate the impression, however admirable their conduct, that they were calling in one class of the population to suppress the disorders of another. He did not think the present Government
 682
 Sir R. Peel  was not prepared to give an answer to the question. The House would feel that before her Majesty should be advised to grant any sum of money to the
 641
 Sir R. Peel  said, the money in question was not prize-money, and he wished the hon. and gallant Member to bear in mind that the Crown had not appropriated a sum of money. A sum of money had been demanded from the Chinese for paying the expences of the war, and the duty was imposed on the Government, for the protection of the public purse, to have all the facts of the case before them before they tendered advice to Her Majesty on the subject. They all acknowledged that the gratitude of the country was due to the army and navy in China; but still he hoped that the House of Commons, as the guardian of the public purse, would aid the Government in postponing a decision on the subject until the Government should be in possession of all the elements necessary for forming a decision.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had stated on a former occasion, that so far as the Government was concerned, the negotiation with Portugal on the subject of the treaty might be deemed to be terminated. He had seen the statement in the newspapers that the Duke of Palmella had arrived in this country, and he believed that to be the fact. He also understood that that personage was charged with powers to treat with this
 642
 Mr. Hutt  hoped his hon. Friend would not persist in offering that kind of opposition to the bill. Whatever might be their opinion of the measure, the Government had called for it as necessary
 686
 Sir W. Somerville  observed, that having voted for the second reading of this bill, he thought it right to state that he had done so under an erroneous impression as to its object. Seeing the period of the session at which the bill had been brought forward, and the hour of the night at which its second reading had been moved, he thought the measure went to the regulation of mere police details. But after
 675
 Viscount Palmerston  said, he did not concur with those hon. Members who showed so much constitutional jealousy of this measure. The Crown at all times possessed the power of calling out these 70,000 or 80,000 pensioners. The present bill added nothing to the power which the Crown always had of calling out the whole of those men. By the regulations under which the body existed they received their pension not only as a reward for the past but as a retaining fee for future services, and they were liable to be called on to serve in any part of Europe. With regard to the first portion of the bill it left the law precisely as it had previously been, but, as he understood the bill, its effect would be to enable the Government to avoid the necessity of calling out whole
 660 l. 661
 Mr. Williams  said, that the complaint was that the contract had been abused, which the right hon. Gentleman had not answered. He approved of the principle of entering into contracts, but in this case
 744 l. l.
 Mr. Williams  was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman was departing from the principle that the expense of a military force should be proposed annually to Parliament. The bill was adding a permanent force of 10,000 men to the military power of the Government. There was no occasion for the right hon. Baronet to compliment the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh, for that right hon. Gentleman and his friends were never found contending for the cause of liberty, but were ever ready to support the Government against the people. He expected, though the limitation of the bill was now 10,000 men, that next year the whole force of 75,000 would be called out. He considered such a course of proceeding as the present was most dangerous to the Queen and the country. He deplored it as a total departure from the constitution. If the right hon. Gentleman had admitted a limitation to the bill as to time, he would not oppose it, but as that was not the case he meant to oppose it, and he hoped his Friends would oppose it to the utmost of their power.
 Colonel T. Wood  said, it was objected to this bill that it was opposed to constitutional principle; now the constitutional principle was, that the soldiers were enlisted for life, and were at all times liable to be called upon to serve, though the estimates were voted annually; and
 750
 Mr. Foster  had no desire to offer any
 751
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  thought the right hon. Member was right in refusing to comply with the request to limit the duration of the bill. He hoped the Government would consent to no such proposition. He conceived that if the bill were to be limited, there would not be sufficient time to drill the men to make them serviceable. If the bill were only to be continued for two years, there would not be time to make the force effective. The yeomanry were not limited as to time, and why should they lay more restriction on that force than on the yeomanry?
 Mr. Williams  said, if the force were so
 759 l l
 The Attorney-General  said he would answer that part of the question which referred to the state of the law. Certainly at present it was by statute provided that persons should not go out of their own parish for the purpose mentioned. His noble Friend had not stated whether in this instance the parties had been in their own parish or not. If they were in their own parish he apprehended they were not violating the law, but otherwise he believed they came within the meaning of the statute relating to persons assembling out of their own parish for purposes not justified by the law. The rest of the question it was unnecessary for him to answer.
 Mr. D'Israeli  was not aware of having used any gross terms of contumely to the right hon. Baronet or any of his colleagues. Certainly he had not intended to have used any personal terms of reproach, nor did he believe that he had. Perhaps the noble Viscount would mention the expressions he alluded to.
 Mr. D'Israeli  observed, that the remarkable circumstance of the case was, that the noble Lord could not repeat one of these gross terms of contumely which he stated had been used. He trusted that at any rate the noble Lord would state what he alluded to.
 Mr. Smythe  did not rise to discuss this subject, but rather in consequence of the charge which had been made by the noble Lord the Member for Liverpool, against certain young Members, sitting on that (the Ministerial) side of the House. [Viscount  Sandon
 Lord John Manners  begged to ask the Attorney-General a question on a subject of considerable importance with respect to the recreations of the working-classes. It appeared that some young men were on a Sunday evening recently, after the hours of divine service, about five or six o'clock, amusing themselves playing at cricket on a common, called Burley Common, in the country of Berks, and were taken up, brought before a magistrate, and condemned to pay a penalty which, with the costs, amounted to fifteen shillings each. They asked for time to raise the money, but were told they must go to gaol immediately unless the money was paid forthwith. They were earning only seven or eight shillings a week, and were unable to pay the fines, but some charitable persons advanced the money for
 * 762
 Mr. B Cochrane  said, there was one point of the noble Lord's speech to which he could not accede. He denied, that the Greek people had ever been consulted as to the choice of their sovereign, for he could not admit that the miserable assembly at Argos could be looked on as representing the Greek nation. The truth was, they had never been consulted at all on a point of such vital interest to them. With respect to the terms of the motion, he was quite ready to concur with the proposal of the right hon. Baronet; and with respect to the King of Greece, should he persist in his present course, he hoped that the three powers would feel it to be their duty to interfere, and to use stronger language than any that had yet been addressed to him.
 Mr. Cochrane , in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, said, that he was quite alive to the disadvantage under which he rose to address the House at the present period of the Session. Questions of foreign policy were generally considered uninteresting, but he could assure the House that on the present question he would confine himself within the narrowest limits. With this assurance he might perhaps he allowed to avail himself of the indulgence of the House whilst he showed the grounds and reasons on which he called upon them to adopt the motion with which he intended to conclude. The question was really a more important one than many people might be inclined to consider. He need not renal to the memory of hon. Gentlemen the circumstances which led to the present condition of the affairs of Greece. They would all be well aware that Greece had failed to pay her portion of the loan entered into with the three powers. He would read an extract from Count Nessolrode's despatch to M. Catacany;—
 "In a communication made by the Greek government to the three powers, the Greek government stated—1. That they were unable
 793 "The state of Greece demanded the most serious consideration of his Majesty's government; it appeared to us essentially bad; the interior condition of the country was endangered, alike by the weakness of the public administration and the conflict of national prejudices. At home, vices of a different description occasioned great alarm; the administration appeared powerless—destitute of energy—incapable not only of ameliorating the social condition of the people, but even of exercising power." 794 "That Greece shall form an independent state, and enjoy all the rights, political, administrative, and commercial, which attach to complete independence." "In proposing the establishment of an hereditary monarchy, they are far from pretending that we Greeks ought not to participate in the legislative power, for even while under the Turkish rule they elected their own municipal magistrates; for eight years the representative principle has predominated amongst them, in their different organizations, and in a manner associated with their new existence. The representatives think it would be both unjust and dangerous to deprive them of it, but it may be expected that by combining this principle with that of hereditary succession to the supreme power the desires of the Greeks would be amply fulfilled." "Some points require explanation; the first regards the form of Government which is intended to be established in Greece, I hope that the hon. Gentleman will have no objection to renew his declaration, that his Majesty's Government has no intention to prevent the
 795 "I can assure the noble Lord that in the arrangements, the basis of which has been laid by the allies, no attempt has been made to dictate despotic monarchy to Greece; I can also venture to disclaim, certainly on the part of my own Government, and I believe on the part of France and Russia, any wish to interfere with the formation of such institutions as are best calculated to secure the liberty, and promote the happiness of Greece. I join with the noble Lord heartily in the wish which he expresses that the Greeks of the present day may recover from the torpor of long slavery and be enabled to emulate the glory of their predecessors, while at the same time they enjoy all the advantages to be derived from the establishment of those institutions which are calculated to ensure the possession of civil and religious liberty." "I can assure the committee that nothing can be more contrary to the truth than that the Government of Greece is arbitrary and tyrannical, [here the noble Lord was mistaken], conducted on tyrannous and barbarous principles, and supported by barbarian troops. It is true, that no national assembly has yet been convoked, but a man must be blind to the natural character of the Greeks, as well as to the geographical distribution of that country, if he thinks that Greece can be governed without a representative assembly—it is an indispensable addition to the kingly government. It is a great mistake to suppose that Greece is not in possession of the basis of freedom; the only thing wanting to place it in the same situation as England herself, is to put the finishing stroke to the work which has been already done, to add to the institutions which have been already formed a general representation of the state; but this is a thing which must follow, and not precede, other arrangements. I am convinced, however, Greece will at length have one; it is as much the wish of his Majesty's Government, as it is of Greece itself." "He could not consent to any loan for the support of the present Government, a more unpopular than which it never entered into the human imagination to conceive, and which he had been assured by hundreds of Greeks
 796 "Called amongst you by the confidence of the high contracting powers, to whose protection you owe the termination of this disastrous war—called amongst you by your free suffrages, I mount the throne of Greece to fulfil the engagements which I contracted in accepting the Crown, Let the ægis of the law protect your persons and properties against licence and arbitrary Government. May you, by firmly-rooted institutions, adapted alike to the state and the wishes of the nation, prove the benefit of true liberty, which can only exist under the empire of laws. Such is the glorious but difficult task which is imposed upon me. In mounting the throne of Greece, I give you the assurance to maintain your religion faithfully,—to protect your laws—to administer justice impartially—to preserve by the aid of God your rights and liberties intact." 797 798 "An Address for certain papers which relate to our diplomatic intercourse with the kingdom of Greece; among others, for copies of those protocols which are supposed to have been signed since 1833, when the last was communicated to Parliament; also, copies of any instructions transmitted to our minister at Athens, in consequence of those meetings of the representatives of the three Powers, at which, from any particular cause, no protocol was signed; also, copies of those communications from Sir Edmund Lyons which convey any information relating to the financial state of Greece."
 Mr. Disraeli  said, that he was somewhat surprised that the right hon. Gentleman had laid so much stress on the information contained in the despatches of our consul at Serulin, since the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had in another place announced that this very consul must not be looked upon in any way as an authority. Nor was that very surprising This same consul had informed her Majesty's Government, that the Prince of Servia was an infatuated youth—placed on the throne by the intrigues and corruption of other persons, not by his own energy, but by the influence of his own character and in spite of the wishes of the people. It turned out that the infatuated youth was a man of mature
 834 835 836 837 838 839
 Mr. C. Buller  rose and said—Sir, I owe some explanation for bringing the subject of colonization before the House at so late a period of the Session, as to render it impossible for me to attain such practical results as I once hoped to secure even now. It is not wholly my fault. Immediately after the discussion of my motion of last April, I felt that the unexpectedly favourable reception which the House gave to the general views which I then laid before it, and the interest which the public generally evinced on the subject of colonization, rendered it incumbent on me to supply what had been remarked on in the debate, what was generally remarked on in the country as the defective point of my statement—namely, the want of some detailed plan for securing to the country the beneficial application of sound principles of colonization. I did, in consequence, even before the Easter recess, give notice of a motion for leave to bring in a bill, which I should have brought in, had not a severe illness, and a very protracted recovery, put it out of my power to devote myself to a task requiring for its accomplishment at least all the energy which I possess. I deeply regret that the delay, thus occasioned, has compelled me to postpone that motion till it is impossi-
 763 764 765 766 "The great district, nearly as large as Ireland, placed between the three lakes—Erie, Ontario, and Huron," (he goes on to say)—" You can conceive nothing finer; the most
 767 768 769 770 771 772 "Twenty years ago, or thereabout, I purchased wild land, at what was then considered a low price, in the natural hope, that it would be gradually increasing in value; and that, whenever I might choose to sell, it would be at such a profit as would afford me a fair return for the use of the money employed; so far, however, from realising this expectation, I now find, after the lapse of so many years, when the accumulated interest upon the money invested has increased the cost of the land 150 per cent.—I say, I find, that I could not, if compelled to sell this land, obtain more for it than it originally cost me." 773 774 775 776 d. 777 778 l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. 779 780 781 782 l., l. l. 783 "He had a yoke of oxen and a horse attached to his waggon; had been absent nine days, and did not expect to reach home till the following evening. Light as his load was, he assured me that he had to unload wholly or in part several times; and that after driving his waggon through the swamps, to pick out a road through the woods, where the swamps and gallies were fordable, and to carry the bags on his back, and to replace them in the waggon." 784 785 786 787 788
 Mr. C. Buller : The assurance given on the part of the Government was all he expected, namely, that they would turn their attention to the practicability of co-operating with the legislature of Canada, with the view of making the lands available for the purposes of emigration. He knew very well that nothing could be done unless the colonial legislature were a principal party in effecting that purpose. He owed an apology to the House for having brought this subject on in the absence of the noble Lord the Secretary of the Colonies, who he knew was unable to attend from unavoidable causes. He could not but say before he sat down, that there was one remark of his hon. Friend which he thought might have been better omitted. His hon. Friend said that Lord Durham proposed to denationalize the French Canadians. Lord Durham proposed no such thing. He proposed to silence the empty and absurd pretensions of nationality advanced by some injudicious friends of the French Canadians; but he said that the real way to do it was to have such an union of the provinces as would prevent the French from ruling by the force of a mere majority, and at the same time reconcile them to our Government by securing to them the advantages of a representative and responsible Government. He was convinced that what had occurred in Canada would have been most satisfactory to Lord Durham had he lived. He was
 792
 Mr. Hindley  expressed his surprise that so important a question should not have attracted a larger House. There were millions of capital in this country that could not find employment, and abroad we had millions of acres requiring cultivation. He asked why, if corn were not allowed to be brought to this country, the people should not be enabled to go where they might get corn? He thought no time should be lost in adopting an extensive system of colonization. He was sure that if it were not for the repudiation system adopted in America, the surplus capital of this country would have gone there before this.
 The Speaker  decided that the hon. Member was out of order. The House had decided that it would not adjourn, and would have the order of the day read, and the hon. Member had no right to address the House till the order of the day was read.
 The Speaker , interrupting the hon. Member, said the hon. Member had clearly no right to address the House on this to this question, having already addressed it, and sat down. The hon. Member had spoke since the order of the day was moved.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had predicted last night that if the Government conceded anything they would not disarm opposition. What now said the hon. Members? The hon. Member for Montrose said that
 752
 Colonel Sibthorp  hoped the Government would adhere to its determination. The Gentleman opposite only wanted to bully the Government. If Government gave way, he would not support the Ministers, humble as he was.
 Mr. Ross  called the attention of the House to the Croal contract, and complained that Mr. Croal had himself departed from his first contract, which superseded Mr. Purcell, and therefore the whole contract ought to be re-opened and left to fair competition. He declared that Lord Lowther's proceedings were not characterised by that straightforward dealing which he might expect from that noble Lord. On the contrary, he thought the noble Lord's conduct partook of the nature of juggling. He had understood, both from Lord Lowther and other Members of the Government, that if Mr. Croat were not ready with his new coaches, Mr. Croal should lose the contract. That understanding was not carried out; and though Mr. Croat had put old coaches on the road, the noble Lord had not fulfilled his implied promises. This was what he complained of. Mr. Croal had received permission to keep old coaches on the by-roads for three months. The three months were elapsed, and the old coaches were not removed; Mr. Croal might now set the Government at defiance, for there was no power in the law to enforce his contract, land the old coaches were to be kept on the road, endangering the lives of her Majesty's subjects. But if this contract were not enforced, there was no reason whatever why any contract should be, or could be enforced. There had been most unjustifiable truckling on the part of the Government to Mr. Croal. The worst part of the matter was, the partiality evinced, which might operate most extensively and unfavourably on the feelings of the Irish. The hon. Member entered into a long history of the transaction, and quoted a great number of details to prove that Mr. Croal had not completed his contract, and that Mr. Parcell had been most unjustly dealt with, while a great injustice had been done to the public by providing imperfect carriages. He would leave at present the House to decide between Lord Lowther, Mr. Parcell, and the public.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  did not know why the bill might not be limited to one Session. The hon. Member for Yorkshire stated that it would require time to drill the men, but the gallant officer who brought in the bill said that these pensioners would require no drilling. No reason whatever had been assigned for the bill. The Government said that the exigencies of the present time required the bill. Well, take it, then, for the present time. Did the right hon. Gentleman assume the character of prophet, and tell them that the discontent would be permanent? Did they mean to make it so? What sort of character, then, did they give their own Government? There was more in this bill than met the eye, and till that were stated—till some constitutional reason were given for the bill—he should join his hon. Friends in giving it the utmost opposition in his power.
 Mr. Hope  trusted the hon. and learned Gentleman would furnish his recommendations in writing, as by so doing it would facilitate their consideration.
 Mr. G. W. Hope  regretted that his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies was not present on this occasion; but he believed that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was aware that the noble Lord's absence was occasioned by no disrespect for himself, or of the subject which he had so ably brought before the House. Of course, in the absence of his noble Friend, he could not meet, with any decided expressions of opinion, the plan which the hon. and learned Gentleman had proposed in the course of his speech. There were one or two points, however, in the hon. Gentleman's speech upon which he felt it necessary to make a few brief observations. He could assure the hon. Gentleman at the outset, that it was not from any want of will, but from want of powers, that more had not been done by her Majesty's Government in the cause of emigration. In consequence of one observation, however, which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, he wished to guard himself against assenting to the proposition that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government was pledged to consider any measure of this kind. With respect to the sale of lands in Canada, he would not defend the system which was pursued in this matter, but he thought that the motive imputed by the hon. and learned Gentleman to those engaged in these transactions had in some degree been coloured by his ready powers of caricature. He must certainly protest against the sweeping condemnation of the land commission in which the hon. and learned Gentleman had indulged upon the subject of Prince Edward's Island, although he thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman had been a little misled. In justice to the proprietors of that island, he felt bound to say that from all the information which he had on the subject, he thought that so far from their having any wish to prevent improvement, the greatest pains had been taken by them in furtherance of such improvements; indeed, if he had been aware, that a subject of such importance was about to have been brought before the House, he could have brought down documents which would have proved that the increase of productiveness and of the progress of general
 789 790 "They regretted to learn, by accounts from the west, that the demand for labour at present was very slack—that several people, unable to find employment, had gone to their homes, and that many more would do so but that they had not the means." "Employment was very scarce; that wages were very low, only 2 s. s. d. s. d. "Carpenters, tailors, shoemakers, and handicraftsmen of all denominations found equal difficulty in obtaining employment." d. 791
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he never heard so much said on so small a foundation. The Government had only one object in view, that of making the best terms for the public. If every
 743
 Sir H. Hardinge  could not make an estimate, as the hon. Gentleman wished. The expense would be wholly contingent on the number of men actually employed. The pensioners might not be called out at all, or only a few for two months, and therfore it was impossible for him to lay any estimate on the Table. The practice was, to lay an account of the whole expenses before the House after they had been incurred. He should be sorry if he were not able to realise the expectations he had held out last night, of only employing 10,000 men; and he must say that he had great objections to limiting the number of men to be employed. At the same time, after what had passed, he should not object to state in the bill that the number of pensioners enrolled should not exceed 10,000. He could not make
 745
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, it was not the intention to call out the pensioners for eight days' drill. Nor could he say for how many days they would be called out. It was possible they might be called out for four days before the next meeting of Parliament. If they were called out for four days, at the expense of 2 s. d. l. l, s.
 Mr. Curteis  said, that as an independent Member of that House he thought the attack of the noble Lord very unfair and unjust towards the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, for undoubtedly the noble Lord had no right to read that kind of lesson to the hon. Gentleman, for he had listened most attentively to the speech of the hon. Gentleman, and he had not heard anything to sanction the words used by the noble Lord as to the hon. Gentleman having said anything that could be construed into gross contumely and insult towards the right hon. baronet. He was sure, that if the hon. Gentleman had done so, the Speaker would have felt it his duty to have interposed. If hon. Gentlemen on the other (the Ministerial) side of the House would not speak out—if they were to be chained by the Treasury Benches—he could only say that he for one was very sorry for it. He was not shackled by party, and he
 844
 Dr. Bowring  believed, that both the late and the present Government had been exceedingly ill-informed as to the state of affairs in Servia, and it was not, therefore astonishing that mistakes had been committed. Russia took advantage of our want of information, and allied herself with the popular side in Servia. Until our consular establishments were altogether reformed, Government would always be liable to be misled, and sometimes betrayed, by the imperfect information they received with regard to foreign affairs.
 Dr. Bowring  said the right hon. Gentleman, not being in his place last night, had received a false impression of what had taken place. There were no persons more desirous of lending their assistance for the preservation of the public peace than the Gentlemen on his side of the House, or more ready to put down riot. But they believed the character of the bill was unconstitutional. It was giving an additional quantity of despotic power to the Government, and they naturally felt disappointed that such powers should be asked for at this period of the Session. They had resisted the bill as far as they were able, but himself and his friends would not be disposed to oppose its further progress, provided the Government would consent to limit the operation of the act to two years. Last night there had been shown some disposition to meet them on this point.
 Dr. Bowring  seconded the motion. He condemned the policy which had been pursued towards Greece, and said that every Greek he had communicated with during his travels was of opinion that our interference in the concerns of that country had been productive of nothing but evil; and that was his opinion also. The Greeks ought to have been allowed to choose a king from amongst themselves, and instead of which the three Powers had sent them a sovereign whose sole object seemed to be the degradation of the people he was appointed to rule over?
 Mr. Bright  said the right hon. Baronet had shown no reason for the measure; the only argument he advanced against its limitation was, that two years were not long enough for the trying the experiment. Not ten thousand men only, but twice that number might be raised in half that time, and these men did not require training at all, as they were told by the Secretary at War. He had as much respect for the opinion of the majority as any man, and there might be occasions when it would be vexatious for a small majority to interfere. But these privileges were given to be used at some time or
 757
 Mr. Bright  was surprised that the hon. Member for Middlesex should speak of a factious opposition, for if he was not mistaken, there was a time when the hon. Member sat on the Opposition side of the House, and the hon. Member, or his friends at least, were extremely factious in their opposition. As to the disgust created by the opposition to the bill, he believed all the large constituencies would view their conduct with approbation. The power asked for was the power of refusing with impunity, any measures of improvement the state of the people might require. He felt that the power asked for was only necessary, because the Government had refused to do justice to the people. The limitation of the bill to two years would not impair its efficiency. If at the end of two years it was still found necessary, Parliament would, as on all similar occasions, continue it. But once such measures were made permanent, it required twenty times the exertion to get rid of them again. They got to be matters of course, and he believed they should be abandoning their duties to their constituents, if they did not take every means the forms of the House afforded to defeat this measure. He owed no allegiance to those on the opposite side of the House; and to his own conscience and to his constituents alone should he look for approbation.
 Mr. Hume  moved that the House do adjourn.
 Mr. Hume  dared the Ministers to resign. The gallant officer forgot that the Government could not maintain a single soldier without the annual assent of the House; but these pensioners were already and permanently paid. So much for the ignorance of the hon. Gentleman. If he were not allowed to speak, he would beg leave to move that the House do adjourn. They did not come there to be driven away by the high words of the gallant Officer. The course which he expected to be pursued had been entirely changed with regard to the bill since last night, probably on account of the support given it the right, hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that the next order of the day be read. They were invited last night to state their objections to the measure, and they stated them under the expectation.
 Mr. Hume  persisted that he was in order. But the Speaker reiterating that the hon. Member had already spoken on the question before the House, the hon. Member sat down.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he was now in order, and he would proceed to state what he should before have said had he been allowed. He was surprised at the hon. Members on the other side interrupting him, and he then rose to move that the House should go into a committee that day three months. There was great inconsistency amongst the advocates of the bill. bill. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman, when he introduced the bill, had not said one word about the disturbances last year; but now the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary spoke of the disturbances last year, and wished to make the bill permanent. The right hon. Baronet had put it entirely on a new footing, and made him dislike the bill more than ever. Last night when the division was 92 to 16, he was inclined to say that he would not oppose the bill any further, and, therefore, he had proposed that it should be limited as to time, and that a limitation should be made as to the number of men to be enrolled. But now matters were changed, and the bill was to be made permanent. He did not know why it should not be subject to revision, as it was an experimental bill. They had limited the Irish Arms Bill, they had limited the Coalwhippers Bill, why should they not limit this, which was only an experimental bill? The income-tax had been limited to three years, because the Government knew that the people would not bear it if it were not limited, and why, he again asked, should not this bill be limited? He had said that if the right hon. Baronet would put down the yeomanry he should be disposed to agree to the bill. He quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the employment of the yeomanry, by which the rancorous feelings of different classes were nourished, was much to be deprecated, and he should prefer at all times relying on the military to calling out the yeomanry. If yeomanry were to be put down, and the measure subjected to a periodical revision, he should not object to it. The Government ought to have brought in the bill earlier. The number of pensioners was 73,103, and though they might not all be able to serve, this bill would give a power to the Government to enroll between 30,000 and 40,000 pensioners. It was no recommendation to him to find that this bill had the authority of the whigs, but though it had been prepared by them it had not been brought into the House.
 754
 Mr. Hume  had understood last night that the Government had consented to limit the bill, and if that were done his hon. Friends, he understood, would not oppose it. He hoped before the next meeting of the House, the Government would be ready to come into such an arrangement.
 Mr. Hume  asked whether the bill was to be limited to two years, and whether it were resolved to call out only 10,000 men. The proceedings on this bill were altogether unusual. In 1819 an estimate was laid on the Table when a similar measure was proposed. If there were only 10,000 men to be employed for six months, the right hon. Gentleman should make an estimate of the amount required, and lay it on the Table. He wished to know the number of men who were to be called out, and how long the bill was to remain in force.
 Mr. Hume  thought that the speech of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury was character by sound sense, and that the hon. Gentleman was perfectly right in condemning that constant meddling foreign policy which had so long been suffered to go on. As for the censure which the noble Lord had passed on young Members expressing their opinions in that House in an independent manner, he must say that it was altogether uncalled for and unjustifiable. He conceived the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, or any other, was as fully entitled to express their opinions as the noble Lord. He thought also, that thanks were due to that hon. Gentleman for haying brought under the notice of the House, on more than one occasion, the lamentable defects of our consular department, and that it would have been well if many of his suggestions had been previously attended to. He thought that the attack of the noble Lord on the hon. Gentleman was most undeserving, and the right bon. Gentleman, so far from censuring him, ought to thank him for the information which he had given to the House. He could not agree with the noble Lord in censuring the right hon. Baronet for his conduct in this matter, for he had long thought that this country had too long interfered with the affairs of foreign countries, and had left home matters untouched. He conceived that it rather behoved the noble Lord to vindicate his own character, for constant interference with the affairs of foreign countries, which he hoped that he would
 843
 Mr. Forster  hoped that, after what had been said, the hon. Member for Montrose would not press his motion to a division.
 Mr. Cobden  said, that the minority of that House had power given to them to obstruct measures under certain circumstances, in opposition to measures supported by a majority. This was a case of the kind. The bill ought not to have been brought in at that period of the Session, and it ought not now to be enforced. They ought to wait till it was known what the public would think of such a measure. Supposed that they had pursued this course on the education scheme, and the majority had backed the ministers in carrying that bill through, would not the education scheme have become a law before the people had time to consider? If the country understood this bill he was sure the country would oppose it as they had opposed the Education Bill. Where, he asked, were the Members of the great northern constituencies, and of the manufacturing towns? Where were the Members for Manchester? [ "They are absent." "Here." 760
 Mr. Milnes  thought it was unwise to employ harsh language towards a sovereign who had been placed and was retained on his throne by the three great Powers of Europe. If some of the censures which had been directed against King Otho had been applied to the Regency which governed Greece, before he assumed the unlimited sovereignty of the country, it would have been more justifiable; for that body, after governing Greece for years, left it without having done any of the things which they ought to have done.
 Mr. M. Milnes  was perfectly willing to rest the question on the ground it was placed on by the hon. Member for Shrews-
 840
 Mr. T. Duncombe  moved, that the House do adjourn till five O'clock.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  had entertained last night a sanguine hope that the Government was ready to make some concession with regard to this bill and its duration. Some allusion had been made to the tone adopted last, night by Members on this side of the House towards the right hon. the Secretary at War; he did not hear anything of the kind; but was there not something offensive in the tone of the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex? He "dared" the opposition to persist in opposing the bill; he never heard that "dare" was a parliamentary word, to be applied to any Member, or section of Members. He did dare, and would dare, to oppose it. The hon. and gallant Gentleman advised the Government if the Opposition persisted in "daring," to resign. He did not think the advice was very likely to be taken. He did not think either of the right hon. Baronets were likely to resign; but if that opposition was likely to have that result, that was a premium to them to obstruct the bill. He did not think that the right hon. Baronet, the Paymaster of the Forces, was likely to resign. There he sits, in happy indifference to all that is going on around him, which one would think had something to do with his department, leaving all his battles to be fought by the two right hon. Baronets. If their obstruction would produce such a happy result as the resignation of a ministry so unpopular as the present one, he believed they should have even all the Whig army up to town to join in it. There was only one thing wanted to complete the unpopularity of the present bill, and that it had obtained—it was now announced that it was a Whig measure. It came, it seemed, from the portfolio of the right hon. Member for Edinburgh, the late Secretary at War. If it had been kept back so long, let it be kept
 758 Graham
 Mr. T. Duncombe  asked whether it were intended to call out the pensioners and drill them? The right hon. Gentleman opposite had no reason to complain of the tone on that side, which was consistent with discussion; the right hon. Gentleman should complain of the tone when the bill was brought in, which caused the opposition it had met with. The bill had caused great alarm, and it would cause still more alarm when it was better known. He wished to ask, however, whether it were intended to insult the people by calling out these 10,000 pensioners to be drilled before their faces when they were perfectly quiet?
 Mr. T. Duncombe , expressed his regret at hearing the right hon. Baronet's determination, and the more especially after his declaration that his views respecting the measure were confirmed by his experience. He must say that he did not think he had been quite fairly treated on this subject. He had withdrawn his motion respecting Knutsford goal on the assurance that this bill should be brought forward, and that they would have an opportunity of discussing the whole question of goal management in connexion with it. They were in no worse condition with respect to this measure than they were with respect to the Chelsea Pensioners' Bill, and yet they pressed the coercive and abandoned this—the remedial measure. Why was this? Because, forsooth, some five or six magistrates—they were only five or six—objected to this measure as an interference with their "prerogative." If the Government attended to their objections regarding this bill, why not attend to his regarding the other? He repeated that he was not fairly treated; and he should certainly raise his voice still louder upon this subject had he not some confidence in the right hon. Baronet, who with respect to prisons had pursued a course which was highly honourable to his public character, and which afforded him (Mr. T. Duncombe) some hope that the objects of this bill would yet be carried out, and consequently some consolation for its present abandonment.
 Mr. Macaulay  not having been present at the discussion last evening, and not being of the opinion of several Gentlemen who spoke on that occasion, wished to state his views of this bill. It was said to be unconstitutional, but he could conscientiously bear witness that he believed the right hon. Gentleman who pro-
 746 747
 Mr. W. O'Brien  said, that Mr. Purcell having served the public well, should have had at least fair play, but he had not had fair play. The impression in Ireland was that the contract had not been fairly given, and that Mr. Purcell had lost the contract less by his terms being not so favourable as those of Mr. Croal, than by the mode of conducting the contract.
 Sir James Graham  expressed his obligations to the right hon. Member for
 748 749
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the late period of the Session, and the little chance of getting this measure through Parliament, reluctantly compelled him to announce that he intended to withdraw it. At the same time, as all his past experience had confirmed his views with respect to the
 848
 Sir R. Peel  said, notwithstanding the vehement declamation of the hon. Member for Montrose, it was pretty clear that his own opinions were strongly in favour of the bill. He thought the hon. Member was the last man in the world to make ill considered concessions to his opponents, and when he said he thought this kind of force was greatly preferable to many others of which the Government had full power of availing itself, when he said these soldiers would be efficient instruments of preserving the public peace, when he said if the Government would give its assurance to the House that it would not call out the yeomanry, he would then waive his objections to the permanent character of the bill, and be prepared to support it—when he heard the hon. Member say this, he could not think that the hon. Member believed the bill to be either dangerous or unconstitutional. A great number of the objections now brought against this bill had been brought against the establishment of the new police force in 1829. He was told that it was an unconstitutional measure, that it did away with the ancient conservators of the public peace, who were submitted to the parochial authorities, and paid by those who had the control of the parochial funds: it was said that it was the beginning of a series of encroachments
 755 756
 Sir Robert Peel , considering that this was the day on which motions had precedence, consented to resume the committee in the evening.
 Sir R. Peel : I think it is impossible for any inhabitant of a country in which civilization has made progress to profess indifference for the fate of Greece—a country to which we owe all civilization and attainments which are not connected with the Christian dispensation. Independently, however, of those considerations, Greece must always be an object of interest. From her geographical position, the internal tranquillity of Greece must necessarily exercise an important influence on the general tranquillity of Europe. The English Government has, moreover, contracted special pecuniary engagements with Greece by becoming responsible for her debts. My hon. Friend the Member for Ponte fract has stated, that the opinions expressed in this House, will not fail to exercise a peculiar effect in Greece; that the proceedings of the British Parliament are looked up to by the Greek people with anxiety; and that the Greek Government, as well as the Greek people, are peculiarly sensible to the judgments expressed respecting them by those nations to whom they are accustomed to look up with respect. As far as
 806 807 808
 Sir Robert Peel : I cannot help expressing great regret that the noble Lord should have considered it his duty to call the attention of the House to the particular subject, on which he has now addressed them. The noble Lord must be aware, from his long experience in diplomatic affairs, that as these transactions are not yet brought to a close, and as communications in respect to them are still pending, it would be utterly incompatible with my duty as a Minister of the Crown to undertake at the present time to detail the communications which have passed between the British Government and the British ambassadors at Vienna, Paris, Petersburg, and Constatinople, and the consul-general at Servia, connected with the late changes in the government of Servia. The noble Lord has stated that the four great powers of Europe are parties to a treaty which recites that it is necessary for the peace of Europe that the independence of Turkey shall be maintained. So far as that treaty is concerned, the four powers are in common accordance, and have common relations. But with respect to Servia, the four powers do not stand in the same relation. This country has contracted no special obligations, and stands in no peculiar relations to Servia. That is not the case with Russia, which, with respect to Servia and the Porte, has special engagements. Events in Servia which may be indifferent to us, are not indiffent to Russia. The Servian people have claims on Russia which they have not on us. There exists between the Porte and Russia certain treaties stipulating for the fulfilment of certain engagements, under
 824 825 826 827 828 829 830 831 "It is quite a reign of terror: the prisons of Belgrade are crowded with political prisoners, and Semlin is filled with refugees in consequence of the late change." "The recent election of a Prince was a mock election by the suffrages of successful rebels; that the treachery and corruption which had influenced the election were equally flagrant." "The frightful condition of Servia under the new rulers; and I can assure your Excellency (this letter was addressed to Sir Stratford Canning) that the system of terror is hardly within Christian imagination. I now owe it to truth to make a further emphatic declaration, that the late changes in Servia were not brought about by the wishes of the nation; that the wealth, worth, and intelligence of Servia are against the present condition of affairs, and that the districts are almost to a man in favour of Prince Ghika. The better description of people, and even the laborious, labour under well-founded apprehension of torture and death." 832 "That the number of fugitives is still increasing. Within the last week more than 100 have escaped to Austria. They represent that the oppression in Servia is so unsupportable, that they preferred abandoning home and property to suffering under such a system any longer." 833
 Viscount Palmerston : I rise, pursuant to notice, to move for the
 809 810 811 812 813 814 815 816 817 818 819 820 821 "Fidenarum, Gabiorumque esse potestas,
Et de mensurâ jus dicere, vasa minora
Frangere—" 822 823 "Copies or extracts of all communications which have passed between the British Government and the British ambassadors at Vienna, Paris, Petersburg, and Constantinople, and the British consul-general in Servia, in regard to the transactions connected with the late changes in the government of Servia."
 Viscount Palmerston : Having had so great a share, officially, in the transactions Greece, it would be impossible for me to remain altogether silent during this discussion. I wish to state, in the first place, that as respects all transactions in which the late Government were concerned, I have not the least objection to the productions of any papers which may throw light upon them; subject, of course, to the discretion which the present advisers of the Crown may exercise with regard to documents in their possession, with the details of which they must be cognizant. Speaking generally, I am of opinion that no public inconvenience could arise from the production of papers in
 799 800 801 Hume 802 "Hellènes! Livrez vous à ces sentiments avec confiance, entourez votre nouveau Souverain de votre reconnaissance et de votre affection. Sujets fidèles! Rallies vous autour de son trône; aidez le avec un juste dévouement dans la tâche de donner â Petat une constitution definitive, et de lui assurer le double bienfait de la paix au dehors, de la tranquilité, du règne de loix, et de l'ordre au dedans." "Greeks, abandon yourselves confidently to these feelings: encompass your Sovereign with your gratitude and affection. Faithful subjects rally around his throne; aid him with true devotion in giving to the state a definitive constitution, and ensure him the double benefit of peace abroad, and tranquility and the reign of law and order at home: 803 "The Sovereign of Greece and the Greek state shall be bound to appropriate to the payment of the interest and sinking fund, of such intalments of the loan as may have been raised under the guarantee of the three courts; the first, revenues of the state, in such manner that the actual receipts of the Greek treasury shall be devoted, first of all to the payment of the said interest and sinking fund, and shall not be employed for any other purpose, until
 804 805
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that as an impartial spectator, if he were allowed to express an opinion, he must say that there was nothing in the speech of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, that, in his opinion, was calculated to call forth the very great warmth of remark that fell from the noble Lord. It did not appear to him that there was anything un-parliamentary in what the hon. Gentleman said; and he had, before then, heard parties who generally supported the Government, but sometimes differing in opinion from the Government, express their opinions as strongly as the hon. Gentleman had done without any indication on the part of the Government that those attacks were un-parliamentary. The right hon. Gentleman began by stating that Russia had treated with the Porte, and appeared to think that he had omitted to take that circumstance into consideration. His argument, however, was that she had treated with the Porte, undoubtedly as to Servia, and therefore, stood in reference to Turkey and its provincial powers in a different manner front the other powers who signed the treaty of the Dardanelles, the stipulations of which appeared to confer the rights she claimed to exercise. The right hon. Baronet said that very considerable Powers did claim of themselves to put their own interpretation upon treaties with other Powers, without previous consultation with any other Powers. He never meant to say the contrary of that. He was quite ready to admit that very great Powers would interpret their own treaties; but his argument was, that if Powers did in exercise of that right put upon a treaty with another Power a construction which that treaty did not justly bear out, other Powers were equally entitled to come with a friendly representation to that Power, and state their reasons why they thought her interpretation wrong, and to push their reasoning as far as the importance of the case would lead them to think expedient. Undoubtedly the British Government,
 845 846 847
 Viscount Sandon  said, that the expression to which he more particularly referred was the term disgraceful conduct, as applied to her Majesty's Ministers, which he considered to be a term of gross contumely as coming from one who affected to support the Government.
 Viscount Sandon  was glad to hear the explanation that had been given by her Majesty's Government. He could not expect expressions of a very bold character from the Government, considering the negotiations they had to carry on with foreign powers; nor until the transactions commented on have been finally concluded. There were some points which he had heard from them with particular satisfaction. He
 841
 Viscount Sandon  could not at the mo-
 842
 Lord Clive  moved that it be omitted, on the ground that the authority for appointing the commission should be vested in the Archbishop of one province, instead of the Lord Chancellor, in the case of the commission being issued to inquire into the case of another Archbishop. He wished the same power to be given to the Archbishop as was given to the bishops in case of a commission being issued to inquire into the case of a simple bishop. He objected also to this power being taken out of the hands of the Church and placed in the hands of the Crown, where it might be jobbed for political purposes.
 Lord Clive  felt it his duty to divide on the clause, as his objection was not to the formation of the commission, but to the authority which issued it.
 Mr. Williams  said that motives were erroneously attributed to hon. Members on that side of the House. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of War had stated, that he would not concede, because of their offensive opposition. What idea would that give the people of the House of Commons? The Government brought in a measure which was rude and imperfect; and when an investigation was proposed, the Government would not allow it, and complained of the opposition as offensive. It would be better that the Ministers should make the laws themselves, and then they would have the whole responsiblity, instead of throwing it on the Parliament. He complained that laws were passed without the knowledge of the House, some of them perpetrating jobs of a shameful character. The oligarchy had equally usurped the rights of the Crown and the people; and he and those about him wished to restore both, which would give relief to the people and honour to the Crown. The bill was to establish a permanent standing army for that oligarchy, which was totally unconstitutional. He
 858
 Mr. R. Yorke  did not regard the bill as so unconstitutional as some of his friends; but he hoped the Government would accede to the proposal of the hon. Member for Lambeth.
 Mr. Williams  said, they were put in a peculiar position when the right hon. Gentleman laid down the principle that because a bill was opposed offensively, it was not to be made a reasonable measure.
 Mr. Macauley : Although he did not apprehend the danger which some hon. Gentlemen predicted, thought a measure of this nature, and of so much importance, should, in the first instance, be tried for a limited period, and he considered that five years would be a proper interval, and an acquiescence in that suggestion would bring this somewhat unhappy discussion to an amicable and peaceful termination.
 Mr. Bernal  thought, that the limitation
 862
 Colonel Fox  had supported the bill, but he was sorry the Government would not now give way, and he should have no objection to supplicate it to do so.
 The Attorney-General  said, that if his hon. and learned Friend had thought proper to go into Committee, without entering into the details of the Bill, he would have reserved his observations till they had come to the discussion of the clauses separately; but as his hon. Friend had thought it right to make a general comment on the whole measure, he felt himself bound to take a rapid sketch of the clauses of the Bill, and point out those to which it would be his duty to state his objections. Some alteration in this part of the law he certainly thought was necessary, and the sooner they addressed themselves to that alteration the
 875 "To consider whether the words set forth in the declaration, were spoken on an occasion when the plaintiff's character was likely to be injured thereby." 876
 Mr. Bernal  thought, the hon. and learned Attorney-General had stated his objections in a very fair and honourable manner. He might differ with him on some points, but a small difference between them should not induce him (Mr. Bernal) to relinquish the hope of gaining a great benefit by the passing of the most important portion of the Bill.
 The Attorney-general  moved, the omission of the first clause.
 The Attorney General  would shortly state the view he took of this clause, by which it was proposed to prevent the truth from being an answer to an action for damages. His learned Friend asked why
 882 883
 Mr. Bernal  said the question was, whether they were prepared to say that truth should be an answer to an action for libel? Now, he thought that in many cases of the kind, it was quite fit that the truth should be spoken, but in other cases if certainly was highly unjust, inconsistent with public principle and morality, that the truth should be spoken. Were persons to be permitted to rake up the transactions of bygone years—the transactions of adolescence,—and bring them forward to contaminate a man's character in afterlife, when he might long since have reformed those courses, and now that he no longer trod in paths of which maturer years had shown him the folly or the shame? Was it conducive to the cause of morality and of religion, or conducive to the public benefit, thus to rake up long-forgotten errors, and for no earthly good? But the Attorney-general was of opinion, that it should not be be left to the jury to say whether the libellous matter was published for the public benefit. [The  Attorney-general Attorney-general 886
 The Attorney-General  said, that it was not his intention to raise the same objection to the 9th clause, which he considered to be very distinguishable in its nature from the third clause. He denied that the allowing of the truth to be an answer to a claim for damages, was the same as allowing truth to be an answer to a charge of violating the public peace. He differed from his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. C. Buller) about there being no
 891
 The Attorney-General  wished the committee to understand precisely what would be the effect of this clause. It seemed to be supposed that this apology was to be an answer to the action. But that was not what was meant. If there had been a publication of a libel without actual malice, and without gross negligence, and the party should plead and was prepared to prove that, then if he made an apology he was to be allowed to pay money into court, and the jury were to take into consideration whether the apology with the money so paid into court were or not together a sufficient satisfaction for the plaintiff. He did not think the mere apology should be all.
 The Attorney-General  opposed the clause, and supported the necessity for the occasional appointment of a deputy-coroner, without the control proposed. The committee divided—Ayes 16; Noes 40: Majority 24.
 Mr. Hawes  admitted, that the bill was a good bill, and he only proposed his alteration to save time. By wasting the time of the House, the Libel Bill, and other measures of great importance, were put in peril. The bill would not come less under revision annually by limiting it to five years.
 Mr. Hawes  suggested that they should insert words "to limit the bill to five years."
 Mr. Escott  supported the bill, because he regarded it as an improvement on the common law of England, and he preferred that it should be permanent rather than temporary.
 Mr. Escott  objected to its being left to the jury to decide whether the libel was for the public benefit. It was one of the most mischievous principles that could creep into the administration of the law to leave to juries the decision of political matters. When a jury was left to decide whether the publication of a libel was, or was not, for the public benefit, might not political matter be involved in the case? Suppose in a time of great political excitement a libel were written upon some person, involving the consideration of the question that was agitating the public mind. In the time of the Reform Bill, for example, when so many believed that the passing of that measure would be attended with great public benefit, suppose a libel had been written upon some conspicuous political character, the question for the jury to decide would have been, not whether the libel was true or false, not whether the object of the libel deserved it or not, but whether it was not for the public benefit that that person should be cried down and made cheap in public estimation. In such a case it would be making twelve men the judges of a political question. Take the case of the Corn-laws. Was it not possible in the present state of public feeling, to collect a jury of twelve men in any town, whose honest and sincere conviction was that the repeal of the Corn laws was for the benefit of the public, and therefore that those who opposed the repeal were against the public. In such a case would not those twelve men feel themselves bound to take into consideration whether the character of that man ought to be cried down, because in opposing the repeal of the Corn-laws he was setting himself in opposition to the public benefit? All these were questions which should not be be treated without due consideration, and if the present bill were not properly matured, the whole matter had better be put off to another session. He knew not if any particular advantage could accrue from passing the measure at once, but he should feel it his duty to divide against the present clause.
 Mr. C. Buller  explained, that he had adduced the case of a man being a candidate for a public office, as a particular instance to show how it might be necessary to involve considerations of private character, and he said it was impossible to lay down a general rule distinguishing as between public and private character in all cases. Now take the case of a man who was an admirable scholar, a literary man, estimable in all his public relations to society, but happening to labour under an infirmity of temper to such an extent that his own children had suffered from it. The publication of that fact, when the person in question had done nothing whatever to bring him in contact with the public, by one of those persons who dodged about the town in search of scandal, might show that that individual was unhappily a bad manager of his children, but it would be a libel, an abuse that ought to be put down. But suppose that individual were a candidate for a public office connected with the education of youth, would it not be right and fair to come before the public and say, "This is a man estimable indeed in his public relations, but he has an infirmity of temper which utterly disqualifies him for the post he seeks?" In the first case, the publication of the fact would be a wanton and malignant libel; in the other, it would be a great public service. Now, if the case came before a jury, the person publishing the libel might say, "True, this would have been a libel under other circumstances, but this person seeks an office in which his infirmity of temper would render him a public mischief instead of a public good."
 Mr. C. Buller  was very anxious that this clause should pass. Nothing could be more objectionable that the present law in respect of civil proceedings in cases of libel, by which the truth of the allegation was made a complete answer to an action for damages. The present clause, which left it to the jury to determine whether it was for the public benefit to make publition, would be a great improvement, and must, at all events, be considered as the least of two evils. The law of England was exceedingly defective in respect of the anomalous distinction it made between civil and criminal proceedings. If yon indicted a man for slander or libel, truth was no justification. In civil actions for libel, you let in the whole evidence of the truth, and everything turned on that. We had one form of proceeding by which truth or falsehood could be proved, and another in which no inquiry was allowed into the truth or falsehood of the charge, or the motive with which it was published. Such being the state of the law, the natural operation of public feeling was this—that a man by adopting a criminal proceeding,
 879 880 881
 Mr. C. Buller  thought the apology should be required to be published in the next number of the journal or publication in which the libel appeared. But if that could not be, then it should be published in such newspaper as the plaintiff should point out. Supposing the libel should appear by inadvertance in the  Times Times,
 Mr. Charles Buller  wished to suggest a much greater alteration in this clause than any yet made in the bill. It seemed that
 892 "If any person should directly or indirectly threaten to publish any matter or thing touching any other person, with intent to induce such person to do any matter or thing which such person so threatened might lawfully leave undone."
 Mr. C. Buller  agreed that the law of slander required alteration; but with respect to this clause, there were difficulties thrown out which certainly required consideration. It must be admitted that there was a difference between written and oral slander. Written defamation argued more a deliberate intention than words uttered, perhaps, in haste. Under these circumstances, he would recommend his hon. Friend to confine himself to that part of the bill, respecting which both sides of the House appeared to agree.
 Mr. C. Buller  put it to his hon. Friend, who he knew to be a man of sense, because—he was a lawyer. He put it to him whether, in his cooler moments, he would stand by the view which he had just now taken. His hon. Friend said,
 864 Hume
 Mr. Ross  said, that when the three years were proposed, he heard one of the Members of the Government say, in a conversational tone, across the House, that they would concede the five years if certain opposition on the other side were abandoned. From the beginning, he had voted for the bill, because he felt that it did not deserve the character it had received as a measure of coercion; although, undoubtedly, in one sense, it placed more power in the hands of the Government than they at present possessed, by rendering it easier for them to call out these pensioners to be used as a military force. He thought, however, the Government would do well if they consented to the proposition now made.
 Mr. Sergeant Murphy  said, that when it
 889
 Captain Polhill  declared that it was most injudicious of the hon. Member for Durham to make such an assertion with-out being able to authenticate it.
 Mr. Darby  said, that instead of the clause being omitted, it should be amended in order to make an archbishop a member of the commission.
 Mr. Darby  believed that the clause, if agreed to, would lead to the employment only of some of the lowest class of legal practitioners. He agreed with his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-general, in opposing the enactment of a law, the effect of which would be to make a man liable to action for words spoken in haste. He thought the hon. Gentleman should content himself with those parts of the bill which all were agreed in looking upon as likely to do good.
 Mr. Darby  denied, that because the Attorney-general could not accede to this clause, that, therefore, he must necessarily be content with the law as it stood. He disapproved of the clause. To justify a libel on the ground of its being for the public benefit did not get rid of the injury to private character; it was only making the individual assailed a victim for the good of the public. How was the fact to be ascertained that the publication was for the good of the public? The libel might have proceeded from the most malicious motives, and as an after-thought it might be set up that it was for the public good. There was a great difficulty in the clause, for under the operation of it a person who ought to answer for his misdeeds might escape on the plea of public benefit. With respect to papers
 887
 Mr. G. W. Wood  had never heard and such report as that alluded to. If such an occurrence had taken place, he believed he should have heard of it, The conduct of the soldiery in Lancashire was deserving of all praise.
 Sir H. Hardinge  in answer to a question to a question from Mr. R. Yorke, said that he should not give way any more; for giving way yesterday only protracted the business, and he could not consent, as the hon. Gentleman wished, to any limitation of the bill as to time. It was supported by Members of all shades of opinion in the House and it was only opposed by a very small minority.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that the insinuations of the hon. Gentleman were of a most reprehensible character. He did not wish to be otherwise than courteous to every Member of the House, but he was bound to give the most positive and flat contradiction to the statement of the hon. Gentleman, that they had last year distrusted the fidelity of the army, or had strong reason to distrust it. He had never heard more indefensible language in that House. He confessed he felt very indignant at the insinuation of the hon Gentleman, that the army was not to be depended on. He could assure the hon. Gentleman he had never heard of such an occurrence as the one he alluded to, nor did he believe it to be true. He was willing to concede to every person the utmost latitude in debate, but the hon. Gentleman should abstain from making insinuations of this kind unless he was prepared to substantiate them in the House. He should like to know the hon. Gentleman's authority for making this statement, for if it proceeded from any respectable source, he should investigate the subject. The observations of the hon. Gentleman tended to excite dissatisfaction in the army. He believed there was not an instance, since they had a standing army, in which the army did not show they could be depended
 855
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that be could not admit the proposal of the hon. Gentleman. He had never brought forward a bill which so little merited the opposition the bill had encountered, and he would not agree to the proposition.
 Sir H. Hardinge  denied that he had ever placed his refusal to modify the bill on the grounds mentioned by the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Bright  explained that it was believed in Manchester that a regiment was disaffected and had refused to act, but he did not say that this had occurred in the manufacturing districts. He had heard it as a rumour, though he did not assert that it took place in the manufacturiug districts, and no doubt the statement of the right hon. Baronet was correct, and would give great satisfaction.
 Mr. Bright  was astonished that the hon. Member for Carlisle should support the bill. The majority of the electors of that city had petitioned for free-trade and Corn-law abolition, and the hon. Member was giving his sanction to a measure which was only necessary, because the prayer of the petition was not complied with. He reprobated strongly an assemblage of landed gentlemen imposing the bill on the manufacturing districts at the end of the session. Had it been proposed earlier it could have been opposed by the Members for the mauufacturing districts. It appeared that all the sympathies of the Ministers were for coercion, and hence when any measure like the Prison Discipline Bill, advantageous to the people, was opposed, they gave it up at once. He thought that the opinions of military men, like the gallant Officer (Colonel
 853 Henry Hardinge 854 E. Knatchbull
 Dr. Nicholl  supported the clause. The Crown was the head of the Church, and all its proceedings were watched over by that House and the country. Moreover, the Lord Chancellor was the head of the law, and one of the sworn judges of the land was to be a member of the commission. He thought there were ample securities for the due performance of the duties imposed.
 Dr. Nicholl  proposed the following clause:
 "Provided always, and be it enacted, that whenever the accounts of any coroner shall be laid before the justices in general or quarter sessions assembled, or before any town-council, such justices or council respectively may, if they shall think fit, examine the said coroner or deputy coroner, or any witness tendered by or on behalf of the coroner or deputy-coroner, on oath as to any inquest holden before any deputy-coroner; and if on such examination it shall appear to such justices or council that such inquest was holden before such deputy-coroner at any time other than during the illness of the said coroner, or during his absence for some lawful or reasonable cause such justices or council, as the case may be, shall disallow in such account the fees and mileage of such coroner or deputy-coroner at such inquest."
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that this discussion should have taken an angry turn. He was sorry, too, that what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Durham should be taken up as it had been. He had heard in the Isle of Wight that a regiment had mutinied, and the report had originated, as he ascertained, in a drunken squabble. That squabble gave rise to the report, which was believed all over the country. He was sorry to find there was no disposition on the other side to give them credit for opposing the bill. But the opposition was all the consequence of bringing in the bill at this late period; and he had been, after the first division, ready to assent to the bill had the Government modified it. If the Government had limited this bill as it had limited others bills, the opposition to it would have been at an end. He thought, that the Government ought to have been the first to propose these modifications. If there were obstinacy and unreasonableness the existed on the part of the Government. It was because the Government had brought forward no measures to relieve the wants and distress of the people that he opposed the grant of this power, which was that to render a force available was not so now. They were by this bill giving power to coerce the pensioners, and compelling them to serve after they had retired and been pensioned; or to give up their pensions. The bill was, in fact, one of pain and penalties for every pensioner who did not obey. He wished, at least, that the service of the pensioners should be voluntary. The bill was worse than the Six Acts, which were all limited. It was worse than any of the acts passed in the worst times of Castlereagh. He wished this bill to be like the Mutiny, an annual bill. The causes of the distress and discontent were the want of work and excessive taxation, and any measure which like this went to increase the expenditure, and increase taxation, while the deficiency in the revenue for the year ending January 8, 1843, was upwards of 4,000,000 l. 857
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the right hon. Baronet had showed, good reasons why the measure should not be of a permanent character. They had already provided for enrolling the pensioners, and that, therefore, was not wanted. He objected to putting arms into the hand of 10,000 men, and adding them to the standing army, as a permanent measure.
 Mr. Hume  said, if the duration of the bill were limited to five years, and the number of men to 10,000, he should relinquish all further opposition to it, and and he hoped his hon. Friend would at once consent to the bill passing in that stage.
 Mr. Hume  moved to insert the words "five years and six months."
 Mr. Philip Howard  contended, that the bill was wholly divested of anything unconstitutional in its character, if such a charge could have been substantiated he should have opposed to the measure a steady resistance. The law, as it now stood, enabled the Executive to call out at one time the whole force of those receiving the Queen's pension, whereas, the present bill enabled the Government to summon, when and where it might be deemed most expedient, the elective portion of the retired veterans in aid of the
 852 espiel de corps
 Mr. Mangles  had been informed, that in consequence of the Portuguese tariff being kept in abeyance from 1842 to 1843, the wine trade was in a state of stagnation, and great loss accrued, not only to the revenue but to those engaged in it. He was informed also, that in consequence of arrangements made in July last with the Government, that trade had
 867
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, the Poor-law was limited for five years, and yet the salaries were voted every year. He wished this bill to be placed on the same footing. The hon. Member denied that the opposition to the bill was factious.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  recommended the adjournment, and suggested to the right hon. Baronet whether he could not limit the bill. The whole of the time might have been saved had that been assented to. All concessions from the other side were treated with something like contempt. The Ministers appeared to be determined to carry this bill by a tyranical majority. They had already lost much time, and would lose much more; and it was proper that the country should know why the House would not be prorogued at the time specified.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, it was clear thet there was to be no modification of the bill—it was to be thrust down their throats—and he could not submit to the dictation of a tyrannical majority. What was the majority composed of. The underlings of the Government, who were allowed to have no opinion of their own. The majority, therefore, had no weight with him. It only proved that this bill was promoted by under-hand means, and he was determined to insist on further concessions. As yet all the concessions had been made by the minority, which had permitted the Government to increase the army by the amount of 10,000 men. If this were so popular and good a bill, why not limit it to three years? The further, however, he went into the bill, the more he objected to it. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State had been solemnly pledged to proceed with the Prison Discipline Bill, and that bill the right hon. Gentleman had abandoned, because there was no time to pass it. That was for him an additional argument
 851
 Mr. Macaulay  had, he said, voted for the duration of the bill for five years; but, though it might appear inconsistent, he would not vote for a longer period, but against it.
 Mr. Macaulay  felt there was great force in the argument of his hon. and learned Friend, that the criminal law with regard to justification of the publication of a libel should be brought as nearly as possible to correspond with the civil law. That part of his hon. and learned Friend's argument seemed to be unanswerable. If to assert a thing of A was an injury which he ought not to sustain, and which could not be compensated by any public benefit, he could not see why he should not be entitled to damages. But if, on the other hand, he sustained no injury, then it was quite clear, that the only injury to the public had been through or by the defamation of his character, and he was at a loss to understand how to frame the law so that there might be a justification on the one hand as to the civil law, and on the other as to the criminal law. He wished to ask the Attorney-general whether he meant to carry the same principle throughout the bill. If he said the truth should in all cases be an answer to a criminal indictment, and that in cases of a civil prosecution truth ought to be an end to the proceedings, then he made his argument consistent, and, it was entitled to grave consideration. He must own that he thought there was a great deal to be said in favour of that view; but he most decidedly preferred the way in which the bill was drawn to what the learned Attorney-general proposed. His view was this—You charge a person with having defamed you; the d answers, "What I said was true;" but then you
 884 885
 Mr. Macaulay  thought some change in that part of the law was required, yet he must say that he should advise the hon. and learned Gentleman who had charge of the bill to accede to the suggestions of the hon. and learned Attorney-general.
 878
 Mr. Macaulay  thought that the most important article in the whole Bill seemed to receive the cordial assent of the hon. and learned Attorney-General. As the law now stood, a man was liable to severe punishment for doing that by which he made himself a great public benefactor. If that alone which went to correct this state of the law were passed, a great public benefit would have been conferred. On the other clauses, he would not now make any remarks, as he was not desirous to detain the House from going into Committee.
 Mr. Macaulay  thought that some provision should be made as to the manner in which the apology should be given. For instance, he should think a libel in the  Times
 Mr. Macaulay  was understood to concur in the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet. It was very well known against whom this clause was pointed; and he thought the whole necessity of the case would be met if the clause stopped at the words "office of profit or trust."
 Mr. Macaulay  thought some words might be introduced to make the threatening to publish anything, which in itself
 894
 Mr. Christie  felt no difficulty in assenting to the amendments suggested, as was satisfied that the object of the framer of the bill would be quite gained by the introduction of the words "defamatory libel, as proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard.
 Mr. Christie  wished to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney-general) whether he intended to adopt the same course with respect to the 9th clause, as he had done with regard to the 3rd clause? Both clauses were framed upon the same principle.
 Mr. Christie , though it might be presumptuous in him to differ from the learned Attorney-general, had not yet relinquished his opinion, that this clause, if agreed to, would be found beneficial, particularly as limits were set by the next clause to frivolous actions. He did not feel that he should be justified in giving up the clause, without some further expression of opinion, particularly as he knew that the noble Lord to whom the public were indebted to this bill, attached much importance to it. There was no reason for the difference made by the law of England, between the same words written and spoken. And this difference was peculiar to the English law. When the Attorney-General objected to trusting a jury with such an issue, as whether the words were spoken under circumstances likely to render them injurious, it seemed to him (Mr. Christie) an objection to trial by jury. He did not think he would be justified in withdrawing this clause till other hon. Members had convinced him it would be impossible to carry the clause against the opposition of the hon. and learned Attorney-general.
 Mr. Christie  rose to move the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into committee on the Defamation and Libel Bill. He said, in moving that the House resolve itself into committee, I believe it is right, according to an understanding, when the bill was read a second time, with the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham), that I should briefly state its objects and provisions. Though no discussion has yet taken place here on this bill, so much is known of it, from what has passed in the other House, that it is unnecessary for me to urge its importance on the House. I trust I may also appeal to the proceedings in the other House, for the purpose of showing that the bill is deserting of support. The subject-matter of this bill has undergone a searching investigation before a committee of the House of Lords, which has sat during the present Session, and which has examined a large number of witnesses, judges, barristers, and editors, and proprietors of newspapers. The committee presented a report, containing a number of specific recommendations, which are the basis of this bill. Though every one of those recommendations has not been imported into this bill, yet every provision which it does contain was recommended in the report of the committee; and, Sir, the bill having been introduced into the other House by Lord Campbell, having met with no opposition to its principles; having obtained the concurrence, and having had the advantage in the discussion of its details of the assistance of Lord Denman, Lord Abinger, Lord Brougham, and the Lord Chancellor, comes down to this House, backed by authority at least equal to that on which the right hon. Baronet rested, the other night, his support of the Law of Evidence Bill; and I trust that, under all the circumstances of the case, particularly the delay which has taken place in coming to the discussion in this House of a bill which has come so recommended from the other, I may anticipate no opposition to going to-night into committee on the bill, and proceeding with it in committee. I trust, too, that I may obtain for the future progress of the bill that assistance which the Government is able to render, which the course taken in the other House by the Lord Chancellor, renders it not unreasonable to expect, and
 869 s. 870 dictum 871 872 Standard. "I think, that no action ought to be brought against a newspaper until a period, say fourteen days, had been suffered to pass from the notice of complaint of the libel complained of. And my motive for suggesting that is, that my own experience tells me that newspapers must fall into libels by accident. The only action that ever succeeded against the newspapers with which I have been connected for four-and-twenty years—and that is saying something—the only
 873 l. Standard, prima facie 874
 Mr. Christie  would not trouble the committee with a division, after the opinions expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh, and the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard.
 Mr. Christie  expressed his regret that the Attorney-general should feel it his duty to oppose the clause: he (Mr. Christie) should not be justified in yielding to the opposition. The clause rested upon the specific recommendation of Lord Abinger before a committee of the House of Lords, and was submitted by that noble and learned Lord in the draft of a bill which he prepared. It should be remarked that the clause provided that it should be necessary for the defendant not only to allege that the libel was published for the public benefit, but he must also show the particular facts which rendered the publication for the public benefit. These words were introduced in the other House by the Lord Chancellor, who, with the addition of that proviso, supported the clause. The case mentioned by the Attorney-general did not, he thought, bear out the learned Gentleman's view of the question. The cases of candidates for public offices, as the physician to a dispensary for example, were clearly cases in which public benefit might accrue from the publication of the libel, and he could not conceive any injury likely to arise from letting the decision upon that point go to the jury. The Attorney-general wished for the broad and intelligible basis of truth, and said that the man who spoke the truth should be protected; but it appeared equally broad and intelligible that a man should not only speak the truth, but show that he did so with no motive of malice, but for the purpose of doing a public good. A case was suggested, and many questions put upon it by many Lords to Mr. Fonblanque before the Lords' committee, of a lady, who being accused of having false hair, false teeth, or being, as it was termed, "made up," and having no remedy for the wanton injury done to her feelings by the publication of this stupid personality, if only it could be proved to be true. Truth in such a case would aggravate the injury to the feelings. He thought it important that newspapers should be prevented from indulging in
 888
 Mr. Christie  appealed to Gentlemen on his side to abate somewhat of their animosity in opposition to the bill in order to expedite the approach of the House to other important business which was coming on. He thought it would not be unfair to move, that the Chairman should report progress, in order that the Libel and Defamation Bill might be proceeded with.
 Mr. Cripps  said, that even if the intimation mentioned had been given by a Member of the Government, the difficulties of concession had been since very much increased by the aspersions cast upon the bill, and upon the motives of its supporters by hon. Gentlemen opposite. How, he asked, could the Government give way, after the manner in which this bill had been stigmatized? Were hon. Gentlemen to say, having thus stigmatized the bill, that the Government had been forced by them to a duration of five years? If he believed the bill to be an unconstitutional one, he would not support it for five minutes. In the first instance, in his opinion, it was a matter of perfect indifference whether the bill were to last one, two, or five years. But then he said, after the manner in which the bill had been stigmatized, it would be utterly impossible for any men who had a regard for their character to vote for the proposition.
 Mr. Ewart  asked whether the Government meant to propose a supplementary vote for education, or what measures they intended to take on that subject.
 Mr. Ward  said, that all the objections on that side of the House would be got over if the Government gave them a fair
 863
 Sir J. Graham  said, his hon. Friend did not seem to be aware of the extent of support which the Government had received from the opposite side, as well as their own side of the House. The noble Lord, the Member for Tiverton, who had been for many years Secretary-at-War, and who was one of the highest authorities as to the expediency of employing this force, had given to the Government an honorable, frank, and decided support, and they had received similar aid from others on the same side. Any limitation of time was quite superfluous respecting this measure. Opportunities would offer for its discussion upon the moving of the Mutiny Act every year, and a change could, if necessary, be introduced in that bill, excluding this force from its operation. In addition to that check, another would present itself in the annual vote for the necessary expenses of the force. He denied that the measure was one of coercion, and what he apprehended was, that if its duration were limited, that character would be attached to it which the bill did not properly bear. He therefore thought, on the whole, it was more advisable that the bill should be retained in its present shape.
 Sir J. Graham : It is not the intention of Government to ask for an additional vote, as there is a sum of 40,000 l. 868
 Sir James Graham  said, he should not object, on the third reading, to insert words, enacting that one of the commissioners should be an archbishop. He wished to meet the views of the noble Lord.
 Sir James Graham  confessed that though the amendment which the hon. and learned Gentleman proposed would as it appeared to him, improve the clause, still, in his humble judgment, the alteration of the clause must be carried further. He could conceive many cases in which a threat to publish might be very cruel and yet not illegal while, on the other hand, he could imagine cases where a threat to publish might be most salutary, and for the public good. Reading the clause as it would stand, if the amendments
 893
 Sir R. Inglis  thought, that to make this concession, after having originally proposed to make the bill permanent, would be, on the part of the Government, not only an acknowledgment of having been originally wrong, but would be an unsuitable return to make for the general support which they had received on that side of the House; and although peace within and peace without the House was a very good thing, still he thought peace oug h not to be purchased at the expense of consistency.
 Sir R. Peel  said, his impression was, that if the measure was liable to abuse, a much more effectual check would be found in its exposure to the annual control of Parliament, on the production of the estimates, than by framing the act with a view to its duration only for a specified and limited period. He thought, therefore, that it would be better to make the power of calling out this force permanent.
 Sir R. Peel : Her Majesty's Government publicly declared a short time since, that the negotiations with Portugal were brought to a termination, in point of fact that they were broken off, Portugal not being willing to agree to such terms as the interest of this country required. The Duke of Palmella has arrived in this country, and, I understand, he has come partly with the view of making some fresh proposal on the subject alluded to, and that he has full powers to do so. If that be so, he has come exclusively at the instance of the Portuguese government, and not in consequence of any invitation by this Government, or of any previous communications made to Portugal by our Government. Up to the present moment there has been no official intimation made by the Duke of Palmella to the British Government, but I cannot doubt the fact which has come to the cognizance of the hon. Gentleman, that the Duke of Palmella has full powers to treat on this subject with our Government. I am so sensible of the evil which has accrued to trade, commerce, and revenue, from the protracted negotiations that have already taken place on this subject, that I will undertake to promise the hon. Gentleman that the treaty which may be entered into will not, in any event, be protracted by dilatory negotiations.
 Sir R. Peel : The Mutiny Act was an annual act, and these men would be subject to that. There was, therefore, that check which the hon. Member desired. An estimate too, for the expenses of this force would be required annually, and there would, therefore, be a double check both by withholding the estimate, and refusing to make these men subject to the Mutiny Act. Ministers only objected to make an estimate that year, because they could not tell what the expenses would
 861
 Sir R. Peel  said, the reason why the bill should be permanent was, that it was not a coercive measure on the people, but a restrictive measure on the power of the Government. It was a muster Roll only of ten thousand men, and they might not be called out at all. It was only in a case of emergency that the services of ten thousand of the pensioners who were most fitted for service were placed at the command of the Government. They already had the power to call out all the pensioners, and they would use it. The measure, too, was one of economy—it would cost less than one battalion. In case of disturbance, he was sure, that the whole of the Gentlemen opposite would support the Government. If the Government called out the volunteers and yeomanry in a case of emergency the Opposition would approve of the expense. He repeated, that it was to consult economy that this bill was brought in. He felt entitled to call on the opposition not to abuse the privileges which belonged to a minority to countervail the sense of a majority of the House, The Gentlemen opposite were of the popular party, and it was for their interest to maintain the privileges and power of the House of Commons. If the majority maintained their own opinions, that majority was only maintaining what it considered reasonable.
 Sir R. Peel  was afraid that the mere words, "defamatory libel," would not protect society from the crime of attempting to extort money by threatening to publish any matter or thing; because many things might be threatened to be published which were not defamatory. A threat to publish the truth might be a very great offence.
 Sir R. Peel  feared that if they confined the offence to the publication of a "defamatory" libel, those particular publications to which this clause was directed would escape altogether. He knew of a case in which the greatest injury was inflicted on a female of the greatest delicacy by parties connected with a newspaper, by a threat that unless a sum of 100 l. l.
 The Attorney-General  rose to set himself right as to the bill. The third clause had been misunderstood, as having for the first time established the fact, that truth was a defence for libel. This was not so, and he wished to explain, that by the law at present, the truth was universally an answer to a prosecution for damages The third clause, therefore, would fetter the offer of truth as a defence in every case, unless some public good were to be obtained by the publication. He therefore, had advocated, not opposed, the liberty of the press.
 Mr. Bodkin  suggested, to his hon. Friend (Mr. Christie) that the bill should not be carried forward this Session. He thought the omission of the third clause had injured the bill, and he wished to have it restored; He moved, that the House disagree to the amendment omitting the third clause.
 The Attorney-General  said, at present by the law, with the exception of a statutable perjury, whenever a criminal had suffered his punishment, full competency was restored, and the criminal was qualified to give evidence both in new transactions and transactions which occurred before he committed his crime. That was the state of the law, but there was an anomaly. The criminal could not be called as a witness while he was suffering his punishment, and he did not know why a man who was suffering the last day of his imprisonment was not a competent witness to-day, but was such a witness to-morrow. He could not understand why that distinction should be continued. It seemed to him, that it ought either to be done away and the man be allowed to give evidence, or that criminals should be for ever excluded. He did not know on what principle a man should be disbelieved while he was undergoing his punishment, and believed, immediately after it was at an end. That would pre-
 910
 Mr. Louis  thought the Attorney-General had made out a strong case, and he should not be averse from taking the further step mentioned by the hon. Member. Several writers on evidence thought the parties should be examined.
 Mr. B. Escott  had doubts whether this was a useful measure, though he thought if the law of evidence were to be amended it could not be in better hands than those of the Chief Justice and his friends the Attorney-General and Solicitor-General. If this bill were passed they must go a step further, and admit the plaintiff and defendant to give evidence, Already they admitted interested parties, and it was not to be supposed that, the formal insertion of the names of the plaintiff and defendant on the record should preclude them from that the advantage.
 Captain Polhill  said, he wished to ask a question of the Secretary for the Home Department in the absence of the President of the Board of Trade with respect to a very important subject, the price of bread in the metropolis. It was well known, that the bakers had within the last few weeks taken advantage of a small rise in the price of wheat, to effect a most exorbitant profit for themselves, by taking money out of the pockets of the poor. Although he was not an Anti-Corn-law Leaguer, he wished to see the poor enabled to eat their bread as cheap as they could, and, having suffered himself by the high price of bread, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he did not think it expedient to introduce some law or regulation by which the poor should be enabled to benefit by the alterations which might take place in the price of corn?
 Mr. Darby  said, he objected to the bill, that it carried into effect a great alteration in the Law of Evidence. He was afraid, if criminals were allowed to give evidence, it would seriously affect the public mind, and make it doubt the administration of justice. He begged that the bill might be delayed till a full explanation were given of its probable effects.
 Mr. Roebuck  expressed his astonishment that his hon. and learned Friend (the Attorney-General) had taken any notice of the contemptible observation contained in a contemptible paper.
 Mr. Christie  was understood to say, that the omission of the third clause, as long as the ninth clause was retained, would tend to increase the number of criminal prosecutions as truth would no longer be a defence on such prosecutions.
 Mr. Ward  said, in the debate on the Irish Church, on the first of this month, he had made a statement from Parliamentary returns as to the actual revenue of the Established Church in Ireland, from which the statement made in answer by the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, differed by a sum of 120,000 l.
 Sir J. Graham  had no objection to the return in that shape.
 Sir J. Graham  said, the question was a difficult one to answer, and he should have been quite unprepared for it, if something like the question in a newspaper that morning had not called his attention to it. As it was a question of policy rather than of fact, he must say,
 912
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he entirely despaired of the effect of a legislative remedy in regulating the price of bread. At the same time, he thought the fact to which his hon. Friend had called attention was a very remarkable one—namely, the great disproportion between the high price asked for bread in different places and the price of corn, and the advantage taken by the bakers of the rise of price. When a fall took place, there was no corresponding reduction. Though the Legislature might not be able to afford an effectual check to this, still he thought there might be a check if gentleman would not be ashamed to exert themselves in the matter, and refused to deal with all bakers excepting those who charged a fair price. That he believed would be an effectual mode of checking those who made extravagant charges. When, then, his hon. Friend was one of those who sanctioned and encouraged the evil of which he complained. The proper way would be to encourage tradesmen who did not ask an undue price.
 The Solicitor-General  gave his full approbation to the measure. At present the law did not exclude interested witnesses when their testimony was not of much value, but, it did exclude interested witnesses where it was most desirable to have their evidence. The hon. and learned Gentleman referred to several cases in which under the law the most competent witnesses were excluded. He said, examine interested witnesses, and trust the jury, after a cross-examination, to form a proper judgment. The hon. and learned Gentleman also referred to several cases in which the pardon of the Crown was given in order to made criminals competent witnesses. If he were to oppose this bill on the ground that they must go further, it would be necessary to oppose every measure of improvement. He could not, therefore, do otherwise than give the bill his hearty support.
 The Attorney-General  was desirous of making a few observations, after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Escott). The hon. and learned Member complained of the inconsistency of striking out the third clause and retaining the ninth. The bill had not been framed by him, and therefore he was not responsible for that inconsistency which was charged against it. But the grounds upon which he had resisted the third clause, and upon which he was not prepared to oppose the ninth he would now state. The third clause would place an impediment in the way of the publication of the truth, and he still continued to think that no man had a right to ask for damages where nothing but the truth was spoken, and if any harm resulted to society by the publication of truth, it should be redressed, not by action for damages, but by some other mode. But while the third clause restricted the liberty of the press, the ninth clause went to remove a restriction that now existed. Therefore, while he opposed the one he was prepared to admit the other. His hon. and learned Friend had alluded to what fell from him (the Attorney-General) on a previous day. Now, he begged most distinctly to say that he had not complained in indignant terms. He had not, in fact, complained at all, and he begged that might be distinctly understood. His object in addressing the House on the occasion alluded to, was merely to correct what he thought was an error, and to set himself right with the House. As to the remarks which had been made under the influence of that error he cared but little for. He did not mean to say that he was indifferent to public opinion or to the observations which any person of respectability might make in reference to his conduct, but the observations in this case having been made in error, he had felt it to be due to himself and to the House to set himself right. The
 930
 Mr. Bernal  did not quarrel with any
 942
 Mr. Gladstone  wished to know the substance and effect of the clause as amended. He apprehended the object was to extend to British subjects residing beyond the limits of British dominion, the material provisions of the Consolidated Slave Trade Act, which now applied only to British subjects residing within those circuits. That being the case, he hoped the committee would pass the clause, for he understood that to that principle there was no objection.
 Lord Stanley  understood the clause to be entirely prospective, and that it was not intended to apply to those who were now in possession of, or who had been in possession of a right of property in slaves in foreign countries. The seventh clause of the bill related to parties acquiring such property—involuntarily on their part, as by inheritance or otherwise—but the Consolidated Slave Act made it an offence to sell as well as to buy slaves; and he wished to know how the hon. and learned Gentleman intended to deal with persons who came into possession of this kind of property, and who desired to divest themselves of it by sale? Was the selling of the slave under such circumstances to be treated as an offence, and punishable as a felony?
 Mr. Gladstone  said that his noble Friend overlooked the Emancipation Act. He denied that the bill created new felonies.
 The Attorney-General  admitted the bill did not place the British merchant in the Brazils upon the same footing, in respect to the question of slavery, as in our own colonies in the West Indies. It would be for that purpose necessary to have in this bill a clause corresponding with the 13th the right to transfer slaves was suffered to continue under the sanction of law, they would not have the slightest security that this recognition of the power to enslave slaves on an estate, would not induce their owners to keep up the supply of labour by the illicit import of slaves.
 Mr. Bernal  observed, the noble Lord's argument would, if followed up, go to legalise slavery under the sanction and by the agency of British capitalists. Although those slaves in their employment did not exceed 1,500, still the maintenance of them by British masters ought to be condemned; it was in effect a
 948
 Lord Stanley  explained, that it was not the intention of the Government at all to interfere with the ordinary commercial transactions with the natives upon the western coast of Africa. It was necessary the House should be made aware of the system often resorted to, of carrying on trade in those parts, which was known by the name of pawning, or pawns. The system was as follows:—When a native wished to carry on a trade with the interior without means of doing so, he obtained goods to traffic with, by pawning himself to the creditors until he received some returns from his speculations with which to redeem himself. It was no less than selling himself into slavery, until a certain event took place. The pawns were in effect slaves, and worked as such for a master who held them in his power. The hon. Member might not think this a cruel or improper practice. But it was the object of this Government to prevent a British subject residing within these territories, from set ting an example to the natives of the practice of slavery, in holding pawns in this way. If such a person held pawns he would be punishable under the second clause in the same way as if he kept slaves.
 Mr. Gladstone  explained, that the British creditor in these slave states could not, under this bill, be suffered to take slaves in discharge of his debts. In answer to the objection raised, that this proviso would create inconveniencies in trade there, he would observe that without it the pretext would be constantly afforded for transfer of slave property under the show of a claim of a debt, and a judgment thereupon.
 The Attorney-General  said, in respect to an existing debt, a creditor could take in execution an estate and the slaves on it, and have them sold to pay him his debt. In that respect the slaves would not be held by him but by the law, and the law, having realised the money out of the estate by sale, would repay him his advance. To meet the difficulty, it perhaps would be enough to introduce the words, "for any  bonâ fide debt."
 Mr. Hawes  expressed his surprise at the language which had falleu from the noble Lord (Viscount Sandon). That language would go to encourage the slave-trade; and he contended, in opposition to the noble Lord, that there was ample evidence in the report of the committee to show that British capital was employed in the slave-trade on the coast of Africa. He thought it would be wise to prevent by law the practice of hiring slaves.
 Mr. Hawes  was glad that the right hon. Gentleman had consented to go into committee on the bill. He approved of the general principle of the bill. While he was opposed on all occasions to slavery and the slave-trade, he could not do such an injustice to the West-India colonies as to allow the employment of British capital in a cultivation by slaves in foreign countries. He supported the bill. He thought they should look to the competition which was growing up in the east, in which British capital was employed, he believed, in promoting slave cultivation, as well as in the west.
 Mr. B. Escott  was sorry to make any objection at this stage of the bill, but he could not allow it to pass without calling attention to the inconsistency of retaining the ninth clause, the third clause having been struck out. To retain the one after the other had been struck out was inconsistent with the principle of the bill. The third clause related to matters in which an action was brought for injury sustained by the publication of libel or defamatory matter of any kind, while the ninth clause related to indictments for libel; but both clauses had reference to the publication of defamatory matter; and the same objection that was urged against the third clause—viz., that a jury could not define what was and what was not for the public benefit, where the defamatory matter was true, applied equally to the ninth clause. The jury might decide whether the matter complained of was true or false, but they could not so well say whether the publication of the matter constituting the defamatory libel was or was not for the public benefit. In political matters scarcely any jury could be brought to agree as to what was a publication for the public benefit. Now, he would call attention to what occurred on the previous evening. The hon. and learned Attorney-general then commented in indignant terms upon an article that had appeared in a newspaper. [The  Attorney-General: 929
 Sir H. Hardinge  would imitate the example of the hon. Member, and say nothing to disturb the good feeling which now prevailed. He could assure the House that the bill should be carried into
 928
 Mr. Mildmay  opposed the measure, as calculated to inflict a most serious injury on the commerce of the country connected with those regions to which the bill applied. The bill ought to be called a bill to suppress the foreign colonial trade of the empire. No man could enter into trade with any country between Virginia and Brazils, who did not run the risk of falling under the penalties of the bill, or seeing the Spaniard, Frenchmen, and others getting securities for their debts, and payments for their advances, which this bill would withhold from the English merchant. If the bill had been brought in so early in the House of Lords, somebody must have been guilty of great negligence in not bringing it into that House before the very end of the Session. He saw no reason for destroying the property of the English merchants by the bill, except to gratify a distinguished individual in the other House, who must have something to occupy him. He thought the alterations now proposed, quite sufficient to justify them in throwing out the bill, as the effect of those alterations could not be known. He could assure the House that the Legislature could not reach the dishonest merchants, and it was too hard to place the honest merchant under a great disadvantage. The dishonest merchant could set up a man of straw, and easily evade all the provisions of this bill. He thought there was so much injustice in preventing English merchants from obtaining security for their debts that he should oppose the bill, and move that the committee be put off for six months.
 Mr. Mildmay  said, the clause was tantamount to knocking any man down in the street, in order to get hold of a rogue. He preferred the clause without the amendment of the Attorney-general.
 Mr Mildmay  believed, that this would create great difficulties in trade, and, that after this bill had passed, no man would be able safely to conduct this sort of business in that part of the world.
 Mr. Bright  wished to make an observation with respect to one part of the speech of the right hon. Baronet. He had spoken of the great sacrifices made by the people of this country to put an end to slavery and the slave-trade, and amongst these alluded to the sacrifices they were now making in refusing Brazilian sugar, owing to its being the product of slave labour. Now he contended that the people had never refused to receive that sugar, nor did they advance any such grounds for declining to use it. It was denied to the people by the Government, who were more careful to defend the West and East India monopolists than to do what was right for the community at large. The right hon. Gentleman made this statement on the supposition, that the course pursued by the remnant of the old anti-slavery body was approved of by the anti-slavery public. He believed nothing could be a greater mistake than to imagine that the Anti-Slavery Committee represented any influential number of any class in the country. The main portion of those who had in former years struggled to abolish the crime of slavery, did not coincide with the views of those who now called themselves the committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society. Many provincial associations had condemned their conduct, and he could assert that, of the religious society to which he himself belonged, and whose labours in the cause of abolition were well known, not only not a numerical majority, but indeed a comparatively small number of them, had any sympathy with the unsound and mischievous policy pursued by that committee. That committee had no real power in the country; they had a character derived from past exertions, but they were not
 941
 Mr. Bright  referred to Mr. Spooner's statement at Birmingham, that—
 "He had it from undoubted authority, that the labourers in the surrounding district were in a most deplorable condition. He positively knew it was a fact, that some masters in the iron trade, as much with a view of assisting the men as from a desire or hope of gain, had set on some hands to work, but that the men, on resuming their labour, were positively compelled, from complete weakness, to leave the furnaces and give up that employment for which their souls had been longing."
 Mr. Dennistoun  asked where would those who bad to sell slaves find purchasers? It was intended, he understood, to prevent all dealing in slaves. Was it intended to prevent the subjects of this country from holding slaves in foreign countries?
 Mr. Dennistoun  said, that the clause contained a proposition which was most unjust. If this clause were adopted, it would operate greatly to the prejudice of the British merchant. In the case of a
 952
 Mr. Wawn  said, the bill would put the country to an expense of 100,000 l.,
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that they had legislated to put down slavery in the West Indies, and he thought that it was not consistent with justice to encourage slavery in other quarters. Let them not legislate in one case, and allow another to go free.
 Mr. Forster  begged to differ from the noble Lord who had just sat down as to
 931 932
 Mr. Forster  begged to thank the noble Lord (Viscount Sandon) for the statement he had made of the result of the inquiry into the subject of the trade with Africa in the last Session. It must be gratifying to the House, as it would be tot the public;
 949 950
 Mr. Forster : As his right hon. And learned Friend had intimated his intention of abandoning the 5th clause of the bill, which related to the trade of Western Africa, he felt that nearly all further interference or opposition on his part with the bill became unnecessary, because with that clause the imputations implied on the African merchants fell to the ground, and they were left, as the committee of last Session left them, free all imputation and blame.
 Mr. Forster : The noble Lord misunderstood him, if he supposed, that he objected to the clause as far as British subjects were concerned, who had really no interest in it, and cared nothing about it; as the noble Lord assured the House that it was not intended to interfere with the natives, by which the peace of the country might be endangered, he should offer no further opposition to the clause.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, no confidence was felt in, the source from whence this bill proceeded. No one could know whether they would find the noble and learned Lord who proposed this bill standing on his head or his heels; he had no fixed principles—no one could tell what he was at. They saw him at one time covering certain parties with vituperation, and at another loading them with flattery and fawning. There was no fixed principle in him. The House was therefore to judge fur itself as to the measure. He believed there was never a greater mass of absurdity brought together than in this bill; but if the omission of the 5th and 6th clauses was agreed to he should not oppose it further, for it would then be neutralized, and it would be no matter what became of it. The Government was placed in a perplexing situation respecting this measure. Upon the one hand it was pressed by its own convictions and its own common sense of the probable inefficacy of the bill; on the other hand by a grateful sense of the services which it had lately received from the promoter of this bill. Why would not the noble Lord assent to postpone a measure so strongly objected to now, which measure was not to come into effect until
 947
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought it would be better, before going into committee, that the hon. and learned Member for Woodstock, who had now the charge of the bill, should state to the House what were the modifications which it was proposed to make in the bill—they would then be in a condition to judge whether it was worth while going into committee at all upon such a measure.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  would not oppose the bill further, after being borne down by such a great number of officials, he would not say subalterns of the Government, as that was offensive. He deeply regretted that the Ministers had resolved only to pursue a course of coercion. He had no feeling of anger or ill will whatever to the Gentlemen who supported this bill, and taking leave of it in good humour, he had only to express a hope that the Government would carry it into effect with moderation.
 Mr. Christie  proposed a clause, the effect of which, as we understood, was to enable the proprietors of periodicals published at long intervals, against which actions for libel were instituted, to publish apologies in other public papers, which was agreed to.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he should support the motion for going into committee on this bill. He did not think, that the fact of the bill having been brought down to the House late in the Session should be made a reason for refusing to go into the consideration of it. The House had not refused, on the ground of the late period of the Session, to go into other measures of importance; and it was a dangerous doctrine to lay down that, because it was the month of August, the House should not proceed to the consideration of such a measure. Though the bill was not brought down from the House of Lords till the month of August, there was a distinct
 937 Member: 938 939 940
 Sir R. Peel  observed that an act of George the 4th on this subject permitted the purchase of slaves in our own colonies, but on condition that those slaves were law-fully there. By law a slave imported after 1831 would be free, though that had been evaded in some instances. It was in vain to attempt to deny that British capital was proved to have been employed in the maintenance of slave labour. The evidence given by Mr. Gordon before the committee in 1838 distinctly proved the fact. At first the merchants would not supply articles for slave maintenance but upon payment in hard money; but in 1839 they had been found to have embarked in supplying their wants upon the lottery of success on the part of those owning the slaves. Was it right to suffer such a state of the law as that a British subject might go to Brazil, and establish on the banks of some navigable river there a sugar or other plantation, and buy 500 slaves to work the estate? He would remind the committee, that if the slave-trade had declined there, as it certainly had, it was not owing to the alteration of public opinion as to the cruelty of the traffic, nor to the exertions of the Brazilian Government, but to the great activity of our cruisers in those seas; for when those cruisers had been withdrawn, to protect for a time British interests at Monte Video and Buenos Ayres, the Brazilians, by means of their clippers, so inundate the market with negroes that it was found necessary by our Government to make the strongest remonstrances upon the subject to that court.
 Sir R. Peel  said, they certainly ought to give the British creditor in these countries all that was necessary to secure him an equal probability of the recovery of his debts as a foreigner; still it became the legislature, on the contrary, to provide against this being made the cover for collusive transactions contrived to defeat the law. It would be better to let the trade have time to suggest clauses to guard against frauds of this kind, and which also should secure them the recovery of their just demands.
 Sir T. Wilde  thought these words would not sufficiently meet the case. By lending money and taking as security an execution, a man might acquire all the slaves on an estate, with the estate, or, vice versa, and transfer them to another by borrowing money on this sort of security. If the hiring were sanctioned, they would soon hear of hiring of slaves for thirty and for fifty years, and this evasion would be as great an evil as slavery, which in effect it would be. At present the British merchant might sell in these localities, and of course he knew no reason why he should not buy. Certainly he might. It was merely converting the judgment at law into the price of the articles sold. Here, therefore, a clause to prevent evasion of the object of the law ought to be introduced, and the hon. and learned Attorney-general's amendment would not afford that protection to these poor creatures which it was the object of the bill to provide.
 Sir T. Wilde  said, it was permissible if not for the purpose of dealing in slaves, and no evasion of the object of the bill. A mortgage might be admissible if the mortgage were made whilst the mortgagor was really in debt, or to secure an advance;
 951
 Sir T. Wilde  again explained, that the object of the bill was to apply the princi-
 945 pro formâ
 Sir T. Wilde  remarked, that if the defendant could show to the court, that the witnesses necessary to disprove the charge were in a distant country, and could not be got at, the court would postpone the trial, and if the bar to the trial were permanent it would die.
 Sir T. Wilde  did not consider himself responsible to the House in regard to this bill; but as to many of the objections which had been raised to it, he thought they
 933 934 935 l. 936
 Sir Thomas Wilde  introduced several amendments.
 Sir T. Wilde  proposed to insert a provision to meet that objection.
 The Solicitor-general  thought it would be advisable to postpone the clause, for it could not carry into effect the object of his hon. and learned Friend. He wished it to be understood what the bill meant. If the second section of the Slave Trade Suppression Act only were introduced, it would not be sufficient to attain the end in view. He suggested that it would be better to consider the clause betwixt this and Monday. He thought the House ought not now to be called on to give its assent to this clause, for the House could not be aware of its effect.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, if the noble Lord would move any amendment which would have the effect of putting an end by law to the hiring of slaves by one planter or person from another, he would assist his object by every means in his power.
 Viscount Palmerston  though the House was bound to look to the effect produced by our legislation upon other countries. He had been assured that there could be no doubt that British capital had been employed largely in this trade up to the present period—a circumstance the knowledge of which had embarrassed, and must continue to create great embarrassment to the Government of this country in any effort it made to induce other countries to co-operate in the total suppression of the slave-trade and slavery in their respective dominions. Happy should he be if he could be instrumental in putting an end effectually to the trade directly, but much more so if he could prevent the employment of British capital in its indirect support. To permit the increase of the number of slaves employed in those places was in effect to abet and encourage slavery. But when the British Government, in pursuance of enactments by the legislature, endeavoured to obtain the consent of the Governments of other countries to co-operate and make sacrifices in a commercial point of view for the purpose of putting an end to slavery, it was but too likely to have the remonstrance met by that which was calculated to bring up a blush in a Minister's face. "How can you, who, with all your laws upon the subject, cannot prevent your own merchants from employing their capital in the maintenance of slavery, from buying slaves and dealing in them as property, require us to induce our subjects to give up a traffic in which so large a portion of our property and population has been engaged, without restriction for many years?" He sincerely hoped the noble Lord would not induce the committee to postpone the clause, but that the he would allow the amendments at
 946
 Viscount Sandon  said, he was by no means favourable, nor ever had been, to the continuance of slavery. He should hail with joy the day when slavery was abolished all over the world; but he was desirous that the Legislature should not, in its eager desire to destroy one evil, inflict an injury upon our own subjects. He begged that hon. Members would take the pains to examine the measure, and they would he was confident, discover that this was not an act merely against the slave-trade, but something more. It purported to be the former, but it really was a measure affecting slave-owners and slave-dealing in foreign countries; and unless the noble Lord the late Secretasy for Foreign Affairs could devise some means to give effect to that law in a foreign country, the labour of legislating for this object would be all lost.
 Viscount Sandon  thought, that the doubts of the hon. and learned Solicitor-general would justify those who had opposed the bill because they dui not know what it intended. The hon. and learned Gentlemen who concurred in the measure seemed neither to know the bearings of their bill, nor their own intentions, and it would be better to postpone the bill till the next Session. All trade to the coast of Africa gave indirect or direct support to the slave-trade; and as the ramifications of trade were so extensive, he hoped that the bill would not be pressed. They had all a common object in view—the suppression of slavery, and they ought to carry it out in the best manner.
 Viscount Sandon  contended, that under this bill they were about to make that a felony in foreign colonies which was not a felony in our own colonies.
 Viscount Sandon  said that the slave-trade was decaying under the present law. There were not above 1,500 slaves held by British residents in Brazil out of millions of slaves belonging to the planters of that country. He would put it fairly to the supporters of the bill whether a permission to keep up these 1,500 slaves by occasionally supplying them with 200 or 300 in a year would materially assist in giving any great impulse to the slave-trade in Brazil. The noble Lord quoted the passage from the report of the committee of last year, which exonerated the merchants who trade to the west coast of Africa from being engaged in the slave-trade in any way.
 Viscount Sandon  wished to understand clearly the bearing of the clause as proposed to be amended by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and owing to its length it was difficult, without some time was given for its consideration, to do so. He understood the object was to extend the provisions of the Consolidated Slave Act, which now applied to British subjects acting on the sea or in British dominions to British subjects acting in foreign countries. He quite agreed that if it was practicable to do so without inflicting gross injustice, and even greater evils than those which it was proposed to remedy, it was right that they should prevent the employment of British capital in connection with the slave-trade or slave labour. But he believed since the clause of the Consolidated Slave Act, which it was now proposed to extend the operation of, had been the law of the land, no British subject had either directly or indirectly been
 943
 Viscount Sandon  would suggest a preliminary question—viz., whether at that late period of the Session, and after so many other important hills had been postponed, they ought to take any discussion upon the bill at all, relating as it did to an entirely new subject, involving great and complicated interests, and affecting in a material degree our commerce with the Brazils, with Cuba, and Africa.
 Viscount Sandon  wished for some explanation of the clause from the hon. and learned Gentleman. Could a British subject take as security for money lent, an estate with the slaves on it with in Maryland, Virginia, or other slave-owning provinces?
 The Attorney-General  said, that the object of the present measure was to prevent any indirect encouragement being given to the slave-trade by British merchants in foreign countries, and yet at the same time to enable British agents to recover their  bonâ fide
 The Attorney-General  said, he could not be answerable for the doubts of other persons, but could only express his own unhesitating opinion that the bill did not legalise anything which under the 5th George 4th, was held to be illegal.
 The Attorney-General  said, that without undertaking to say, what was the construction of former acts, he would simply state his opinion, that the present bill would not have the slightest effect upon transactions such as those to which the hon. Member referred.
 Mr. Hawes  asked the Attorney-General whether the bill legalized any act connected with the slave-trade which was formerly illegal. Unless he had the assurance of so high a legal authority that it did not, he would take the sense of the House on the engrossing of the bill. He did not perfectly understand the terms of the bill, but he was afraid that his suspicions with regard to them were true.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that with the introduction of the clauses in question, he thought that the law for the suppression of the slave-trade was not placed on a satisfactory foundation. He confessed himself, that he did not understand what the effect of the present measure would be; but, unless the Attorney-general would give him an assurance that it would not have the operation which he dreaded, he would advise that the measure be postponed to the next Session, in order to give time for a more full consideration of it than it could receive at present.
 Mr. Forster  did not object to the bill as it was framed now; but it was necessary that its provisions should be clearly understood. The hon. and learned Attorney-General said, that it left the law as respects trade with Africa exactly as it was before: but that explanation was not quite sufficient, because the act of the 5th George 4th, the main provisions of which were embodied in the preamble of this act, had been so much misrepresented and misunderstood that it became absolutely necessary to have a clear understanding of its meaning, in order to protect the traders on the west coast of Africa from those charges and complaints which
 984
 Mr. Forster  said, that in consequence
 985 "What is most commendable among the negroes is, that we find no poor amongst them who beg; for, though they are ever so wretchedly poor, they never beg. The reason of which is, that when a negro finds he cannot subsist, he binds himself for a certain sum of money, or his friends do it for him; and the master to whom he bath obliged himself keeps him in all necessaries, setting him a sort of task, which is not in the least slavish, being chiefly to defend his master on occasion, and in sowing time to work as much as he himself pleases. So that, as I have before told you, here are no beggars obliged to be so from poverty."
 Mr. Borthwick  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government. It was well known, that General Espartero was about to arrive, or had arrived in England. On leaving Spain, the Government of Portugal, which country was our ally, had refused to recognize him as Regent, and he wished to know in what character he would be recognized in this country—whether as a person of distinction in distress, or in his official capacity as Regent of Spain?
 Sir R. Peel  said, that he was not prepared to give a positive answer to the question. General Espartero had arrived in the country suddenly and unexpectedly—but there could not be a doubt that  de jure de facto
 Sir T. Wilde  proposed certain amendments to meet the objections of the Attorney and Solicitor-General as to certain clauses of the bill on Friday last.
 The Attorney-General , in supporting the bill, observed that the bill recognised the great principle that this country would make every sacrifice that it fairly could to put down slavery. The bill, he begged to observe, was not a Government bill. It had been introduced into the House of Lords by no Member of the Government, and having come down there the Government had endeavoured to give it every fair consideration.
 Mr. H. Hinde  hoped that Government did not pledge itself to adopt all the suggestions contained in the report of the commissioners.
 Captain Bernal  would wish a more perfect measure than the present. As to the author of it, he thought he had been rather unfairly treated because, however hon. Gentlemen might differ on other points, yet they could not forget that for many years of his life the noble Lord had devoted himself to the suppression of slavery.
 Mr. Hawes  did not intend to divide against the bill, but could not allow it to pass without again entering his protest against it. At this late period of the Session it was impossible for the House fully to estimate its details or to consider the probable operation of its clauses. As far as he could form an opinion he believed
 1003
 Mr. Hindley  observed that the Government ought not to shrink from supporting this bill. He supported the bill, because it was calculated to put down slavery.
 Colonel Sibthorp  begged to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he were aware of the proceedings that were going on connected with the importation of an individual into this country under the name of Father Mathew. It appeared to him singular, when there was so great a cry made against Orange processions in Ireland, that this individual should be allowed, in a Protestant country, to carry on his plans through the instrumentality of Popish priests. He therefore asked the right hon. Gentleman whether he was aware of what was going on in this respect, and hoped he would prevent the individual in question from being the precursor of any future steps on the part of those who were disturbing the peace of Ireland.
 Mr. Mildmay  was surprised, after the reasons which had been urged against the bill by the hon. Member for Lambeth, that he should decline to divide the House against it. He felt convinced that if passed in its present shape it would be most injurious to the trading interests of this country, while it would be beneficial to their competitors, by throwing into the hands of the foreign trader a branch of commerce which peculiarly belonged to this country. He would, therefore, move that the bill be read a third time that day three months.
 Sir J. Graham  wished to say a few words respecting two measures, on the subject of which he had made a promise to the House. With respect to the first, which was one to facilitate the subdivision of parishes in Scotland, he meant to lay that measure on the Table on Thursday next. The second, which was one having for its object the regulation of the law of settlement, he did not think it expedient to introduce during the present Session. Subsequently to the promise he had made to the House relative to that measure, a very important report had been laid on the Table by the Poor-law commissioners, in which the whole subject was fully dis-
 1005
 Sir J. Graham  said, that what he had said was, that Government meant to introduce a bill relative to the law of settlement, and in the meantime he recommended the general perusal of the commissioners' report.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he certainly was aware that Father Mathew had visited this part of the United Kingdom, and that in several large cities the pledge of temperance had been taken by large numbers of the working classes. This did not in the slightest degree excite his jealousy, as he felt the greatest desire for the observance of such a pledge by every class of society, and nothing had particularly excited his attention except a report of the interchange of a salute in public between Father Mathew and Lord Stanhope.
 Sir J. Rae Reid  said, he should second the amendment with all his heart, and hoped the Government would take time, and reconsider the subject.
 Sir Thomas Wilde  contended that sufficient notice had been given of this bill, and therefore it could not be affirmed that the House had been taken by surprise. He did not, he confessed, understand the
 1004
 Mr. Cochrane  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of her Majesty's Government whether any official account had been received of the barbarous murder of Colonel Stoddart and Captain Conolly? With the latter of these gentlemen he had had the happiness to be acquainted, and knew him to be a man of most estimable character. He was sure the House would sympathize with him on the occasion, and he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, in case the report on this subject was confirmed, he had any hope of obtaining redress against the Ameer of Bokhara, who had been guilty of the crime?
 Mr. Cochrane  wished to ask whether Captain Conolly, when he went abroad the last time, was employed upon the public service.
 Mr. Hawes  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if he had taken into his consideration the propriety of decorating the new Houses of Parliament with statues of distinguished persons.
 Mr. Hindley  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, whether any information had been received of the French government having acknowledged the present government of Spain, and also whether the English Government was inclined to recognize it as a government  de jure?
 Mr. T. Duncombe  begged to say a few words, in order to remove an impression created by what had passed on a former occasion with respect to the price of bread in the metropolis. He understood that what had been said by the right hon. Baronet had caused considerable alarm and some indignation amongst a numerous and respectable body of men—the bakers of the metropolis. They maintained that the price of bread had risen and fallen with the price of wheat, and by a reference to the weekly averages of the price of wheat, their statement would be found to be borne out. The weekly average of wheat for the six weeks preceding the 7th of July was 49 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. d., d., d. 1013 s. s.
 Mr. Ewart  asked whether there was any probability of the cathedrals being thrown open to public inspection?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had no authority in the matter, and could only express his own strong opinion in reference to it. He could only state that for the purpose of protecting property from any injury which might arise from the admission of the public, the Government would lend the assistance of the police, and every aid in their power, to obviate the objections that had been made to the suggestions on this subject; and he should have thought, after the example of throwing open the cartoons without charge, from which not the slightest injury had arisen, it would be considered that free access might be allowed without the apprehension of any mischievous consequences, and that where the admission was unrestricted, the public would themselves act as a police, as was exemplified in the cases of the British Museum and the Cartoons.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that in declining to answer the question, he would only say, he was quite certain it was the duty of the Government of this country—where other governments administered the powers of a foreign country—without expressing any opinion—to take care that British interests were not prejudiced.
 Sir R. Peel  said, the hon. Gentleman and the House would probably recollect, that there had been some discussion on this subject a few nights ago, and the hon. Gentleman had proposed that commissioners, appointed to the particular duty of inquiring into the best mode of encouraging the arts in connection with the building of the new Houses of Parliament, should be empowered to consider whether it would be advisable that statues or other records of public gratitude to persons who had distinguished themselves in the departments of literature, science, and the arts, should be placed in them. He rather objected to giving a general
 1014
 Sir R. Peel  believed not.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he was not surprised that the hon. Gentleman should entertain the feelings he had manifested at so barbarous an act as the murder of two British subjects by the Ameer of Bokhara, and independent of the influence of personal feelings arising from private friendship, he was sure every subject of her Majesty must feel the deepest indignation at such at such an outrage upon humanity. The Government had not received any direct official account, confirming the report of the murder of Colonel Stoddart and Captain Conolly, they had received no direct positive assurance amounting to complete proof of the fact, but as the hon. Gentleman had intimated to him his intention to ask this question, he had gone through the whole of the papers, and he confessed the evidence contained in them was so strong that he feared there could not be a question that on the 17th of June, 1842, the two officers in question were murdered in a barbarous manner by the orders of the Ameer of Bokhara. Colonel Shiel, in despatch of the 12th of Novem-
 1011 1012
