46454443 rose to move that a humble Address be presented to Her Majesty in answer to her most gracious Speech. In the performance of the arduous task he had taken
46454443Lord Clive
118 to express his full concurrence in what had fallen from his hon. Friend, the Member for Waterford. He had been instructed by his constituents to declare their marked disapprobation at the course which had been adopted towards Ireland—but as it seemed to be the general impression that all discussion should be postponed until the noble Lord, the Member for London, brought forward his motion on the state of Ireland, be should not interfere with what appeared to be the general understanding. His only object therefore in rising was to prevent its being supposed, that in not opposing the Address he coincided with the policy and views of the Government. If he did not express his dissent more at length he could assure the House that it was not the less felt, and he joined most heartily with his hon. Friends around him, in condemning some of those measures and views of Ministers in reference to Ireland, to which they
118The O'Connor Don rose
9190l.89l.l.8887868584 said: Sir, understanding that the House is going to a division upon the amendment proposed by the hon.
9190l.89l.l.8887868584Lord J. Russell
 had heard all that the right hon. Baronet had stated in his speech, and he must say, that he felt perfectly satisfied with the declaration that had been made. He felt quite sure, that that declaration would be received with much gratification in the county of Kent. With regard to what the hon. Member opposite had said about clamour, he quite agreed, that the existence of the Corn-law, was not to be determined by clamour. No such change could take place without ruin to the country, and the country was not to be ruined by the outcries of a noisy minority.Mr. Plumpire
133 thought it strange that the very first time this Session at which a Member of the Anti-Corn-law League had addressed the House, he had misrepresented the right hon. Gentleman. He congratulated every true lover of his country, that the misrepresentation had been set right, because it was a matter of great importance that all pretence should be taken away from the Anti-Corn-law League of misrepresenting the right hon. Gentleman. These misrepresentations, not accidentally, but designedly made, were the stock in trade of the Anti-Corn-law League, and had carried throughout the country
133Mr. Scarlett
138137 said, that, having listened to the speech of the hon. Member for Rochdale, he had been prepared to vote with him, without having any idea that the hon. Gentleman had asserted his intention of moving to stop the supplies. As to the speech of the hon. Member for Clitheroe, he considered it more able than innocuous, and calculated to prove dangerous to the country from the false impression it conveyed of the existing state of affairs. He admitted that things were better than they were a year ago. He admitted that there was a greater demand for labour, and that manufacturing capital was better remunerated than it was then; but, with respect to the former, the noble Lord the Member for London had explained the reason. He had shown, that because the price of food had diminished, the working classes were able to spend that on their backs which they formerly spent on their stomachs; and when it was recollected, that for every shilling that wheat fell
138137Mr. Hindley
 having read the Address,The Speaker
 said, that it would be competent to the hon. Member to move any amendment when the question on each paragraph of the Address was put. The right hon. Gentleman having completed the reading of the Address,The Speaker
Letters to be entered on the journals."To the Right hon. Charles Shaw Lefevre, Speaker of the House of Commons.""W. PARKER, Vice-Admiral."Your most obedient servant,"Allow me further to convey to you, Sir, my acknowledgments for the courtesy with which they have been imparted, and to have the honour of remaining,"To a British subject the approbation of the representatives of his countrymen must ever be one of his brightest rewards; and I very respectfully request you will have the goodness to express to the House, that by myself and the force I have had the honour to command, their encomiums are deeply and gratefully appreciated."Sir—I have received with the proudest feelings of gratification the distinguished honour of the thanks of the House of Commons transmitted in your letter of the 28th of February last, and have lost no time in communicating, in the terms of the resolutions, to the officers and men of the navy and Royal Marines, including those of the East India Company under my command, the sense entertained by the House of the various services which have been successfully achieved by the combined forces on the coasts and inland waters of China."Her Majesty's ship Cornwallis, at Hongkong, JuneHer Majesty's ship Cornwallis, at Hongkong, June"To the Right hon. Charles Shaw Lefevre, Speaker of the House of Commons.""J. H. SCHOEDDE, Major-general."Your most obedient humble servant,"I have the honour to be, Sir,"Sir,—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 28th of February, 1843, conveying to me, and the officers and men serving under me, the very gratifying and flattering vote Of the House of Commons, and which I had the pleasure to inform them of. And I beg to offer you, Mr. Speaker, my sincere thanks, for the kind manner in which you communicated to me the high and distinguished (and by me quite unexpected) honour conferred on me by the House of Commons.Chusan, July"Chusan, July42"The right hon. the Speaker of the House of Commons."Commanding the Land Forces in China."SALTOUN, Major-general."Your most obedient humble Servant,"I have the honour to be, Sir,"I further beg to acquaint you that the two letters, addressed, under cover from die War-office, to Major-general George Burrell, C.B., and Major-general Sir Robert Bartley, K.C.B., respectively, have been returned to England by the mail of this day, those officers having proceeded home.Sir,—I have the honour to state, that I have the gratification of receiving your letter of the 28th of February last, enclosing certain resolutions from the honourable the House of Commons, expressive of their thanks to the naval and military forces in China for their conduct in the late successful operations, which I beg to state I have had the pleasure of making known to the force under my command.Head-quarters, Hongkong, June"Head-quarters, Hongkong, June informed the House, that he had received letters from Lord Saltoun, Major-general Schoedde, and Sir W. Parker, expressing their grateful acknowledgements for the vote of thanks passed to them by the House for their services in China, which were read as follows:—
Letters to be entered on the journals."To the Right hon. Charles Shaw Lefevre, Speaker of the House of Commons.""W. PARKER, Vice-Admiral."Your most obedient servant,"Allow me further to convey to you, Sir, my acknowledgments for the courtesy with which they have been imparted, and to have the honour of remaining,"To a British subject the approbation of the representatives of his countrymen must ever be one of his brightest rewards; and I very respectfully request you will have the goodness to express to the House, that by myself and the force I have had the honour to command, their encomiums are deeply and gratefully appreciated."Sir—I have received with the proudest feelings of gratification the distinguished honour of the thanks of the House of Commons transmitted in your letter of the 28th of February last, and have lost no time in communicating, in the terms of the resolutions, to the officers and men of the navy and Royal Marines, including those of the East India Company under my command, the sense entertained by the House of the various services which have been successfully achieved by the combined forces on the coasts and inland waters of China."Her Majesty's ship Cornwallis, at Hongkong, JuneHer Majesty's ship Cornwallis, at Hongkong, June"To the Right hon. Charles Shaw Lefevre, Speaker of the House of Commons.""J. H. SCHOEDDE, Major-general."Your most obedient humble servant,"I have the honour to be, Sir,"Sir,—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 28th of February, 1843, conveying to me, and the officers and men serving under me, the very gratifying and flattering vote Of the House of Commons, and which I had the pleasure to inform them of. And I beg to offer you, Mr. Speaker, my sincere thanks, for the kind manner in which you communicated to me the high and distinguished (and by me quite unexpected) honour conferred on me by the House of Commons.Chusan, July"Chusan, July42"The right hon. the Speaker of the House of Commons."Commanding the Land Forces in China."SALTOUN, Major-general."Your most obedient humble Servant,"I have the honour to be, Sir,"I further beg to acquaint you that the two letters, addressed, under cover from die War-office, to Major-general George Burrell, C.B., and Major-general Sir Robert Bartley, K.C.B., respectively, have been returned to England by the mail of this day, those officers having proceeded home.Sir,—I have the honour to state, that I have the gratification of receiving your letter of the 28th of February last, enclosing certain resolutions from the honourable the House of Commons, expressive of their thanks to the naval and military forces in China for their conduct in the late successful operations, which I beg to state I have had the pleasure of making known to the force under my command.Head-quarters, Hongkong, June"Head-quarters, Hongkong, JuneThe Speaker
 in formed the House, that the Commons had been summoned to the House of Peers, where Her Majesty had been graciously pleased to deliver a Speech from the Throne, which he would now read. The right hon. Gentleman having read the Speech,The Speaker
130129Foreign and Colonial Review.Review,128"The wide-spread alarm which seized the minds of the agriculturists, cattle-dealers, and graziers, upon the first announcement that one portion of the tariff would materially facilitate the importation of live cattle from foreign countries, and consequently tend to diminish the price of food, has at length given place to more settled and correct opinions as to the manner and extent in which they will be affected. The money value of rents will in all probability, fall. It is, in fact, difficult to understand how the present rents will be long maintained. But this reduced sum, if spent
128"The increase of our foreign and colonial trade will necessarily occasion a greater demand for ships. They are indispensable for the conveyance of all our articles of merchandise, our exports as well as our imports; and these additional ships must be manned, provisioned, and furnished with all the varied articles indispensable to their safe and efficient navigation. In the supply of these articles various trades must be brought into activity, and therefore an improvement in the shipping trade will necessarily occasion an improvement in other trades more or less dependent upon the shipping interest.""An increased consumption both of domestic and foreign produce must not only improve and extend trade, but, in order to furnish the enlarged supplies necessary for exportation, will increase the demand for labourers, and thus render employment more general and remunerative among the labouring population."127"The reduction of duty is calculated to produce a general reduction of prices. And the consequence usually attributed to reduced prices is an increased consumption. The im-
127"By the reduction of the duties upon the importation of corn, cattle, timber, wool, silk, provisions, vegetables, raw materials, and manufactured articles, the people will be enabled to obtain cheaper food, clothing, dwellings, furniture, and other advantages. These effects have not been instantaneous and immediate upon the passing of the new laws. It was impossible that they could be so. They can only be brought about gradually; but they are, at the same time, certain and inevitable. They have been already experienced to some extent, and will continue to be more so, in correspondence with the increase and prosperity of trade. Whatever tends to increase the supply of food and the necessaries of life—to make them more cheap and abundant, and more attainable by all classes—must also tend to promote and advance the general happiness of the people; and upon the happiness or contentedness of the people must, more or less, depend the general prosperity and security of the State. In reference, therefore, both to the tariff and the Corn-laws, the present Government have an especial claim upon the gratitude and support of the country."126125124 said, that there was much force in the observation of the hon. Member for Bath, that if they were precluded from making any observations on the omissions in the Speech and the Address, as well as what was inserted, it was but an idle form for hon. Members to attend on such occasions. He thought his hon. Friend, the Member for Montrose, had done good service by making his amendment. It tended to promote discussion on matters most important to the country. The only reason why be (Mr. Villiers) did not move the amendment, or second it, as he had been requested to do, was, that as it was his own intention to bring the subject of the Corn-laws in a
130129Foreign and Colonial Review.Review,128"The wide-spread alarm which seized the minds of the agriculturists, cattle-dealers, and graziers, upon the first announcement that one portion of the tariff would materially facilitate the importation of live cattle from foreign countries, and consequently tend to diminish the price of food, has at length given place to more settled and correct opinions as to the manner and extent in which they will be affected. The money value of rents will in all probability, fall. It is, in fact, difficult to understand how the present rents will be long maintained. But this reduced sum, if spent
128"The increase of our foreign and colonial trade will necessarily occasion a greater demand for ships. They are indispensable for the conveyance of all our articles of merchandise, our exports as well as our imports; and these additional ships must be manned, provisioned, and furnished with all the varied articles indispensable to their safe and efficient navigation. In the supply of these articles various trades must be brought into activity, and therefore an improvement in the shipping trade will necessarily occasion an improvement in other trades more or less dependent upon the shipping interest.""An increased consumption both of domestic and foreign produce must not only improve and extend trade, but, in order to furnish the enlarged supplies necessary for exportation, will increase the demand for labourers, and thus render employment more general and remunerative among the labouring population."127"The reduction of duty is calculated to produce a general reduction of prices. And the consequence usually attributed to reduced prices is an increased consumption. The im-
127"By the reduction of the duties upon the importation of corn, cattle, timber, wool, silk, provisions, vegetables, raw materials, and manufactured articles, the people will be enabled to obtain cheaper food, clothing, dwellings, furniture, and other advantages. These effects have not been instantaneous and immediate upon the passing of the new laws. It was impossible that they could be so. They can only be brought about gradually; but they are, at the same time, certain and inevitable. They have been already experienced to some extent, and will continue to be more so, in correspondence with the increase and prosperity of trade. Whatever tends to increase the supply of food and the necessaries of life—to make them more cheap and abundant, and more attainable by all classes—must also tend to promote and advance the general happiness of the people; and upon the happiness or contentedness of the people must, more or less, depend the general prosperity and security of the State. In reference, therefore, both to the tariff and the Corn-laws, the present Government have an especial claim upon the gratitude and support of the country."126125124Mr. C. P. Villiers
59585756555453remorœThe empty cottage-houses are fast filling, and shops which have been untenanted for years are re-opening. The improved condition of the people is apparent in their more decent appearance as to clothing; it is also plainly visible in their looks—they are evidently better fed.52s.s."The Poor-rates which in 1842, were 952s.s.l."Besides this, upwards of 10,000l.l.l."We beg to send you printed extracts from the Quarterly Abstracts of our Union since 1840, from which you will see the great improvement in the situation of the lower orders, particularly since 1841."5150 said, in rising to second the Address which the noble Lord had moved, he might be permitted, like the noble Lord, to throw himself upon the never failing indulgence of the House, before he ventured upon the topics which the occasion naturally suggested, and to which he should be presumptuous indeed if he imagined that any language of his was equal. He would not trespass upon the time of the House by following the noble Lord into all the subjects which he had so ably handled: subjects of historical association, and of universal interest; and confessed that he rested with peculiar satisfaction on that part of the noble Lord's observations, in which he had invited the House of Commons to congratulate the Crown upon renewed communications of commercial enterprise, and reviving energies of manufacturing industry; upon the prosperity of our own people, stimulated and encouraged by peace with foreign nations; upon comfort generally diffused among the masses of our population, the permanence of whose sources was guaranteed by an Exchequer wisely replenished, and adequate to the national responsibilities. His connection with the industrious communities in the north of England led him to form his own conclusions chiefly upon evidence derived from them; and he was persuaded the House of Commons would recognise their importance upon their own account, and would acknowledge that intimately connected by infinite ramifications of common interest with every art of the social economy, and peculiarly
59585756555453remorœThe empty cottage-houses are fast filling, and shops which have been untenanted for years are re-opening. The improved condition of the people is apparent in their more decent appearance as to clothing; it is also plainly visible in their looks—they are evidently better fed.52s.s."The Poor-rates which in 1842, were 952s.s.l."Besides this, upwards of 10,000l.l.l."We beg to send you printed extracts from the Quarterly Abstracts of our Union since 1840, from which you will see the great improvement in the situation of the lower orders, particularly since 1841."5150Mr. Cardwell
134 should not discharge Iris duty to his country if he were to allow the speeches of the noble Lord, the hon. Member, and the right hon. Baronet to pass without comment. He came there it seemed to learn of the prosperity of the country. It was strange that he always heard a better report of his own business and the business of his neighbours anywhere but at home. Whatever improvements there had been—and he wished to concede all—not one single article had advanced in price at that moment, and in many instances, there had been a reduction. The question of employment was a question of profit. The middle class of tradesmen were made the vehicles fire feeding tire lower classes, and he was willing to concede to
134Mr. Muntz
8382 wished to offer some explanation of the vote which it was his intention to give before the House went to a division. He acknowledged that it was at all times the duty of Members to inquire fully into the grievances of the people, but
8382Mr. Warburton
 thought the amendment of the hon. Member for Rochdale was not an improper one. What was to be done in the variety of opinions broached in that House? On the one hand, there were the Members of the Anti-Corn-law League, who told the House that, unless the Corn-laws were repealed, the prosperity of the manufacturers, now boasted of, would soon cease; and, on the other hand, the right hon. Baronet told them, that if the Corn-laws were immediately repealed, ruin and confusion would ensue. Who, then, was to decide between these parties? One party spoke for and represented the landed interests, while the other represented an immense portion of the wealth of the country, as evidenced by the amount of subscription raised in furtherance of their cause. This, then, was one of the grievances to be inquired into by the house itself, and it was only one of the grievances. Petitions after petitions had from time to time been presented from the people, setting forth the grievances under which they suffered, and which were still unredressed. The people complained that but one out of every seven of the whole male population had any voice in the representation of the country, and yet that they were taxed. They seek also to have a fair day's wages for a fair day's work, and, unless this was secured to them, there would be nothing in the land but discontent and dissatisfaction; and, unless also the existing agitation in the country was put an end to, all confidence would be destroyed. Let these grievances be inquired into and some remedy be provided, and then, and not till then, let the supplies be gone into. On all these grounds he had great pleasure in supporting the amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale.Mr. Fielden
111"No."110 said, the debate of that night had exhibited a somewhat extraordinary spectacle to the inhabitants of the three kingdoms. He had always been taught that the time for the expression of the opinions of the House on the policy of the Government, was on agreeing to the Address to the Crown in answer to the Speech. The noble Lord (John Russell), however, had told them that this was an error—that agreeing to the Address was now a mere form; and his opinion had been echoed by the right hon. Baronet opposite. So that it now appeared that ail they had to do in that House, on the first night of the Session, was to come down to hear two gentlemen utter their opinions in favour of the Government, attired in somewhat extraordinary dresses. Was it supposed that the world out of doors would believe that at a time when the very unity of this country was threatened, nothing was to be said in Parliament on a course of policy which thus endangered the safety and strength of the state? At that moment they all knew that the danger was menaced of a dissolution of the Union between England and Ireland. They could not escape that—the danger was there. And yet at such a moment they were called upon by the leaders on either aide of the House to be utterly silent; to be, as it were, careless of a circumstance most fatal to the happiness and prosperity of both countries. And why? Because there was a trial pending in Dublin! For no other reason whatsoever. He (Mr. Roebuck) would
111"No."110Mr. Roebuck
s.s.s.123s.122 said, that in voting for the amendment of the hon. Member for Rochdale, he wished it to be understood, that it was simply with a view of expressing his desire that the grievances of the people should be inquired into and redressed, and not as sanctioning any attempt by factious opposition to stop the supplies. He had been asked by some of his constituents to vote for the amendment, and he had inquired of those who waited upon him, whether they meant that a small minority should waste the time of the House of Commons during the Session by fruitless endeavours to frustrate every measure in order to gain an object, respecting which, the public were as much divided in opinion as the House? "You would be the first," he had said to his constituents, "you would be the first, I am sure, to object to such a course, and to blame me for delaying really useful business." Besides, he did not think that the amendment itself was the best means of attaining the object the hon. Mover had in view. As he was up, he would take leave to say a few words on the Corn-laws. He was ready to admit with the seconder of the amendment, that there had been some improvement in certain branches of manufacturing industry,
s.s.s.123s.122Mr. Brotherton
79l.78"That the great body of the people are dissatisfied at the general spirit in which they are legislated for and governed. The acts for reforming the representation of the people in Parliament have not given to Ireland an electoral body bearing anything like the proportion to its population which the electoral body of England does to its; and while England, with a population of about 15,000,000, has 471 representatives in the House of Commons—Ireland, with a population of more than 8,000,000, has but 105. The act for reforming the municipal corporations of England extends the municipal franchise to all rated householders in corporate towns. In Ireland, though it is a
l.78That the discontent which prevails in Ireland is deep-seated and wide-spread, and until the causes of it are removed peace cannot be secured on lasting foundations:"That the use of force, though it may be effectual for the suppression of disorder, cannot remove discontent:"That the nation is filled with discontent, and that the proceedings of her Majesty's Ministers indicate apprehensions even of a civil war; the army has been greatly increased—barracks have been fortified—armed vessels have been stationed off the coast and upon the navigable rivers of the country:Cries of No! No!7776"To declare, that we should ill-discharge the duty we owe to her Majesty if we did not direct her most serious attention to the present condition of her faithful people; which, notwithstanding the improvement of some branches of industry, still exhibits such an extent of destitution and suffering as to demand from her Majesty's faithful Commons an ex-
76"I trust that the increased demand for labour has relieved, in a corresponding degree, many classes of my faithful subjects from sufferings and privations which at former periods I have had occasion to deplore."l.l.l.l.75l.l.l.l.,l.l.74l.73"That the outstanding public debt, to be 7,350,000 dollars, nearly 3,000,000 of which are held by foreigners, and 4,350,000 dollars within the State. A tax was levied last year to meet the expenses of Government, and the value of the State stock had been from 78 to 100 or par, since the passing of that law, making a difference in the value of the stock, in favour of the holder within the State, of 959,000 dollars; a greater sum than the ordinary annual revenue of the State, and twofold greater than the increased tax, the imposition of which had had so decided an effect in producing it."72l.l.l.;71l.l.,l.l.d.d.d.,7069686766656463"That whilst this House agreed with Her Majesty in tier Majesty's commendations bestowed upon the officers and men employed in the late military operations in Scinde, it desired to withhold the expression of any opinion respecting the political negotiations, with the dethronement and imprisonment of the Ameers of Scinde, until it was in possession of more precise and satisfactory information."626160 said, he had seldom heard the speeches of the Mover and Seconder of any Address less objectionable to his mind than that which had just been delivered in its support, nor did he object to what had been proposed for the adoption of the House. He could not, however, entirely agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, in the glowing terms in which he had described the renewal of trade, and the removal of the distress of the country. He hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would prove a true prophet; but as far as he (Mr. Hume) had been able to learn, he could not reconcile the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman with the facts that had reached him. He, however, acknowledged that the House met on the present occasion under more favourable auspices as regarded the state of employment of the population, than it did on the opening of the last Session of Parliament. Undoubtedly, there now existed some grounds for satisfaction, on the change although he could not look to it as a prospect of continued improvement to all classes of the community. The present mode of proceeding with respect to the Address in answer to the Speech front the Throne on the opening of Parliament was extremely objectionable. It was impossible to proceed to its consideration with that due deliberation that was esential to give importance to the Address. The present Speech consisted of twenty-three distinct and separate paragraphs, every one of which contained matter of considerable importance, and yet hon. Members were called upon, without even having a copy in their hands, to vote an Address in
79l.78"That the great body of the people are dissatisfied at the general spirit in which they are legislated for and governed. The acts for reforming the representation of the people in Parliament have not given to Ireland an electoral body bearing anything like the proportion to its population which the electoral body of England does to its; and while England, with a population of about 15,000,000, has 471 representatives in the House of Commons—Ireland, with a population of more than 8,000,000, has but 105. The act for reforming the municipal corporations of England extends the municipal franchise to all rated householders in corporate towns. In Ireland, though it is a
l.78That the discontent which prevails in Ireland is deep-seated and wide-spread, and until the causes of it are removed peace cannot be secured on lasting foundations:"That the use of force, though it may be effectual for the suppression of disorder, cannot remove discontent:"That the nation is filled with discontent, and that the proceedings of her Majesty's Ministers indicate apprehensions even of a civil war; the army has been greatly increased—barracks have been fortified—armed vessels have been stationed off the coast and upon the navigable rivers of the country:Cries of No! No!7776"To declare, that we should ill-discharge the duty we owe to her Majesty if we did not direct her most serious attention to the present condition of her faithful people; which, notwithstanding the improvement of some branches of industry, still exhibits such an extent of destitution and suffering as to demand from her Majesty's faithful Commons an ex-
76"I trust that the increased demand for labour has relieved, in a corresponding degree, many classes of my faithful subjects from sufferings and privations which at former periods I have had occasion to deplore."l.l.l.l.75l.l.l.l.,l.l.74l.73"That the outstanding public debt, to be 7,350,000 dollars, nearly 3,000,000 of which are held by foreigners, and 4,350,000 dollars within the State. A tax was levied last year to meet the expenses of Government, and the value of the State stock had been from 78 to 100 or par, since the passing of that law, making a difference in the value of the stock, in favour of the holder within the State, of 959,000 dollars; a greater sum than the ordinary annual revenue of the State, and twofold greater than the increased tax, the imposition of which had had so decided an effect in producing it."72l.l.l.;71l.l.,l.l.d.d.d.,7069686766656463"That whilst this House agreed with Her Majesty in tier Majesty's commendations bestowed upon the officers and men employed in the late military operations in Scinde, it desired to withhold the expression of any opinion respecting the political negotiations, with the dethronement and imprisonment of the Ameers of Scinde, until it was in possession of more precise and satisfactory information."626160Mr. Hume
 inquired for form's sake whether any amendment could be moved on the second reading of the Address. If not, he hoped he should not be precluded from now making a few observations.Mr. Hume
 then moved his amendment, on which the House again divided:—Ayes 49; Noes 235:—Majority 186.Mr. Hume
Laughter, like the hon. Member who had just sat down, did not intend to address the House when he entered. The explanation, however, which he should give for his vote, would be very different from that given by the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Warburton). He quite agreed with the statement, which that hon. member had laid before the House relative to the history of the ancient practice; but he thought that such was now the condition of the people, that it was necessary to go a little further than they did then, or else the House might stand still; so he thought they should go a little further. He would not be confined by any such fastidious laws as the hon. Member for Kendal bad laid down, but would proceed to assist in stopping the supplies whenever the country was not fairly dealt by. Yes, under any such circumstances he would stop the supplies. [LaughterMr. Wallace
120"Oh, oh!"119 said the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale simply asked the majority of the House to pledge itself to inquire into the grievances of the people, at the same that they, by agreeing to the Address, undertook to provide for the exigencies of the country and the public expenditure. It appeared to him to be both rational and constitutional, and he knew of no better opportunity for the House to guarantee to the people an enquiry into their grievances, than when they pledged themselves to impose the necessary taxes to defray the expenses of the country. If the forms of this House were attempted to be used vexatiously to interrupt public business, that attempt would be opposed by the great majority of the intelligent community, whatever their political opinion, and he was quite sure that those forms could only be used to suspend business when some unfair advantage was taken by a strong party to press business through the House improperly, and without discussion. He thought there was some force in the remark, that during a debate on the Address it was difficult to discuss particular public questions with any great effect or advantage; at the same time he considered it a fitting occasion to offer any general remarks on the state of the country, and to reply to any observations that might have fallen from the Minister of the Crown. In his opinion the earliest opportunity should be taken by the House of stating their concurrence in the recommendations and opinions of the Speech from the Throne, or of meeting the statements of Ministers by argument, and stating fairly their objections to them. In reference to what had fallen from the Mover and Seconder of the Address, he was not disposed to deny that a great improvement had taken place in many branches of the manufacturing and commercial interests of the country; but while he concurred so far with the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman, he must qualify that concurrence by saying, that he had no great confidence in the permanence of that prosperity. He thought it was fitting Parliament should take the earliest opportunity of ascertaining what were the causes of those great fluctuations in the principal branches of industry—why at one time they should be subjected to great depression, and at another be attended with unnatural prosperity. With regard to another
120"Oh, oh!"119Mr. M. Gibson
117 was most anxious to prevent the feeling going abroad, that the representatives of Ireland in that House were insensible to the condition in which that country stood at the present moment, or that they would lose any opportunity that presented itself of expressing their indignation at the position in which they were placed, and their anxiety and apprehension as to the dangers which now threatened this great empire. He was by no means insensible to the importance of preserving the jury-box free from the taint of party. It was his wish, and that of every one on that side connected with Ireland, that the jury should fairly try and fairly pronounce their verdict in the matters now in course of judicial investigation in Ireland; but be must at the same time strongly protest against the opinion that it would interfere with the course of justice to discuss those general questions of policy which were not for the jury but for that House to determine. Looking, however, at the present condition of the country, he, as one of the Irish representatives, was determined not to allow the debate to pass over without expressing his opinion, that at the earliest possible opportunity it was the duty of Government to bring under consideration the whole question, and that their serious attention should be directed to the dangers with which that portion of the empire was now threatened. He and others had
117Mr. Wyse
 had been unwilling to interrupt the hon. Gentleman, but he now wished to correct one misconception, he had understood the hon. Gentleman to make quotations from an article in a periodical publication, the authorship of which the bon. Gentleman had been pleased to ascribe to him. Now, he was not the author of that article, he did not know whose article it was, and he had never read a line of it.Mr. W. E. Gladstone
 said, that he felt he had been rather called upon by the observations of some of his hon. Friends behind him, to offer some explanation as to the course of proceeding he intended by the amendment he proposed. He had no intention whatever of proceeding to stop the supplies by any vexatious adjournment; his object was this,—that by moving amendments on supply, he should bring some substantial grievance under discussion. Such was the outlines of the course he intended to pursue, and those Members who might now vote for his motion would not be pledged to any future proceedings he might adopt.Mr. S. Crawford
8180"To assure Her Majesty that her faithful Commons will be always desirous to vote such supplies as may be found just and necessary for the public service; but that under the existing circumstances of the country we shall deem it our first and most important duty to inquire into the various grievances complained of by her people, and to devise such measures as may be most effectual for redressing all just causes of complaint." wished to propose an amendment to the tenth paragraph of the Address, which applied to that part of the Speech having reference to the Estimates. He wish to add to that paragraph the following words—
8180"To assure Her Majesty that her faithful Commons will be always desirous to vote such supplies as may be found just and necessary for the public service; but that under the existing circumstances of the country we shall deem it our first and most important duty to inquire into the various grievances complained of by her people, and to devise such measures as may be most effectual for redressing all just causes of complaint."Mr. S. Crawford
132131 said, the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had spoken wrongfully, when he urged the distressed condition of the people as if it were disregarded; for he never spoke of it without striking upon a chord, which vibrated strongly in the hearts of every Member on that side of the House. On no occasion could the charge be brought against the landed proprietors—no matter whether they might be considered right or wrong in their views on political economy—that they were regardless of the interests or callous to the sufferings of their poorer fellow-countrymen. Such an imputation was altogether untrue. It was an imputation which could be rebutted by almost every act of every gentleman who came forward in public life connected with the landed interest. The sources of those fluctuations of prosperity and adversity which the hon. Member for Manchester thought it so desirable should be investigated by Parliament, were in his humble opinion by no means difficult to be discovered. The manufacturing interests of Great Britain depended to a great extent on their trade with foreign nations; and it was upon the principles, or upon the conditions of our foreign trade, that the vicissitudes of which the hon. Gentleman complained, greatly depended. Those principles were ably discussed in a late number of the very publication to which the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had alluded; but not in the sense in which that Gentleman and his associates usually spoke and acted. They were advocates for
132131Sir John Hanmer
136d.d.135 thought it not true that we were in a state of great prosperity, although there undoubtedly had been a improvement since the House last met; but if they looked lot the time at which
136d.d.135Mr. Mark Phillips
121 hoped, that it was hardly necessary for him to protest against the hon. Member's perversion of the opinions he had expressed. The hon. Member, he presumed, intended to be facetious; he saw him, indeed, smile as he spoke. The hon. Member was an advocate of the total abolition of the Corn-law within a month. He said in his speech, that if there was to be such abolition within a month, nothing but distress and confusion would take place. Upon this, the hon. Gentleman, argued, that all he had intended to convey, was, that he was not prepared to consent to a repeal of the Corn-law within a month. Now, the words he had used were explicit, and the House would not fail to bear them in mind. He had said, that if he had in-
121Sir B. Peel
103102d.s.s.,s.101100J. Russell:9998"This is the advice which, when consulted, I have given, and I rejoice to say that I can rely upon the entire, the cordial, the persevering support of the same opinions from M. Piscatory, the Minister of France,"979695949392: Before I notice the motion which has been made by the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Rochdale, and on which I apprehend the first division will be taken, or make any remarks on the observations which have fallen from the noble Lord and the hon. Member for Montrose, I am sure you will excuse me for expressing, in concurrence, I believe, with the general feeling of the House, the satisfaction with which I heard the speeches of my noble Friend and the hon. Gentleman who moved and seconded the Address. The hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montrose, a political opponent of theirs, stated distinctly that be recollected on no occasion to have beard an Address to the Throne moved and seconded with greater judgment and greater ability than have been displayed on the present occasion. I am sure that the ability which my noble Friend and the hon. Gentleman manifested, accompanied with a sincere and unaffected diffidence and distrust of their own powers has, I will not say won for them, but confirmed
103102d.s.s.,s.101100J. Russell:9998"This is the advice which, when consulted, I have given, and I rejoice to say that I can rely upon the entire, the cordial, the persevering support of the same opinions from M. Piscatory, the Minister of France,"979695949392Sir R. Peel
116115114113112 did not think the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken had fairly represented the views of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell), or of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. He could not agree with the hon. and learned Member in the opinion he had expressed, that because it was not thought convenient, on the occasion of proposing the Address to her Majesty in answer to the Speech from the Throne, to enter into a full discussion of the leading
116115114113112Viscount Howick
109"I commit to your deliberate consideration
109108107106R. Peel:105104: I entirely concur with my noble Friend the Member for London, in thinking that there are many satisfactory points in the account given by her Majesty's Government of the state
109"I commit to your deliberate consideration
109108107106R. Peel:105104Viscount Palmerston
 wished to ask his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies a question, on which it was of great importance that the country should obtain an intimation of the views of the Government; it was, whether the course which Sir Charles Metcalf had pursued as Governor-General of Canada had received the sanction and approbation of her Majesty's Government.Mr. S. Wortley
145 was not sorry that his hon. Friend had put this question, because he believed it to be matter of considerable importance that there should be no mistake as to the views of her Majesty's Government. He did not hesitate to say, that the course which had been taken by Sir Charles Metcalf had the entire concurrence and approbation of her Majesty's Government. The resolution of sending out Sir Charles 'Metcalf as Governor to Canada, a man of tried ability and of known liberality in his views of government, was a sufficient indication of the wishes of her Majesty's Ministers. Sir C. Metcalf went out to Canada to carry out fairly the new colonial system, but equally determined to resist those extravagant demands which were inconsistent with the authority of the Crown and of the true rights of a colonial legislature. He be-
145Lord Stanley
, after that expression of opinion, would ask the noble Lord whether he would communicate to the House the instructions given to Sir Charles Metcalf, and the correspondence with him.Lord J. Russell
 did not think that it would be of advantage to the public interest to communicate the instructions given, or the communications received. Whenever the noble Lord should bring forward the question for discussion he would be quite ready to explain the conduct of the Government, and he hoped to be able to explain to the satisfaction of the House and of the country.Lord Stanley
 did not put his question as blaming Sir C. Metcalf, he neither blamed him, nor did he under present circumstances say that he approved of his conduct.Lord J. Russell
 brought up the Report on the Address, which was read paragraph by paragraph, by the Clerk at the Table. Upon arriving at that paragraph of the Address which pledges the House to maintain inviolate the Legislative Union between Great Britain and Ireland.Lord Clive
163 concurred in thinking that at the present moment it would be extremely injudicious to insist upon the House coming to such a pledge as this, upon a subject which was the direct matter of important judicial proceedings now pending. It appeared to him that the opinions of Her Majesty on the subject of the Union had already been so explicitly declared in former sessions, that it was unnecessary to renew the declaration, or for the House to come to such a pledge as this at the present moment. It could hardly be doubted that an explicit declaration like this, under the existing circumstances, would practically amount to a declaration that the proceedings of those whose conduct was now the subject of inquiry, were at variance with the feelings and wishes of Her Majesty, and this could not but have an effect in influencing the jury; on this account he thought the House ought to be very chary how they adopted any such expressions. This was not an occasion for discussing the policy of repeal, and therefore, he would merely observe that, when a more fitting time should arrive, he conceived the subject itself was perfectly open for discussion. As had been observed by the noble Member for London last year, the question of repealing an act of Parliament, and the Union was only an act of Parliament, was one the discussion of which was no infringement of the constitution; but, on the contrary, it was part of the constitution that Parliament and people should have full liberty to discuss such questions. The
163The O'Connor Don
177 did not think, that the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland had so much as maintained the case which had been made out by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Treasury, who had pursued the same course that he pursued upon other occasions—viz., that whilst he agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck) abstractedly, he attempted to throw a mantle over the feelings of the lost Attorney-general for Ireland. He (Captain Bernal) altogether denied, that in the conduct of the Attorney-general for Ireland, in the beginning, the middle, or the end,—he had manifested a regard for decorum, common sense, or propriety. The noble Lord had alluded to the opinion of the bar of Ireland. He (Captain Bernal) had an opportunity of being acquainted with the opinions of many members of that bar, and, as far as he had been able to ascertain, there was but one sentiment felt by all parties with respect to the conduct of the Attorney-general, and he was, by friends, as well as foes, pronounced to be totally unfit for the situation he occupied. He (Captain Bernal) fully adopted the language of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. If he were disposed to go back to former times for proofs of the unfitness of the Attorney-general for such an office, it was only necessary to
177Captain Bernal
"Although there is carried on against me, as I believe this systematic attempt to provoke me to some act of indiscretion, I am determined to keep the strictest watch over my own feelings, and not to compromise my character or prejudice the proceedings I am conducting.""I see that day by day a systematic attempt is made to drive me into some act of indiscretion, which may be injurious to myself and the cause I have in hand; and I see speaker after speaker attempting to fix upon me some personal misconduct."179Cheers.178: The hon. Gentleman has complained of my right hon. Friend for having, what he calls, set up a case and thrown a mantle of protection over the conduct of the Attorney-general for Ireland. If my right hon. Friend has interposed, in any degree, to shelter an absent officer from an attack couched in no very measured terms, founded upon facts which, undoubtedly, are notorious, but upon newspaper reports only, I do not think my right hon. Friend is fairly subject to the censure which is sought to be cast upon him by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down; and I do think that it is a more worthy course, on behalf of those who do not press forward exaggerating accusations against an absent man, while they do not
"Although there is carried on against me, as I believe this systematic attempt to provoke me to some act of indiscretion, I am determined to keep the strictest watch over my own feelings, and not to compromise my character or prejudice the proceedings I am conducting.""I see that day by day a systematic attempt is made to drive me into some act of indiscretion, which may be injurious to myself and the cause I have in hand; and I see speaker after speaker attempting to fix upon me some personal misconduct."179Cheers.178Lord Stanley
202 complained, of the Go-
202Mr. F. Ffrench
 said, his observation had relation to a statement made by the hon. Member for Coventry. He could not sit still and hear such statements thrown out against the landed aristocracy as that they brought their tenants and dependants to the poll, and enforced from them a particular line of conduct, contrary to their feelings and ideas. He denied most emphatically such to be now the case, whatever it might have been fifty years ago.Colonel Wyndham
 said the hon. Gentleman had spoken with so much candour and fairness, that he should be very sorry to misrepresent his argument. He understood him to have said that he had himself been present at the speech of the right hon. Member for Dungarvan—that he considered the observations made by that right hon. and learned Gentleman to be such as exacted the observance of the greatest forbearance and good temper on the part of the Attorney-general, and that it was only on this one occasion that his right hon. and learned Friend had deviated from his proper course.Lord Eliot
175 said he should feel that he was wanting in his duty to an absent friend and colleague, if he did not address a few words to the House on this occasion. He had been associated with his right hon. and learned Friend for upwards of twelve months, and he could truly say that a more honourable, a more upright, or a more
175Lord Eliot
 enquired whether the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Treasury would lay on the Table the papers explaining the object of Sir Henry Ellis's mission, and its results?Mr. Hawes
Laughter.147 had not the least objection to make a statement with reference to his motion, if the right hon. Baronet called for it, or if the House would receive it, either then or at any other time. He had made no statement, because he did not wish to put forward any thing which would convey imputation, which Mr. Bonham or his friends could not have the fullest opportunity of contradicting. Therefore it was, that he had not stated the ground on which he had proposed to move for the dismissal. He had only to say in reference to the conduct of Mr. Bonham, that he sincerely hoped that gentleman would be able to make a statement which would be satisfactory to him and the House, in reference to the conduct of which he complained. Although he was influenced by public considerations only, yet his principal reason for bringing forward his motion, had not a reference to the official position which Mr. Bonham held, but to the real
Laughter.147Mr. Divett
 said, it did not relate to his conduct as a public officer in his official position. It regarded not his ostensible, but his real, connection with the Government.Mr. Divett
 would suggest that the whole paragraph should be expunged, or not inserted until the Government had made some explicit statement as to what remedies they really proposed for the grievances of Ireland.Mr. F. French
 denied having made any attack upon the Earl of Devon sufficient to justify the tone assumed by the right hon. Baronet opposite. However, he feared not the right hon. Gentleman's reply. Both attack and reply would go forth to the country, and the House would see what the people of Ireland would think of both.Mr. F. French
184183"—Pudet hæc opprobria nobis
"Et dici potuisse et non potuisse refelli."182"Whether we consider the judges, the Attorney-general, the little captiousness opposed to our eager expressions of want of knowledge of forms,—whether we look upon the whole of this trial, or the judges, or the counsel, or the
182181:—I do not think the protection cast over the Attorney-general for Ireland, by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government has been much improved by what has fallen from the noble Lord. Although the right hon. Baronet did not affect for a moment to vindicate the conduct of the Attorney-general, as being con-
184183"—Pudet hæc opprobria nobis
"Et dici potuisse et non potuisse refelli."182"Whether we consider the judges, the Attorney-general, the little captiousness opposed to our eager expressions of want of knowledge of forms,—whether we look upon the whole of this trial, or the judges, or the counsel, or the
182181Mr. Serjeant Murphy
192191 felt extremely sorry to be obliged to say a few words on this painful occasion, which indeed he should not have been led to do, except that the Members of Her Majesty's Government, who had spoken on the present occasion, had defended the Attorney-general for Ireland merely as an official colleague; whilst he (Mr. Shaw) had known him from the earliest period of life, as a private and valued friend. With respect to the act itself, with which his right hon. and learned Friend was charged, it must be admitted at once that no one could defend or vindicate it. The only vindication or excuse that could be offered for it was, that in a moment of strong irritation the right hon. and learned Gentleman had been betrayed to do that which all who heard him might themselves, under similar circumstances, fall into the error of doing likewise, and which, if they did it, neither themselves nor their friends could possibly defend. But admitting this, he did not think that so ungenerous and unjustifiable an attack had ever been made by any gentleman or any lawyer upon another, as that which had been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite upon the right hon. Gentleman in his absence. The hon. and learned Gentleman had not only stated the charge against the absent Attorney-general, but had gone at length into remarks upon the impropriety of the act with which he charged him. Now, he thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not the very man in that House who should be the first to throw a stone in a matter of this kind. Did the hon. and learned Gentleman mean to say that he of all men was the one to stand up and lecture the House against the impropriety of a practice which they all were strictly bound to condemn? But what he most complained of in this attack upon his right hon. and learned Friend was, because it went not only to the ex
192191Mr. Shaw
 did not think it was necessary to press the amendment to a division. The paragraph pledged the Government to an increase of the franchise as regarded counties. He did not wish to go into the full question of Irish registration, but he would say, that if the right hon. Baronet opposite would look into the matter, he would find that in Ireland, in the cities, and towns, and boroughs, there was quite as much reason for increasing the franchise as in the counties. The right hon. Baronet would also find, that in a poorer country the same qualifications for the franchise were demanded as those exacted in a much richer country.Sir H. W. Barron
198Voice:Shaw:ipse dixit197 had understood the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland to say, that the Attorney-general for Ireland had conducted himself with remarkable temper and forbearance during the state prosecutions in Dublin. Now, with great respect for the noble Lord, he must beg leave to tell him that he had been grossly misinformed, for he knew the noble Lord was incapable of misrepresenting facts that came within his own knowledge. He (Sir H. Barron) had been an attentive observer of these proceedings, and he must assert that never in the whole course of his reading and experience, had he become acquainted with an instance in which
198Voice:Shaw:ipse dixit197Sir H. W. Barron
 would vote for the amendment, and thought the Government had only themselves to blame for it being brought forward, for if they had not wished the subject to be discussed, why was any allusion made to it in the Speech? It was argued that to discuss the question now might have the effect of influencing the verdict in Dublin, and he agreeing with those who wished a fair verdict to be given, unbiassed by anything that might take place in that House or elsewhere, was anxious to expunge altogether from the Address all those passages that related to Ireland and the proceedings now going on in that country. He regretted that the noble Lord, the leader of the Opposition, had not yesterday moved an amendment expressing the disapprobation of the House at the conduct of the Government towards Ireland, which might have united the whole strength of the party on that side of the House, instead of leaving the party to be divided as they were on the previous day, and their strength frittered away by amendments which few could support, and in which he had been compelled to vote in two divisions with the party on the other side. He gave credit to the right hon. and learned Member (Mr. Shaw) for the warm and manly manner in which he had defended his absent friend the Attorney-general for Ireland. He (Mr. Curteis), while he joined in condemning such an ebullition of temper as that law officer of the Crown had exhibited in a court of justice, could not go so far as to say that he thought his conduct called for his dismissal.Mr. Curteis
 fully agreed with the observations made by his hon. Friend, and he should, therefore, feel great pleasure in seconding the motion. That House had not a more important function to exercise than to open its doors wide to the petitions of the people, which he thought should be treated with greater respect than they were. There was out of doors a growing indisposition to petition that House, and he believed it might be traced greatly to that inattention to the representations which from time to time were addressed to the Representatives of the country. With reference to the sale of Parliamentary papers, he thought it was attended with public benefit, and added greatly to their circulation; it was not only eminently useful, but highly economical. He would cheerfully co-operate with his hon. Friend in expressing a hope that the rule which existed, and which created a great deal of dissatisfaction out of doors, would be rescinded.Dr. Bowring
200 would vote for the omission of the words. If it was intended to maintain the Union between Great Britain and Ireland by measures like those which had recently been brought to bear in that country, he was convinced, that Union could not be of long continuance. And he would ask those who attached importance to the word union, whether they considered the Union, was represented by what was now taking place in Ireland! Were the courts of justice in that country to be so constituted as to exclude the professors of the religion of seven eighths of the whole population from the humblest judicial functions? If that was the law in Ireland it was unjust, and it was not surprising that it was found to be intolerable; and if it was not the law, he would ask by what extraordinary means was it that the protection of the law was denied to those who were the subjects of the state prosecutions in that country? He concurred with his hon. Friend the Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) in abhorring the practice of duelling, and when he saw in the highest and most exalted places—in the sanctuary of justice—in the faces of those who represented the law, or ought to represent it, in all its dignity and majesty—that there the law was violated, and so gross an offence was committed by a Gentleman who was charged by the Government with the maintenance of the peace, he thought some expression of their condemnation of such conduct was called for. He regretted to perceive a great disposition to slur over the conduct of that officer, and to regard it in a light and trifling manner. There was a great demand in Ireland for local legislation, and
200Dr. Bowring
 hoped the hon. Gentleman would not withdraw the motion, but press it to a division. The people would be obliged to him for bringing it under discussion, and would be gratified to see a division, if ever so few Members voted for it. They never had an opportunity of knowing what many of the petitions which were presented contained, and he should like to know if it was not part of the business of that House to hear what petitioners had to say. With respect to the committee up stairs, though they had all the petitions handed over to them, they did not know what they contained. He could not see why a portion of the day, say from twelve to three, should not be devoted for the purpose of debates on the presentation of petitions. The people complained of their burthens, and the House told them they would not listen to their petitions; the right of petition was, then, quite a farce; the people were told to petition, and in the same breath it was said that their petitions would not be attended to. If they meant to govern the people by proper means, they must tell them to complain of their grievances and they would endeavour to redress them.Mr. Fielden
168A Laugh.167166 said,—As the question of the present situation of Ireland has been brought forward, and allusion has been made to the trials now taking place, I will take this opportunity of putting a question to the right hon. Baronet respecting those trials. I shall proceed from that to make some other remarks. I am about to ask the right hon. Baronet, if Her Majesty's Government have directed their attention to the conduct of a person—a gentleman who by his official station is at the head of the law in that country, and who is now conducting those prosecutions? I shall endeavour as much as possible to avoid allusion to the result of this prosecution, not that I at all agree in that species of delicacy that has been thought
168A Laugh.167166Mr. Roebuck
196 did not rise to make reflections or cast imputations on the Attorney-General—but rather seized upon this as a fitting opportunity for eliciting from the House the expression of their strong disapprobation of a practice, which all must acknowledge to be contrary to the law of God, and opposed to every principle of that religion which the House testified so anxious a desire to uphold. Much had been said in palliation of the Attorney-general's conduct on that side of the House, where it seemed to be thought, that, had he waited till the termination of the proceedings before sending his challenge, his course would not have been open to animadversion. Was not the crime that of murder? Why should not criminals brought to the bar for other heinous offences, be equally entitled to plead the infirmity of human nature in extenuation of their crimes? Let men fear to do wrong; but let them not fear to brave public opinion, when engaged in the defence of that which is just and right. The man who sent, and the man who accepted a challenge ought to be disgraced in the eyes of the country; and then, when it was no longer fashionable to light duels, other modes would be discovered for the adjustment of differences. The hon. Member concluded by calling on
196Mr. Brotherton
153 had often had conversations with his constituents respecting the present mode of presenting petitions, and he never found a man yet whom he did not convince of the impracticability of raising a discussion on the presentation of each petition. The present mode of presenting petitions, so far from being objectionable, he did not hesitate to say was the best he had ever seen. He could recollect the time when there were discussions on the presentation of petitions, and they could never get through with more than three or four in one day; all the rest were thrown on the Table, and it was impossible to present them in an orderly manner. He hoped his hon. Friends would not divide the House on this subject, after he had given them a statement of facts. It appeared from the reports made to that House, that in the five years ending 1789, the number of petitions presented had been 880; in the five years ending 1805, it had
153Mr. Brotherton
199 concurred with his hon. Friend who had proposed the amendment, that it would be most improper for that House to do anything which might prejudice the trials now going on, or injure the traversers. The only question whether the words to which reference had been made, as contained in the Speech
199Mr. Hume
194 said, he should have desired to decline taking any part in the present discussion, but in consequence of the appeal so directly made to him by his right hon. and learned Friend, he found such a course was no longer possible. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had called upon him to bear testimony to the private and professional character of the Attorney-general for Ireland. To those topics, therefore, he should strictly confine himself. With respect to the mode of conducting the state trials that were at present engrossing the attention of the empire, he could not say that he was prepared to lend his testimony to what had fallen from the right hon. Member. The right hon. Attorney, general had shown on this occasion, as in every other part of his professional life, a profound knowledge of the law and very great ability. And he would also say, although he had not himself been personally a witness to the proceedings in Dublin, that the right hon. Gentleman had exhibited, under very trying circumstances—until the last unfortunate exhibition—a control of temper which neither his friends had hoped for, or his enemies anticipated. No public officer who had ever discharged duties of such importance on so critical an occasion had ever been placed under circumstances which called more decidedly for the exercise of judgment and temper; and he was prepared also to state this from his belief that there were not wanting inducements on the other side to bring to the test those infirmities of temper which had been attributed to the Attorney-general. He made no individual accusation, but in common fairness he repeated, that taking every circumstance into consideration, the Attorney-general had acted, up to the last unfortunate incident, with more than the temper that was usually expected from him. In the course of his life he had known the right hon. Gentleman intimately and well; and be would say that a better man—a more honourable man, or one who more virtuously filled all the relations of private life, did not exist in the community. He was also an honour to his profession—he was a man of the greatest legal learning and acuteness—and up to the moment when he was selected as the Attorney-general of the present Government he had entitled himself to and enjoyed the universal deference and respect of the profession; while, at the same time, in private life, he was a man of the most unexceptionable character. Notwithstanding, he
194Dr. Stock
165 said, that if he had had time on the preceding evening to take the various paragraphs of the Address into his consideration, he should most assuredly have made the same objection that had now been advanced. He regarded the introduction of the words in question as most unconstitutional, indecorous, and improper, under existing circumstances. He had, last Session, complained of the right hon. Gentleman, as having made use of Her Majesty's name in an unconstitutional manner. He thought the right hon. Gentleman had now committed a similar impropriety in advising Her Majesty to declare to the people of Ireland, who were dissatisfied with the existing law, that she will not have that law changed. Now, the Crown, though it had the power of rejection, had by no means exclusively the power of initiation; the Crown had by no means the power to tell the people that they shall not agitate the question, whether a law of which they disapprove, ought not to be erased from the statute book. It was a great feature in the constitutional privileges of the people of this country, that they might agitate against a law with which they are dissatisfied. The introduction of such a declaration as this would not only unconstitutionally prejudice the pending trials, but it would have the effect of unduly influencing the question when it should be brought forward at a future period. Suppose the right hon. Gentleman were, in a similar way, to declare it to be Her Majesty's determination that the Corn-laws should be maintained for ever, which was just the same thing in point of principle? But the right hon. Gentleman would not venture upon such a step as that; he knew perfectly well that it would create such an agitation throughout the country, as had never existed here since we were a nation. Why then, should the right hon. Baronet take a course with reference to Ireland which he dared not take with reference to England? He (Mr. Blewitt) felt deeply on this subject; when he read the history of this country, and the history of Ireland as connected with this country, he almost blushed at the name of Englishman. He verily believed there had been more atrocities committed by England upon Ireland than had
165Mr. Blewitt
 inquired what course the Government intended to pursue with respect to the paragraph in the Address relating to the Bank of England and other banking establishments?Mr. Blewitt
195 said, from all he had heard there was no man who had more occasion to exclaim, "Defend me from my friends," than the Attorney-general for Ireland. From all he had heard from the opposite side of the House, beginning with the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, and ending with the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, it seemed to be agreed that the right hon. Gentleman was the most unfit person to fill the situation of Attorney-general who could possibly be supposed to occupy it. Indeed, they had had an instance of his incompetency in this House last Session, in the conduct of the Arms' Bill; and in which the Attorney-general for England was obliged to do all his work. What had been the conduct of Government in reference to other parties connected with the administration of justice? He alluded to those gentlemen in the commission of the peace, and who possessed the confidence of the people. When certain of those gentlemen were found by the Government to be favourable to the Repeal of the Union, they were at once removed from the commission without any trial or investigation whatever. There were no three-
195Mr. Wallace
155 in reply, observed, that all that he had heard from both sides of the House did not convince him that he was not right. He was quite satisfied that the people out of doors would be exceedingly glad to see the rule of the House upon which his motion was founded rescinded. The hon. Member for Salford was one of the committee which did as it pleased with the petitions of the people, and he had never seen any one yet in power who liked to relinquish it; but as he had no power to induce the House to go beyond what they were determined to do, and as he never had a desire to waste the time of the House, he was quite wil-
155Mr. Wallace
150149148 said, that before bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice (for rescinding the Standing Order which prevented any discussion on the Presentation of Petitions), he wished to have that Standing Order read. [The Standing Order of 1840 was then read. It enacted, that no Member on presenting a petition should do more than state its general substance—that no discussion should be al-
150149148Mr. Wallace
 said, that upon the understanding that they were to be in no way pledged in respect to the general question of the franchise in Ireland, by acquiescing in the paragraph in question, he would have no objection to withdraw his amendment.Mr. T. Duncombe
206205"That Her Majesty's gracious recommendation shall receive our immediate attention, with a view to the amendment of the representation in Ireland.""And for your Majesty's gracious intimation that we may probably find that a revision of the law of registration, taken in conjunction with other causes at present in operation would produce a material diminution of the number of county voters, and that it may be advisable on that account to consider the state of the law with a view to an extension of the county franchise in Ireland.""To thank Her Majesty for recommending that we should take into our early consideration, the enactments at present in force in Ireland, concerning the registration of voters for Members of Parliament." rose, in pursuance of the notice which he had given the night before, to call the attention of the House to the paragraph in the Address, in which allusion was made to the law of Registration of Voters in Ireland. The point to which he wished to call especial attention, was the latter part of the paragraph in question. It began—
206205"That Her Majesty's gracious recommendation shall receive our immediate attention, with a view to the amendment of the representation in Ireland.""And for your Majesty's gracious intimation that we may probably find that a revision of the law of registration, taken in conjunction with other causes at present in operation would produce a material diminution of the number of county voters, and that it may be advisable on that account to consider the state of the law with a view to an extension of the county franchise in Ireland.""To thank Her Majesty for recommending that we should take into our early consideration, the enactments at present in force in Ireland, concerning the registration of voters for Members of Parliament."Mr. T. S. Duncombe
190: I wish to say a few words by way of explanation. I did not mean to imply that the client of Mr. Fitzgibbon had given him instructions to use vituperative language, or language applying in a personal manner to the Attorney-general; what I meant to say was, that the course he pursued with reference to the observations he thought it necessary to make on the conduct of the Attorney-general was in unison with the instructions he had received from his client, and appeared to be necessary to his defence; and I said so for the purpose of showing the inconvenience that would arise if on any occasion the counsel for the Crown, considering observations directed to him personally, should take upon himself to resort to measures of violence, and thus interfere with that freedom of defence to which the client had the most unquestionable right.
190Mr. Wyse
174173172ultima ratio171 said, he had heard with much surprise the observations of the right hon. Baronet. He had commenced, by expressing his determination in conformity with the reserve maintained in the Speech from the Throne, and his own pledges of silence on the same questions, not to enter into any discussion, which could bear upon the trials now pending in Ireland, and yet in the very next sentence, when it was expected he would have deferred all farther consideration of the question to some future opportunity, he was betrayed into an ample defence of the recent conduct of the Attorney-general. How far this was consistent, he would not say, but if the debate were now to be continued he must blame himself for its continuance. The observations which had hitherto been made referred to one point principally of the transaction, the utter impropriety of the Attorney-general's conveying a challenge to an opposite counsel in a court of justice, but there was another light in which it was to be regarded, the effect which it had, or might have had, on the case of his client. It appeared from the best authorities, that Mr. Fitzgibbon's observations were in unison with the general instructions he had received, and did not exceed what he deemed necessary for the line of defence which was required for the cause with which he had been entrusted. To establish by admitting for a moment such conduct anything like a precedent for interfering with the right of free speech in defence of a client, would necessarily produce the most dangerous consequences. It would limit the means of protection against charges, which might be the most unfounded, to a narrow circle, and expose the accused to the most cruel disadvantage. But there was a still more important result, not affecting the fortunes of the individual only, but those of the whole country, which must naturally fol-
174173172ultima ratio171Mr. Wyse
176 said the noble Lord must have misunderstood a considerable portion of his remarks. He did not mean to say that he could acquit the Attorney-general of gross impropriety and misconduct in the course he had adopted. Far from it. He (the Attorney-general might, no doubt,
176Mr. Wyse
 observed with regard to the notice he had given, and which had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Coventry, that he begged to state, that after giving, the notice he found, on consulting with friends better able to judge of such a matter than himself, that it would be inconvenient to make the motion to which the notice related on bringing up the report. Of late years, on two occasions similar objections had been made to those parts of the Orders which were now objected to. On both occasions the Sessional Orders had been postponed, and the debate taken upon a day fixed for that purpose. After the notice which he had given he did not know exactly what course to pursue. He should be disposed to fix an early day for going into the subject, if the hon. Baronet opposite would consent to such an arrangement.Mr. Christie
 must repeat the expression of his hope that the order would be postponed.Mr. Christie
 observed, that the only advantage which could accrue from postponing the consideration of the Order would be, that by such a course he would secure an opportunity of bringing the subject under the consideration of the House—an opportunity which he might not otherwise have it in his power to secure; however, he would give notice and take his chance for getting the matter debated.Mr. Christie
"We humbly thank your Majesty, that your Majesty, at the close of the last Session of Parliament, was graciously pleased to declare to us your firm determination to maintain inviolate the Legislative Union between Great Britain and Ireland; and also that your Majesty expressed at the same time your Majesty's earnest desire to co-operate with Parliament in the adoption of all such measures as might tend to improve the social condition of Ireland, and to develope the natural resources of that part of the United Kingdom."162161 rose to object to the retention of this portion of the Address. If it were not right, as was elsewhere most justly stated, to take into consideration or to pronounce an opinion upon events in Ireland, in respect to which proceedings were pending before the proper legal tribunal, it was certainly not right to call upon the House to pledge themselves upon the subject of Repeal, a matter which assuredly had a great deal to do with the events now pending in Ireland, and a declaration upon which, on the part of the House, must have a very considerable influence, directly or indirectly, upon those proceedings, He objected, under these circumstances, to the House giving such a pledge as this at present. He had taken no part in the Repeal agitation, he did not belong to the Repeal Association, he had hitherto abstained from joining it; but, on the other hand, he must protest against giving any pledge, that under no circumstances should he think it proper to advocate a Repeal of the Union. For he felt
"We humbly thank your Majesty, that your Majesty, at the close of the last Session of Parliament, was graciously pleased to declare to us your firm determination to maintain inviolate the Legislative Union between Great Britain and Ireland; and also that your Majesty expressed at the same time your Majesty's earnest desire to co-operate with Parliament in the adoption of all such measures as might tend to improve the social condition of Ireland, and to develope the natural resources of that part of the United Kingdom."162161Mr. Sharman Crawford
 wished to say a few words, for he felt that he should not be doing justice to the commission did he not state his firm conviction, founded upon a personal examination of two days to which he had been subjected, that the commission was most intent upon the best mode of fulfilling its duty, and was most anxious to procure the best information. In the last Session of Parliament, upon the occasion of the discussion of the bill relating to landlord and tenant, which he had introduced, the Government had pledged itself to institute inquiries into the subject of that bill, and he had to express his thanks for the appointment of the commission, and to acknowledge that, by its constitution, the Government had faithfully performed the promise made last Session.Mr. Sharman Crawford
158"That the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House do, from time to time, take into his custody any stranger or strangers that he shall see, or be informed of to be, in the House or gallery while the House or any committee of the whole House is sitting; and that no person so taken into custody be discharged out of custody without the special order of the House."157"That it is a high infringement of the liberties and privileges of the Commons of the United Kingdom for any Lord of Parliament or other Peer or Prelate to concern himself in the election of Members to serve for the Commons in Parliament."156"That no Peer of this realm hath any right to give his vote in the election of any Member to serve in Parliament." said, that there were some of these Orders so much at variance with the proceedings of the House, that he was of opinion a select committee ought to be appointed for the purpose of revising them. When the House laid down rules for its mode of proceeding, the proceedings ought to be in accordance with the rules laid down, but the contrary was the practice, and, in fact, the rules were set at nought, although passed annually by a solemn vote of the House at the commencement of each Session. To prove this to be the case, he would mention one or two instances. He would first take one of the resolutions, which commenced by stating,
158"That the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this House do, from time to time, take into his custody any stranger or strangers that he shall see, or be informed of to be, in the House or gallery while the House or any committee of the whole House is sitting; and that no person so taken into custody be discharged out of custody without the special order of the House."157"That it is a high infringement of the liberties and privileges of the Commons of the United Kingdom for any Lord of Parliament or other Peer or Prelate to concern himself in the election of Members to serve for the Commons in Parliament."156"That no Peer of this realm hath any right to give his vote in the election of any Member to serve in Parliament."Mr. W. Williams
 said, that he wished this Order to be postponed, as he understood that it would be attended with inconvenience to go into a discussion of the subject now. Under the present system a number of Orders were placed on the list for each order-day, and it was hardly possible to tell which would be brought forward. He was anxious that the Orders on Government days should be taken in rotation, as they were on Wednesday, instead of being selected without any apparent reason. He was anxious to make some observations on the bills which were repeatedly on the order-book last Session, and he was brought down five different days, and was kept waiting all the evenings in expectation of their coming on; but other business was disposed of. If a register were made of the Orders, and they were taken on Government nights in rotation, a Member could form a tolerably accurate notion of the business likely to be brought forward. He trusted, that her Majesty's Ministers would not object to this plan.Mr. W. Williams
, in reference to the Order against bribery, said, that if the hon. Baronet would refer to the act very recently passed on the same subject, he would find that there was not the least necessity for continuing any such Order.Mr. W. Williams
159 said, the act did not cover all the cases of bribery, which might be
159Sir G. Clerk
 moved that the Sessional Orders be now read,Sir G. Clerk
 said, that the subject had frequently been under the consideration of the House. It had been brought forward in the year 1839, again in 1840, and again in 1842 by the hon. Member for Birmingham; but that was done, though the House had agreed to the present Order on the second day of the Session. The hon. Member, as he understood, intended to propose that a select committee be appointed; and surely the passing of the Order at present before the House would not interfere with the adoption of such a course.Sir G. Clerk
 inquired whether it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet, the Home Secretary, to bring in a bill to regulate the administration of public trusts? He had withdrawn his own bill, understanding that the Government would introduce such a measure.Sir G. Grey
154 having once brought forward a similar motion, could not help stating that he agreed with the view now taken by the hon. Member for Salford, and much as he might regret voting against a motion which he had originally made himself, he felt that the adjourned debates to which allusion had been made by the right hon. Baronet afforded, on all great questions, the Members representing large constituencies a better and more convenient opportunity of placing on record their sentiments than they could have in an incidental discussion on the presentation of a petition. But at the same time he must be allowed to remind the right hon. Baronet, that this consideration had been frequently overlooked by hon. Gentlemen who did not wish to take part in a debate themselves, and became very impatient to bring those debates to a close. If the right of debating on the presentation of petitions were given up on some of those questions affecting large commercial communities of this country, they must expect every Member representing a great town to speak. It was not above once or twice in a Session that those questions occurred; but when they did occur, he called upon the right hon. Baronet to consider that subject, upon which the House had made so great a change. The attempt to apply the old rule of debating on the presentation of petitions would be utterly impracticable. They
154Mr. Ward
189188 could not see that the present discussion was open to the objections which had been made to it by the right hon. Baronet. It had been introduced not upon a motion, but incidentally upon a question put by the hon. and learned Member for Bath—a question referring to an individual act of indiscretion on the part of a Law-officer of the Crown—a
189188Mr. Ward
187186185: I feel, Sir, after what has fallen from my right hon. Friend and my noble Friend, that it is unnecessary to prolong this discussion; yet, I think I shall not act unworthily nor inconsistently with my duty, if I very shortly express my opinion upon this subject. I must take the liberty to observe, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced this subject and the hon. and learned Serjeant who has just sat down are, as Members of the Bar, naturally most anxious to watch over the administration of justice; and it is in the sacred name of justice they have addressed the House on this occasion. Now, I call upon the House to remember what is the position of the case thus brought before it, A great trial is pending; Her Majesty from the Throne, has announced that her love of justice impartially administered according to law has induced her to forbear to comment upon that trial. Notwithstanding the heat of party differences—various topics having been commented upon in the course of discussion last night, and not without some asperity, it was agreed, I thought, upon all hands, for the sake of justice, that this particular topic should, at all events, be postponsed until a verdict should have been pronounced by the jury which has been empanelled to try this indictment. Disregarding the example of last night, in the name of justice the House is called to discuss this evening a matter bearing directly upon the trials now going on. The hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down passed a glowing eulogium upon the speeches of the counsel for one of the defendants. Not satisfied with that, he commented in terms of praise upon the character of at least one of the accused and, with severity upon the trial itself; and I think I heard him say, in the absence of the party he assails, without giving my right hon. Friend an opportunity to defend himself, that that public officer ought to be visited with the condemnation of the House, and that this officer of the Crown ought to be ignominiously dismissed. Now, I call upon the generosity and justice of the House to deal with this last proposition. In a short time these proceedings will have terminated and this public officer will have a fair opportunity to speak in his own defence; at present he is absent from his place and cannot be heard. Is it not just to wait for this? As regards public opinion, my right hon. Friend
187186185Sir J. Graham
146 replied, that the right hon. Gentleman was aware that this was a subject not only most important, but one of the most complicated and difficult which could be taken up by any Member or any Government. His recollection of what took place last year did not quite agree with that of the right hon. Gentleman; he had told the right hon. Gentleman that a measure was under the consi-
146Sir James Graham
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to dismiss Francis Robert Bonham, Esq., from the office of Storekeeper of her Majesty's Ordnance, &c.", seeing the hon. Member for Exeter in his place, and having observed on the books a notice of motion by the hon. Gentleman, of such a peculiar nature that unless it were explained, it would affect the character of an hon. Friend of his for whom he entertained the greatest respect, wished to ask for some explanation. The notice was,
"That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to dismiss Francis Robert Bonham, Esq., from the office of Storekeeper of her Majesty's Ordnance, &c."Sir R. Peel
did not wish to call for any general statement with respect to the transaction. He only wished to know—as a motion had been put on the books for the dismissal of a public officer, whether it related to any act of official misconduct, or to some private transactions. He wished to know whether it related to Mr. Bonham, as a public officer.Sir R. Peel
152151 was a little surprised at the observation of the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House, that there was an increasing disposition amongst the people of this country to withhold pe-
152151Sir R. Peel
 begged to reply that, considering that the existing treaty with Brazil would expire in November next, and the present relations between this country and the Brazils, he did not think it consistent with his duty or with the public interests to lay the papers on the Table.Sir R. Peel
 thought, that there was always a general disposition on the part of the Government, as well as of private Members, to take the business of the House in a manner the best adapted for general convenience. He thought, that a general understanding of this nature was much better than any rule that they could adopt. If the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman was adopted it would often be attended with considerable inconvenience, and more especially on supply nights. The best course he conceived was, that the Government should always give notice for Government days of the business they intended to bring forward. The hon. Member complained that he had been brought down to the House on five several occasions, in expectation of certain business coming on, whereas other matter was discussed on each occasion. Now he did not think the hon. Member had any great ground of complaint, for at least, he had the satisfaction of being edified by hearing the discussions on other subjects.Sir R. Peel
170169.—Sir, I regret that the hon. and learned Gentleman has felt himself called upon by his sense of public duty to make the observations winch he has made upon the conduct of the Attorney-general for Ireland. I am resolved to adhere to the rule which I laid down last night, and I will not, by any observations, or any comment which may be made upon matters immediately connected with the trials now pending in Ireland, be led into discussion upon that point. I consider it my duty to defer implicitly to the rule which has been laid down in the Speech from the Throne, and to avoid, even upon collateral topics, any observation which can have a bearing upon that matter. I must say, that I think the comments of
170169Sir R. Peel
164"The just consideration of Her Majesty, in forbearing from observations on events in Ireland, in respect to which proceedings are pending before the proper legal tribunal." thought he might safely appeal to the House, whether the general tenour of this Address was not that which carried with it a convincing proof that it was not the wish of the Government, in advising the Speech from the Throne, to influence, in the slightest degree, the decision of the jury on the trials now pending. He had been greatly surprised, therefore, at hearing the objections that had been taken that night, and the more so, because when the subject was discussed on the previous evening, many hon. Gentlemen opposed to the Government had admitted that there was not the slightest difficulty in concurring in the Address which had been proposed. On the preceding evening some Gentlemen had certainly proposed amendments, but they were on altogether different points. The hon. Member for Rochdale himself proposed one, but that was with reference to the supplies, the hon. Member then finding no fault at all with that portion of the Address which he now arraigned. The hon. Member for Montrose also moved an amendment, but that, too, was upon quite a different subject. The noble Member for the city of London, and the noble Member for Tiverton both expressed their entire acquiescence in the Address. He must really look upon it as somewhat fastidious criticism to suggest that this reference to the Union could in any way or degree prejudice the jury. As well might it be argued that the other portion of the paragraph which expressed Her Majesty's earnest desire to co-operate with Parliament in the adoption of measures tending to improve the condition of Ireland, was an untimely declaration under existing circumstances, and calculated to prejudice the jury in favour of the defence. The very next paragraph expressly recognised
164"The just consideration of Her Majesty, in forbearing from observations on events in Ireland, in respect to which proceedings are pending before the proper legal tribunal."Sir Robert Peel
204: I ask the House to suspend its judgment on an occasion of this kind until Government has an opportunity of refuting the charges brought against it. And I ask, upon future occasions of the sort, should they arise, to bring their experience of this evening to bear, and to remember, first, the charges made by the
204Sir R. Peel
 had not charged the hon. Gentleman with having made an attack upon the Earl of Devon. The hon. Gentleman had made no such attack, and he had not imputed it to him. But he had complained that the hon. Gentleman had said, that it was an insult to Ireland, that the Earl of Devon had been selected for the head of the commission.Sir Robert Peel
207 trusted that the House would not go into any discussion upon the question of the reform of the Irish representation. The proposed bill was not at present before the House, and nothing could be more inconvenient than to approach its discussion, the House being necessarily ignorant of the provisions of the measure in question. He thought he could give a complete and satisfactory answer to the observations of the hon. Gentleman opposite. There was nothing in the Address, acquiescence in which would pledge hon. Gentlemen to any opinion upon the subject of Irish representation. There was nothing in the Address to prevent any Gentleman who might think that the Irish franchise ought to be extended from afterwards submitting any proposition upon the subject unprejudiced by his concurrence in the paragraph in question. They proposed to amend the registration in Ireland. It was impossible to accomplish tins without considering the state of the registration in the counties. There were other causes in action independent of the registration, tending to reduce the number of county voters. The provisions of the bill, which they proposed to introduce, would affect the county, not the borough and city voters. As there were causes which affected county, but not borough voters, and as they were about to propose a system affecting these causes, they accompanied the announcement with a pledge that Government would call the attention of the House to the county franchise. Such was the pledge on the part of Government, and a concurrence in the assurance to that effect contained in the Address would not have the effect of binding the opinions of any hon. Gentleman as to the general question of the Irish franchise. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman opposite would see that there was no necessity for pressing his amendment, and that the pledge followed logically from the opinion which the Government had expressed upon the subject. All that they undertook to do was, that as the registration affected county voters, they would introduce ample provision to pre
207Sir R. Peel
203; I will not characterise the attack, which the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has made upon the Government. It is true, Sir, that we appointed five commissioners to inquire into that most important subject, the relation of landlord and tenant in Ireland—to enquire into the state of the law relative to the occupation of land. Sir, the whole of these five gentlemen are proprietors of land in Ireland. It certainly was desirable that one of them should have a knowledge of English law as bearing upon questions relative to the occupancy of land. There was a nobleman, the proprietor of great estates in the south-west of Ireland, and who has also been a Master in Chancery, and who had thus many opportunities of becoming acquainted with the bearings of English law as to land; this nobleman being willing to undertake the duties, and able to bring his legal knowledge to bear upon the question, and being also peculiarly fitted for the task from the circumstance of his having undertaken personally the management of his Irish estates—having managed these estates well, and showed great sympathy with the occupying tenantry—this nobleman, I repeat, was placed at the head of the com-mission, and because he was so placed—assisted, mind, by four gentlemen, differing, indeed, in opinions, but all alike in the possession of the highest reputation for honour, intelligence, and integrity—and the hon. Gentleman calls this com-
203Sir Robert Peel
 said, that the course which he had every reason to think would be pursued, would be, that whilst the Ministers of the Crown would not propose to institute any new committee of inquiry, they would take the responsibility of calling the attention of the House to the charter of the Bank of England, and to other banking establishments. He was not prepared to fix any time for the motion, but it would be brought forward at such a period as would insure its fullest consideration, and ample notice would be given.Sir R. Peel
, having been present during part of the proceedings in Dublin, could bear testimony to the propriety of the Attorney-general's conduct under circumstances of great difficulty and provocation; among others, he need only remind the House of the expression of Mr. O'Connell with respect to him, used elsewhere, when he said, "No verdict; no chief justice." He only mentioned this as an instance of the attacks the Attorney-general met with from all quarters. He repeated, that the Attorney-general conducted himself with the greatest politeness and kindness of demeanour during the trials.Lord Ingestre
 said, that in the course of the discussion last night on the Report on the Address to Her Majesty, he had stated, that he had reason to believe, in case the Address should be then agreed to, Her Majesty, in answer to any communication which might be made to her to learn her pleasure as to the reception of the House, would probably name two o'clock this day; and he had given this intimation that hon. Members might have the opportunity of paying their respects to Her Majesty. In consequence of the intimation, the Report of the Address having been agreed to, it was ordered that the Address should be presented by the whole House this day, and Her Majesty would have adhered to the arrangement he had notified; but it was his painful duty to state, that in the course of that morning, intelligence had been received, which, though not direct and conclusive, still there was too much reason to fear was true, of the death of the reigning Duke of Saxe Cobourg-Gotha, the father of his Royal Highness Prince Albert, the Consort of Her Majesty. Under these circumstances, the House could not expect an adherence to the arrangement, and he would, therefore, move, that the order for the presentation of the Address by the whole House be rescinded; and that, under the circumstances of this case, the House should depart from the usual course, and that the Address should be presented by such Members of the House as were Members of Her Majesty's Privy Council.Sir R. Peel
 understood it had been stated last year that there were negotiations on foot with the American government on the subject of the Oregon territory. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether such negotiations were now pending, or whether there had been a cessation of them?Lord J. Russell
258 had also to move for a committee with reference to the Merchant Seamen's Fund, a subject of considerable importance and interest. Shortly after the commencement of the last Session of Parliament his attention was drawn to this subject and he found that committees had been appointed some years ago, and had made several recommendations, but that no steps had been taken to embody those recommendations into a law, and, indeed, the committees had not recommended such a proceeding. He must say, that apparently there was strong ground for the reasonableness of this course, for the committee were of opinion that any change must be approached gradually. On looking into the reports, however, it appeared to him plain that the Merchant Seamen's Fund was in a state which called for more stringent measures than the committee recommended. There were certain defects in the system which the committee proposed to remove, such as the uncertainty and irregularity of the administration of the fund in different parts of the country, and the necessarily expensive system which this involved; but on looking further into the neglect, graver difficulties presented themselves to view—for instance, it was extremely doubtful whether, if, at this moment, the affairs of the fund were to be wound up, it would be able to meet its liabilities. Gentlemen were aware that it was in the nature of a great insurance company. It had payments to make which were of an immediate nature, but it had also liabilities which would arise at distant and remote periods. As to the payment of pensions, he believed that no difficulty could possibly arise; but the ultimate solvency formed the difficulty, and the whole question was one which required the immediate and serious attention of Parliament. There were two reasons why the Government considered it advisable to appoint a select committee—first, that the matter had been already considered by a select committee, and the House would thereby have the assistance and advice of many Gentlemen who had turned their minds and attention to it; and the other reason which influenced the Government to come to the same conclusion was, that the merchant seamen, who as a class had, of all others, perhaps the strongest—certainly no other class had stronger—claims upon the sym-
258Mr. Gladstone
260 begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman opposite that some of the most serious considerations connected with this subject, and those which created the greatest difficulties, had not been investigated at all by the former committee. The main point of the foundation of the fund, and the means of permanent payment, had never been touched upon. There were certainly a number of recommendations upon details of a sub-
260Mr. Gladstone
"That a select committee be appointed to consider whether any, and what new provisions ought to be introduced into such railway bills as may come before this House during the present or future Sessions, for the advantage of the public and the improvement of the railway system; and likewise to consider whether any and what changes ought to be made in the standing orders relating to railways, and to report their opinion thereon to the House."239238bonâ fide237236235234233bona fide, said, that he rose to bring under the notice of the House the important subject of Railways, which had on previous occasions been submitted to select committees, for the purpose of inquiry, but in several respects they have left their labours incomplete; and he felt fully justified in asking the House to appoint a new committee to inquire into many points 'connected with Railways. Before proposing his motion, he felt it necessary to explain the objects that he had in view; but he should be very brief in the statement which he was about to make to the House, as he thought that, instead of entering into an explanation of the views of the Government on the subject, it would be better to refer them to the committee for consideration and examination. There were, however, one or two points to which he felt called upon to refer. The Government was of opinion, after careful observation, and after the experience of several years, that it would be well to consider whether there should not be some modification in the Standing Orders respecting railways. One of these Standing Orders, which had affected all the railway bills which have hitherto passed, directed that before the bill was proceeded with, 10 per cent. Of the capital which it was estimated would be required to be laid out should be deposited. An opinion had been extensively entertained that there would be no disadvantage in reducing the proportionate amount of capital required as a deposit; and that, provided it was clear that the character of the proposed undertaking was "That a select committee be appointed to consider whether any, and what new provisions ought to be introduced into such railway bills as may come before this House during the present or future Sessions, for the advantage of the public and the improvement of the railway system; and likewise to consider whether any and what changes ought to be made in the standing orders relating to railways, and to report their opinion thereon to the House."239238bonâ fide237236235234233bona fide,Mr. Gladstone
242 said, that he ought probably to have stated the reasons which had induced him to draw up his motion in the form in which he had proposed it. He was anxious, that the attention of the committee should be directed, in the first instance, to those railway companies which were about to apply to the House for additional powers. He hoped, also, that he should shortly be enabled, with the concurrence of all the existing railway companies, to submit the general subject of railway
242Mr. Gladstone
254 conceived, that the House was bound to maintain in the hands of the existing railway companies, to as large an extent as was consistent with the public interest, the powers which it had given them, and on the faith of which they had invested large sums of money. At the same time, he must say, that as far as he had observed, it appeared to him, that there was some reason to complain of the want of accommodation upon the railways, on the part of persons in the lower class of society. The right hon. President of the Board of Trade had been urged by several Gentlemen to enlarge the powers proposed to be given to the committees, and to extend their inquiries to a far wider sphere. He concurred in this suggestion, and trusted his right hon. Friend would attend to what had been pointed out to him on this subject; the committee might in the first instance, indeed, confine itself strictly to the points affecting the applications about to come before Parliament, and then proceed to others. There was one question which, in his opinion, it behoved the House to turn its attention to, but which could not be reached by the terms of the resolution as it stood. He referred to the necessity which he thought existed for introducing a provision, empowering parties to resort to some other process of assessment of property required to be taken for railways, than the ordinary jury. He believed no person who had been engaged in controversies of this nature could fail to be aware how extremely imperfect a tribunal an ordinary jury was, for the assessment of compensation to parties affected by railway lines. He knew of cases of very considerable hardship which had occurred. Persons, whose property was affected by a railway speculation, were quite at the mercy of the company; if they asked what they deemed a fair price for their property, they were often fain to take less, threatened by the company with reference to a jury; for what was this reference? The reference to twelve men whom you cannot challenge, and chosen in such a way that it is impossible for you to know what interest they have in the speculation, and the consequence was, that very great injustice was frequently inflicted. He wished the right hon. Gentleman to take this point into consideration. The most effectual remedy would be to refer such questions to arbitration instead of to a jury; he
254Mr. S. Wortley
"I thank you for this dutiful and loyal Address. The declaration that you are anxious to co-operate with Me in My earnest endeavours to promote the welfare of My people, is most satisfactory. You may be assured, that it is the invariable object and constant care of My life to promote the happiness, and to deserve the confidence, of all classes of My subjects. (as Treasurer of the Household) appeared at the bar, in the Windsor Uniform, and bearing a white wand. The messenger in attendance announced "Her Majesty's answer to the Address." His Lordship said: I am commanded by Her Majesty to inform the House that on Saturday last she received the Address of your hon. House, which Her Majesty was graciously pleased to receive, and to give the following answer:
"I thank you for this dutiful and loyal Address. The declaration that you are anxious to co-operate with Me in My earnest endeavours to promote the welfare of My people, is most satisfactory. You may be assured, that it is the invariable object and constant care of My life to promote the happiness, and to deserve the confidence, of all classes of My subjects.Earl Jermyn
 wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it were his intention to renew the committee on the subject of the Post-office; and whether certain papers ordered by the committee would be laid on the Table of the House? Also, whether a paragraph which he had seen in the papers, and which stated that the whole of the revenue derived from the Post-office was to be applied to carry out certain improvements in that department, was correct?Mr. Hawes
246 said, he was induced to rise in consequence of some observations the hon. Gentleman had made with reference to a particular railway, the Great Western, with which he (Mr. Russell) was intimately connected. The hon. Gentleman told the House that he understood third-class passengers were conveyed by that railway only by night; it was perfectly true that third-class passengers did travel by night, but there was also a day train by which they were conveyed. The hon. Gentleman talked of the length of time occupied by the third-class travellers on their journey. He should be glad to know how third-class passengers could travel by any other mode of conveyance so rapidly? Starting at half-past four in the morning, they reached Exeter, a distance of more than 200 miles, by nine at night. The hon. Gentleman said that third-class passengers were obliged to stand up: this was an entire mistake, the fact being that commodious seats were provided for them. It was true, indeed, as the hon. Gentleman said, that the third class carriages were not covered in, but there were backs to each carriage which
246Mr. Charles Russell
256 perfectly coincided in the opinion, that these companies considered their own interests alone, and cared nothing for that of the public. He had felt it his duty always to stand in opposition to every proposition of every railroad whatever, and he found no reason to change that opinion. He considered it to be the duty of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, of the committee and of the whole House to take all possible precautions against the gross attacks and inroads that were made upon that which, until railways were introduced had been always held sacred—the rights of private property. The grossest attacks had been made upon those rights by these monopolising and irresponsible companies—for such they were in every sense of the word. He called upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer to avail himself of the opportunity, and to lay a fair tax upon these
256Colonel Sibthorp
 begged to say one word in reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. That right hon. Gentleman had pronounced a high eulogium upon the system of railways in England. He could not hear that without protesting against it. He asserted that in consequence of the system adopted in England upwards of 20 millions of the public money had been uselessly expended, and three times the charge had been imposed upon the public beyond the amount in Belgium, where the government interfered.Mr. French
231 said, he did not see any necessity for moving for a renewal of the Post-office committee. He had no objection to lay any returns moved for by the committee, as far as it was possible, on the Table of the House. He had seen in the papers the letters referred to, but, he believed, that it was not in his power to produce them. They were principally letters addressed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to Mr. Hill, and by that gentleman to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Some of them were private communications, and were consequently papers of which, in many instances, copies would riot be kept, and therefore, as regarded himself, it would be very difficult to obtain them, and with reference to his predecessor, he could not, of course, undertake to produce the correspondence of that right hon. Gentleman. With re-
231The Chancellor of the Exchequer
259 confessed, that he was somewhat disappointed at the course which the right hon. Gentleman had taken. Early in the last Session, he (Mr. Labouchere) had called the attention of the Government to the subject, and from what the right hon. Gentleman then said, he had hopes that the Government would in this Session, not propose a committee of inquiry, but would be prepared with a well considered measure for the deliberation of die House. The subject had already been thoroughly sifted and examined by a committee. In 1840, when he filled the situation which the right hon. Gentleman now occupied, complaints were received from the ports as to the application of the Merchant Seamen's Fund. He thought it perfectly right, as the right hon. Gentleman also thought, that the matter should undergo a previous investigation before a committee of the House of Commons, at which the representatives of the seaports could attend, before the Government was pledged; but the subject having been considered by a committee of the House of Commons, that committee having received a great deal of evidence, and having drawn up a detailed and voluminous report, in which they made certain distinct and definite propositions, he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should find it necessary again to refer it to a committee for consideration. The right hon. Gentleman said, that the previous committee had not recommended legislation. He found that they did expressly recommend legislation. They said in their report that, upon consideration of the whole subject, they ventured to
259Mr. Labouchere
241240 did not rise for the purpose of objecting to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. On the contrary, he was very glad that the Government had brought forward the question, because he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that great good would be likely to result from such an investigation as was proposed. He rose merely to make a suggestion as to the terms of the motion. The right hon. Gentleman had said truly, that the Legislature stood in a different position with regard to existing railway companies, to that with regard to new companies not having yet obtained their bills. The right hon. Gentleman also said truly, that when railway companies asked for new powers, Parliament was justified in making any new provision which it might think fit; therefore, when the House proceeded to legislate as regarded any railway company, it should proceed with great caution and deliberation. But if he understood the right hon. Gentleman rightly, he proposed that the committee should examine the whole subject of railway legislation. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed a hope, in which he (Mr. Labouchere) was sure that all hon. Members would join, that these questions, might, if possible, by amicable arrangements, be settled with the different railroad companies; and the right hon. Gentleman added, that he entertained strong hopes that the committee would be enabled to make such recommendations as would induce the old railway companies which did not call upon
241240Mr. Labouchere
 said, there was one point to which he thought it necessary to call the attention of the House, which was the use of railroads on the Lord's day. He was quite sure the committee would not, and could not, calmly contemplate any deliberate desecration of the Lord's day; and if the convenience of the commercial and travelling public were to be studied, he trusted it would not be forgotten that there was another public—the religious and moral public—whose feelings ought not to be disregarded. Great offence had been given by what was considered the undue use of railroads on the Lord's day, and he hoped that this grave and important subject would receive due consideration.Mr. Plumptre
l.;l.l.245l.l.,244243 was very glad that the right hon. Gentleman had taken up this important subject, and had brought it under the consideration of the House. He could not, however, understand the sort of half-and-half way in which the right hon. Gentleman intended to deal with the subject. There could be no doubt that a great revolution had been made in our social relations, and a new element had been introduced by the adoption of the railway system. These companies came to Parliament and asked it to create certain monopolies, for these companies were undoubtedly of that character, and to this Parliament had assented upon certain conditions. He would request the right hon. Gentleman to consider this question as a whole, and not in parts and fractions, but as one great monopoly question. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would go into the whole subject, and not content himself with dealing merely with those cases in which railway companies applied for fresh powers. It should be remembered that this monopoly had been forced upon us by the extraordinary advances that had been recently made in physical science, and which could not have been dreamt of twenty years ago. He wished to deal with the railway companies which were now in existence in the same way that they would deal with those new companies which now came to Parliament for the first time. These companies obtained certain monopolies from Parliament, and it undoubtedly possessed the right and power to deal with them. He therefore regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had limited the powers of the committee, by shackling their inquiries. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman had fallen into some confusion of ideas respecting competing lines. The right hon. Gentleman said, that competing lines would tell against the public, and would not be productive of benefit. Now let them take the case referred to by the right hon. Member for Taunton. The Great Western went to Bath, and the South Western to
l.;l.l.245l.l.,244243Mr. Roebuck
 said, he had last Session received a great number of petitions from Montrose and other seaports on the coast of Scotland, desiring to be enabled to lay their grievances before some committee. He, therefore, thought that such a committee, undertaken by the Government, with a desire to see and to remedy all evils was a proper step, and he could see no objection to it. He hoped there would be no unnecessary delay, and that some legislation would take place before the end of the Session.Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet would object to lay on the Table of the House the papers relative to the Oregon territory?Mr. Hume
d.,d.,s.255 agreed in the necessity of referring this very important subject to a competent authority, but if it were intended to confine it to the remodelling the existing orders only, he believed the committee would meet to little purpose. He had heard it said, that the application making for new competing lines had been equal at least to one half of the existing ones. The right hon. President of the Board of Trade had himself, indeed, laid the ground for a complete revision of the railway laws of the existing companies. In addition to what had been so clearly pointed out that evening, there was one subject which of itself demanded an extension of the powers of the committee. Last year, the Chancellor of the Exchequer made a most important alteration, and as far as regarded the travel-ling public, a most advantageous one, in reference to the principle on which the tax on railways should be levied, changing it from a uniform mileage on all fares to a percentage on the gross receipts. To a certain extent this had worked advantageously; and if this committee were to have power to enquire into the whole case of the working of existing railroads, there would result, he was certain, suggestions which would in their turn lead to the realization of what seemed to be generally considered an important object, the extension of third-class carriages, and additional accommodation to passengers in a humble station. One of those suggestions was, that there should be no tax at all on fares below a certain amount. At the present moment, the public income derived from railways, which many persons thought an altogether, objectionable revenue, amounted to 80 per cent. from the first and second class fares, the remaining 20 being contributed by the third class fares. Now, if the tax on these lower class fares were remitted altogether, this, he had reason to believe, from conversations with the directors of the Great Western and other railways, would form an inducement for them to attach third class carriages to almost every train. As to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Greenock, respecting the Greenock and Glasgow Railway, he would beg to observe that the railway in question was one of the very cheapest in the kingdom.
d.,d.,s.255Mr. P. M. Stewart
 said: I wish, Sir, to call the attention of the House to a report current in London at the present moment, which it is most important should be either contradicted, or set at rest in some way. It is that the civil list has been greatly exceeded, and that there is an enormous amount of debt, which will render it necessary to apply to Parliament for the grant of a loan. I wish to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government whether there is any truth in the rumour, or not?Mr. Blewitt
249248247 said he was the person who had proposed the former committee on Railways, which he obtained from the late Government, and he had devoted much attention to the subject; he wished, therefore, to say a few words now. And first let him say he was very gratified to find the Government instituting this inquiry; and when it was appointed he hoped it would be enabled to conduct its inquiries in that spirit which had been so well described by the hon. Member for Bath; that it would not be an inquiry upon an isolated point or two, but that it would be conducted on this principle—that the poorer classes of the country have always had, and always ought to have, an equal right to equal accommodation on the public roads of England, Scotland, and Ireland with the richer classes of the people, and that they ought not to have a distinction so glaringly marked between them on these railways. The exclusion, to a large extent, on the roads of the
249248247Mr. Wallace
230 wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department one or two questions on the subject of medical legislation. The right hon. Baronet last
230Mr. Macaulay
229 said, it might be in the recollection of the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, that on two occasions last Session he inquired if he was prepared to lay on the Table the instructions given to our cruisers on the coast of Africa relative
229Sir Charles Napier
 trusted the right hon. Gentleman would do what he could to correct the abuses existing in the administration of this fund. He had received many complaints from the sea-ports of its misapplication, and if he could be of any use in sitting upon the committee, he should be happy to form one of the number.Sir C. Napier
 (in reply to a question from Mr. Macaulay) said he had no objection to lay before the House the only two medical charters which had been issued to the College of Surgeons of London and Dublin. He had two bills nearly ready, which he should shortly ask leave of the House to introduce—one with reference to the College of Physicians, and the other to provide for the regulation of medical practice generally throughout the kingdom.Sir J. Graham
232: I feel surprised that the hon. Gentleman should be so credulous as to believe a report of the sort. I must say, that I should have thought that any Member of this House who has observed the conduct of Her Majesty during the whole course of her reign, would with confidence have referred, to that course, and have
232Sir R. Peel
 then moved the order of the day for taking into consideration the Queen's Speech, whenSir R. Peel
 said, he would answer the first question of the gallant commodore to-morrow or the next day. As to the second, he was not in possession of any further information as to the intention of the American government to place military posts on the line towards the Oregon, than that which the gallant officer was already aware of.Sir R. Peel
 said, that, as the papers related to a matter of so much importance, he thought the hon. Gentleman would take the wisest course by not pressing for their production at that time.Sir R. Peel
 said, that if he recollected rightly, he stated last year, that which was exactly in conformity with the fact, namely, that the British Government had originated a communication with the Government of the United States, with regard to the extreme advantage of proceeding amicably in the arrangement for the settlement of the disputed points; and certainly the answer which had been received to that communication, justified the British Government in hoping that before this, some progress would have been made towards an arrangement. A change had recently taken place in the person of Her Majesty's representative at Washington, and the new Minister had gone out with full instructions on the subject, which he hoped would be productive of the end desired.Sir R. Peel
l.2521.l.l.251250 hoped that the House would accede to the proposition of his right hon. Friend, and in the first instance direct its attention to the proposal which was immediately made—that was to say, there being many applications for the establishment of new companies, and some proposals for the amalgamation of existing companies, that the House should proceed to appoint a committee for the purpose of considering what new conditions should be attached to the companies, in producing new lines of railway, and to the other companies which simply proposed to form a union together. There were good reasons for their confining themselves, in the first instance, to one particular inquiry; it was most important that they should not interrupt the progress of legislation, but at as early a period as possible, make a specific report on those points which affected the interests of new companies, and of companies which proposed to unite. The House was aware, unfortunately, of the expense attending litigation as to railways, and would, therefore, consider it a public object to relieve, as far as possible, these new companies from any expense which could properly be spared; and the committee which his right hon. Friend proposed could not do better than to direct its attention to that specific object, what conditions should be imposed upon the new or amalgamated companies They were perfectly authorised in attaching what conditions they pleased, to place what limitations they thought proper as to profits, and to impose what regulations they deemed right, on the applying companies as to the conveyance of third class passengers. He was not at all insensible to the evils of the monopoly which he considered Parliament had given to the existing railway companies; but he must contend for this great principle—that there was a material distinction to be drawn between companies approaching Parliament for the first time, and asking for
l.2521.l.l.251250Sir R. Peel
 said, that at present he could only go so far as to say, that he hoped that he should be able during the present session, to introduce a Bill to abolish the import duty of two-and-a-half per cent. now levied on goods introduced into the Isle of Man; he also hoped that he should be able to adopt some plan for the modification to a limited extent of the licensing system, so as to exempt many articles from its operation.Mr. Gladstone
 thanked the right hon. Baronet for the great measure which he had proposed, one of the most important provisions of which was the limitation of the laws of labour for females. He hoped, however, that his right hon. Friend would take a further step in the right direction, by applying a similar rule to young men, which had also been recommended by the inspector of factories, in his report dated the 15th of January in the present year. Although he gave the measure his hearty approval, he hoped it would yet be materially improved.Mr. Stuart Wortley
287 thought this a fair subject for the consideration of the House. For himself, he had thought it his duty to look in some degree to what had been done on former occasions; and had he found any rule laid down by which persons connected with railways were excluded from a participation in the conduct of inquiries as to railways, he should very gladly have accepted the exemption,
287Mr. Gladstone
 proposed the following Gentlemen as a select committee on Railways:—Mr. W. Gladstone, Mr. Labouchere, Lord Seymour, Mr. Wilson Patten, Viscount Sandell, Mr. Gisborne, Lord Granville Somerset, Sir John Easthope, Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Russell, Mr. Patrick Maxwell Stewart, Mr. Greene, Mr. Maclean, Mr. Tbornley, and Mr. Cardwell.Mr. Gladstone
292291 thus appealed to, was quite willing to state his opinion. He must confess, then, that it appeared to him to be extremely desirable, if the House was prepared to admit that parties interested were in any form or degree to be allowed to act on the committee, that the directors of railways should be upon it. There was an abstract objection he would grant, to every person who had a personal interest; but this objection alike applied to shareholders in railways and directors; indeed there were many shareholders who had a far larger share in their respective companies than some of the directors. Mr. Glyn, he had understood, whose name was so intimately connected with the subject, had no more
292291Mr. Gladstone
 expressed a hope that there would be some Gentlemen placed upon the committee who were connected with Ireland.Mr. Hamilton
 said since he had spoken some Gentlemen had expressed their willingness to retire; that made a difference in his resolution. He was not anxious to press the appointment of the committee at the present moment, those Gentlemen having expressed the sentiments they had.Mr. Gladstone
326s.s.: The hon. Gentleman had said that he regretted to see him (Colonel Sibthorpe) on that side of the House. He had sat in the company of his hon. Friends around him for many years, and he hoped he should remain there a great many years more. With regard to the condition of the country, it had been said by the hon. Gentleman opposite, that wages had been lowered. That was not the case in the county with which he was connected. He had letters from farmers in that county informing him, that the labourers there were fully employed, and that they were perfectly content with every thing but the movements of the Anti-Corn-law League. The labourers in Lincoln were receiving 12326s.s.Colonel Sibthorpe
334333 had ascertained that five of the individuals alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman were confined in an apartment of very small size for a period nearly, but not exactly, as long as that mentioned by him. On the morning on which they were arrested, they were taken to the guard-house, and the persons who had the custody of them, having been informed that there was danger of an attempt to rescue, and a rescue having been effected a few days previously, they put the prisoners in the place in question, rather than in a room not sufficiently secured. That was clone between three and four o'clock in the morning, and the prisoners were liberated between eight and nine; but the door was frequently opened during the morning, and when any of the
334333The Lord-Advocate
332331 regretted, that he should delay the House going into committee of Supply, but as this was an occasion on which he might constitutionally bring under notice what he considered an attack upon the liberty of the subject, he would take leave to ask the Lord-Advocate a question as to an unfortunate dispute which had recently occurred in Scotland arising out of the unhappy divisions at present existing in the Church. A
332331Mr. F. Maule
 would not on this occasion do more than express the warm thanks which he felt were due to Government for the advance they had now made towards a right settlement of this most important question, and he was sure that the whole country would share in that feeling of gratitude.Lord Ashley
290 would have been glad to have had the opinion of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade more fully stated on the subject of those persons nominated who were connected with railways. The general sense of the House was, that persons holding important offices in the management of railways ought not to be included in such a com-
290Lord John Russell
294293 said, it was of the utmost importance that this committee should be a committee carrying with it considerable weight, and worked with the utmost impartiality. He was sure that the right hon. Gentleman was anxious to place upon it those who were most competent and most impartial; but at the same time he must say he thought the right hon. Gentleman had not answered the objection of the noble Lord—that the railway interest was too strongly represented, and on that ground a sufficient objection to its composition was, that the committee would have to consider not only those bills which bad been already, or might be hereafter, brought before the House, but also by instructions hereafter to be issued, to consider whether any and what alterations should be made in the regulations of railways already established. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that this was a most important era in railway history—that there were sixty-six bills of which notice had been given, and that it would be the duty of the committee to consider, not only the Standing Orders with respect to new bills, but also to deliberate whether
294293Mr. Hawes
The Times285284 was desirous of expressing his thanks to the right hon. Baronet for having brought in this bill at an early period of the Session. He, like the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, would have been extremely delighted if the right hon. Baronet had made some further alterations in the hours of labour, and he did hope that in a future stage of the measure that part of the subject would meet with the serious consideration of the Government. It was not without some regret, that he heard the Member for Montrose express his disapprobation of this bill; that regret was increased, when he remembered how often he had voted with that hon. Gentleman in favour of free-trade, and he could not refrain from earnestly impressing upon him, and upon those who agreed with him in politico-economical doctrines, the expediency of reconsidering the vote which they were about to give on this bill. As to the right of the Government to interfere in such a matter, he must be allowed to say, that it was a right which no one could think of questioning. In the practical operation of the manufacturing system there were great moral and physical evils, and if the Legislature gave its aid to the establishment of manufactures, it was entitled to take care that the evils which they produced should not be allowed to exist at the expense of the great body of the people. Manufactures were a great good, but we should not purchase them at too high a price. He had not forgotten how frequently the friends of the working classes had been told, that to protect the labourer would be to foster foreign competition. This he believed to be a fallacy; for as every one must remember, a bill was introduced by Lord Althorp in the year 1833, to diminish, in some degree, the evils to which the working classes were exposed; and at that time it was predicted, that we should
The Times285284Mr. Hindley
 replied that this bill did not come within the Standing Order referred to.The Speaker
288 considered that if the House agreed to the motion of the hon. Member for Greenock it would be acting on quite a different principle from that which it had hitherto pursued. On all former committees to inquire into particular interests, whether mercantile or agricultural, the practice had always been, not merely to allow, but to make it a point, that there should be appointed, as members of such committee, a certain number of gentlemen specially and directly interested in the particular subject inquired into; and there was no reason why a railway inquiry committee should not follow the rule which had been uniformly carried out in all similar committees. With this view of the point, if the hon. Member pressed his motion to a division, he should vote for a retention of the name of the right hon. Gentleman, who, from his official situation, was a very proper person to form part of this committee, notwithstanding the admitted fact of his holding railway shares. It was another question whether the railway interest did not preponderate in the composition of this committee. He must confess, for himself, that on looking over the list of names, his impression was, that the railway interest was represented in that committee to a degree which might deprive the committee, in some measure, of that weight with the public which, for any useful purpose, it ought to possess. But this was quite a different question from the unjust,
288Mr. Labouchere
 wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether the negotiations for forming commercial treaties between this country and France and Portugal had entirely ceased? It would be in the recollection of the House, that when the revised tariff was under consideration, the right hon. Baronet postponed dealing with certain important articles, in consequence of these negotiations, for instance, silk, brandy, and wine. He presumed that he ought not now to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he intended to do anything respecting the duties on those articles during the present session, but he thought that he might ask whether it were the intention of the Government to bring forward a Customs Bill at an earlier period than the usual Customs Bill was generally introduced.Mr. Labouchere
295 would state some conclusive reasons why he should not be placed upon the committee. In the first place, with regard to the details of the necessary regulations, he had no experience or knowledge whatever. In the next place, he held an office which took up his whole time, and would prevent his attendance at the committee; and, in the next place, although he was no subscriber to a railway, yet notice had been given of a bill in which he should be expected by his constituents to take more interest than otherwise by becoming a subscriber. These were reasons why he should not be placed on the committee. He considered the objections to the constitution of the committee to be very forcible; but he thought the objection urged by the hon. Member for Bath the most cogent of all. He did
295Mr. Warburton
 wished to put a question to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, respecting the import duties into the Isle of Man. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government during the present session to bring forward any measure to abolish the import duty of two-and-a-half per cent. which was now so injuriously levied on the import of English manufactures into the Isle of Man, and also whether there was any intention on the part of the Government to remove or modify the present licensing system respecting imports into that place, which was attended with so much injustice.Dr. Bowring
 would vote for the retention of the name of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade; but he quite agreed with what appeared to be a general feeling in the House against the admission into the committee of certain gentlemen, on account of their being deeply interested in the particular subject of inquiry. As the list at present stood, the railway interest was most unduly represented. Take one case among many others. There was Mr. Russell, the chairman of the Great Western Railway, nominated as one member, a man deeply interested in the subject of the inquiry, and in its results. There would be Mr. Russell acting on one and the same committee as a member putting questions, as a witness answering questions, as a party negotiating, and as a judge deciding; and the same would be the case with several other gentlemen. Persons connected with railways, and persons connected with the Government, would have the whole thing entirely to themselves, and the interests of the travelling public would find no representative in the enquiry.Mr. Roebuck
 said, that the right hon. Gentleman represented this as a novel proceeding. Now, he believed that the principle of conduct adopted in committees was much the same as that which prevailed in the House, and he would state that in the House he had himself, on more than one occasion, challenged the votes of Gentlemen upon questions in which they were personally interested. He had, for instance, challenged the votes of Mr. Pascoe Grenfell and other Members upon a question affecting the St. Katherine's Docks, on the ground that those Gentlemen were pecuniarily interested in that undertaking; the challenge was taken into consideration, the reason assigned admitted to be a valid one, and the votes were struck out. On previous occasions a similar principle had been acted upon by the House, and the same principle of securing a thoroughly impartial tribunal ought always to be carried into committees. He recollected having made, on a former occasion, a similar objection to that now advanced, and the answer he then received was, the committee has to ascertain facts; it is, therefore, desirable to have on the committee parties for and against the question. By this means the truth on both sides will be best elicited and the completest report be drawn up, because each party will take care to have the information supplied which best meets its views; and the House having thus full information on both sides will be the better able to come to a proper decision. But, despite this argument, he was of opinion that persons connected with the particular question should not sit on the committee.Mr. Hume
282 could not understand why the same regulations should not apply to other labourers as well as to those which the bill of the right hon. Baronet sought to benefit. Why not include every class of manufacturers in the country where children were employed? How much better would it be if the Government would take into consideration the causes of the present state of society, viz., the want of employment. The reports of the Factory commissioners proved that the Government could not legislate successfully on this subject, and he was anxious that they should look at the causes, and not attempt thus to plaster up the effects of bad legislation. He thought, moreover, that it was most unjust, that there should be a law to prevent the employment of children in one manufactory and allow it in another. As to the production of certificates of the education of the children to be provided
282Mr. Hume
325324Hear, hear!Times"To be in such a position as to have no will of our own in making the laws by which we are governed, either in person, or by our representatives.""To be free (said the writer) was to be in a condition to give assent to the laws of the state, either in person or by those representatives in whose election the people had a voice."323322321 wished to draw the attention of the House to the real objects of the motion of his hon. Friend, which had been to a great extent avoided by the right hon. Baronet. He must admit, that some parts of his hon. Friend's arguments did not strike him as being so forcible as others; but he would put it to the right hon. Baronet, whether any time could be so appropriate, and whether his hon. Friend could avail himself of any opportunity more fitting to bring before the House the state of the country, than that he had chosen for the purpose? He could not, therefore, agree with the right hon. Baronet, that this was not the fitting occasion to introduce such a resolution as had been proposed. The right hon. Baronet had not taken notice of the important part of the motion. The first observation of his hon. Friend was, that many of the wishes of the people were neglected and passed by without consideration by the House. Now, was that denied? Did the right hon. Gentleman deny the universal suffering of the people? And, if not, why did not he turn his attention to the subject, with a view to providing a remedy for the evil? His hon. Friend had said, that it was this admitted suffering that formed one of the principal grounds for bringing forward his motion. True, it might be difficult to meet that giant grievance, but look at the extent of the destitution, and the various instances of distress and suffering which occurred daily in a land like this, abounding in wealth and luxury. What he asked, therefore, was, that the House should should turn its attention to that which
325324Hear, hear!Times"To be in such a position as to have no will of our own in making the laws by which we are governed, either in person, or by our representatives.""To be free (said the writer) was to be in a condition to give assent to the laws of the state, either in person or by those representatives in whose election the people had a voice."323322321Mr. Hume
 said, that as one of those whose names were introduced on the committee, there need be no difficulty or delicacy in disposing of his humble name as the House should think fit. His name had been placed on the list without consultation by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade. He certainly felt grateful for the selection, although not in the least ambitious of the distinction which it conferred. After the manner in which the compliment had been paid him, it would have been uncourteous in him to decline, but the House would judge of his fitness or unfitness for an office of so much importance to the country when he stated that he was an honorary director of the Greenock railway, but not in any way connected with details, nor was he, as had been said by an hon. Member, a large holder of railway stock. It was of importance, that the right hon. Gentleman should consider what weight belonged to the objection raised against the fitness of some members of the committee, and if he was convinced, from the arguments which had been used, that their names were liable to the objections urged against them, he recommended his right hon. Friend to postpone the measure until he should have reconstituted the committee; but he was the best judge in the case, and as his name had been put on the committee without his consent, he should not take the least offence if it were taken off without his consent.Mr. P. M. Stewart
286 wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair whether this was not one of those bills
286Mr. Blewitt
The rest of the sentence was drowned in the laughter of the House. said, he wished to correct an unfair statement which had been made out of doors, as to the question lie had put to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government respecting a deficiency in the Civil List. It had been stated in one of the morning journals that it was an unfair intrusion upon the Queen's private affairs. It had been stated as if he had believed the report, and had meant to prejudice Her Majesty in the estimation of the public. He most conscientiously declared, as a most loyal subject of Her Majesty, that that was not his feeling. There was not a Member of that House who was not aware of such a rumour being in circulation, and some might have believed it. Now, if he had been the humble instrument of putting an end to that report and of restoring Her Majesty to that popularity—[The rest of the sentence was drowned in the laughter of the House.Mr. Blewitt
 hoped it would not be considered that he had said one word personally affecting any one of the Gentlemen named, and when he objected to the name of the right hon. Gentleman on principle, he begged to assure him, that there was not one individual to whom, personally, he should have less objection than to him.Mr. Wallace
, seeing the President of the Board of Trade in his place, wished to put a question to him respecting a notice which he had just given. It was his intention, on the right hon. Gentleman moving for the appointment of the railway committee, to object to any hon. Member being placed on it who was either a director or holder of shares in any railway. He wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman could inform him how many, and which of the proposed Members of the committee, were directors or shareholders of railways?Mr. Wallace
 had a strong objection to any person being appointed on this committee who had a direct pecuniary interest in railways. There were no fewer than five directors of railways on the list now proposed, besides the right hon. Gentleman whose name was first on the list, and who, though not a railway director, was, as he himself had stated, a considerable proprietor of railway shares. In order to come to a vote on this question, he would content himself with proposing that the name of the right hon. Gentleman should be struck out of the list, and he felt convinced that a large portion of the House would support him, and notwithstanding the right hon. Gentleman's official position, merely in consequence of the suspicious circumstance of his being personally interested in the subject. The House had on former occasions decided that such a circumstance constituted a strong objection to the appointment of a Member on a particular committee. He would merely take this, the first name on the list liable to the objection; it would be unnecessary and invidious, at all events at present, to name the other persons on the list similarly situated.Mr. Wallace
 said, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman could inform him whether any return could be obtained from the Mint as to the number of light sovereigns of each date of coinage which had been returned to that establishment for re-coinage. He also wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether Government could lay any information before the House as to whether the lightness of the gold coinage was occasioned by wear, or by what was termed "sweating;" or some such process, and if so, as to what proportion this had been done?Mr. Gisborne
328 said, that he had a question to put to the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Treasury, respecting the Landlord and Tenant Commission. It was not his object to enter into any remarks upon the general question of the subject into which the Commission was constituted to inquire, but he wished to put the question of which he had given notice, observing that the House had been on a late occasion somewhat startled on hearing the right hon. Baronet observe, that the Commission was entirely composed of Irish landlords. The other statements made by the right hon. Baronet, were gratifying. The means which he stated had been submitted to the disposal of the Commission for the due accomplishment of their object, as well as what had been stated with reference to the appointment of a secretary, were all gratifying; but he did believe that it was impossible that the Commission could accomplish its object if it consisted merely of proprietors of land in Ireland. The discussion which had lately taken place with respect to the
328Mr. Wakley
274 replied, that he had made the fullest inquiries in the department with which he was connected, and the result was, that it appeared that there were no means of ascertaining the num-
274Mr. W Gladstone
275 was afraid that he could not, in answer to the question of the right hon. Gentleman, give a very satisfactory reply as far as regarded the composition of the committee. In making out the list of the proposed committee, he was governed, in a great measure, by the circumstance that, he selected the names of as many gentlemen as possible who had served on former committees on the subject of railways. As to the directors of railways in the proposed committee, he could give the hon. Gentleman some information, and also as to one shareholder. He knew that four hon. Members whom he proposed to place on this committee were directors of railways. The hon. Member for Reading was chairman of the Great Western Railroad Company; the hon. Member for Southampton was a director of the Southampton; the hon. Member for Clitheroe was a director of the South Eastern; and the hon. Member for Ren-
275Mr. W. Gladstone
 wished to state, without casting any imputation upon the Commission, that there was a general feeling in Ireland of dissatisfaction that the Commission was wholly composed of landlords. People would have greater confidence in the decision of the Commission, if some other persons than landlords were members of it. The object of the Commission was to inquire into how the interests of holders of small tenures could be best secured. Now, the larger tenant was competent to take care of himself; and he felt bound to say that there was no description of persons by whom the smaller tenants were more oppressed than by large holders or middle men. Although he was not disposed to acquit the landlord of all blame, by that class of middle men were the small tenants most oppressed; and, therefore, it would not be any protection to the great mass of the small farmers, to place middle men or large holders upon the Commission; but he did contend that it would be desirable that there should be one or two men of high character, who were neither landlords or tenants, but who, without being either, would take an interest in the investigation, and suggest such a Course of inquiry as might be most advantageous for the elucidation of the objects of the inquiry.Mr. Sharman Crawford
"That whereas complaints have been made to this House on various occasions, by petition, to the effect that the people are suffering under unjust and partial legislation, and under the effects of monopolies of various kinds, political and ecclesiastical, created and kept in existence for the benefit of favoured classes; that by the taxes imposed on food, for the support of one of these monopolies, the supply is restricted and the price raised, whilst at the same time the demand for labour is diminished and wages reduced, and the profits of manufacturing and commercial industry deeply injured; that the burthen of general taxation has been increased to an intolerable extent, by an extravagant expenditure in every department of the state, and that this taxation is so imposed as to press most oppressively and heavily on the industrial portion of the community; that laws have been passed injurious to the rights of the people, and arbitrary proceedings of Government have taken place dangerous to public liberty; that, in order to sustain this system, an unconstitutional amount of standing army is kept up for the home service, and the ancient constitutional constable superseded by hired police; all which would be wholly unnecessary if the grievances of the people were redressed, and just and impartial government established; it is further complained, that these and other grievances are produced by the bad constitution of the Commons' House; that by the limitation of the suffrage, the long duration of Parliaments, and corruption and undue influences in the election of representatives, this House, as at present constituted, does not truly represent and is not responsible to the people, and therefore does not legislate for their interests; that, notwithstanding frequent respectful petitions presented to this House, the complaints of the people have neither been inquired into nor redressed; that from these causes an alarming state of discontent prevails generally over the united kingdom; it is, therefore, the immediate duty of this House to make inquiry into these complaints; and as this House can have no right to vote supplies except as being the representatives of the people, it is imperatively necessary that the charges brought against its present constitution and competency in the petitions which have been received and recorded among its proceedings should be inquired into, and if found to be justly made, redressed, before this House shall proceed to the voting of supplies."303302301"That the House was not elected by the people, that its acts were irresponsible of the people, and passed by interested parties."300299298297 rose to make a motion, of which he had given notice on a preceding day. The motion was an unusual one, but it was one which he felt unusual circumstances called for. The ground on which he made his motion, was founded upon the continued refusal of that House to inquire into or redress the grievances of the people, which had frequently been brought before that House by petitions. It was his intention shortly to refer to the several points of grievance mentioned in the resolution which he should propose. Amongst the various grievances which had been stated to that House by petitions, one of the most important was, that that House was alleged not to be a fair representation of the people, and therefore it was said by the people that that House legislated unjustly for the interests of the people—that there was class legislation for the purpose of particular interests, and not for the interests of the whole community. It had been alleged in the corn-plaints which had been brought before that House that various monopolies bad been kept up for the purpose of maintaining those class interests, and that those monopolies were deeply injurious to the interests of the great body of the people. One of those monopolies of which the people most seriously complained, was the monopoly in the supply of corn, which they alleged was maintained for the purpose of protecting a particular interest. Taxes upon corn raised the price of the food of the working man, and at the same time they complained that it prevented the demand for his labour, and therefore, that by those taxes the interest of the merchant and that of the manufacturing public were greatly injured. That great question had been so often presented to their consideration and had been so often disregarded, that he should not then enter more particularly upon it. He merely referred to it as one of those griev-
"That whereas complaints have been made to this House on various occasions, by petition, to the effect that the people are suffering under unjust and partial legislation, and under the effects of monopolies of various kinds, political and ecclesiastical, created and kept in existence for the benefit of favoured classes; that by the taxes imposed on food, for the support of one of these monopolies, the supply is restricted and the price raised, whilst at the same time the demand for labour is diminished and wages reduced, and the profits of manufacturing and commercial industry deeply injured; that the burthen of general taxation has been increased to an intolerable extent, by an extravagant expenditure in every department of the state, and that this taxation is so imposed as to press most oppressively and heavily on the industrial portion of the community; that laws have been passed injurious to the rights of the people, and arbitrary proceedings of Government have taken place dangerous to public liberty; that, in order to sustain this system, an unconstitutional amount of standing army is kept up for the home service, and the ancient constitutional constable superseded by hired police; all which would be wholly unnecessary if the grievances of the people were redressed, and just and impartial government established; it is further complained, that these and other grievances are produced by the bad constitution of the Commons' House; that by the limitation of the suffrage, the long duration of Parliaments, and corruption and undue influences in the election of representatives, this House, as at present constituted, does not truly represent and is not responsible to the people, and therefore does not legislate for their interests; that, notwithstanding frequent respectful petitions presented to this House, the complaints of the people have neither been inquired into nor redressed; that from these causes an alarming state of discontent prevails generally over the united kingdom; it is, therefore, the immediate duty of this House to make inquiry into these complaints; and as this House can have no right to vote supplies except as being the representatives of the people, it is imperatively necessary that the charges brought against its present constitution and competency in the petitions which have been received and recorded among its proceedings should be inquired into, and if found to be justly made, redressed, before this House shall proceed to the voting of supplies."303302301"That the House was not elected by the people, that its acts were irresponsible of the people, and passed by interested parties."300299298297Mr. S. Crawford
312"Whenever this country presents the spec-
312s.d.s.s.d.,l.l.l.l.311l.,310l.l.,l.l.,l.;l.;l.l.l.,d.s.l.309d.s.l.l.,s.;l.l.;l.l.,l.;l.l.l.308l.,l.,307306"I cannot consent to any proposal for the increase of taxation on the great articles of consumption by the labouring classes of the community. I say, moreover, that I can give
306"It was expressly told the King by the Parliament, that they would grant no supplies unless he gave his assent to that bill, and they acted accordingly."305"That the people should send to this House their real representatives, to deliberate on their wants, and to consult on their interests; to consider their grievances, and to attend to their desires; to possess the vast power of holding the purse-strings of the monarch, and to lay the foundation for most salutary changes in the well-being of the people."304 rose to second the amendment of his hon. Friend without any hesitation; but had it involved the principle of a small minority of that House engaging itself to stop the supplies against a large majority, he should not be anxious to support it, knowing the vast and important results that would follow should it
312"Whenever this country presents the spec-
312s.d.s.s.d.,l.l.l.l.311l.,310l.l.,l.l.,l.;l.;l.l.l.,d.s.l.309d.s.l.l.,s.;l.l.;l.l.,l.;l.l.l.308l.,l.,307306"I cannot consent to any proposal for the increase of taxation on the great articles of consumption by the labouring classes of the community. I say, moreover, that I can give
306"It was expressly told the King by the Parliament, that they would grant no supplies unless he gave his assent to that bill, and they acted accordingly."305"That the people should send to this House their real representatives, to deliberate on their wants, and to consult on their interests; to consider their grievances, and to attend to their desires; to possess the vast power of holding the purse-strings of the monarch, and to lay the foundation for most salutary changes in the well-being of the people."304Mr. W. Williams
 wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet were prepared to lay upon the table the instructions which the Government had given to the commanders of cruisers on the coast of Africa?Sir C. Napier
 begged to mention to the right hon. Gentleman, as it was his intention to postpone and reconsider the constitution of the committee, that at present there were five Gentlemen on it connected with Lancashire.Sir G. Grey
 said, that since the close of last Session a very interesting report on the general question had been presented, and was now generally circulated throughout the country. He need not remind the House that Legislation on this subject was a matter of the utmost delicacy; and he was not, therefore, prepared to say that he should introduce any measure in the course of this Session. He was the more willing to delay the introduction of any measure on the subject, inasmuch as, generally speaking, the question of the health of large cities was now under the consideration of a commission, consisting of most eminent persons in science and knowledge of that subject; and until their report was given, he should not like to come to a final decision on the matter.Sir J. Graham
281280279"I am convinced that many females are employed as adults who do not fairly come under that class, but who are nevertheless obliged to work for hours beyond what ought to be required of them. Many of them work for thirteen, some for fourteen, and some for seventeen hours a day. Some are at constant work from six in the morning till twelve at night, less only by two hours for meals and rest. There are others who, after a day of hard toil, have only six hours in which to go home, take what rest they can get in the interval, and be back again at the factory; and let it be considered that on their return from their walks in inclement weather, they have to remain for many hours in a close room, in which the atmosphere is raised to a very high temperature. What constitution can hold out long against incessant toil of this description? Its fatal tendency is daily shown in the manufacturing districts by the ravages it makes on human life."278: It is now my duty, in pursuance of the notice which I have given, to ask leave of the House to introduce a bill for regulating the Employment of Children in Factories. It will not be necessary for me on this occasion to trouble the House at any considerable length, inasmuch as the principal provisions of the bill which I propose to introduce are nearly identical with those which were contained in the bill which I presented to the House last Session, and which were founded on the report which has been laid before the House. I will briefly state to the House what are the principal enactments I propose so far as they alter the law as it now exists. And first, with respect to the age of children now employed in factories, as to whose labour there is a limitation in point of time. As the law now stands, the word "child" applies to children who are admitted between the ages of eight and thirteen. I propose in the present bill that the age shall be altered, and the term "child" be applied to persons between the ages of nine and thirteen, instead of eight and thirteen, and that such children shall not be employed for a longer time than six
281280279"I am convinced that many females are employed as adults who do not fairly come under that class, but who are nevertheless obliged to work for hours beyond what ought to be required of them. Many of them work for thirteen, some for fourteen, and some for seventeen hours a day. Some are at constant work from six in the morning till twelve at night, less only by two hours for meals and rest. There are others who, after a day of hard toil, have only six hours in which to go home, take what rest they can get in the interval, and be back again at the factory; and let it be considered that on their return from their walks in inclement weather, they have to remain for many hours in a close room, in which the atmosphere is raised to a very high temperature. What constitution can hold out long against incessant toil of this description? Its fatal tendency is daily shown in the manufacturing districts by the ravages it makes on human life."278Sir James Graham
 said, that if the right hon. Gentleman could be relieved from any difficulty by withdrawing his name, he should be most happy to accede to such an arrangement. It was quite true that he was a nominal director of a rail-road. He had been chairman of a board of directors, but he now stood in the situation of being a director, and holding an interest in a railway. He was sure it was quite unnecessary to disavow the operation of any personal interest, but he would leave it to the right hon. Gentleman to select some other name to which no objection could be made, and in that proposition he repeated he should be most happy to concur.Sir John Easthope
 trusted that the noble Lord would not press him too much on the subject at present. The United States had not published the instructions it had issued to the commanders of its cruisers on the coast of Africa. He, however, could say generally, that, in the instructions that had been issued during the present year, they had maintained the principles for which this country had always contended, and that they were in substance the same as those which had been issued to the officers of Her Majesty's navy in former years.Sir R. Peel
 said, that the whole question of the instructions to be given to the commanders of cruisers respecting vessels under the French flag, in the performance of their duty in the detection of slave ships, had been referred to a commission composed of Dr. Lushington and a distinguished officer, who had seen a good deal of service on the coast of Africa, he meant Captain Bayne. He hoped that in the course of a few days he should have an opportunity of laying them on the table. With regard to instructions occasioned by negotiations with the United States, he could not say that they were consistent with the instructions formerly given, but he did not think a due regard to the public service would allow him to give a more explicit answer.Sir Robert Peel
277 said, that with respect to the negotiations for commercial treaties, which had been for some time carried on between this country and France and Portugal, he could state, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman, that he considered as the Government of Portugal had refused to acquiesce in the final proposition of the Government of this country, that the negotiation for a commercial treaty with that country had ceased. As to the negotiations with France, no advance had been made since the last Session of Parliament, but matters remained as they were, and he could not say when they would be brought
277Sir R. Peel
320319ad Græcas Calendas318317l.316315"This House can have no right to vote supplies, except, as being the representatives of the people, it is imperatively necessary that the charges brought against its present constitution and competency in the petitions which have been received and recorded among its proceedings, should be inquired into, and, if found to be justly made, redressed before this house shall proceed to the voting of supplies."314313—Sir, I am very willing to admit that the hon. Gentleman opposite is fully entitled to that credit which he took to himself of having discussed that motion he has this night brought forward, with moderation and temper. I think it is impossible for any man who has listened to the observations of the hon. Gentleman not to admit this—and I think, also, that it would not be just to attempt to raise any prejudice against this motion by imputing to the hon. Gentleman the possible design, at any future period, to obstruct the business of this House by frequent and vexatious motions of adjournment. Whatever course the hon. Gentleman may be hereafter advised to adopt—and my confidence in his good sense leads me to hope that unless supported by a very large body of the people out of doors, and by a majority within the House, he would not consider himself justified in pursuing that one to which I have just referred. Of the motion of the hon. Gentleman we must judge by a reference to its own merits; and I am sure that he will admit that I have met it in a corresponding spirit with that in which the hon. Gentleman has brought it under our notice. I take, therefore, this resolution as it is, and I ask the House at once whether, or not, it be for the public interest that this House should pass a vote in favour of it? The resolution, Sir, consists of two parts. The first insists on its being the immediate duty of this House to make inquiry into grievances alleged or complained of; and the second point denies the competency of the House to grant supplies or to perform any legislative functions whatever, by a defect in its constitution. Why, Sir, if this resolution were to be carried, the House of Commons would, to use a quotation of the hon. Member opposite, pronounce itself criminal in the face of the country, and the sooner it abandons its duty the better. This resolution, as well as the speech of the hon. Gentleman, is an impeachment of the power and competency of the House, the remedy suggested for which would be the greatest social revolution which any country has ever witnessed. Sir, the hon. Gentleman enumerates, among the grievances of the people, which he alleges require immediate redress; the monopoly enjoyed by the
320319ad Græcas Calendas318317l.316315"This House can have no right to vote supplies, except, as being the representatives of the people, it is imperatively necessary that the charges brought against its present constitution and competency in the petitions which have been received and recorded among its proceedings, should be inquired into, and, if found to be justly made, redressed before this house shall proceed to the voting of supplies."314313Sir R. Peel
330animus329 said, that there was one of the proposals of the hon. Gentleman which he certainly could not adopt—that of placing English tenantry in the Landlord and Tenant Commission for Ireland. If he entertained such a proposal he must as-
330animus329Sir R. Peel
289 would point out that the question as to the St. Katherine's Docks, was quite different from the present question. That was the case of Gentlemen voting on a particular measure, in which they were directly interested. This was a question whether persons interested in various railways were competent judges as to the rules to be enacted for the regulation of certain new railways about to be applied for. Obviously, this was quite a different thing from the case put by the hon. Member for Montrose. It would be a very inconvenient rule to lay down that persons connected with railways as shareholders should be excluded from railway
289Viscount Howick
276 wished to ask whether the Government had come to any understanding, or made any arrangements as to the power which the commanders of our vessels should have of visiting ships for the purpose of ascertaining their nationality? Although it might be unwise to lay on the Table such information as would afford information to slavers, still he thought that it was essential that Par-
276Viscount Palmerston
335, before the House proceeded to the Order of the Day, wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, a question, of which he had given him notice yesterday. The right hon. Baronet having, in the present and preceding Sessions, admitted that there unhappily existed much immorality and much crime, arising from gross ignorance in this country; that this ignorance could only be eradicated by an
335Mr. Wyse
 said, that he was now prepared to answer the question of the right hon. Gentleman. With respect to the amount of the grant voted in the estimates to be placed at the disposal of the committee of the Privy Council on Education, no decision had yet been taken by the Government. As for new orders or regulations by the committee of the Privy Council, for the purpose of giving greater extension or efficiency to their operations, he was enabled to state that some fresh orders in council had been adopted, which he should be happy to lay on the Table if the lion. Gentleman wished it, and would move for their production—Subject at an end.Sir James Graham
 thought that the integrity of our Indian empire would receive assistance from the knowledge of the fact, that some sympathy was exhibited in this country for the Ameers, and that even the Governor-general himself ought to be pleased that this sympathy was shown. The right hon. Gentleman said, that their return to Scinde was necessary if they were set at liberty; but they might be restrained, like the sons of Tippoo Saib, who, though released, were prohibited from returning to Mysore. In his opinion, however, if the people of Scinde were as happy and contented as they were described, the Ameers might even be admitted to Scinde without causing real danger. He must protest, in common with his noble Friend, against the doctrine of civilization being compelled to be unjust to barbarous states, propounded by the right hon. Baronet.Mr. Vernon Smith
458457: At that very late hour of the night, he would not avail himself of his privilege of reply, even if anything had been stated which affected his arguments. But he had not heard one single thing against his motion which ought to cause him to detain the House. There was only one thing which needed a word of comment. If the House were not to interfere, and if it were scrupulously to refuse to redress any evils, what became of the responsibility of the Governor-general?
458457Lord Ashley
"Heu pietas, heu prisca fides!"364"To the family of Tippoo, if we make allowance for the loss of a throne, as well as to the principal men of his kingdom, the conduct of the Governor-general was considerate and generous. The fortress of Vellore, in the Carnatic, was appropriated for the residence of the Royal Family, and fitted up commodiously for their reception, with an allowance for their support more liberal than that which they had received from Tippoo himself."363"Lord Cornwallis, attended by his staff, and some of the principal officers of the army, received them as they dismounted from their elephants, at the door of his great tent, embraced them, led them in by the hand, and seated them one on each side of himself; when he was thus addressed by the head Vakeel:—'These children were this morning the sons of the Sultan, my master; they must now look up to your Lordship as a father.' His Lordship assured, with earnestness, both the Vakeels and the Princes, that they should not feel the loss of a father's care. The faces of the children brightened up, and every spectator was moved."362"I will put you in irons on board a ship. Shere Mahomed is a very weak man, and will soon cause himself to be destroyed, and so will you unless you submit more quietly to the fate which your own rash folly has brought upon you. I will answer no more of your letters, which are only repetitions of gross falsehoods, which I will not submit to.""I am much surprised by the falsehoods which you tell—I will no longer bear this conduct; and if you give me any more trouble by stating gross falsehoods, as you have done, in your two letters, I will cast you into prison as you deserve; you are prisoners, and though I will not kill you as you ordered your people to do to the English;"361"The two sons of the late Meer Meer Mahomed are confined, one in Surat Castle, the other at Sassoor. On account of their separation their mother is grieved and much afflicted. It would lessen her grief and sorrow if both her sons were confined in the same place till they are released by the favour of the Queen, on whom we rely for justice; the distress of the brothers, too, would be lessened by sympathising with each other in the same place."360"Be it known that we poor brothers received monthly pay from Meer Nusseer Khan, at Hy-
360"The Ameers are thrown into the deepest grief, as they look upon their fate as irrevocably sealed, and that they must remain in India prisoners for life. Poor Sobdar is in utter amazement at the return we have made him for all his past services; and it is the opinion of every one at all acquainted with his history, that he has been most unjustly treated. The Governor-general will not allow them to be visited, except by the officers associated with them in duty, which they consider a great hardship.""I received frequent letters from the ladies of my family at Hyderabad, complaining that the sum of 550 rupees a month, which Sir Charles Napier allows for their expenses, is not sufficient for them and a hundred servants, besides the expense of keeping up an establishment of seven or eight houses; they are, consequently living in great distress, and suffering many privations."359"Had the Ameers been entirely masters over their own troops, it seems to be doubtful even now whether Sir Charles Napier would not have effected his purpose and carried the Treaty into execution without actual hostilities?"358357"It appears to me that the Ameers are now execrated for their dastardly submission (as they consider it) to what they style robbery. For the first time since I came to Scinde in an official capacity, I was received last night by a dense crowd with shouts, expressive of detestation of the British. Had we not been guarded by a numerous body of horse, headed by some of the most influential Beloochee chiefs, I dare say the mob would have proceeded to violence—it is evident the government did its utmost to protect us—the Ameers had been engaged in paying off and dismissing those who had flocked to the city since the
357"Finding Major Outram had given no pledge, they had sworn to march out and fight the British army; and that the Ameers had lost all control over them, and could not be answerable for what they did.""All the Ameers of Upper and Lower Scinde accepted the new Treaties in public durbar last night, and applied the seals to the drafts.""These fools are in the utmost alarm in consequence of the continued progress of your troops toward Hyderabad, notwithstanding their acceptance of the Treaty, which they hoped would have caused you to stop. If you come beyond Halla, I fear they will be impelled by their fears to assemble their rabble, with a view to defend themselves and their families, in the idea that we are determined to destroy them notwithstanding their submission.—P.S. I go to durbar this evening to receive the Ameers' acceptance of the treaties."356"I sent off Fitzgerald with a dispatch last
356"We deny the charges on which the new Treaty is imposed; but still we will subscribe it.""It is in your own power to prevent it by complying with the terms; the moment you do so I will dispatch a British officer to inform Sir Charles Napier.""You know how little under our control our Beloochees are. If the army advances they will plunder the whole country.""If the army advances, our Beloochees will not be restrained, and we shall be blamed for the consequences.""The question is whether you will, or will not, accept the new Treaty; if not, the army under Sir Charles Napier will continue to advance.""It was written that treasonable letters had been sent to Beebruck Boogtie and Sawun Mull. Why were those letters never produced? Why don't you give us an opportunity of disproving them? We never wrote them." Commissioner.—"The handwriting was ascertained to be that of one of your confidential scribes." Meer Nusseer Khan.—"I solemnly deny that it was written by my authority; why was not the paper shown to me?"355354"If this should fail, and the treaty flag (the writer continued) I shall proceed upon Hyderabad.""We yesterday came so close upon the traces of Meer Roostum, that, hearing that Major Outram was with me, he sent a message to him, to say, he was perfectly submissive. Major Outram asked my leave to go to him, as we were both convinced, that Ali Moorad had frightened him; the old man had been persuaded by Ali Moorad, that I meant to imprison him for life.""I made up my mind that although war has not been declared (nor is it necessary to declare it), I would at once march upon Emaun Ghur.353"I adhere to my original intention with respect to the Ameers. If any one of them commits an overt act of hostility, his possessions shall be altogether confiscated, and he shall depend upon the charity of his own family for his future subsistence.""I maintain that we only want a fair pretext to coerce the Ameers."352"The Governor-general has learned with
352"The Governor-general (Lord Ellenborough) directs me to inform you that the Governor-general contemplates the continued occupation of Kurachee. His Lordship likewise contemplates the continued occupation of the island of Bukkur."May 22, 1842.verbosa et grandis epistola"Sir James Carnac has recommended the permanent retention of Bukkur in our hands; but, it will be remembered, that we are under special engagement to restore Bukkur to the Khypore Ameers, and that we have no absolute right, under treaty, to station our troops within the Khypore limits."351"When I visited Roostrum Khan I found him with his younger brother. The Ameer stated at full length his declarations of devotion. He said, that in giving up Bukkur to the British, he had to encounter great disgrace; that his tribe and family were alike opposed to it; but that he was an old man, with but a few years to live, and that it was to save his children and his tribe from ruin, that he had years ago resolved on allying himself to us; that he was henceforward the submissive and obedient servant of the British.""The consternation caused by this public declaration was very great. The Ameer said it was the heart of his country—his honour was centered in keeping it—his family and children would have no confidence if it were given up. Meer Roostrum Khan was now attacked by Ins relatives, and Moobaruck Khan urged him strongly to resist us; but the worthy old man addressed to me the annexed most feeling letter.""It is with the highest satisfaction, that I inform the Governor-general, that the fortress of Bukkur has been ceded to the British Government on the terms proposed.""I am negociating for the fortress of Bukkur, and I think I have nailed it; if not, we must just take it."350"The ferry at Bukkur is, I am told, the best between the sea and Mithen-kole. It has been from time immemorial the great thoroughfare between Khorassan and India. Your demand for the temporary occupation of the fortress of
350"While the present: exigency lasts, you may apprise the Ameers that the article of the Treaty with them, prohibitory of using the Indus for the conveyance of military stores, must necessarily be suspended.""In case of refusal, temporary occupation shall be taken of Shikarpore, and of as much of the country adjacent as may be required.""The Governor-general is averse from contemplating a refusal on the part of the Ameers to enter into such a composition with his Majesty as to the British Government may seem just and reasonable."349348"Led to think that you may have some reason to doubt the fidelity of one or more of the Ameers of Scinde.""The Governor-general is led to think that you may have seen reason to doubt the fidelity of some one or more of the Ameers of Scinde.""I am directed to request that you will communicate to the Ameers the satisfaction with which the Governor-general in council has received this additional proof of their friendly disposition, and of the liberal policy with which their administration is conducted.""It will be seen by Major Outram's dispatch, that the conduct of the Hyderabad Ameer's officers towards our troops through Lower to Upper Scinde, was most friendly.""I am directed to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch of the 5th ult., reporting the progress of troops to Upper Scinde, and furnishing extracts from private letters, showing the conduct of the Ameers' officers and demeanour of the people as most civil; and, in reply, to request that you will be good enough to convey to their Highnesses the expression of the high satisfaction of his Lordship in Council at the conduct of their officers in facilitating the movement of the 6th regiment, and the civility and attention shown by them to the officers and men."347"Fiercely bigoted Mahomedan people, who would soon have been incited to make the Affghan cause a common one for their faith.""The fearful catastrophe of Cabul at length arrived. Up to 1842, the affairs of Scinde continued in precisely the same peaceable demeanour as before, every necessary precaution being taken by the political subordinates to whom the duty was entrusted of removing any existing cause, as much as possible, at a distance from a firmly bigoted Mahomedan people, who would soon have been incited to make the Affghan cause a common one for their faith alone, to which there can be no doubt they were strongly tempted by every argument used on such occasions by the disaffected, and which to resist, amounts to apostacy from the true faith.""At a time when affairs at Candahar and Cabul assumed so fearful an aspect as to direct attention to those quarters, the chiefs were left as usual in full possession of all their rights, and beyond the usual delays in the payment of the subsidy, there was no ostensible reason to complain of their conduct at a period, it should be remembered, when, if they had shown hostile feelings, they were sufficiently powerful to do us material injury, if not to have crushed the few troops, which the urgent calls for forces above the passes permitted us to keep in Scinde. Yet, beyond the usual petty intrigues which are essential elements of eastern courts, it is not yet publicly announced that the Ameers of Scinde flew from their engagements, at a time, moreover, when all India was anxiously looked to as likely to catch the spark of rebellion, and strike a blow when it was thought we were too weak to ward it off."346"We could never think of advancing leaving Scinde behind us in a state of hostility, or even doubt upon that score.""Had the conduct of these chiefs been otherwise, our interest would have suffered severely, but in justice to them, it must be recorded, that they fully made up on this occasion for their former hollow professions and want of faith by a cordial co-operation."345"Art. 1. There shall be eternal friendship between the British Government and that of Scinde. Art. 2. Enmity shall never more appear between the two states."dum regna manebant344"I lamented over the fallen state of my old friends the Ameers, of whose case I have all along said, and ever shall say, under all circumstances, and in all society and places where I may hear it alluded to, it is the most unprincipled and disgraceful that has ever stamped the annals of our empire in India. No explanation or reasoning can, in my opinion, remove the foul stain it has left on our faith and honour; and as I know more than any other man living of previous events and measures connected with that devoted country, I feel that I have a full right to exercise my judgment, and express my sentiments on the subject. You cannot use too strong language in expressing my disgust and sorrow."Morning ChronicleMorning Chronicle,343 rose, and said it would have been more agreeable to himself, and not a little so to the House, if the subject he was about to introduce had been brought forward by some Member of greater importance. He had waited until the close of last Session before he gave a notice, partly to see whether any other Member would undertake the office, and partly in expec-
"Heu pietas, heu prisca fides!"364"To the family of Tippoo, if we make allowance for the loss of a throne, as well as to the principal men of his kingdom, the conduct of the Governor-general was considerate and generous. The fortress of Vellore, in the Carnatic, was appropriated for the residence of the Royal Family, and fitted up commodiously for their reception, with an allowance for their support more liberal than that which they had received from Tippoo himself."363"Lord Cornwallis, attended by his staff, and some of the principal officers of the army, received them as they dismounted from their elephants, at the door of his great tent, embraced them, led them in by the hand, and seated them one on each side of himself; when he was thus addressed by the head Vakeel:—'These children were this morning the sons of the Sultan, my master; they must now look up to your Lordship as a father.' His Lordship assured, with earnestness, both the Vakeels and the Princes, that they should not feel the loss of a father's care. The faces of the children brightened up, and every spectator was moved."362"I will put you in irons on board a ship. Shere Mahomed is a very weak man, and will soon cause himself to be destroyed, and so will you unless you submit more quietly to the fate which your own rash folly has brought upon you. I will answer no more of your letters, which are only repetitions of gross falsehoods, which I will not submit to.""I am much surprised by the falsehoods which you tell—I will no longer bear this conduct; and if you give me any more trouble by stating gross falsehoods, as you have done, in your two letters, I will cast you into prison as you deserve; you are prisoners, and though I will not kill you as you ordered your people to do to the English;"361"The two sons of the late Meer Meer Mahomed are confined, one in Surat Castle, the other at Sassoor. On account of their separation their mother is grieved and much afflicted. It would lessen her grief and sorrow if both her sons were confined in the same place till they are released by the favour of the Queen, on whom we rely for justice; the distress of the brothers, too, would be lessened by sympathising with each other in the same place."360"Be it known that we poor brothers received monthly pay from Meer Nusseer Khan, at Hy-
360"The Ameers are thrown into the deepest grief, as they look upon their fate as irrevocably sealed, and that they must remain in India prisoners for life. Poor Sobdar is in utter amazement at the return we have made him for all his past services; and it is the opinion of every one at all acquainted with his history, that he has been most unjustly treated. The Governor-general will not allow them to be visited, except by the officers associated with them in duty, which they consider a great hardship.""I received frequent letters from the ladies of my family at Hyderabad, complaining that the sum of 550 rupees a month, which Sir Charles Napier allows for their expenses, is not sufficient for them and a hundred servants, besides the expense of keeping up an establishment of seven or eight houses; they are, consequently living in great distress, and suffering many privations."359"Had the Ameers been entirely masters over their own troops, it seems to be doubtful even now whether Sir Charles Napier would not have effected his purpose and carried the Treaty into execution without actual hostilities?"358357"It appears to me that the Ameers are now execrated for their dastardly submission (as they consider it) to what they style robbery. For the first time since I came to Scinde in an official capacity, I was received last night by a dense crowd with shouts, expressive of detestation of the British. Had we not been guarded by a numerous body of horse, headed by some of the most influential Beloochee chiefs, I dare say the mob would have proceeded to violence—it is evident the government did its utmost to protect us—the Ameers had been engaged in paying off and dismissing those who had flocked to the city since the
357"Finding Major Outram had given no pledge, they had sworn to march out and fight the British army; and that the Ameers had lost all control over them, and could not be answerable for what they did.""All the Ameers of Upper and Lower Scinde accepted the new Treaties in public durbar last night, and applied the seals to the drafts.""These fools are in the utmost alarm in consequence of the continued progress of your troops toward Hyderabad, notwithstanding their acceptance of the Treaty, which they hoped would have caused you to stop. If you come beyond Halla, I fear they will be impelled by their fears to assemble their rabble, with a view to defend themselves and their families, in the idea that we are determined to destroy them notwithstanding their submission.—P.S. I go to durbar this evening to receive the Ameers' acceptance of the treaties."356"I sent off Fitzgerald with a dispatch last
356"We deny the charges on which the new Treaty is imposed; but still we will subscribe it.""It is in your own power to prevent it by complying with the terms; the moment you do so I will dispatch a British officer to inform Sir Charles Napier.""You know how little under our control our Beloochees are. If the army advances they will plunder the whole country.""If the army advances, our Beloochees will not be restrained, and we shall be blamed for the consequences.""The question is whether you will, or will not, accept the new Treaty; if not, the army under Sir Charles Napier will continue to advance.""It was written that treasonable letters had been sent to Beebruck Boogtie and Sawun Mull. Why were those letters never produced? Why don't you give us an opportunity of disproving them? We never wrote them." Commissioner.—"The handwriting was ascertained to be that of one of your confidential scribes." Meer Nusseer Khan.—"I solemnly deny that it was written by my authority; why was not the paper shown to me?"355354"If this should fail, and the treaty flag (the writer continued) I shall proceed upon Hyderabad.""We yesterday came so close upon the traces of Meer Roostum, that, hearing that Major Outram was with me, he sent a message to him, to say, he was perfectly submissive. Major Outram asked my leave to go to him, as we were both convinced, that Ali Moorad had frightened him; the old man had been persuaded by Ali Moorad, that I meant to imprison him for life.""I made up my mind that although war has not been declared (nor is it necessary to declare it), I would at once march upon Emaun Ghur.353"I adhere to my original intention with respect to the Ameers. If any one of them commits an overt act of hostility, his possessions shall be altogether confiscated, and he shall depend upon the charity of his own family for his future subsistence.""I maintain that we only want a fair pretext to coerce the Ameers."352"The Governor-general has learned with
352"The Governor-general (Lord Ellenborough) directs me to inform you that the Governor-general contemplates the continued occupation of Kurachee. His Lordship likewise contemplates the continued occupation of the island of Bukkur."May 22, 1842.verbosa et grandis epistola"Sir James Carnac has recommended the permanent retention of Bukkur in our hands; but, it will be remembered, that we are under special engagement to restore Bukkur to the Khypore Ameers, and that we have no absolute right, under treaty, to station our troops within the Khypore limits."351"When I visited Roostrum Khan I found him with his younger brother. The Ameer stated at full length his declarations of devotion. He said, that in giving up Bukkur to the British, he had to encounter great disgrace; that his tribe and family were alike opposed to it; but that he was an old man, with but a few years to live, and that it was to save his children and his tribe from ruin, that he had years ago resolved on allying himself to us; that he was henceforward the submissive and obedient servant of the British.""The consternation caused by this public declaration was very great. The Ameer said it was the heart of his country—his honour was centered in keeping it—his family and children would have no confidence if it were given up. Meer Roostrum Khan was now attacked by Ins relatives, and Moobaruck Khan urged him strongly to resist us; but the worthy old man addressed to me the annexed most feeling letter.""It is with the highest satisfaction, that I inform the Governor-general, that the fortress of Bukkur has been ceded to the British Government on the terms proposed.""I am negociating for the fortress of Bukkur, and I think I have nailed it; if not, we must just take it."350"The ferry at Bukkur is, I am told, the best between the sea and Mithen-kole. It has been from time immemorial the great thoroughfare between Khorassan and India. Your demand for the temporary occupation of the fortress of
350"While the present: exigency lasts, you may apprise the Ameers that the article of the Treaty with them, prohibitory of using the Indus for the conveyance of military stores, must necessarily be suspended.""In case of refusal, temporary occupation shall be taken of Shikarpore, and of as much of the country adjacent as may be required.""The Governor-general is averse from contemplating a refusal on the part of the Ameers to enter into such a composition with his Majesty as to the British Government may seem just and reasonable."349348"Led to think that you may have some reason to doubt the fidelity of one or more of the Ameers of Scinde.""The Governor-general is led to think that you may have seen reason to doubt the fidelity of some one or more of the Ameers of Scinde.""I am directed to request that you will communicate to the Ameers the satisfaction with which the Governor-general in council has received this additional proof of their friendly disposition, and of the liberal policy with which their administration is conducted.""It will be seen by Major Outram's dispatch, that the conduct of the Hyderabad Ameer's officers towards our troops through Lower to Upper Scinde, was most friendly.""I am directed to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch of the 5th ult., reporting the progress of troops to Upper Scinde, and furnishing extracts from private letters, showing the conduct of the Ameers' officers and demeanour of the people as most civil; and, in reply, to request that you will be good enough to convey to their Highnesses the expression of the high satisfaction of his Lordship in Council at the conduct of their officers in facilitating the movement of the 6th regiment, and the civility and attention shown by them to the officers and men."347"Fiercely bigoted Mahomedan people, who would soon have been incited to make the Affghan cause a common one for their faith.""The fearful catastrophe of Cabul at length arrived. Up to 1842, the affairs of Scinde continued in precisely the same peaceable demeanour as before, every necessary precaution being taken by the political subordinates to whom the duty was entrusted of removing any existing cause, as much as possible, at a distance from a firmly bigoted Mahomedan people, who would soon have been incited to make the Affghan cause a common one for their faith alone, to which there can be no doubt they were strongly tempted by every argument used on such occasions by the disaffected, and which to resist, amounts to apostacy from the true faith.""At a time when affairs at Candahar and Cabul assumed so fearful an aspect as to direct attention to those quarters, the chiefs were left as usual in full possession of all their rights, and beyond the usual delays in the payment of the subsidy, there was no ostensible reason to complain of their conduct at a period, it should be remembered, when, if they had shown hostile feelings, they were sufficiently powerful to do us material injury, if not to have crushed the few troops, which the urgent calls for forces above the passes permitted us to keep in Scinde. Yet, beyond the usual petty intrigues which are essential elements of eastern courts, it is not yet publicly announced that the Ameers of Scinde flew from their engagements, at a time, moreover, when all India was anxiously looked to as likely to catch the spark of rebellion, and strike a blow when it was thought we were too weak to ward it off."346"We could never think of advancing leaving Scinde behind us in a state of hostility, or even doubt upon that score.""Had the conduct of these chiefs been otherwise, our interest would have suffered severely, but in justice to them, it must be recorded, that they fully made up on this occasion for their former hollow professions and want of faith by a cordial co-operation."345"Art. 1. There shall be eternal friendship between the British Government and that of Scinde. Art. 2. Enmity shall never more appear between the two states."dum regna manebant344"I lamented over the fallen state of my old friends the Ameers, of whose case I have all along said, and ever shall say, under all circumstances, and in all society and places where I may hear it alluded to, it is the most unprincipled and disgraceful that has ever stamped the annals of our empire in India. No explanation or reasoning can, in my opinion, remove the foul stain it has left on our faith and honour; and as I know more than any other man living of previous events and measures connected with that devoted country, I feel that I have a full right to exercise my judgment, and express my sentiments on the subject. You cannot use too strong language in expressing my disgust and sorrow."Morning ChronicleMorning Chronicle,343Lord Ashley
 said, he did not mean to charge Sir C. Napier with injustice. What he said was, that the production of those foot-notes by the Government, without a statement of the circumstances connected with them, was unjust to Major Outram.Lord Ashley
455454453452451 said, that after the speech of the right hon. Baronet, he deemed it necessary to say a few words to explain the reasons for the vote he should give. The noble Lord's motion relative to the treatment of the Ameers of Scinde was entirely irrespective of the original policy of the war, and entirely irrespective of the injustice of adding the whole of the territory of Scinde to our Indian possessions. Addressing himself at once to the immediate motion, he should say he agreed generally with what the right hon. Baronet
455454453452451Lord John Russell
 must say with respect to Mr. Bonham going down to Bridport as was said to arrange those actions which had been brought against him (Mr. Cochrane), that the hon. Member was entirely incorrect. Mr. Bonham neither went down nor sent down to Bridport, and had nothing to do with the matter.Mr. Cochrane
 said, what he complained of was, not the want of an apology, but that Mr. Bonham had left him in entire ignorance of the mistake that had occurred.Mr. Divett
464minutiœ463ipse dixitGREGORY LEWIN.""Your's truly,"Divett is full of indignation; he considers that he has been insulted by the Conservative party, and has expressed his determination to write even to Sir Robert Peel, to know if such a mode of carrying on elections is sanctioned by him. Ills name was as plainly on the registry as mine, and it needed no search to discover it; he voted for his friend, Mr. Pattison, and returned by the same train with me. I am very much discomposed by the affair, and not the less because you are mixed up with it. The party who made you the medium of a statement which was not true, in fact, ought to give you an explanation of their conduct; at present it looks wilful, and if so, disgraceful; if it arose from negligence, it is discreditable."My dear Divett—Although you have had your revenge in the defeat of Mr. Baring, I have thought it right to send the following to Bonham for you:—462461Laughter rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, for an Address to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty to dismiss F. Robert Bonham, Esq., from the office of Storekeeper of Her Majesty's Ordnance. He always addressed the House with considerable reluctance, and more especially when the matter in some measure concerned himself; but he felt that he had a public duty to perform on this occasion. He considered then, that he had very great reason to complain of the conduct of Mr. Bonham, with reference to certain proceedings in the city of London election; but he should not have felt it necessary to call the attention of the House to Mr. Bonham's conduct merely on that account, did not that hon. Gentleman fill a public position. It was well known, that the hon. Gentleman was the confidential election agent of the Conservative party. [464minutiœ463ipse dixitGREGORY LEWIN.""Your's truly,"Divett is full of indignation; he considers that he has been insulted by the Conservative party, and has expressed his determination to write even to Sir Robert Peel, to know if such a mode of carrying on elections is sanctioned by him. Ills name was as plainly on the registry as mine, and it needed no search to discover it; he voted for his friend, Mr. Pattison, and returned by the same train with me. I am very much discomposed by the affair, and not the less because you are mixed up with it. The party who made you the medium of a statement which was not true, in fact, ought to give you an explanation of their conduct; at present it looks wilful, and if so, disgraceful; if it arose from negligence, it is discreditable."My dear Divett—Although you have had your revenge in the defeat of Mr. Baring, I have thought it right to send the following to Bonham for you:—462461LaughterMr. Divett
416l.l.415"I have just received from Mr. Clerk, the original letters from Ameer Roostum Khan, of Khyrpore, to the Maharajah. Of their being authentic original letters Lieutenant Brown assures me that there cannot be the slightest doubt."414"With regard to the letter of Ameer Roostum Khan of Khyrpore, to the Maharajah Shere Singh, there are doubts on Major Outram's mind whether Ameer Roostum Khan was privy to this letter or not. But of its having his seal, and being written by his confidential minister, Futteh Mahommed Ghoree, there is no doubt, Query.—Is the doctrine to be admitted, that if a prince gives his signet
414413"Though unpalatable to the Ameers themselves, but not to their subjects, whose river traffic would be so greatly facilitated, besides being rendered safer, he submitted that their Highnesses' selfish feelings on this subject ought not to obstruct a measure of such great public benefit, and vitally necessary for the continuance of steam navigation on the Indus."412"Had entered into a treasonable correspondence with the enemies of the British Government, with a view to the expulsion of the British troops from Scinde and closing the river Indus against trade and commerce.""Reason to believe that almost every individual chief throughout these countries has been more or less concerned, directly or indirectly, in treasonable plottings, and all would consider themselves compromised.""Lest the Ameers should be at their wits' end, from fear; and that all of them, being conscious that they are already guilty, might be driven to commit themselves further."411"To connect Nusseer Khan and Meer Roos-
411"Should have it in his power shortly to expose the hostile intrigues of the Ameers to such an extent as may be deemed by his Lordship sufficient to authorize the dictation of his own terms to the chiefs of Scinde, and to call for such measures as he deems necessary to place British power on a secure footing in these countries."410gravamen"The adoption of every measure which could have the effect of giving the appearance of triumph to the return of our armies from Cabul, it was still impossible to conceal that it was a retirement from an advanced position; and the first retirement ever rendered necessary to a British army."409"Resolution to break the treaty in every way, there was a growing attachment amongst the people to British connexion," and "the treaties, if rigidly adhered to by the Ameers, would have rendered those princes more rich and powerful, and their subjects more happy, than they were:""Provisions of which are so complete, and confer for the first time such signal advantages upon the Ameers, that it should be regarded by them as a great charter, obtained from the goodwill of the paramount power in India, for the security of their independence and their possessions; which they will henceforth hold, on condition of their fidelity and adherence to their present engagements, by virtue of a deed granted them by the head of the British Government in India."408407406405"I hope his Lordship will not suppose from the tenour of this letter that I am exaggerating the existing difficulties, or raising up imaginary ones. My best exertions, I need hardly say, will be devoted to carry the objects of the British Government amicably; and had I one or even two princes (however obtuse in intellect they might be) to convince, I might hope to succeed. Here I have, I may say, to deal with a whole nation, divided into parties, or split into deadly feuds, headed by uncivilized and barbarous chiefs, to many of whom nothing would be so agreeable and cheering as a state of anarchy and warfare."404403 then rose. He commenced by alluding to a speech of the right hon. Member for Edinburgh in that House some ten years ago, in which he mentioned not less truly than happily, that such was the proverbial apathy in this House to eastern affairs that a riot in Coldbath-fields was more likely to enlist its attention than the news of a battle and a victory in India; and although the attention manifested by the House that evening proved that in a remarkable degree, that cause of just complaint had been removed, and although the events and the policy of our Indian empire had in late years engrossed a more than ordinary portion of public attention, yet he felt that the House was still but an inadequate tribunal to which collectively to appeal upon a question such as this; a question, in this instance, from the nature of
416l.l.415"I have just received from Mr. Clerk, the original letters from Ameer Roostum Khan, of Khyrpore, to the Maharajah. Of their being authentic original letters Lieutenant Brown assures me that there cannot be the slightest doubt."414"With regard to the letter of Ameer Roostum Khan of Khyrpore, to the Maharajah Shere Singh, there are doubts on Major Outram's mind whether Ameer Roostum Khan was privy to this letter or not. But of its having his seal, and being written by his confidential minister, Futteh Mahommed Ghoree, there is no doubt, Query.—Is the doctrine to be admitted, that if a prince gives his signet
414413"Though unpalatable to the Ameers themselves, but not to their subjects, whose river traffic would be so greatly facilitated, besides being rendered safer, he submitted that their Highnesses' selfish feelings on this subject ought not to obstruct a measure of such great public benefit, and vitally necessary for the continuance of steam navigation on the Indus."412"Had entered into a treasonable correspondence with the enemies of the British Government, with a view to the expulsion of the British troops from Scinde and closing the river Indus against trade and commerce.""Reason to believe that almost every individual chief throughout these countries has been more or less concerned, directly or indirectly, in treasonable plottings, and all would consider themselves compromised.""Lest the Ameers should be at their wits' end, from fear; and that all of them, being conscious that they are already guilty, might be driven to commit themselves further."411"To connect Nusseer Khan and Meer Roos-
411"Should have it in his power shortly to expose the hostile intrigues of the Ameers to such an extent as may be deemed by his Lordship sufficient to authorize the dictation of his own terms to the chiefs of Scinde, and to call for such measures as he deems necessary to place British power on a secure footing in these countries."410gravamen"The adoption of every measure which could have the effect of giving the appearance of triumph to the return of our armies from Cabul, it was still impossible to conceal that it was a retirement from an advanced position; and the first retirement ever rendered necessary to a British army."409"Resolution to break the treaty in every way, there was a growing attachment amongst the people to British connexion," and "the treaties, if rigidly adhered to by the Ameers, would have rendered those princes more rich and powerful, and their subjects more happy, than they were:""Provisions of which are so complete, and confer for the first time such signal advantages upon the Ameers, that it should be regarded by them as a great charter, obtained from the goodwill of the paramount power in India, for the security of their independence and their possessions; which they will henceforth hold, on condition of their fidelity and adherence to their present engagements, by virtue of a deed granted them by the head of the British Government in India."408407406405"I hope his Lordship will not suppose from the tenour of this letter that I am exaggerating the existing difficulties, or raising up imaginary ones. My best exertions, I need hardly say, will be devoted to carry the objects of the British Government amicably; and had I one or even two princes (however obtuse in intellect they might be) to convince, I might hope to succeed. Here I have, I may say, to deal with a whole nation, divided into parties, or split into deadly feuds, headed by uncivilized and barbarous chiefs, to many of whom nothing would be so agreeable and cheering as a state of anarchy and warfare."404403Mr. E. Tennent
 having heard Mr. Bonham described as the dispenser of the secret service money of the Conservative Club, must be permitted to say, that he did not think Mr. Bonham was a man likely to do any thing repugnant to honour, or to take any step which any gentleman would hesitate to take in favour of his cause. He had known that gentleman for years, and he must give that testimony to his character; and he thought it rather too bad, that this gentleman should be exposed, on account of a mere mistake, to those surmises which must arise out of the notice of motion which was given by the hon. Member.Mr. Leader
"3. That while the restoration of the Ameers to their former dominions would be dangerous to British interests, as well as calamitous to the inhabitants of Scinde, and therefore impossible, humanity requires that these unfortunate princes should receive every consideration and comfort which is compatible with the peace and security of their former possessions, now forming a most important frontier of our eastern dominions.""2. That the policy adopted by Lord Ellenborough towards those same rulers, was the unfortunate but necessary result of the unwise and unjust proceedings of his predecessor, a deplorable consequence to be justified only by the dangers which then threatened the very existence of our Indian Empire."That the conduct pursued by Lord Auckland as Governor-general of India, in his negotiations with the Ameers of Scinde, was unjust to those rulers, and impolitic with respect to British dominion in India.seriatim:402401"They might prevent for a while conspiracy or rebellion, but the misfortunes of the house of Talpoor would excite compassion nowhere, for their government is unpopular with their subjects, and dreaded, if not hated, by the neighbouring nations."—vol.—p. 216."They (the Scindians) are avaricious, full of deceit, cruel, ungrateful, strangers to veracity; but, in extenuation of their vices, it is to be recollected that the present generation has grown up under a government whose extortion, ignorance, and tyranny, is possibly unequalled in the world. Among the people of the countries bordering on Scinde the term Scindian dog' is synonymous with a treacherous liar.' This feeling has gained ground greatly of late years, from the abhorrence with which the government of that country is regarded. They are execrated by the peaceable classes of the community for their imperious conduct; they, on the other hand, hate the princes by whom they are governed. It would be difficult to conceive a more unpopular rule, with all classes of their subjects, than that of the Ameers of Scinde; nor is the feeling disguised; many a fervent hope did we hear expressed in every part of the country, that we were the forerunners of conquest, the advance guard of a conquering army. The persons of the Ameers are secure from danger by the number of slaves they entertain around their persons."400399"I am now going, if Lord Ellenborough agrees, to make all these jaghires their own property, to give up the right to turn them out, and
400399"We have had continued rain for many days, not known for fifteen years before. The feeling that this has produced is very extraordinary. They say when the Ameers murdered the Kulloras, for that is the term the Seindians apply to the Beloochee conquest, that no rain fell for six years, and there was nothing but famine and misery in the land to show God's displeasure. This has been the universal belief even among the Beloochees. The present extraordinary fall has, therefore, produced the idea, in every part of Scinde, that God has sent it to mark his approbation of our conquest, and that the Ameers are overthrown. We are now looked upon as a favoured people, and this, joined to our rigid discipline, and the giving them all their possessions back, and reducing taxes is, I firmly believe, (and indeed the general opinion appears to be so) giving us a firm hold upon the affections of the people, Beloochees, Mahometans, and Hindoos alike, which, in four mouths after a desperate battle with the first of these people, is as much as the bounds of possibility admit of. Besides, in this land, where five mouths ago every Beloochee went strutting about armed with sword and shield, no man now carries a weapon but a chief. To the chiefs I gave their swords back, to avoid wounding their honour."398Sensation."P.S.—I beg you not to mistake me. I neither do nor have a right to object to your defending both the cause of the Ameers and your own exertions; nor ant I at all worried at any one else defending them. I only mean to say I must defend myself; and if the public takes a different view—if it pronounces that you were deceived—it has not been my doing, but that of those who have placed me on my defence."(Signed) "C. J. NAPIER.""Believe me to be, &c.397396Bombay Times395394"My dear Outram.—Before I proceed to discuss other things, I shall begin by observing that in one of your letters, you twice remark, that you had only received a short note from me. Now, the only letters I have received from you, and not answered, are those of the 8th and 20th of March. The first, and yours describing your visit to Lady Napier, at Mahabulishwur, I only got a few days ago! so it is idle to refer to any letters but those actually received. I could not reply to yours of the 20th sooner. That of the 30th reached me as I was going out against Shere Mahomerl—that of the 8th I have had only a few days. If I had not a most sincere regard for you, I should have no anxiety at all. However, I will state all that has passed, and you must judge how far you are right or wrong. I am placed in a situation where, in my own defence, I must state all that passed between the 8th and 12th of February. I am attacked both in the public papers and in private letters. I am accused of forcing on the war because I did not allow myself to be advised by you to halt, I am said to have attacked the Ameers after they had signed the treaty; and about four days ago I had a letter from Lord Ellenborough, saving he had received from the Select Committee, notes of conversations between you, as Commissioner, and the Ameers, and asking if I ever heard of them; expressing his surprise at now hearing of them for the first time. At the same time, private letters have said, that I am supposed to have intercepted reports made by
397396Bombay Times395394"Hyderabad, July 22, 1843. said, he held in his hand a letter, which had been communicated to him for use, and which in the exercise of his discretion he felt justified in reading, which contained the substance of those foot-notes. It was a letter from Sir C. Napier, it ran thus—
"3. That while the restoration of the Ameers to their former dominions would be dangerous to British interests, as well as calamitous to the inhabitants of Scinde, and therefore impossible, humanity requires that these unfortunate princes should receive every consideration and comfort which is compatible with the peace and security of their former possessions, now forming a most important frontier of our eastern dominions.""2. That the policy adopted by Lord Ellenborough towards those same rulers, was the unfortunate but necessary result of the unwise and unjust proceedings of his predecessor, a deplorable consequence to be justified only by the dangers which then threatened the very existence of our Indian Empire."That the conduct pursued by Lord Auckland as Governor-general of India, in his negotiations with the Ameers of Scinde, was unjust to those rulers, and impolitic with respect to British dominion in India.seriatim:402401"They might prevent for a while conspiracy or rebellion, but the misfortunes of the house of Talpoor would excite compassion nowhere, for their government is unpopular with their subjects, and dreaded, if not hated, by the neighbouring nations."—vol.—p. 216."They (the Scindians) are avaricious, full of deceit, cruel, ungrateful, strangers to veracity; but, in extenuation of their vices, it is to be recollected that the present generation has grown up under a government whose extortion, ignorance, and tyranny, is possibly unequalled in the world. Among the people of the countries bordering on Scinde the term Scindian dog' is synonymous with a treacherous liar.' This feeling has gained ground greatly of late years, from the abhorrence with which the government of that country is regarded. They are execrated by the peaceable classes of the community for their imperious conduct; they, on the other hand, hate the princes by whom they are governed. It would be difficult to conceive a more unpopular rule, with all classes of their subjects, than that of the Ameers of Scinde; nor is the feeling disguised; many a fervent hope did we hear expressed in every part of the country, that we were the forerunners of conquest, the advance guard of a conquering army. The persons of the Ameers are secure from danger by the number of slaves they entertain around their persons."400399"I am now going, if Lord Ellenborough agrees, to make all these jaghires their own property, to give up the right to turn them out, and
400399"We have had continued rain for many days, not known for fifteen years before. The feeling that this has produced is very extraordinary. They say when the Ameers murdered the Kulloras, for that is the term the Seindians apply to the Beloochee conquest, that no rain fell for six years, and there was nothing but famine and misery in the land to show God's displeasure. This has been the universal belief even among the Beloochees. The present extraordinary fall has, therefore, produced the idea, in every part of Scinde, that God has sent it to mark his approbation of our conquest, and that the Ameers are overthrown. We are now looked upon as a favoured people, and this, joined to our rigid discipline, and the giving them all their possessions back, and reducing taxes is, I firmly believe, (and indeed the general opinion appears to be so) giving us a firm hold upon the affections of the people, Beloochees, Mahometans, and Hindoos alike, which, in four mouths after a desperate battle with the first of these people, is as much as the bounds of possibility admit of. Besides, in this land, where five mouths ago every Beloochee went strutting about armed with sword and shield, no man now carries a weapon but a chief. To the chiefs I gave their swords back, to avoid wounding their honour."398Sensation."P.S.—I beg you not to mistake me. I neither do nor have a right to object to your defending both the cause of the Ameers and your own exertions; nor ant I at all worried at any one else defending them. I only mean to say I must defend myself; and if the public takes a different view—if it pronounces that you were deceived—it has not been my doing, but that of those who have placed me on my defence."(Signed) "C. J. NAPIER.""Believe me to be, &c.397396Bombay Times395394"My dear Outram.—Before I proceed to discuss other things, I shall begin by observing that in one of your letters, you twice remark, that you had only received a short note from me. Now, the only letters I have received from you, and not answered, are those of the 8th and 20th of March. The first, and yours describing your visit to Lady Napier, at Mahabulishwur, I only got a few days ago! so it is idle to refer to any letters but those actually received. I could not reply to yours of the 20th sooner. That of the 30th reached me as I was going out against Shere Mahomerl—that of the 8th I have had only a few days. If I had not a most sincere regard for you, I should have no anxiety at all. However, I will state all that has passed, and you must judge how far you are right or wrong. I am placed in a situation where, in my own defence, I must state all that passed between the 8th and 12th of February. I am attacked both in the public papers and in private letters. I am accused of forcing on the war because I did not allow myself to be advised by you to halt, I am said to have attacked the Ameers after they had signed the treaty; and about four days ago I had a letter from Lord Ellenborough, saving he had received from the Select Committee, notes of conversations between you, as Commissioner, and the Ameers, and asking if I ever heard of them; expressing his surprise at now hearing of them for the first time. At the same time, private letters have said, that I am supposed to have intercepted reports made by
397396Bombay Times395394"Hyderabad, July 22, 1843.Mr. Roebuck
393392"Major Outran, being at Hyderabad, sent me two (or three my journal says, but I can find but two) despatches by express on the 12th, to assure me that the Ameers had not any armed men except their usual personal attendants, and that those were not more numerous than Indian Princes of their rank would move with in time of profound peace. At that moment, the army of the Ameers was assembled at Meanee, only six miles from Hyderabad, and were preparing their position. At the moment he was writing those despatches to me, his house was surrounded by 8000 Beloochees (who had eight pieces of cannon), preparing for their attack on him on the 15th of February. Major Outran wrote to ask me to go to Hyderabad alone to meet the Ameers. He proposed my sending my troops to Meerpoor. Had I allowed myself to be guided by Major Outram my own throat and his, and the throats of all of us, would probably have been cut, and the army left without a leader at Meerpore, forty miles from the river which formed the line of communication by steamers between Sukkur and Bombay, and when thus isolated would have been attacked by 60,000 men, pushed back into the desert, and there have miserably perished."de facto391Laughter."I don't think you could carry out the Treaty without force; if force be necessary, use it for the purpose."390"The British Government is allowed to cut and consume for steam navigation, wood growing within 100 baths (cubits) of the river bank, and to clear the bank of jungle for that space, due precautions being adopted to prevent trespass beyond that limit.""The fortress of Bukkur and neighbouring small islets are ceded to the British Government in perpetuity."389Ashley:388"In continuation of my despatch of yesterday's date, I beg leave to submit for the consideration of the Governor-general, the grounds which I would suggest for renewing negotiations with the chiefs of Scinde, and the terms I would propose to remedy the errors of our present position in that country, and to insure security and advantage for the future. 2. I respectfully premise, that I think it would be necessary to show, as a ground for requiring new arrangements, that we have of late been exposed to the inimical intrigues of some of
388387"I cannot answer the arguments made to me by those people, when they tell me what gave rise to the attack; and I must leave it to your Lordship to decide whether you will retain the conquest."386Palmerston385384"Nusseer Khan is going ahead as fast as he can, and is trifling with the treaty, as far as levying duties is concerned. He says, he will levy on all the merchandise of Sciude, at this place, to make up for the river being free. Yesterday, I am informed, Shandad and Hoossein Ali went to Sobdar to point out the necessity of the Ameers being of one mind and acting together, owing to the Affghans getting the better of us. Meer Meer Mahomed also went in the afternoon. The Naib, Ahmed Khan, was present. All this is at the instigation of Nusseer Khan, who keeps aloof himself; he is making a dead push to be No. 1. He is our enemy, without doubt, and is making the most of our weakness. How he is to be checked by the other Ameers, I know not; and it strikes me ere long we must interfere with a powerful hand; as the hot season approaches we may find the fellows getting bolder. A visit from you would have a wonderful effect just now to check Nusseer,
384383"I received yours of the 29th ultimo, yesterday, and had an interview with—last night. I put the letter from Nusseer Khan to you into his hands, and directed him to peruse it. After having done so, he said, 'This is Gleanchund's writing in parts, also that of Akoond Buchal. The seal is Meer Nusseer Khan's, and there is no doubt of its being authentic' I then quietly hinted at Meer Nusseer's correspondence with the Sikhs, to which he added, Meer Nusseer Khan corresponds now in every direction, seeking his own ruin by digging a well for the purpose of burying himself (or being smothered, literally); his favorite confidant in the Persian quarter is dead, but his son has replaced him, and arrived
383Hear, hear382"It was scarcely in Adrian's power to place the superiority of his predecessor in a more conspicuous light than by thus confessing himself unequal to the task of defending the conquests of Trajan.""It was an ancient tradition," said Gibbon, "that when the capitol was founded by one of the Roman Kings, the god Terminus (who presided over boundaries, and wasre presented according to the fashion of that age by a large stone) alone among all the inferior deities refused to yield his place to Jupiter himself. But though Terminus had resisted the majesty of Jupiter, he submitted to the authority of the Emperor Adrian."381380"The invasion of Affghanistan being thus settled military principles demanded that the shortest and most direct lines of operation should be adopted. Those were in the Punjaub. The Maharajah had just concluded a most advantageous treaty for himself, at the expense of the king, and by the influence of the Governor-general. It was but reasonable, then, to demand a free right of passage to reach Affghanistan through the ceded territories—that is to say, through Peshawur and the Khyber Passes, which was the best route to Cabul. There was no reason, if he had faith in his allies, the British, why the Punjaub should not at once be made the base of operations—why the invad-
380To use it like a giant."To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous"Oh! it is excellent379378"Meer Noor Mahomed Khan, Meer Nusseer Mahomed Khan, and Meer Mahomed Khan bind themselves to pay annually the sum of in part of the expense of the force, from the presence of which their respective territories will derive such vast advantages. The chiefs of the Beloochee tribes, and all others holding grants (jacedads) pensions (wazeefas), jagheers (tesols), &c. from the different Ameers, are to continue to enjoy them as they now do, the Ameers being answerable for their peaceable conduct towards the British Government and his subjects. Their highnesses the Ameers agree to form no new treaties, or enter into any engagements with foreign states, without the knowledge and concurrence of the British Government, but their highnesses will, of course, carry on friendly correspondence as usual with their neighbours.""Whereas, Treaties of friendship and amity have, from time to time, been entered into between the British and Hyderabad governments; and whereas circumstances have lately occurred which render it expedient and necessary to revise those treaties; with a view to which this draft has been prepared, agreeably to instructions addressed by the Right Hon. Lord George Auckland, Governor-general of India, &c., to Colonel Henry Pottinger, resident in Scinde, &c. There shall be lasting friendship, alliance, arid amity between the Honourable the East India Company and the Hyderabad government; and the provisions of all former Treaties, not modified or annulled by the present one, are hereby confirmed. The Governor-general of India has commanded that a British force shall be kept in Scinde, and stationed at the city of Tatta, where a cantonment will be formed. The strength of this force is to depend on the pleasure of the Governor-general of India."377Ashley"The only one of these that requires any observation from me in this place, is that regarding the strength of the subsidiary force. On this subject I have bestowed a good deal of reflection since the receipt of your letter of the 29th ult., and I am of opinion that we should demand from the Ameers of Scinde the cession, 'not a temporary occupation,' of all the country lying on the right bank of the Indus, south of an imaginary line to be drawn due west from that river at a point ten miles (more or less) north of Tatta, until it meets the frontier of Beloochistan, at the base of the mountains. This would give us a compact territory, the complete command of the river, and possession of the only sea-port. At a very rough estimate, I calculate that the cession I have indicated would yield at first a revenue of from four to five lacs of rupees, but it is one that would rapidly improve under our rule, and in a few years, I see no reason to doubt that Tatta would spring into much of its former opulence, and become a vast emporium of trade and wealth. I see manifold and cogent reasons why the subsidiary force should not be stationed at the capital, where barbarism and prejudice would lead to continual disputes without any counterbalancing advantage. My plan, therefore, would be to have a regiment of native infantry and a company of artillery at Kurachee, and all the rest of the troops at Tatta, where there is an admirable site on the Mukalla hills (west of the city), for a cantonment. I shall also propose that a strong detachment of Bengal troops (equal, perhaps, to the Kurachee one), should be kept at Sukkur, on the Indus, to which I presume the Khyrpore chiefs will gladly give their assent. With these troops, and British agents residing at Hyderabad and Khyrpore, I look on it that our perfect supremacy throughout Scinde will be as fully established as though we had entirely subjugated it."376"And it may be thought right to accompany this transfer with a condition, that as a security for the future, a British subsidiary force shall be maintained in Scinde; or, secondly, the maintenance of this force may be required without the adoption of an act so rigorous as that of deposition; or, thirdly, it
376"You have stated your intention to charge the Ameer to his face with this injurious act, but you have not stated with what proceeding on your part an admission by him will be followed, and it is, therefore, difficult to foresee in what circumstances you may be placed before the receipt of this letter. It seems open to you to decide upon proclaiming, as soon as a force from Bombay may enable you to do so with effect, that an act of hostility and bad faith having been committed towards the British Government, the share in the government of Scinde, which has been held by the guilty party, shall be transferred to the more faithful members of the family.""You have stated your intention to charge the Ameer to his face with this injurious act."375—"to oblige us to occupy their territories, I shall lose no time in apprising the Bombay government; and, in that case, the whole force might either assemble in this province, or the European troops proceed by steamers to the mouths of the Indus, where the native
375"I look on it, that the moral effect of such preparations will be even greater on the government of Scinde, as well as throughout the adjacent principalities, than our sending a force direct into the former province. Should the Ameers seem inclined, either by their avowed hostility, or backwardness in the cause—"ultima ratio"Had our present connexion existed some years, and our resident thereby had time, by constantly kind intercourse with the chiefs and people, to have removed the strong and universal impression that exists throughout Scinde as to our grasping policy, the case might have been widely different; but I enter on my new duties without anything to offer, and with a proposal that will not only strengthen the above impressions (for many besides the Scindees will believe at the outset that we are making a mere use of Shah Shoojah's name), but revive a claim to tribute which has been long esteemed obsolete. For the reasons I have, I fear imperfectly, adduced in this letter, and also because I am convinced that, sooner or later, the precaution will be requisite "—(the last attempt—the ultima ratio374"Shah Shooja-ool-Moolck will probably arrive, with his own army, and the direct support of British troops, at Shikarpore, about the middle of November next, in progress to take possession of the throne of Affghanistan. The Governor-general is averse from contemplating such a result as a refusal on the part of the Ameers to enter into such a composition with his Majesty as the British Government may deem just and reasonable; but it may be proper to apprize them of the probable consequences of their not coming cordially into the general views of his Lordship at a crisis so important; and you are authorised to tell them, that his Lordship must regard the demonstration of such a spirit, as rendering it indispensably necessary to the success of the enterprise which it is the object of the Tripartite treaty to accomplish that temporary occupation should be taken of Shikarpore, and of as much of the country adjacent as may be required, to afford a secure base to the intended military operations.""And he trusts that you will have no difficulty in convincing them of the magnitude of the benefits they will derive from securing the undisturbed possession of the territories they now hold, and obtaining immunity for all future claims on this account by a moderate pecuniary sacrifice."373"The measures treated of in those documents are of the highest importance, and as the Ameers of Scinde are deeply interested in the issue of them, it is necessary that they should be made fully and fairly acquainted with the motives and intentions of the British Government. You will, in the first place, state to the Ameers that, in the opinion of the Governor-general, a crisis has arrived, at which it is essentially requisite, for the security of British India, that the real friends of that power should unequivocally manifest their attachment to its interests; and you will further apprise them that a combination of the Powers to the westward, apparently having objects in view calculated to be injurious to our empire in the East, has compelled the Governor-general to enter into a counter-combination for the purpose of frustrating these objects. You will perceive that by one of the articles of the Treaty recently concluded, the British Government engages to arbitrate the claim of Shah Shooja-ool-Moolk upon Shikarpore and the territories of Scinde generally, and proposes at the same time to bring to a final settlement the claims of Maharajah Runjeet Sing, as connected with the Shah, and
373372"Shah Shooja-ool-Moolk agrees to relinquish, for himself, his heirs and successors, all claims of supremacy, and arrears of tribute, over the country now held by the Ameers of Scinde (which will continue to belong to the Ameers and their successors in perpetuity), on condition of the payment to him by the Ameers of such a sum as may be determined under the mediation of the British Government; 15,000,000 of rupees of such payment being made over by him to Maharajah Runjeet Sing. On these payments being completed, Article 4. of the Treaty of 12th March, 1833, will be considered cancelled, and the customary interchange of letters and suitable presents between the Maharajah and the Ameers of Scinde shall be maintained as heretofore."371370"His Lordship in council, would not, without your deliberate advice, and a very careful consideration of all the circumstances of the position of Scinde, enter into a general engagement to defend that country from all external enemies; but he does not hesitate to authorize you to promise his mediation in all disputes between the Ameers and the government of Lahore, if a reasonable equivalent be assented to. As one condition of this mediation, and with a view to enable this Government readily to give effect to it, it would be advantageous if the Ameers would consent permanently to receive a body of British troops, to be stationed at their capital, the expense of the detachment being paid from the Scinde revenues.""Whether the communication which you may make to the Ameers in pursuance of these instructions shall end in no new result, or in the mere reception, at the court of Hyderabad, of a British agent, or in the advance of a subsidiary force, for the protection of the Scinde territories, will probably depend upon the conduct of the Maharajah, and the course of events.""You will, in treating with the Ameers, communicate with them, without reserve, in reference to the dangerous position in which they stand, and you will apprise them, that this Government is sensible how essential it is, not to their interests only, but to their very existence, that the ties by which they are connected with the British empire should be strengthened."369"We considered it our duty to endeavour to induce the Maharajah to lay aside his hostile intentions. It appeared to us, also, that this opportunity ought not to be neglected, of establishing the British influence on a solid basis in Scinde, a country which is of great importance to us, both from its commanding the entrance to the Indus, and from its position in reference to the Punjaub and Affghanistan. With these views, we, on the one hand, instructed Captain Wade to endeavour, by any means short of actual menace, to deter the Maharajah from advancing against Shikarpore, while, on the other, we desired Colonel Pottinger to intimate to the Ameers that we were ready to enter into a closer alliance with them, on such terms as might be mutually agreed on. Owing to the distance of the scene, and the uncertainty of events, we did not consider it expedient to prescribe to Colonel Pottinger the precise conditions on which he was to treat. He was authorised by us to offer our protection against the Sikhs, and we expressed our hope that, with a view to enable us to fulfil this obligation, the Ameers would consent permanently to receive, and to pay the expense of, a body of British troops, to be stationed at their capital. Short of this, we informed him that he was at liberty to offer the mediation of the British Government with Maharajah Runjeet Sing, on condition of the reception of a British agent at Hyderabad, and, of course, of all the relations between Scinde and Lahore being conducted solely through the medium of British officers, and of the expense of any temporary deputation of the British troops into Scinde, which might be found requisite, being defrayed by the Ameers."368"In our letter dated 26th September last, we had the honour of informing you, that we had taken the opportunity afforded by Maharajah Runjeet Sing's applying to be furnished with 50,000 stand of arms, by the Indus, to remind his Highness of the peaceful nature of the objects for which the Indus has been reopened, and to make him acquainted with the sentiments entertained by the British Govern-
368367"That the British Government has requested a passage for the merchants and traders of Hindostan by the river and roads of Scinde, by which they may transport their goods and merchandize from one country to another; and the said government of Hyderabad hereby acquiesces in the same request, on the three following conditions:—1, that no person shall bring any description of military stores by the above river or roads; 2, that no armed vessels or boats shall come by the said river; 3, that on English merchants shall be allowed to settle in Scinde, but shall come as occasion requires, and having stopped to transact their business, shall return to India.""That the two contracting powers bind themselves never to look with the eye of covetousness on the possessions of each other."366365 wished, in the first place, to explain to the House and to the noble Lord, why he felt himself under the necessity of pursuing the course of which he had given notice. Some time last year he gave notice to the House of his intention to bring under its consideration the annexation of Scinde. Unfortunately, the papers connected with that transaction were not printed in time to admit of the discussion taking place that Session. The papers which he now held in his hands were not printed until a period when he was obliged to be absent in the North; but he had taken the earliest opportunity of coming down to the House, and stating, that as early as possible in the present Session he would bring forward the question. He had accordingly come down on the very first day of this Session to enter his notice, but he found himself very unexpectedly precluded from doing what he had intended, by the noble Lord's having, in spite of the intimation he (Mr. Roebuck) gave last year, already put down the motion brought forward that night. The noble Lord's zeal was equal to that of the old lady in the sermon, who, in her religious fervour stole a copy of Tillotson's Sermons. The noble Lord's zeal in the present matter had led hint, in like manner to disregard the proprieties, and to deviate from the ordinary course adopted by one Member towards another, in appropriating a motion of which he (Mr. Roebuck) had given notice for himself, but the subject of which the noble Lord would really appear to consider as his own peculiar property for the time being. However, he had not risen to complain of the noble Lord, but to explain the reason of his amendment on the noble Lord's motion. This reason was, that he thought the noble Lord had taken somewhat a narrow view of a large and solemn question. It might be easy to show, as the noble Lord had done, instances of hardships; but the great business of the House, as it seemed to him, was to consider the whole of this policy from the
393392"Major Outran, being at Hyderabad, sent me two (or three my journal says, but I can find but two) despatches by express on the 12th, to assure me that the Ameers had not any armed men except their usual personal attendants, and that those were not more numerous than Indian Princes of their rank would move with in time of profound peace. At that moment, the army of the Ameers was assembled at Meanee, only six miles from Hyderabad, and were preparing their position. At the moment he was writing those despatches to me, his house was surrounded by 8000 Beloochees (who had eight pieces of cannon), preparing for their attack on him on the 15th of February. Major Outran wrote to ask me to go to Hyderabad alone to meet the Ameers. He proposed my sending my troops to Meerpoor. Had I allowed myself to be guided by Major Outram my own throat and his, and the throats of all of us, would probably have been cut, and the army left without a leader at Meerpore, forty miles from the river which formed the line of communication by steamers between Sukkur and Bombay, and when thus isolated would have been attacked by 60,000 men, pushed back into the desert, and there have miserably perished."de facto391Laughter."I don't think you could carry out the Treaty without force; if force be necessary, use it for the purpose."390"The British Government is allowed to cut and consume for steam navigation, wood growing within 100 baths (cubits) of the river bank, and to clear the bank of jungle for that space, due precautions being adopted to prevent trespass beyond that limit.""The fortress of Bukkur and neighbouring small islets are ceded to the British Government in perpetuity."389Ashley:388"In continuation of my despatch of yesterday's date, I beg leave to submit for the consideration of the Governor-general, the grounds which I would suggest for renewing negotiations with the chiefs of Scinde, and the terms I would propose to remedy the errors of our present position in that country, and to insure security and advantage for the future. 2. I respectfully premise, that I think it would be necessary to show, as a ground for requiring new arrangements, that we have of late been exposed to the inimical intrigues of some of
388387"I cannot answer the arguments made to me by those people, when they tell me what gave rise to the attack; and I must leave it to your Lordship to decide whether you will retain the conquest."386Palmerston385384"Nusseer Khan is going ahead as fast as he can, and is trifling with the treaty, as far as levying duties is concerned. He says, he will levy on all the merchandise of Sciude, at this place, to make up for the river being free. Yesterday, I am informed, Shandad and Hoossein Ali went to Sobdar to point out the necessity of the Ameers being of one mind and acting together, owing to the Affghans getting the better of us. Meer Meer Mahomed also went in the afternoon. The Naib, Ahmed Khan, was present. All this is at the instigation of Nusseer Khan, who keeps aloof himself; he is making a dead push to be No. 1. He is our enemy, without doubt, and is making the most of our weakness. How he is to be checked by the other Ameers, I know not; and it strikes me ere long we must interfere with a powerful hand; as the hot season approaches we may find the fellows getting bolder. A visit from you would have a wonderful effect just now to check Nusseer,
384383"I received yours of the 29th ultimo, yesterday, and had an interview with—last night. I put the letter from Nusseer Khan to you into his hands, and directed him to peruse it. After having done so, he said, 'This is Gleanchund's writing in parts, also that of Akoond Buchal. The seal is Meer Nusseer Khan's, and there is no doubt of its being authentic' I then quietly hinted at Meer Nusseer's correspondence with the Sikhs, to which he added, Meer Nusseer Khan corresponds now in every direction, seeking his own ruin by digging a well for the purpose of burying himself (or being smothered, literally); his favorite confidant in the Persian quarter is dead, but his son has replaced him, and arrived
383Hear, hear382"It was scarcely in Adrian's power to place the superiority of his predecessor in a more conspicuous light than by thus confessing himself unequal to the task of defending the conquests of Trajan.""It was an ancient tradition," said Gibbon, "that when the capitol was founded by one of the Roman Kings, the god Terminus (who presided over boundaries, and wasre presented according to the fashion of that age by a large stone) alone among all the inferior deities refused to yield his place to Jupiter himself. But though Terminus had resisted the majesty of Jupiter, he submitted to the authority of the Emperor Adrian."381380"The invasion of Affghanistan being thus settled military principles demanded that the shortest and most direct lines of operation should be adopted. Those were in the Punjaub. The Maharajah had just concluded a most advantageous treaty for himself, at the expense of the king, and by the influence of the Governor-general. It was but reasonable, then, to demand a free right of passage to reach Affghanistan through the ceded territories—that is to say, through Peshawur and the Khyber Passes, which was the best route to Cabul. There was no reason, if he had faith in his allies, the British, why the Punjaub should not at once be made the base of operations—why the invad-
380To use it like a giant."To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous"Oh! it is excellent379378"Meer Noor Mahomed Khan, Meer Nusseer Mahomed Khan, and Meer Mahomed Khan bind themselves to pay annually the sum of in part of the expense of the force, from the presence of which their respective territories will derive such vast advantages. The chiefs of the Beloochee tribes, and all others holding grants (jacedads) pensions (wazeefas), jagheers (tesols), &c. from the different Ameers, are to continue to enjoy them as they now do, the Ameers being answerable for their peaceable conduct towards the British Government and his subjects. Their highnesses the Ameers agree to form no new treaties, or enter into any engagements with foreign states, without the knowledge and concurrence of the British Government, but their highnesses will, of course, carry on friendly correspondence as usual with their neighbours.""Whereas, Treaties of friendship and amity have, from time to time, been entered into between the British and Hyderabad governments; and whereas circumstances have lately occurred which render it expedient and necessary to revise those treaties; with a view to which this draft has been prepared, agreeably to instructions addressed by the Right Hon. Lord George Auckland, Governor-general of India, &c., to Colonel Henry Pottinger, resident in Scinde, &c. There shall be lasting friendship, alliance, arid amity between the Honourable the East India Company and the Hyderabad government; and the provisions of all former Treaties, not modified or annulled by the present one, are hereby confirmed. The Governor-general of India has commanded that a British force shall be kept in Scinde, and stationed at the city of Tatta, where a cantonment will be formed. The strength of this force is to depend on the pleasure of the Governor-general of India."377Ashley"The only one of these that requires any observation from me in this place, is that regarding the strength of the subsidiary force. On this subject I have bestowed a good deal of reflection since the receipt of your letter of the 29th ult., and I am of opinion that we should demand from the Ameers of Scinde the cession, 'not a temporary occupation,' of all the country lying on the right bank of the Indus, south of an imaginary line to be drawn due west from that river at a point ten miles (more or less) north of Tatta, until it meets the frontier of Beloochistan, at the base of the mountains. This would give us a compact territory, the complete command of the river, and possession of the only sea-port. At a very rough estimate, I calculate that the cession I have indicated would yield at first a revenue of from four to five lacs of rupees, but it is one that would rapidly improve under our rule, and in a few years, I see no reason to doubt that Tatta would spring into much of its former opulence, and become a vast emporium of trade and wealth. I see manifold and cogent reasons why the subsidiary force should not be stationed at the capital, where barbarism and prejudice would lead to continual disputes without any counterbalancing advantage. My plan, therefore, would be to have a regiment of native infantry and a company of artillery at Kurachee, and all the rest of the troops at Tatta, where there is an admirable site on the Mukalla hills (west of the city), for a cantonment. I shall also propose that a strong detachment of Bengal troops (equal, perhaps, to the Kurachee one), should be kept at Sukkur, on the Indus, to which I presume the Khyrpore chiefs will gladly give their assent. With these troops, and British agents residing at Hyderabad and Khyrpore, I look on it that our perfect supremacy throughout Scinde will be as fully established as though we had entirely subjugated it."376"And it may be thought right to accompany this transfer with a condition, that as a security for the future, a British subsidiary force shall be maintained in Scinde; or, secondly, the maintenance of this force may be required without the adoption of an act so rigorous as that of deposition; or, thirdly, it
376"You have stated your intention to charge the Ameer to his face with this injurious act, but you have not stated with what proceeding on your part an admission by him will be followed, and it is, therefore, difficult to foresee in what circumstances you may be placed before the receipt of this letter. It seems open to you to decide upon proclaiming, as soon as a force from Bombay may enable you to do so with effect, that an act of hostility and bad faith having been committed towards the British Government, the share in the government of Scinde, which has been held by the guilty party, shall be transferred to the more faithful members of the family.""You have stated your intention to charge the Ameer to his face with this injurious act."375—"to oblige us to occupy their territories, I shall lose no time in apprising the Bombay government; and, in that case, the whole force might either assemble in this province, or the European troops proceed by steamers to the mouths of the Indus, where the native
375"I look on it, that the moral effect of such preparations will be even greater on the government of Scinde, as well as throughout the adjacent principalities, than our sending a force direct into the former province. Should the Ameers seem inclined, either by their avowed hostility, or backwardness in the cause—"ultima ratio"Had our present connexion existed some years, and our resident thereby had time, by constantly kind intercourse with the chiefs and people, to have removed the strong and universal impression that exists throughout Scinde as to our grasping policy, the case might have been widely different; but I enter on my new duties without anything to offer, and with a proposal that will not only strengthen the above impressions (for many besides the Scindees will believe at the outset that we are making a mere use of Shah Shoojah's name), but revive a claim to tribute which has been long esteemed obsolete. For the reasons I have, I fear imperfectly, adduced in this letter, and also because I am convinced that, sooner or later, the precaution will be requisite "—(the last attempt—the ultima ratio374"Shah Shooja-ool-Moolck will probably arrive, with his own army, and the direct support of British troops, at Shikarpore, about the middle of November next, in progress to take possession of the throne of Affghanistan. The Governor-general is averse from contemplating such a result as a refusal on the part of the Ameers to enter into such a composition with his Majesty as the British Government may deem just and reasonable; but it may be proper to apprize them of the probable consequences of their not coming cordially into the general views of his Lordship at a crisis so important; and you are authorised to tell them, that his Lordship must regard the demonstration of such a spirit, as rendering it indispensably necessary to the success of the enterprise which it is the object of the Tripartite treaty to accomplish that temporary occupation should be taken of Shikarpore, and of as much of the country adjacent as may be required, to afford a secure base to the intended military operations.""And he trusts that you will have no difficulty in convincing them of the magnitude of the benefits they will derive from securing the undisturbed possession of the territories they now hold, and obtaining immunity for all future claims on this account by a moderate pecuniary sacrifice."373"The measures treated of in those documents are of the highest importance, and as the Ameers of Scinde are deeply interested in the issue of them, it is necessary that they should be made fully and fairly acquainted with the motives and intentions of the British Government. You will, in the first place, state to the Ameers that, in the opinion of the Governor-general, a crisis has arrived, at which it is essentially requisite, for the security of British India, that the real friends of that power should unequivocally manifest their attachment to its interests; and you will further apprise them that a combination of the Powers to the westward, apparently having objects in view calculated to be injurious to our empire in the East, has compelled the Governor-general to enter into a counter-combination for the purpose of frustrating these objects. You will perceive that by one of the articles of the Treaty recently concluded, the British Government engages to arbitrate the claim of Shah Shooja-ool-Moolk upon Shikarpore and the territories of Scinde generally, and proposes at the same time to bring to a final settlement the claims of Maharajah Runjeet Sing, as connected with the Shah, and
373372"Shah Shooja-ool-Moolk agrees to relinquish, for himself, his heirs and successors, all claims of supremacy, and arrears of tribute, over the country now held by the Ameers of Scinde (which will continue to belong to the Ameers and their successors in perpetuity), on condition of the payment to him by the Ameers of such a sum as may be determined under the mediation of the British Government; 15,000,000 of rupees of such payment being made over by him to Maharajah Runjeet Sing. On these payments being completed, Article 4. of the Treaty of 12th March, 1833, will be considered cancelled, and the customary interchange of letters and suitable presents between the Maharajah and the Ameers of Scinde shall be maintained as heretofore."371370"His Lordship in council, would not, without your deliberate advice, and a very careful consideration of all the circumstances of the position of Scinde, enter into a general engagement to defend that country from all external enemies; but he does not hesitate to authorize you to promise his mediation in all disputes between the Ameers and the government of Lahore, if a reasonable equivalent be assented to. As one condition of this mediation, and with a view to enable this Government readily to give effect to it, it would be advantageous if the Ameers would consent permanently to receive a body of British troops, to be stationed at their capital, the expense of the detachment being paid from the Scinde revenues.""Whether the communication which you may make to the Ameers in pursuance of these instructions shall end in no new result, or in the mere reception, at the court of Hyderabad, of a British agent, or in the advance of a subsidiary force, for the protection of the Scinde territories, will probably depend upon the conduct of the Maharajah, and the course of events.""You will, in treating with the Ameers, communicate with them, without reserve, in reference to the dangerous position in which they stand, and you will apprise them, that this Government is sensible how essential it is, not to their interests only, but to their very existence, that the ties by which they are connected with the British empire should be strengthened."369"We considered it our duty to endeavour to induce the Maharajah to lay aside his hostile intentions. It appeared to us, also, that this opportunity ought not to be neglected, of establishing the British influence on a solid basis in Scinde, a country which is of great importance to us, both from its commanding the entrance to the Indus, and from its position in reference to the Punjaub and Affghanistan. With these views, we, on the one hand, instructed Captain Wade to endeavour, by any means short of actual menace, to deter the Maharajah from advancing against Shikarpore, while, on the other, we desired Colonel Pottinger to intimate to the Ameers that we were ready to enter into a closer alliance with them, on such terms as might be mutually agreed on. Owing to the distance of the scene, and the uncertainty of events, we did not consider it expedient to prescribe to Colonel Pottinger the precise conditions on which he was to treat. He was authorised by us to offer our protection against the Sikhs, and we expressed our hope that, with a view to enable us to fulfil this obligation, the Ameers would consent permanently to receive, and to pay the expense of, a body of British troops, to be stationed at their capital. Short of this, we informed him that he was at liberty to offer the mediation of the British Government with Maharajah Runjeet Sing, on condition of the reception of a British agent at Hyderabad, and, of course, of all the relations between Scinde and Lahore being conducted solely through the medium of British officers, and of the expense of any temporary deputation of the British troops into Scinde, which might be found requisite, being defrayed by the Ameers."368"In our letter dated 26th September last, we had the honour of informing you, that we had taken the opportunity afforded by Maharajah Runjeet Sing's applying to be furnished with 50,000 stand of arms, by the Indus, to remind his Highness of the peaceful nature of the objects for which the Indus has been reopened, and to make him acquainted with the sentiments entertained by the British Govern-
368367"That the British Government has requested a passage for the merchants and traders of Hindostan by the river and roads of Scinde, by which they may transport their goods and merchandize from one country to another; and the said government of Hyderabad hereby acquiesces in the same request, on the three following conditions:—1, that no person shall bring any description of military stores by the above river or roads; 2, that no armed vessels or boats shall come by the said river; 3, that on English merchants shall be allowed to settle in Scinde, but shall come as occasion requires, and having stopped to transact their business, shall return to India.""That the two contracting powers bind themselves never to look with the eye of covetousness on the possessions of each other."366365Mr. Roebuck
456 had never heard with more astonishment any observation than that which had fallen from the noble Lord as to the influence of the opinions of the Board of Directors. It must be well known to the noble Lord, that the Board of Directors was a perfect cipher on political matters, and that the Board of Control could do just what it pleased as to the government of India; therefore to ask for the opinion of Directors of the East India Company having seats in that House was a perfect farce. He should vote for the motion of the noble Lord, not that it went to the length which he desired, for he should have preferred it if it went much
456Mr. Hume
433"I have the honour to inclose to your Lordship some more information relative to the conduct of the ex-Ameers. I hope it may not prove unsatisfactory, because the further inquiry is pushed, the more the treachery of the Ameers will become apparent. I could have sent this information last February or March, had I chosen to spend my time in the employment suited to a chief of police receiving depositions. But, at the period in question, I had not the power of drawing up above 1,500 men in order of battle; no reinforcements had yet arrived; 20,000 men, under Shere Mahomed, were within a march of my camp; we were in the midst of an insurgent population, warlike, and well armed; I had the magazines and hospitals full of wounded men, to guard on the banks of the Indus; I had six sovereign princes in my camp, intriguing as hard as they could to arrange an attack on my camp, by overwhelming multitudes; I had a large fortress to guard—this fortress was three miles from my camp; I had an immense treasure to guard; I am obliged to respect the Zenana in the fortress, to the hazard of the regiment in the fortress (which regiment had suffered greatly in the battle, and could not muster above 400 men), for in these Zenanas were about 800 powerful Beloochees well armed, and the Zenanas full of arms. I well knew the treachery of the Ameers, or I should not have been so unjust as to use the terms I applied to them in my despatch after the battle of Meeanee."Kurachee,"Kurachee,432 said, he rose not to pass any judgment on the conduct or policy either of Lord Ellenborough or Lord Auckland. He would leave that to Gentlemen who were much better acquainted with Indian affairs than he was; but he intended to make some observations on what fell from the noble Lord relative to his (Sir C. Napier's) gallant relation commanding in Scinde. The noble Lord had stated, that if Sir Charles Napier had followed the advice of Major Outram, no war would have ensued, and the questions depending would have been brought to a satisfactory conclusion. He differed totally from the noble Lord, and he was decidedly of opinion, after having read the whole of the correspondence, that Major Outram's conduct could only be compared to that of Frere, relative to Sir John Moore, when he commanded the army in Spain. He felt perfectly certain, that if the advice of Major Outram had been followed, not one roan would have lived to tell the story at this moment, and he was astonished, that a military officer like Major Outram, could have given such advice to Sir Charles Napier. He was of opinion, that if any blame whatever attached to the latter gallant officer, it was for having so long delayed his march on Hyderabad, and thus risked the whole of the army in the manner he did, to satisfy Major Outran. It was clearly stated in the correspondence, that Major Outram asked for a delay of three days, and the general proved that he delayed no less than four days, with the prospect of the
433"I have the honour to inclose to your Lordship some more information relative to the conduct of the ex-Ameers. I hope it may not prove unsatisfactory, because the further inquiry is pushed, the more the treachery of the Ameers will become apparent. I could have sent this information last February or March, had I chosen to spend my time in the employment suited to a chief of police receiving depositions. But, at the period in question, I had not the power of drawing up above 1,500 men in order of battle; no reinforcements had yet arrived; 20,000 men, under Shere Mahomed, were within a march of my camp; we were in the midst of an insurgent population, warlike, and well armed; I had the magazines and hospitals full of wounded men, to guard on the banks of the Indus; I had six sovereign princes in my camp, intriguing as hard as they could to arrange an attack on my camp, by overwhelming multitudes; I had a large fortress to guard—this fortress was three miles from my camp; I had an immense treasure to guard; I am obliged to respect the Zenana in the fortress, to the hazard of the regiment in the fortress (which regiment had suffered greatly in the battle, and could not muster above 400 men), for in these Zenanas were about 800 powerful Beloochees well armed, and the Zenanas full of arms. I well knew the treachery of the Ameers, or I should not have been so unjust as to use the terms I applied to them in my despatch after the battle of Meeanee."Kurachee,"Kurachee,432Sir C. Napier
431Roebuck430429"Quis vituperavit Herculem"428427"The Ameers have never made the smallest objection to our troops being at Kurrachee, and immediately after Sir John Keane's force moved on from Hyderabad, Noor Mahomed Khan himself, suggested that we should retain the fort at the mouth of the harbour."426"How odd it is that those Indian officers should be all overcharged with a sense of their own importance."425424altissimum silentium423l.422"What reason have I to suppose Lord Ellenborough guilty of what has been imputed to him—what interest had he in such misdeeds—what reason have we to suspect him."421"The Ameers of Scinde engage not to permit any European or American to settle in their dominions."420"That the government of Scinde will not allow the establishment of the tribe of the French in Scinde."Roebuck419418"That this House, while it bestows the fullest meed of praise upon the skill of the General, and the valour of the Soldiers, by whom the Territory of Scinde has been added to our Empire, yet deems it a necessary, though painful duty, to visit with the sternest reprobation that grasping, treacherous, and meddling policy which forced upon our Army the necessity of such a conquest."417 Before, Sir, I address myself to the arguments—or rather to the assertions of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, I must take the opportunity, in allusion to a remark cursorily made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he sees me now in my place, of apologising for not having been present last year when the debate took place on the subject of the expedition into Affghanistan. But, Sir, in making this apology, I think it due to myself to state, that having had, during the previous Session of Parliament, occasion to make a long—I fear too long a speech in defence of the Affghan expedition, when attempts were made by two hon. Members to impugn that expedition, or at least to ask for papers on which it might be condemned—attempts which received little encouragement from the House—I was justified in concluding, that I should not be called on early in the next Session of Parliament to weary the House with another defence of that enterprize. This must be my excuse—if not a valid, at least a sincere one, for my absence on that occasion; but I may add, that a man may be absent on the occasion of a notice given by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and yet at the same time not be liable to the imputation of wishing to shrink from the defence of a Friend and Colleague. Sir, I find that the hon. and learned Gentleman last Session gave notice, that he would bring the subject of Scinde before Parliament, and having repeated that notice, this Session, he complains in, I think, a somewhat angry manner, that the noble Lord opposite has poached on his manor, as if the hon. and learned Gentleman had a sort of freehold in respect of complaints relating to the conduct of the British in Scinde and elsewhere in India—as if it was a sort of offence for any intruder to tread the ground marched over with such grace and dignity by the hon. and learned Member for Bath. But the hon. and learned
431Roebuck430429"Quis vituperavit Herculem"428427"The Ameers have never made the smallest objection to our troops being at Kurrachee, and immediately after Sir John Keane's force moved on from Hyderabad, Noor Mahomed Khan himself, suggested that we should retain the fort at the mouth of the harbour."426"How odd it is that those Indian officers should be all overcharged with a sense of their own importance."425424altissimum silentium423l.422"What reason have I to suppose Lord Ellenborough guilty of what has been imputed to him—what interest had he in such misdeeds—what reason have we to suspect him."421"The Ameers of Scinde engage not to permit any European or American to settle in their dominions."420"That the government of Scinde will not allow the establishment of the tribe of the French in Scinde."Roebuck419418"That this House, while it bestows the fullest meed of praise upon the skill of the General, and the valour of the Soldiers, by whom the Territory of Scinde has been added to our Empire, yet deems it a necessary, though painful duty, to visit with the sternest reprobation that grasping, treacherous, and meddling policy which forced upon our Army the necessity of such a conquest."417Sir John Hobhouse:
l.450449448447446445"I may be permitted to offer my congratulations to you upon this timely settlement of our relations with Scinde, by which our political and military ascendancy in that province
446445444443 I cordially agree in one sentiment expressed by the right hon. Gentlemen, (Sir C. Hobhouse), that in discussing questions of Indian policy, this House ought to put a liberal construction, not merely upon the motive, but upon the conduct of public men entrusted with great responsibility, acting at a great distance, and having the destines of a mighty empire committed to their care, and I can assure the House that no consideration on earth could induce me to rest the vindication of Lord Ellenborough's policy on a condemnation of the policy of Lord Auckland. I could under no circumstances have consented to the motion made by the hon. and learned Member for Bath. On the contrary. I should have willingly extended to Lord Auckland the same credit which is claimed for Lord Ellenborough; and from my own personal knowledge of Lord Auckland I must say, so far as motive is
l.450449448447446445"I may be permitted to offer my congratulations to you upon this timely settlement of our relations with Scinde, by which our political and military ascendancy in that province
446445444443Sir R. Peel:
 observed, that the noble Lord had put a wider construction on what had fallen from him than he was justified in doing. The noble Lord had imputed to him that he had said, that the principles of those international laws which governed the intercourse between the states of Europe could not be depended on in our intercourse with the nations of the east. Now, what he said was this; that there were cases in which they would refuse to interfere with nations in Europe, but when under similar circumstances they would be called upon to interfere in India. He could not understand how on any other principle Lord Auckland's policy could be defended.Sir R. Peel
Divett465 rose, not to second the motion, but to move that the House should adjourn. Although the hon. Gentleman had not been fortunate enough to find a single Member to second his motion, yet as that motion implied a reflection upon the conduct of a gentleman whom he (Sir R. Peel) was proud to call his personal friend—and he did not believe that a man of higher integrity, or a purer sense of honour, existed than Mr. Bonham—although, he said, the hon. Gentleman had not found a seconder, yet, as he had succeeded in throwing his imputation, although he could not carry his motion, he felt it necessary to say a few words in vindication of the conduct of his friend. He was ashamed to trouble the House on this subject, for it would be observed that the hon. Gentleman had not acted from a sense of public virtue, or from a proper resentment of the interference of Mr. Bonham at elections—nor was the notice which he had given on the first day of the Session prompted by his desire to protect the purity of electoral privileges, for it was avowed by him to-night, that if Mr. Bonham had written him a letter of apology, the House would never have heard a word of this motion. He would give to the House Sir Gregory Lewin's account of the transaction. That gentleman stated that on the approach of the City of London election, it was, after some conversation, agreed between him and Mr. Divett, that they should pair together; and he (Sir G. Lewin), wrote to Mr. Bonham, who stated, in reply, that the pair was perfectly satisfactory—that subsequently, however, a communication to that effect being made to the central committee, an investigation was made by them, and Mr. Divett's name did not appear on the list of electors. That on this being made known to Mr. Divett he appeared annoyed, and set it down as a trick, declaring that his name was on the list, and that the result was that both gentlemen came to town and voted. Mr. Bonham never charged Mr. Divett with having preferred an unfounded claim to vote. He had merely transmitted the intelligence communicated to him by the central committee. The chairman of that committee was Mr. Russell Ellice, whose high character would be appreciated by every gentleman who was
Divett465Sir R. Peel
"The Ameers are wholly at a loss to comprehend the reason for this; they dread a return of the Affghan oppressions, and messages are continually sent me from one or the other of the Ameers begging that some one may be permitted to remain at Hyderabad. Meer Shandad has built a fort."442"That two of them (said the resident), Noor Mahomed Khan and Nusseer Khan, may not be sincere in their professions of friendship, I can readily admit; but the dissensions of the Ameers among themselves are a guarantee that they will not only not act with unanimity but would shrink with terror from attempting anything against us." would rather have been asked on this occasion the simple question, ay or nay, did the whole policy pursued towards the princes of Scinde redound to the credit of this country; and he had expected that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Board of Control, would have relied upon something more than the vague and general statements which the hon. Gentleman had made to the House. He differed in opinion on this subject from almost every speaker, except perhaps the noble Lord who had just sat down. He did not believe that any of the princes of India really desired the overthrow of the British dominion. With respect to the independence of the Ameers of Scinde, the wonder to him was how they remained independent so long. They were divided among themselves by family dissensions; their people were divided in religious opinions; so that, in 1836, they gladly received our assistance, and had it not been for our interference they would have fallen a prey to the invasion of Runjeet Singh. The family dissensions among the princes rendered it evident all along that any combination among them to oppose us was not merely hopeless, but not even desirable for themselves. One of the despatches confirmed this view:—
"The Ameers are wholly at a loss to comprehend the reason for this; they dread a return of the Affghan oppressions, and messages are continually sent me from one or the other of the Ameers begging that some one may be permitted to remain at Hyderabad. Meer Shandad has built a fort."442"That two of them (said the resident), Noor Mahomed Khan and Nusseer Khan, may not be sincere in their professions of friendship, I can readily admit; but the dissensions of the Ameers among themselves are a guarantee that they will not only not act with unanimity but would shrink with terror from attempting anything against us."Sir E. Colebrooke
466: Sir, I have an apology and a statement to offer, which will not occupy the House a moment. It
466The Attorney-General
441Blue Book440Blue Book439438Blue Book?437"To me it seems that neither the obtaining or retaining of any trade, however valuable, is an object for which men may spill each other's blood."436ex parte435"That content with the limits which nature appears to have assigned to its empire, the Government of India would devote all its efforts to the establishment of public peace."434 said, had I been aware
441Blue Book440Blue Book439438Blue Book?437"To me it seems that neither the obtaining or retaining of any trade, however valuable, is an object for which men may spill each other's blood."436ex parte435"That content with the limits which nature appears to have assigned to its empire, the Government of India would devote all its efforts to the establishment of public peace."434Lord Jocelyn
474473 said, the question put by the hon. Gentleman was one of great importance, and he should have no hesitation in giving him, if not the details of the instructions which had been given, at least the principle by which Her Majesty's
474473Lord Stanley
 said, that he had had no communication whatever, intimating to him any steps on the part of the French government, since the close of last Session, but he was not prepared to say, that no such steps had been taken.Mr. Gladstone
476 said, that certain directions had been given to the Commissioners of Customs to carry out the Convention, but it had not been thought necessary yet to issue any bye-laws, and it might not be deemed advisable to do so until they had received the report of the commissioner
476Mr. Gladstone
 said, whilst many hon. Gentlemen objected to this measure in its details and in its administration, he had all along objected rather to the principles of the Poor-law than to its details; and he was bound to say, that he still adhered to those grounds of objection which he had previously entertained. He thought the principles of the Poor-law were not sound, and that they went to attack and to undermine the very foundations of society. He felt, however, that the alteration now proposed by the right hon. Baronet would introduce a great amelioration into the bill. He wished, like the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Captain Pechell), to learn whether it were intended to interfere with existing local acts.Sir W. James
 wished to ask whether, if the mother refused to affiliate a child, the parish were to have no authority to compel the affiliation?Mr. C. Berkeley
 having once represented the borough of Halifax could entirely confirm what had been said by his hon. Friend near him, that the people of the West Riding of Yorkshire would be much pleased with the alterations in the Poor-law: and, in common with his hon, Friend, he begged to express his best thanks to the right hon. Baronet for this bill. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe), he must say, that he distinctly heard the right hon. Baronet mention the North of England as well as Wales, when referring to the representations which had been made to the Government with regard to the oppressive nature of certain clauses of the Poor-law Act. He rejoiced that these representations had produced their effect. Not altogether uniting himself with the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Ferrand), and those who went equally far, he was quite certain that the bill now proposed by Her Majesty's Government would be hailed with the greatest satisfaction by the country at large. There was one other subject upon which he (Mr. Wortley) had a strong feeling—he meant the separation of aged couples in the Unions. Might there not be some relaxation of that—the severest provision of the law—the separation of aged men and their wives? He was aware of the difficulty that might present itself with regard to the possibility of relaxing the law in the case of younger persons; but he did think that some means might be devised to relax the stringent provisions relating to aged couples, who were often so great a comfort to each other in the hour of sickness and affliction.Mr. James S. Wortley
 was certainly very anxious to bring on his motion upon Tuesday. After the question which the hon. Member had put to him, he should perhaps explain that he quite concurred in the propriety of having no discussion in that House, which might influence the decision of the jury, but he did not think it was at all necessary that they should be acquainted with the decision of the jury previous to entering upon his motion. He should, therefore, propose, to bring it forward upon Tuesday.Lord John Russell
490 would candidly confess to the House, with respect to the first suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, that though he should very much lament the absence of the Attorney-general for Ireland when he brought on his motion, yet he did not think that the absence of the hon. and learned Gentleman should in-
490Lord John Russell
 was desirous to ascertain from the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell), whether it were his intention upon Tuesday to proceed with the motion of which he had given notice relative to the state of Ireland, if the trials should not happen to be concluded by that time.Mr. Escott
 concurred in the favourable opinion which had been generally expressed with regard to the new bill, and was understood to state that the existing law had been very instrumental in causing the disturbances in South Wales. He wished to know what the bill proposed with regard to the law of settlement.Mr. S. Davies
 was prompted to offer his best thanks to the right hon. Baronet for the proposition which he had just submitted to the House; for he was quite certain when that measure should be fairly and fully understood by the public, that it could not fail to be received with the strongest marks of approbation. He could at any rate speak for the West Riding of Yorkshire, and he could assure the right hon. Baronet that the proposed alteration would render the operations and effects of the New Poor Law much more salutary than they were under the existing law. He did not exactly catch what the right hon. Baronet had said with reference to district schools for pauper children. Perhaps the right hon. Baronet would inform the House more distinctly upon that part of the subject. He would assure the right hon. Baronet that no communication which Her Majesty's Ministers had made since they had been in office would be received by the country with half so much satisfaction as would mark the passing of this Bill.Mr. E. B. Denison
 wished to know whether any, and what, provisions had been made for illegitimate children, and the mothers of illegitimate children.Mr. Henley
472 said, the course he in-
472Mr. Wallace
483J. Graham482 felt satisfied that a great part of the country, and all those guardians who were rational and reasonable men, would concur in the propriety of the course which the right hon. Baronet was now prepared to adopt with respect to the Gilbert Unions. As he had him-
483J. Graham482Mr. T. Duncombe
 wished to inquire of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department whether it was the intention of the Government in the course of the present Session, to introduce any measure having for its object an improvement in the discipline of Prisons?Mr. T. Duncombe
, under these circumstances, begged then to move the Committee be nominated.Mr. Gladstone
 inquired of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Wallace) whether he intended to persevere with his motion with respect to not placing upon the Railway Committee, Directors of, and Shareholders in, Railways.Mr. W. E. Gladstone
E. B. Denison:484 regretted that he was
E. B. Denison:484Mr. B. Ferrand
 wished to know whether means had been provided to relieve the Irish poor, reduced to destitution in this country, from the dreadful oppression which they sometimes suffered upon being suddenly passed to their own country, where they had no settlement, after a residence of several years in England. Did the right hon. Baronet intend to introduce into this bill a clause which would remedy such grievances in future?Mr. S. Crawford
 thought, the only objection to the bill was likely to be made by the country gentlemen, on the ground of expense.Captain Pechell
 was very anxious to prevent suits of Tithes being carried into the Ecclesiastical Courts, and had patiently waited for legislation upon the subject, having been told every Session that the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill would be brought in if he would only exercise a little patience. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether it were intended to introduce that bill in the present Session; and if so, he hoped provision would be made for preventing suits of Tithes being carried to the Ecclesiastical Courts.Captain Pechell
481 observed, that in common with the rest of the House, he felt highly gratified by the statement which had just been made by the right hon. Baronet. He was rejoiced to find that a committee was to be appointed to inquire into the administration of the Poor Law
481Captain Pechell
 wished also to know whether the rules and regulations and bye-laws of the Committee of the Privy Council had been issued, and, if so, when they would be laid before Parliament?Captain Pechell
 said, that he had received instructions from his constituents to oppose the appointment of Directors and Shareholders to serve on the Committee, for which he knew they had good reason.Captain Pechell
 said, that seeing the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade in his place, he would take the opportunity of asking him a question relative to the Fishery Convention between this country and France. He was aware that by the Convention of 1839, certain rules were agreed upon which were to be submitted to the legislatures of the two countries. Considerable delay had taken place, owing to the demands of France, and the great concessions which had been made to her. The force of law had been given, during the last Session of Parliament, to these rules and regulations; and it was now necessary to inquire what had been done on the other side of the Channel, in order that our fishermen might know the nature of the laws and tribunals to which they were subjected. He wished to know, therefore, whether any intimation had been given to the Government of this country that the government of France had submitted to her Legislature those measures to which she was bound by the Treaty.Captain Pechell
475"That the most stringent instructions had been given that no encouragement whatever, and such discouragement as they possibly could, should be given to any smuggling trade between the island of Hong Kong and the coast of China. That, the merchants had been warned that if they chose to violate the laws of China, either by the introduction of prohibited goods into a legalized port, or the introduction of any goods whatever into ports not legalized, they were not to expect the protection of the British Government, but must
475 said, that in much that fell from the noble Lord he concurred, and he was gratified to hear it. Nothing could be further from his intention than to express any opinion favourable to the legalisation of the Opium Trade. But he thought it no more than due to the noble Lord to express his gratification at the noble Lord's declaration,
475"That the most stringent instructions had been given that no encouragement whatever, and such discouragement as they possibly could, should be given to any smuggling trade between the island of Hong Kong and the coast of China. That, the merchants had been warned that if they chose to violate the laws of China, either by the introduction of prohibited goods into a legalized port, or the introduction of any goods whatever into ports not legalized, they were not to expect the protection of the British Government, but must
475Sir G. Staunton
 had intended to put a question as to the commercial relations of this country with China on Monday, but understanding that it would be equally convenient to the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies to answer it immediately, he would put it at once. He begged to inquire whether British subjects, acting in contravention of the spirit if not the letter of our recent commercial treaties with China, by endeavours to introduce into that country the prohibited article of Opium, are to be considered to forfeit, by such acts, the aid and protection of the British Crown; and if so, whether, in addition to such forfeiture of British aid and protection, they will be liable to specific pains and penalties under British laws, or to any direct interference and obstruction on the part of the British authorities in China? Also, whether the article of Opium will be allowed to be landed and warehoused at Hong Kong, for the purpose of re-exportation into China? He had been induced to put this question at the request of several merchants in the city connected with the China Trade. Much difficulty and misunderstanding would be prevented if it were in the power of Her Majesty's Government to state what course the British authorities in China were instructed to pursue with respect to the Opium Trade, and also the nature of their commercial regulations generally.Sir G. Staunton
Mr. Hawes.480Mr. Hawes.479s.478477: As it seems to be the disposition of the House, that I should now proceed to bring forward the Poor-law Amendment Bill, and as I see the hon. Member for Finsbury, and the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton are both in their places, I will, before I state what are the provisions of the bill I am about to introduce, in the first instance, state certain provisions in a former bill which I do not intend to introduce in the present measure. The House will remember that the two hon. Members to whom I refer more particularly, object to the abolition of the Gilbert Unions, and they had stated, that the abolition without previous inquiry would be unjust. Now, I entertain a strong opinion, that it is for the public good, that the abolition of those Unions should be effected. Nevertheless as there is this difference of opinion concerning the propriety of abolishing them, I am perfectly prepared to go into an inquiry with respect to the operation of the Gilbert Unions in conjunction with the general law for the relief of the Poor throughout England and Wales, and inasmuch as those parties more immediately connected with the different unions court inquiry, I, on the part of the Government, am not disposed to refuse inquiry, and pending that inquiry it is not my intention to propose the abolition of the Gilbert Unions in the present bill. At some time before Easter, therefore, I shall be prepared on the part of the Government, to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the operation of the Gilbert Unions, regarding the result of that inquiry to be independent of the present measure. Having thus stated what the bill does not contain, which I hope is satisfactory to the two hon. Members, I will now state certain material alterations in the present measure as contra-distinguished from the former bill to which I referred, In the first place, I will refer to that portion of the existing Poor-law, which has long been the subject of much comment and of warm and excited feeling throughout England and Wales, I mean the operation of the bastardy clauses of the original Poor-law Amendment Act, as introduced in 1834. I am bound to state, that recent inquiry in Wales has proved to me that the dissatisfaction at the operation of the Poor-law in that district at least, and as I know also in many parts of the north
Mr. Hawes.480Mr. Hawes.479s.478477Sir J. Graham
 said, that it was the intention of a noble Lord to introduce the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill into the Upper House.Sir J. Graham
 thought it right to state to the noble Lord, who, he was sure, was desirous that the matter should be fully and fairly discussed, that he believed it would be impossible for the learned Attorney-general for Ireland to be in his place in Parliament upon Tuesday next. It was important in his (Sir James Graham's) opinion that the hon. and learned Gentleman should be present, but he feared that it was not at all likely that he could be. He deemed it right to state this circumstance to the noble Lord, but he did not wish in the slightest degree to sway the noble Lord's determination, or to induce him to delay his motion for a single hour, if the noble Lord thought that would not be consistent with his public duty if the noble Lord adhered to his determination of bringing on his motion upon Tuesday, he hoped the noble Lord would not think it unreasonable if he asked the noble Lord to state the precise form of motion which he then proposed to introduce.Sir James Graham
 said, he intended that the prosecutions should be conducted as heretofore, at the public expense.Sir J. Graham
 said, that the Government had not determined upon introducing such a measure, yet he should be sorry to say that the Government would not do so in the course of the present Session.Sir J. Graham
487486485seriatim, would endeavour to answer 487486485seriatim,Sir J. Graham
488 would, with the permission of the House, trespass still further upon their indulgence, and ask leave to introduce the bill which stood next in order upon the Votes, for the more speedy trial of offences committed upon the High Seas, as it was one of very pressing necessity. It was a bill for securing the more speedy trial of criminals charged with offences on the High Seas. All these offences were now tried at the Central Criminal Court; the consequence of this was, that on the
488Sir J. Graham
 would exercise the same candour towards the House as had characterised the remarks of the noble Lord. He could only say, that if the House determined to go into Committee upon the state of Ireland, it would not then be his duty, as a Minister of the Crown, to resist the Resolutions of the noble Lord.Sir James Graham
 moved the third reading of the Metropolitan Improvements Bill.The Earl of Lincoln
 assured the House that due diligence had been used by the board, and that they had been careful to collect the best possible advice upon the subject. There was good reason to apprehend that if the whole of the materials of the houses pulled down were to be too hastily pressed on the persons who dealt in those materials, the Commissioners would get nothing for them, and the expense of the improvements would be thereby considerably increased.The Earl of Lincoln
523 objected also to the power to be given to the Bank of England to lend money on mortgage. He thought, however, this was an exception to the case. The right hon. Baronet had stated the difficulty in obtaining loans of this kind, and he thought, looking to the
523Mr. Stuart Wortley
: After the eloquent terms in which the right hon. Baronet has moved the Thanks of this House to Sir C. Napier and the gallant army under his command, I shall content myself with merely seconding that motion. I took occasion the other day, to state my opinion of the moral courage with which Sir C. Napier extricated himself from the perilous position in which he was placed. I need not now repeat that opinion. I cannot, however, help saying that, even those who may disapprove of a portion of his conduct, but with whom I do not agree—I cannot help saying, that even those hon. Members may, in my opinion, fitly render a tribute to the military skill, to the exalted courage, and to the persevering conduct of Sir C. Napier, and of the army under his command. It is eminently fortunate for this country, that at the age which Sir C. Napier has attained, he should have retained all the vigour and the energy of a young man; and there are few men, perhaps at the age of twenty or thirty, who would have shown so much energy as Sir C. Napier, united with his great military skill.Lord J. Russell
548547 fully participated in the admiration which had been expressed at the valour and skill which had been displayed in the recent military achievements in Scinde. Those achievements could be best appreciated from the fact that our brave troops had fought one against ten, odds which were proverbial as a test of extraordinary prowess. Entertaining these sentiments in regard to the military exploits of our officers and soldiers, however, he felt bound to say that he agreed in the spirit of the principle laid down by his noble Friend who had just spoken. At the same time, he was glad that his noble Friend had not moved any amendment. The fact was, he believed that the blaze of martial glory which had attended the arms of Sir C. Napier and his gallant band had blinded the reason of many Gentlemen to the essential points in the diplomatic conduct of that gallant commander. If the political conduct of Sir C. Napier had been
548547Mr. V. Smith
 said, it had not been his intention to offer any remarks to the House, but he rose in consequence of an observation which had been used by the hon. Member for Winchester. That hon. Gentleman had said, that hon. Members who had expressed their opinions freely on this question, "dared" not impugn the conduct of the gallant officer to whom it was now proposed to pass a Vote of Thanks. The hon. Members who had spoken on that side of the House, had given free expression to their opinions, because many of them felt that though Sir C. Napier had acted in a most creditable manner, and had deserved the Thanks of the House for his military services, there were circumstances connected with his transactions in India, of which they could not approve. This was the feeling which he entertained; but he should be sorry to divide the House on this question, or to give his vote against the motion. He believed, that the conduct exhibited by Sir C. Napier, could have been rivalled by few persons. He was willing to give that gallant officer his full weed of praise; but, at the same time, he could not read the correspondence which had been submitted to the House, without regretting some portions of the conduct of the gallant officer. He considered that the laurels which Sir C. Napier had won, were tarnished by the letter which he had written to the Ameers of Scinde. If the motion were pressed to a division, he certainly would not vote upon it.Mr. W. O. Stanley
 said, the whole subject, including, among a great variety and extent of matte's, the charges alluded to, had been referred to a commission, of which he was a Member; and which had been prosecuting its inquiries with diligence and at a very considerable length. Such was the difficulty and the delicacy of the investigation, that he did not deem it necessary to apologise to the House for the time which had been occupied in preparing the report. He still hoped, however, that in a short time it would be concluded; nor did he doubt that as soon as possible afterwards preparations would be made for laying the result before Parliament.Lord Granville Somerset
562"Several Ameers have broken the Treaty in various instances stated in the accompanying return of complaints' against them. I have maintained that we want only a fair pretext to coerce the Ameers, and I think the various acts recorded in the return give abundant reason," &c.561560 without entering into the question of the general policy pursued respecting Scinde, would follow the example of his noble Friend near him, in not shrinking from expressing to the House and to the country his feelings with respect to the motion for a Vote of Thanks to Sir Charles Napier. He undertook to say, that for this Vote of Thanks there
562"Several Ameers have broken the Treaty in various instances stated in the accompanying return of complaints' against them. I have maintained that we want only a fair pretext to coerce the Ameers, and I think the various acts recorded in the return give abundant reason," &c.561560Mr. Hawes
 could not view the question in the light the right hon. Gentleman saw it. The bill, if he read it aright, contemplated a clear right to invest the money with the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, without return, for five years, which was a principle he thought it would be injudicious on the part of the House to sanction, with respect to the Bank of England particularly, as they were, he believed, about to accept of assistance on these improvements, from other quarters, and especially from the source of the coal duties levied by the corporation of the city of London.Mr. Hawes
520 said, he had papers in his hands complaining of the great injury done to a large body of individuals who lived or had shops in the immediate neighbourhoods where the various metropolitan improvements were taking place, in consequence of the extraordinary slow progress of the works. In many places,
520Mr. Hawes
576575 said, this was a most important question. Those brave and noble-minded men who had hazarded their lives in the cause of their country well deserved the Thanks of that House and of the nation; but it seemed to be the wish of some hon. Gentlemen on the other side to depreciate the value of their services, by imputing motives and indulging in insinuations against at least one of the officers engaged in those operations, whose conduct they did not dare to impugn by a direct motion in that House. The hon. Member for Halifax, although he did not oppose this Vote of Thanks, had sought to depreciate the credit due to the gallant Officer who had directed the operations in Scinde, and had objected to the motion on the ground of precedent. He was not, however, disposed to argue such a question as this upon precedent. Sir C. Napier had gained an unprecedented victory; and in awarding to that gallant Officer their meed of praise and gratitude for his unprecedented successes, they were not to be guided or influenced by the conduct of Parliament on other occasions, when the actions under consideration were of a widely different nature from those in which Sir C. Napier had been engaged. The noble Lord who had addressed the House had made two admissions to which he would call their attention. The noble Lord had stated that the conduct of Sir C. Napier, in a military point of view, had been beyond all praise. The hon. Member for Halifax had repeated this sentiment, and had said that he considered the gal-
576575Mr. B. Escott
600 said, that Standing Order was to be interpreted in connexion with the usage and practice of the House. The rule of the House was to exclude strangers. The practice was, that a Member on observing a stranger present, mentions the matter, and the Speaker, without debate, orders his exclusion. But that did not depend on the Sessional Order, but was a right inherent in the House. If not, it
600The Speaker
"For an event which grew out of an accident; lest officers, looking at the signal benefit conferred on them by receiving such thanks, should cherish too easy a disposition to create such accidents."573"In the case of Copenhagen that very fact existed, the non-existence of which was the reason of forbearance from voting Parliamentary thanks in the cases of Admiral Byng, and the battle of Toulouse—there was a declaration of war issued by Denmark against Great Britain. At the time of the military occupation of the Danish arsenals, Denmark had declared hersslf at war with England.""The only question that arose respecting Copenhagen was, whether the danger actually existed Then danger existed, war was justified and began, Upon this principle hostilities were commenced against Denmark."572"What were the admirals to do? Were they to negotiate? If they were, they were to negotiate as admirals usually did, with their great guns. That was the only representation that could have any effect on the understandings of our ancient allies the Turks.""That his conduct had been entirely approved by his Sovereign, that the policy of his conduct had not been questioned in Parliament; nevertheless Thanks were not voted, because there had been no declaration of war."571 said, he should have been content to sit still after the protest of his noble Friend near him (Lord Howick), but he could not do so, after the speech of the gallant Member near him. No doubt his noble Friend had discharged a painful and invidious duty, but the hon. And gallant Member had completely mistaken his noble Friend's views. Not a word fell from his noble Friend calling in question the high military character and achievements of Sir C. Napier. His noble Friend from first to last approved of the military skill, the gallantry, and the moral and political courage, which Sir C. Napier had shown throughout the whole of his military operations in Scinde, and in fighting the battle of Meeanee. He (Mr. Wood) certainly thought his noble Friend did, and he was sure it was his intention to, pay a tribute to the whole of Sir C. Napier's military conduct from beginning to end, in which he (Mr. Wood) entirely concurred Nor did his noble Friend enter into the question of the policy of Lord Ellenborough. The position his noble Friend took was, that according to Parliamentary precedent, according to the principles laid down by Parliament in
"For an event which grew out of an accident; lest officers, looking at the signal benefit conferred on them by receiving such thanks, should cherish too easy a disposition to create such accidents."573"In the case of Copenhagen that very fact existed, the non-existence of which was the reason of forbearance from voting Parliamentary thanks in the cases of Admiral Byng, and the battle of Toulouse—there was a declaration of war issued by Denmark against Great Britain. At the time of the military occupation of the Danish arsenals, Denmark had declared hersslf at war with England.""The only question that arose respecting Copenhagen was, whether the danger actually existed Then danger existed, war was justified and began, Upon this principle hostilities were commenced against Denmark."572"What were the admirals to do? Were they to negotiate? If they were, they were to negotiate as admirals usually did, with their great guns. That was the only representation that could have any effect on the understandings of our ancient allies the Turks.""That his conduct had been entirely approved by his Sovereign, that the policy of his conduct had not been questioned in Parliament; nevertheless Thanks were not voted, because there had been no declaration of war."571Mr. C. Wood
522 said, that there had been a strongly-expressed opinion on the part of the public against the Bank of England advancing money by way of mortgage; and in consequence of that expression of feeling, the practice had entirely ceased. He must, therefore, object to sanctioning by a parliamentary enactment a practice which had been condemned by the Bank itself. True it was, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, this money was not permanently locked up as a mortgage would be; but the security on which the money was to be advanced was not a negotiable security, and the repayment of the money was made contingent upon circumstances. If he thought there was an impossibility of obtaining the money from other sources he should waive his objection; but there were Assurance Companies and other large
522Mr. C. Wood
 suggested to the right hon. Baronet, that as several small sums would be required, whether a limit should not be named, in reference to the amount to be borrowed from the Bank.Mr. C. Wood
l.l.l. observed, that the House would recollect the question put the other night to the right hon. Baronet, by the hon. Member for Finsbury, as to whether there would be any objection to place some tenant farmers on the Land Tenure Commission in Ireland, in order to remove the suspicions which, undoubtedly, in some quarters, attached to it. The right hon. Gentleman expressed some doubts on the subject, and asked whether any tenant farmers would serve without pay. He was of opinion that many could be found, and he knew that this was the case, with respect to the tenant farmers in the northern part of Ireland. The next day he was informed, on good authority, that several tenant farmers in the west and south of Ireland, paying rents varying from 2,000l.l.l.Mr. Ross
 said, he thought, that the right hon. Baronet had not answered the second part of the question put to him, namely, whether he would object to some of the humbler class of tenants being placed on the Commission; and also, whether any of such class were to be examined before the Commission?Mr. Ross
 thought this was a case to which the objection of the hon. Member for Montrose could not in fairness be applied. The money about to be advanced in this instance was not advanced in the same manner as money advanced upon mortgage. It was to lie out until it would be convenient to repay it by instalments whenever money came to hand as the old buildings were taken down and sold.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
521 said, that when a former act for Improving the Metropolis passed, two years ago, the right had been reserved to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests to borrow money for the purposes of the Act, and it had accordingly happened that great competition took place between various capitalists. The terms offered by the Bank, however, were the more favourable terms. Doubts were suggested whether the Commissioners could legally borrow of the Bank; reference was made to counsel, who gave their opinion that they might. Although
521The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had been desirous of communicating to the House all possible information upon the subject, but he had felt the difficulty of making any satisfactory selection, and the danger of injustice which might be involved in publishing the names of parties at present. He proposed, however, when the papers should be produced to the House, to move that they be referred to a select committee, to determine what portions it would be proper to publish.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
594593592 had given the best attention in his power to the speech which had just been delivered by the hon. and learned Member, and he confessed he had not been able to discover the object which the hon. Member had in view. The hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to wish that accurate accounts of debates should be published, and he paid a just tribute to the skill, correctness, and impartiality of the press in the publication of debates. He admitted, that the existing accounts were free from misrepresentation. He admitted, that the sentiments of Members were given under the existing system with an accuracy highly commendable. In the same way, with respect to the exclusion of strangers, the hon. and learned Member
594593592The Chancellor of the Exchequer
551"It gives me great satisfaction, (said Sir C. Napier), to say that some prisoners have been taken; and, though the number is small, it is still some advance towards a civilised mode of warfare; for I cannot help thinking that the desperate resistance generally made by wounded Beloochees has arisen from their own sys-
551550549 said, as it was not the intention of the noble Lord to divide the House, he should not interpose between what he hoped would be the unanimous
551"It gives me great satisfaction, (said Sir C. Napier), to say that some prisoners have been taken; and, though the number is small, it is still some advance towards a civilised mode of warfare; for I cannot help thinking that the desperate resistance generally made by wounded Beloochees has arisen from their own sys-
551550549Sir H. Hardinge
 said, from the papers he found the quarrel at Brighton originated from a soldier having been struck and otherwise assaulted by three or four persons. The soldier called his comrades to his assistance, and the civilians ran into the house where the affray complained of took place. There was much violence used; in fact, the violent outrage which took place, it was impossible to defend. But, as the regiment had voluntarily come forward to defray the expense occasioned by the destruction of property which had occurred, and as there were legal proceedings pending against one of the offenders, he thought the House would not require him to enter further into the affair. With respect to the prevention of such occurrences, the Duke of Wellington, as Commander-in-Chief, had taken the strongest steps to prevent the recurrence of such affrays for the future.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, this was a question of great importance, when the application was made the exception of a Parliamentary sanction. He thought his hon. Friend was quite right in persisting in dividing the House on this question.Dr. Bowring
 felt it necessary to justify the vote he was about to give on this question. He had no feeling whatever against General Sir Charles Napier, whom he knew, and whose high and noble qualities he admitted and admired; but he disapproved all aggressive war, and he would therefore vote for the motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. S. Crawford).Dr. Bowring
 said, the real question was, that the House had Orders on the Book which they constantly violated. He thought it was absurd to be consulting on giving additional accommodation to strangers, and yet to maintain an Order on the Book that the Sergeant should take into custody any stranger who appeared in the House.Dr. Bowring
 thought the hon. Member perfectly justified in the objection he had taken to the clause empowering the borrowers of this money to take it from the Bank of England. A body like the Bank of England should not enter into a speculation of this nature, or lock up its money in securities from which the Bank could not withdraw it whenever it became necessary for the public convenience or protection.Mr. Masterman
.—I second the motion.Mr. Brotherton
 said, the proviso was a mere evasion; and he was extremely sorry that the right hon. Baronet, whose opinions must regulate the majority of that House for this Session at least,—in respect to bargains with the Bank of England, should in the present case have violated a sound principle. He objected to any limitation, but since the matter was decided against him so strongly, he would say no more.Mr. Hume
 with a view to exclude the Bank of England from engaging in lending money upon the security of these Improvements, for the reasons he had stated, moved as an amendment, that the words, "The Governor and Company of the Bank of England," in the 15th line of the second page of the bill, be omitted.Mr. Hume
 objected to the power which had been given in this bill to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests to borrow from the Bank of England money on mortgage, for the purpose of carrying out these improvements, although he knew the same power had been given to the Commissioners under the provisions of a former similar act of Parliament. The consequence of the Bank of England being permitted thus to lock up its money in securities, which were not readily convertible into cash, might be that the Bank would find itself one day without a guinea to carry on the business of the public.Mr. Hume
 did not object to the arrangement on the score of the amount which was required to be borrowed, but he objected to it on principle. His objection was, that the Bank of England should advance money on mortgage—for there was no doubt they would lend on that security. He objected to pledging the House to the adoption of a bad principle. He would, therefore, beg the right hon. Baronet to postpone the passing of this bill, to see whether there could be any modification made in the plan.Mr. Hume
 moved that the evidence taken in the last Session of Parliament respecting the frauds which have been practised on the Custom-house department in London be laid on the Table.Mr. Wallace
556"His Highness the Ameer Roostum Khan sent a secret messenger to me to say, that he was in the hands of his family, and could not act as his feelings of friendship for the English nation prompted him to do, and that if I would receive him he would escape and come to my camp. I answered his highness that I would cettainly receive him, but that my advice was for him to consult with his brother, the Ameer Ali Moorad Khan. He took my advice; he went to the fort of Dejee to his brother. When I heard of this I was glad, for I thought that Scinde would be tranquil; that his highness would spend his last days in honour and in peace. I moved with my troops towards Khyrpore to force his violent family to disperse the wild bands that they had collected. I sent his highness word that I should visit him; I wanted to ask his advice as to the arrangements for the new treaty. I thought that he had again become the friend of the Government that I serve. That night I heard that he had solemnly conferred upon his brother, the Ameer Ali Moorad, the turban of command over the Talpoor family, which brother is their heir to that honour. I thought this a very wise proceeding,
556"Ameers, and People of Scinde,"Camp, near Khyrpore, Jan. 1, 1843."That the old man, Meer Roostum, (who it seems had been persuaded by Ali Moorad that I meant to imprison him for life, and who was perfectly exhausted by his flight), might return to Khyrpore, and live anywhere he pleased as a simple Ameer.""2. That Ali Moorad drove his brother to this step. Meer Roostum had resigned the turban to his brother Ali in the most formal manner, writing his resignation in the Koran."555"1. Meer Roostum, who is a timid man, and has all along fancied that I want to make him prisoner, believed that the time for this
555
"2. That Ali Moorad drove his brother to this step. Meer Roostum had resigned the turban to his brother Ali in the most formal manner, writing his resignation in the Koran."555"1. Meer Roostum, who is a timid man, and has all along fancied that I want to make him prisoner, believed that the time for this
555"And now, my Lord, I have to tell you that Meer Roostum has decamped yesterday morning. I met Ali Moorad the night before, and desired him to say that I would pay my respects to his highness the next day, and the next day I heard of his flight, I can only account for this in one of two ways.
"2. That Ali Moorad drove his brother to this step. Meer Roostum had resigned the turban to his brother Ali in the most formal manner, writing his resignation in the Koran."555"1. Meer Roostum, who is a timid man, and has all along fancied that I want to make him prisoner, believed that the time for this
555
"2. That Ali Moorad drove his brother to this step. Meer Roostum had resigned the turban to his brother Ali in the most formal manner, writing his resignation in the Koran."555"1. Meer Roostum, who is a timid man, and has all along fancied that I want to make him prisoner, believed that the time for this
555"1. The giving lands to the turban was an act of the Talpoor family's own doing; we had no hand in this division, or in the transfer of the turban.""It was the positive act of Meer Roostum, without my connivance or even knowledge till it was done," though be bad actually, as stated in other papers, advised him to surrender the turban. Again, in page 20, they would find the following note—
"1. The giving lands to the turban was an act of the Talpoor family's own doing; we had no hand in this division, or in the transfer of the turban.""Roostum's plea of being sent to Ali Moorad by me is a shallow affair. He went contrary to my advice, and now wants to make out that he acted by it."554"This conviction opened upon me a system, which appears the only one to follow—making the chief powerful, and holding him under the power of the Government. This made me venture to promise Ali Moorad your Lordship's support in having the turban, which your Lordship has approved of. The next step was to secure him the exercise of its power now, even during his brother's life.
554"I had a secret message from Meer Roostum. The bearer had an open letter in the usual unmeaning style of the Durbar; but the messenger privately informed Lieutenant Brown that Roostum could do nothing, and would escape to my camp. I did not like this, as it would have embarrassed me very much how to act; but the idea struck me at once that he might go to Ali Moorad, who might induce him as (a family arrangement) to resign the turban to him (Ali Moorad), especially as Roostum has long been desirous of getting rid of this charge of the Talpoors. I therefore secretly wrote to Roostum and Ali Moorad, and about one o'clock this morning I had an express from Ali Moorad, to say that his brother is safe with him.""At least give us some pledge that justice shall be done, by which the Ameers may endeavour to allay the excitement of the people, and persuade them to disperse—we fear it will be impossible, but their Highnesses will try once more, if you will authorize them to hold out hopes of the ultimate restoration of their lands which have been made over to Ali Moorad."553"That the Ameers denied the charges on which the new Treaty was imposed, but still (said they) we will subscribe it and the Ameers of Upper Scinde will also subscribe to it, on one condition—i. e., that Meer Roostum be restored to his rights."552, in the few observations which he felt it to be his duty to address
556"His Highness the Ameer Roostum Khan sent a secret messenger to me to say, that he was in the hands of his family, and could not act as his feelings of friendship for the English nation prompted him to do, and that if I would receive him he would escape and come to my camp. I answered his highness that I would cettainly receive him, but that my advice was for him to consult with his brother, the Ameer Ali Moorad Khan. He took my advice; he went to the fort of Dejee to his brother. When I heard of this I was glad, for I thought that Scinde would be tranquil; that his highness would spend his last days in honour and in peace. I moved with my troops towards Khyrpore to force his violent family to disperse the wild bands that they had collected. I sent his highness word that I should visit him; I wanted to ask his advice as to the arrangements for the new treaty. I thought that he had again become the friend of the Government that I serve. That night I heard that he had solemnly conferred upon his brother, the Ameer Ali Moorad, the turban of command over the Talpoor family, which brother is their heir to that honour. I thought this a very wise proceeding,
556"Ameers, and People of Scinde,"Camp, near Khyrpore, Jan. 1, 1843."That the old man, Meer Roostum, (who it seems had been persuaded by Ali Moorad that I meant to imprison him for life, and who was perfectly exhausted by his flight), might return to Khyrpore, and live anywhere he pleased as a simple Ameer.""2. That Ali Moorad drove his brother to this step. Meer Roostum had resigned the turban to his brother Ali in the most formal manner, writing his resignation in the Koran."555"1. Meer Roostum, who is a timid man, and has all along fancied that I want to make him prisoner, believed that the time for this
555
"2. That Ali Moorad drove his brother to this step. Meer Roostum had resigned the turban to his brother Ali in the most formal manner, writing his resignation in the Koran."555"1. Meer Roostum, who is a timid man, and has all along fancied that I want to make him prisoner, believed that the time for this
555"And now, my Lord, I have to tell you that Meer Roostum has decamped yesterday morning. I met Ali Moorad the night before, and desired him to say that I would pay my respects to his highness the next day, and the next day I heard of his flight, I can only account for this in one of two ways.
"2. That Ali Moorad drove his brother to this step. Meer Roostum had resigned the turban to his brother Ali in the most formal manner, writing his resignation in the Koran."555"1. Meer Roostum, who is a timid man, and has all along fancied that I want to make him prisoner, believed that the time for this
555
"2. That Ali Moorad drove his brother to this step. Meer Roostum had resigned the turban to his brother Ali in the most formal manner, writing his resignation in the Koran."555"1. Meer Roostum, who is a timid man, and has all along fancied that I want to make him prisoner, believed that the time for this
555"1. The giving lands to the turban was an act of the Talpoor family's own doing; we had no hand in this division, or in the transfer of the turban.""It was the positive act of Meer Roostum, without my connivance or even knowledge till it was done," though be bad actually, as stated in other papers, advised him to surrender the turban. Again, in page 20, they would find the following note—
"1. The giving lands to the turban was an act of the Talpoor family's own doing; we had no hand in this division, or in the transfer of the turban.""Roostum's plea of being sent to Ali Moorad by me is a shallow affair. He went contrary to my advice, and now wants to make out that he acted by it."554"This conviction opened upon me a system, which appears the only one to follow—making the chief powerful, and holding him under the power of the Government. This made me venture to promise Ali Moorad your Lordship's support in having the turban, which your Lordship has approved of. The next step was to secure him the exercise of its power now, even during his brother's life.
554"I had a secret message from Meer Roostum. The bearer had an open letter in the usual unmeaning style of the Durbar; but the messenger privately informed Lieutenant Brown that Roostum could do nothing, and would escape to my camp. I did not like this, as it would have embarrassed me very much how to act; but the idea struck me at once that he might go to Ali Moorad, who might induce him as (a family arrangement) to resign the turban to him (Ali Moorad), especially as Roostum has long been desirous of getting rid of this charge of the Talpoors. I therefore secretly wrote to Roostum and Ali Moorad, and about one o'clock this morning I had an express from Ali Moorad, to say that his brother is safe with him.""At least give us some pledge that justice shall be done, by which the Ameers may endeavour to allay the excitement of the people, and persuade them to disperse—we fear it will be impossible, but their Highnesses will try once more, if you will authorize them to hold out hopes of the ultimate restoration of their lands which have been made over to Ali Moorad."553"That the Ameers denied the charges on which the new Treaty was imposed, but still (said they) we will subscribe it and the Ameers of Upper Scinde will also subscribe to it, on one condition—i. e., that Meer Roostum be restored to his rights."552Mr. Mangles
595 said the right hon. Gentleman had stated, that he could not understand the object of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Christie) in introducing this motion. Having listened to the speech of his hon. Friend, he must say that he never heard a proposition made more distinctly or intelligibly than his had been. His motion had not been to rescind the Order which authorised the Sergeantat-Arms to take into custody any stranger who intruded himself into the House; and for all those circumstances in which it might be necessary to review any individual's conduct on a subject which ought to be kept secret, his hon. Friend proposed to retain the power which the House possessed to exclude strangers. All his hon. Friend asked the House now to do was, to appoint a committee to inquire into the expediency of rescinding a resolution which compelled the exclusion of strangers, and which made it a breach of privilege for the reporters in their gallery to report a debate in that House. It was, in fact, a breach of privilege in those gentlemen now present (if they did him the honour) to report his present observations. His hon. Friend wished to save the House from these continual breaches of privilege going on and from the anomaly of their proceedings. His hon. Friend had alluded to a letter and certain proceedings of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland last year. That letter had been founded on the report of a speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite, and on the report of a speech of the Duke of Wellington made in the other House of Parliament. How had the Lord Chancellor of Ireland acquired a knowledge of those speeches except through the public press? Suppose the individuals to whom that letter had been addressed had denied that those speeches were ever made, how would the Lord Chancellor have proved them? He could not have called on the right hon. Baronet to prove that he had made the speech he was reported to have made, nor could he have invented any mode to show that those magistrates were cognizant of those speeches. In the state trials just concluded, the speeches of Members of that
595Mr. T. Duncombe
570569 said, it was a bold thing in him to rise after the gallant Officer, who had just addressed the House. He rose, however, to vindicate the Board to which he belonged. A charge had been made against the Board of Control—and a serious one too. It was no less than this—that a disposition had been shown to favouritism, by which one party had been protected at the expense of
570569Mr. W. Bingham Baring
 appealed to the Speaker to give an interpretation of the Standing Order.Mr. Christie
591590589"With regard to misrepresentation it is more likely to take place from strangers being kept out. If they are not permitted freely to report the speeches of Members, they will set about inventing them. The hon. Gentleman need not be discontented. Many very good speeches of his and of other Members have been printed.""Nobody wishes to permit strangers to be in the House more than myself; but there is one objection which I mentioned the other day. No Member would misrepresent the speeches made in this House, It must proceed from strangers.""From the appearance of the House, I begin to suspect that many Members are gone out of town. Several Gentlemen complain of cold. The hon. Baronet (Sir J. Turner) has got his great-coat on.""As there were so many Members at the call of the House on Tuesday, I conclude they are still in town, and that we shall be crowded. I am not so cold as I was; I desire, that the Standing Order for the exclusion of Strangers may be read."588Sir Henry Cavendish's Debates,587Debates of the Senate of Lilliput.The Debates of the Representatives of UtopiaThe Proceedings of the Political Club."That it is an high indignity to, and notorious breach of the privileges of, this House, for any news writer, in letters or other papers (as minutes, or under any other denomination), or for any printer or publisher of any printed newspaper of any denomination, in Great Britain, Ireland, or any other part of His Majesty's dominions, to presume to insert in the said letters or papers, or to give therein any account of the debates or other proceedings of this House, or any committee thereof, as well during the recess as the sitting of Parliament; and that this House will proceed with the utmost severity against such offenders.""I have read some debates of this House, Sir, in which I have been made to speak the very reverse of what I meant. I have read others of them, wherein all the wit, the learning, and the argument, have been thrown into one side, and on the other nothing but what was low, mean, and ridiculous; and yet when it comes to the question, the division has gone against the side which, upon the face of the debate, had reason and justice to support it. So that, Sir, had I been a stranger to the proceedings, and to the nature of the arguments themselves, I must have thought this to have been one of the most contemptible assemblies on the face of the earth. What notion, then, Sir, can the public, who have no other means of being informed of the debates of this House than what they learn from these papers, entertain of the wisdom and abilities of an assembly, who are represented therein to carry almost every point against the strongest and the plainest arguments and appearances?"586"I think no appeals should be made to the public with regard to what is said in this assembly; and to print or publish the speeches of Gentlemen in this House, even though they were not misrepresented, looks very like making them accountable without doors for what they say within.""That it was with some concern he saw a practice prevailing which a little reflected on the dignity of that House. What he meant was the inserting an account of their proceedings in the printed newspapers, by which means the proceedings of the House were liable to very great misrepresentation."Parliamentary History."That no news-letter writers do, in their letters or other papers that they disperse, presume to intermeddle with the debates, or any other proceedings of this House."585"Resolved, that whatsoever person shall print any act or passages of this House, under the name of Diurnal or otherwise, without the particular licence of this House, shall be reputed a high contemner and breaker of the privileges of Parliament, and be punished accordingly."584"Let not, however, that lenity be misunderstood—let it not be forgotten that it is alone from the indulgence of this Rouse that there is room for the commission of any such offence, and that the abuse of such indulgence aggravates the offence."583"That the said paragraph is a scandalous misrepresentation of the debates and proceedings of this House, a calumnious libel on the character of one of its Members, and an aggravated breach of its privileges.""The breach of privilege was, in the present instance, of a complicated nature; the first breach of privilege be need not mention, as it was well known to every Member of the House, and had now been overlooked for many years; the next breach of privilege was against the right hon. Gentleman opposite, whose character had been calumniated; and the third breach against the hon. Gentleman to whom foul language had been attributed."Times582581: I wish first to say that I feel I ought to apologize for bringing forward a question so closely relating to the privileges of this House, and also of very considerable constitutional importance. The only excuse I can offer is, that, having been connected in the last Session with the Bill for the amendment of the Law of Libel, which originally contained a clause giving protection to publishers of faithful Parliamentary reports from actions or prosecutions for libel arising out of any matter in these reports, and which was deprived of that clause in the other House, chiefly for the reason that all such reports were
591590589"With regard to misrepresentation it is more likely to take place from strangers being kept out. If they are not permitted freely to report the speeches of Members, they will set about inventing them. The hon. Gentleman need not be discontented. Many very good speeches of his and of other Members have been printed.""Nobody wishes to permit strangers to be in the House more than myself; but there is one objection which I mentioned the other day. No Member would misrepresent the speeches made in this House, It must proceed from strangers.""From the appearance of the House, I begin to suspect that many Members are gone out of town. Several Gentlemen complain of cold. The hon. Baronet (Sir J. Turner) has got his great-coat on.""As there were so many Members at the call of the House on Tuesday, I conclude they are still in town, and that we shall be crowded. I am not so cold as I was; I desire, that the Standing Order for the exclusion of Strangers may be read."588Sir Henry Cavendish's Debates,587Debates of the Senate of Lilliput.The Debates of the Representatives of UtopiaThe Proceedings of the Political Club."That it is an high indignity to, and notorious breach of the privileges of, this House, for any news writer, in letters or other papers (as minutes, or under any other denomination), or for any printer or publisher of any printed newspaper of any denomination, in Great Britain, Ireland, or any other part of His Majesty's dominions, to presume to insert in the said letters or papers, or to give therein any account of the debates or other proceedings of this House, or any committee thereof, as well during the recess as the sitting of Parliament; and that this House will proceed with the utmost severity against such offenders.""I have read some debates of this House, Sir, in which I have been made to speak the very reverse of what I meant. I have read others of them, wherein all the wit, the learning, and the argument, have been thrown into one side, and on the other nothing but what was low, mean, and ridiculous; and yet when it comes to the question, the division has gone against the side which, upon the face of the debate, had reason and justice to support it. So that, Sir, had I been a stranger to the proceedings, and to the nature of the arguments themselves, I must have thought this to have been one of the most contemptible assemblies on the face of the earth. What notion, then, Sir, can the public, who have no other means of being informed of the debates of this House than what they learn from these papers, entertain of the wisdom and abilities of an assembly, who are represented therein to carry almost every point against the strongest and the plainest arguments and appearances?"586"I think no appeals should be made to the public with regard to what is said in this assembly; and to print or publish the speeches of Gentlemen in this House, even though they were not misrepresented, looks very like making them accountable without doors for what they say within.""That it was with some concern he saw a practice prevailing which a little reflected on the dignity of that House. What he meant was the inserting an account of their proceedings in the printed newspapers, by which means the proceedings of the House were liable to very great misrepresentation."Parliamentary History."That no news-letter writers do, in their letters or other papers that they disperse, presume to intermeddle with the debates, or any other proceedings of this House."585"Resolved, that whatsoever person shall print any act or passages of this House, under the name of Diurnal or otherwise, without the particular licence of this House, shall be reputed a high contemner and breaker of the privileges of Parliament, and be punished accordingly."584"Let not, however, that lenity be misunderstood—let it not be forgotten that it is alone from the indulgence of this Rouse that there is room for the commission of any such offence, and that the abuse of such indulgence aggravates the offence."583"That the said paragraph is a scandalous misrepresentation of the debates and proceedings of this House, a calumnious libel on the character of one of its Members, and an aggravated breach of its privileges.""The breach of privilege was, in the present instance, of a complicated nature; the first breach of privilege be need not mention, as it was well known to every Member of the House, and had now been overlooked for many years; the next breach of privilege was against the right hon. Gentleman opposite, whose character had been calumniated; and the third breach against the hon. Gentleman to whom foul language had been attributed."Times582581Mr. Christie
 said, he should leave out of his motion all the words relating to authorizing the presence of strangers, and only retain those which referred to the publication of the debates.Mr. Christie
515 put the following question to the right hon. Baronet:—That as Lord Chief Justice Denman has declared it to be the unanimous opinion of the Judges of the Court of Queen's Bench, "that there are some cases in which it is necessary to break in upon the Act of Parliament, and upon that which may have existed from all time;" and has also declared, that "it is the mother who is the proper party
515Mr. Ferrand
 asked, whether the promise which had been given to a deputation of frame-work knitters from Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire, and Derbyshire, that a commission should issue to inquire into their complaints against their employers, was to be carried into effect?Mr. Ferrand
519 said, that the appointment of Mr. Muggeridge would not give the slightest satisfaction. The result of his appointment on the Handloom-weavers Commission had been highly unsatisfactory, and his appointment on the present occasion would merely have the effect of putting the country to expense. Would the right hon. Baronet have any objection to refer die matter to a Select committee
519Mr. Ferrand
574 said, it was with no small surprise, after the speech of the noble Lord, the Member for Sutherland, and those of the other hon. Gentlemen, that he heard no hon. Member express an intention of taking the sense of the House by bringing the question to a division. He was one of those who felt
574Mr. Sharman Crawford
The Chancellor of the Exchequer:597"Ordered, that the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this house do, from time to time, take into his custody any stranger or strangers that he shall see, or be informed of to be in the House or Gallery, while the House or a Committee of the whole House is sitting."596"Ordered that no Member of this House do presume to bring any stranger or strangers to the House or the Gallery while the House is sitting." had on former occasions felt it to be his duty to point out the anomalous position in which the House was occasionally placed by its own Orders. Some of their Orders were, indeed, never attended to, and were not of the slightest use. What, for example, was to be made of the following Order?—
The Chancellor of the Exchequer:597"Ordered, that the Sergeant-at-Arms attending this house do, from time to time, take into his custody any stranger or strangers that he shall see, or be informed of to be in the House or Gallery, while the House or a Committee of the whole House is sitting."596"Ordered that no Member of this House do presume to bring any stranger or strangers to the House or the Gallery while the House is sitting."Mr. W. Williams
568567566565564Laughter563 said, he rose under no ordinary feelings to return his thanks to the right hon. Baronet for the very eloquent manner in which he had brought forward the services of his gallant relative, and for the honour he had also done him, in having spoken of him in terms which he had no right to expect. The right hon. Baronet had mentioned the services of his gallant relative, beginning at the battle of Corunna, and following up the whole with his services in Scinde; but he was ignorant of some other services which his gallant relative had also performed, and he hoped the House would permit him to mention them, as they were to the honour and credit of that gallant officer. At the battle of Corunna it was perfectly notorious, that whilst leading on the 50th regiment in the front of the battle, the great general under whom he was brought up, Sir John Moore, said to Napier and his friend Major Stanhope, "Well done, my majors!" The very expression of "my majors" would have stamped them as heroes at once. At the head of his regiment Napier advanced—it was the first time he had seen an action, or heard the fire of an enemy in his life—he advanced at the head of his men, leading them on with the greatest possible coolness. Something occurred to impede them—he was surrounded by French troops—received a cut on the head with a saber—was stabbed in the back with a bayonet—a bullet went through his leg, and two of his ribs were broken by a cannon-ball. "I think (said the gallant Officer) that was a dose enough to settle any man." He was taken to the quarters of those distinguished officers, Marshals Ney and Soult, and nursed, and afterwards they restored him to his family, even without an exchange, and he was sure, that no man in England or France would rejoice more than Marshal Soult, when he heard of the glorious conduct of Major Napier. When he returned to England, his regiment was in Spain under the Duke of Wellington, he obtained permission to go out as an amateur, and was present at the battle of the Passage of the Coa. At the battle of Busaco he was present—he himself was also there as an amateur, and he could not do better than follow the steps of that great man; and his relative in that engagement was shot through the nose, and the ball fell
568567566565564Laughter563Sir C. Napier
602 said, undoubtedly there might be good grounds for omitting some portions of the evidence. At the same time he would have been satisfied had the right hon. Baronet come down with that part of the evidence which could be properly produced, with blanks for names where advisable. He wished, however, to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman. The House were aware that for some time grave accusations had been made against the Commissioners of Customs—accusations, not of negligence merely, but of a character so serious, as to render it imperatively necessary, for the sake not less of the public than of the public service, to endeavour to do away with such imputations, under which it was quite impossible that any department of that service could creditably or beneficially proceed. He wished them to be informed at what period it was probable
602Mr. F. T. Baring
599The Times598 thought there could be no doubt that the meaning of the Sessional Order, authorizing the Sergeant-at-Arms to take persons into custody found in the House, was limited to that part of the House to which his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred. No doubt that House had the power, the inherent power, upon the notice of any hon. Member, to cause the withdrawal of strangers from any part of the House. This power had not of late years been exercised in any instance to which reasonable objection could be taken, and previous to a division, he (Sir G. Clerk) conceived that it was a power which it was necessary for the House to have; nor did he imagine
599The Times598Sir G. Clerk
 wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the War Department in that House, whether his attention had been drawn to a statement in the papers, of an outrage committed by some soldiers, in barracks at Brighton, on the persons and property of several of the inhabitants. He wished to know whether any official information had been received, and whether any steps had been taken by the Horse Guards to prevent a recurrence of such conduct?Captain Pechell
 wished to put a question to Her Majesty's Government relative to the proceedings with France under the late Convention for regulating the Fisheries of the two countries. Last Session this country had performed its part, and had done its best to give force to the regulations of the Convention, but as he had not heard of any proceedings of a like nature on the other side, he thought it was necessary the country should know what was the nature of the laws respecting the Fisheries, and whether the French Government had performed its part by submitting to similar regulations.Captain Pechell
 disapproved of the system of allowing the Bank of England to advance money on mortgage. He must say, as a commercial man, he would not open an account with any bank which dealt in securities that could not be realised immediately in cases of emergency. He hoped that the words objected to by his hon. Friend, the Member for Montrose would be omitted.Mr. M. Philips
559558557 thought that the speech of the right hoe. Baronet, and the response of the noble Lord, the Member for London, ought to have induced the passing of this Vote of Thanks unanimously, and by acclamation, in which case, he (Sir H. Douglas) would not have trespassed on the time of the House. Sir C. Napier
559558557Sir H. Douglas
dictum,dictum516dictumdictum said, the hon. Member had placed the question in such a manner, as to remove all doubts as to the character of the explanation it required. The hon. Gentleman had apparently exercised the utmost care and caution in framing the question, but, undoubtedly, he had been led into a serious mistake somehow. The hon. Member's question referred to matters of fact, which did not exist, and to a dictum of Lord Chief Justice Den-man's, which had never been pronounced. First, he would deal with matters of fact. By a general ordinance, which had received the force of a legal enactment, when the noble Lord opposite filled the office of Home Secretary, it is provided, throughout England and Wales, that no child under the age of seven years should be separated from its mother in the workhouse. He spoke in the presence of the noble Lord, who was then in office when this general order was issued—namely, that children under the age of seven years, were to be placed in the same ward as their mothers, and that parents and children should have access to each other at reasonable hours. To put aside the possibility of doubt as to the construction of the term "reasonable hours," the Poor Law Commissioners had defined it, "that reasonable hours was to be held to be, that, so long as the mother was suckling, she was to have access to her child when wanted; and that the child at no period should be placed beyond the mother's reach." He would now deal with the alleged dictum,dictum516dictumdictumSir J. Graham
 was in absolute despair of pleasing the hon. Gentleman. First, nothing would satisfy the hon. Gentleman but a commission; now a commission was given him, he wanted something else. He really could not comply with the hon. Gentleman's second request. From all the inquiries he had made upon the subject, from information he had obtained from the President of the Board of Trade, and from the brother of the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, Mr. Lefevre, who gave the highest testimonies in Mr. Muggeridge's favour, he was convinced that Mr. Muggeridge was in a very eminent degree qualified for the charge which had been entrusted to him.Sir J. Graham
 said, that the commission had already issued. Mr. Muggeridge had been appointed to inquire into the subject.Sir Graham
 moved the Order of the Day, for the second reading of the Factories Bill.Sir J. Graham
 said, that with respect to paying salaries to certain tenants of the humbler class for sitting on this Commission, he conceived, that he had answered the question when he remarked, that he did not think it advisable to alter the constitution of the Commission. He wished to speak with every respect of the humbler class of tenants, and he hoped, that he might say, without offence, that as it was probable that many of the humbler class of tenants would be willing to receive appointments on the Commission, from the prospect of pecuniary reward, he did not think that it would be an improvement of the Commission to adopt any suggestion of that nature. With respect to the evidence of this class of persons, there could be no doubt but that it would be most valuable, and it was most desirable that every inducement should be held out to them to express the iropinions before the Commission.Sir R. Peel
517projet de loi was quite willing to give any information in his power. The hon. and gallant officer would recollect, that when the last Convention, in 1843, was agreed upon, the two Governments were in a different position. The Parliament of this country were sitting, while the Legislature of France had closed its proceedings. It was, therefore, impossible for the French Government to take the same effective steps which the British Government had taken, to give force to the law. The French Government had extensive powers to regulate their affairs by ordinance; but this power, he was informed on good authority, was not sufficient to enable the French Government to carry into complete effect the provisions of a convention of this nature. He had no doubt, however, that the French Government would take the proper steps to carry the stipulations of the Convention into effect. Indeed, he believed, that he might state that he had been advised on good authority that a 517projet de loiSir R. Peel
518l. replied, that the hon. Gentleman must have misunderstood the answer which he gave the other evening to the question put by the hon. Member for Finsbury. He meant to have said, and he thought that he had stated on that occasion, that he was not prepared to advise any alteration in the constitution of the Commission. As for the class of tenants paying 2,000518l.Sir R. Peel
l.l.,l.,l. apprehended, that the course which the House had to pursue was, to prevent the sanctioning of a general principle, that the money of the Bank of England should be laid out on mortgages; there certainly was a great objection to placing funds in such securities as were not available at the shortest notice in case of necessity. But it was hardly possible to say, that this was a violation of that principle. The total amount which was wanted would not exceed 150,000l.l.,l.,l.Sir R. Peel
l. was willing to propose a clause limiting the amount to be borrowed of the Bank of England, by way of mortgage, to 250,000l.Sir R. Peel
"That the Thanks of this House he given to Major-general Sir Charles Napier, Knight Grand Cross of the Most honourable Order of the Bath, for the eminent skill, energy, and gallantry displayed by him in the recent Military Operations in Scinde, particularly in the two decisive battles of Meeanee and Hyderabad."535"The Senate's thanks, the Gazette's pompous tale,
With force resistless o'er the brave prevail.""I have deeply to regret the loss of the brave and excellent Captain Garrett, of the 9th Light Cavalry, who fell honourably in the battle; and also the fall of Lieutenant Smith of the Bombay Artillery; with unsurpassed and desperate valour he galloped in front of his battery, and rode up upon the top of the nullah (filled with enemies) to see where his guns could bear with the greatest effect. Here the hero fell."534"At one time, my lord, the courage and numbers of the enemy against the 22nd, 25th, and 12th regiments bore heavily in that part of the battle. There was no time to be lost, and I sent orders to the cavalry to force the right of the enemy's line. This order was very gallantly executed by the 9th Bengal Cavalry and the Scinde Horse; the details shall be afterwards stated, for the struggle on our right and centre was at that time so fierce that I could not go to the left."533"Because Sir Willoughby Cotton having received authentic intelligence of the imminent hazard of a rupture in Lower Scinde, marched two brigades of infantry, one brigade of cavalry, and a large force of artillery down the east bank of the Indus in the direction of Hyderabad. The troops of Shah Shoojah had been sent to occupy Sukanna, a town from which the Beloochee soldiery had been drafted to support the Ameers of Hyderabad.""The whole country in front and in rear of us is now aroused and under arms to exterminate us if they can. Troops are flocking in from all directions to the capital. Let a brigade of infantry, two regiments of cavalry, and a troop of horse artillery be sent down as soon as possible.""The treaty could not now be signed—the embassy might go or stay as they pleased, but they (the Ameers) could give them no pledge of safety, having no control over the Beloochees."532"On the 20th January, the treaty was given to the Ameers; on the 21st January, the Ameers desired the meeting should be postponed to the 22nd. On the 22nd the Ameers said they could not on that day give an explicit answer; they would not say whether they would accept the treaty or not. On the 23rd hordes of troops surrounded the city, and the reply of the Ameers was that the treaty should be sent back, for that they would not sign.""Things have come to a crisis in Lower Scinde; the gentlemen of the residency have been obliged to leave Hyderabad, and are now in my camp.""I have in former communications stated to you that Scinde has all along been considered a light affair, as it might be called a secondary consideration; as relating to the campaign, so near as I can judge at this hour, it assumes a different aspect, and takes a first place in the operations of the army.""Communications, Lord Auckland continues, were cut off—letters seized—boatmen and other workpeople threatened—and every appearance of intended open hostility exhibited,"531"No resistance was offered to its disembarkation, but from the date of its arrival every artifice was resorted to to thwart and impede its movements, notwithstanding the most fulsome professions of friendship and devotion."530529528"That on the approach of the British army the Beloochees did what, as an exhibition of courage, corresponds in European warfare with the actual conflict of the bayonet, the proof of European courage which is the most decisive, that after discharging their firelocks at the troops of Sir Charles Napier, they rushed from the watercourse in which they had taken up their position and attacked the British soldiers with their shields and swords, which they took as substitutes for their firelocks."527526 said, Sir, I rise for the purpose of moving, that the Thanks of the House be given to a portion of the British army, and to its gallant Commander, for services recently performed under very critical circumstances, and during very important operations on the banks of the Indus, which army has, under these circumstances, and during these operations, exhibited proofs of discipline, of constancy and of valour which have sustained and even exalted the high character of the British army, and have entitled that army and its commander to the public expression of our thanks. With the policy of the measures in the execution of which, that army has been employed I have upon this occasion, nothing to do. Whether it were justifiable and politic to exact from the Ameers of Scinde penalties on account of the violation of their engagements—whether it were politic to demand the cession of territory in lieu of the tribute to which the Ameers were subject, are questions which, in my opinion, ought to be reserved altogether for separate consideration. I have now to call the attention of the House to the conduct and merits of gallant men performing the first duty of a soldier—namely, obedience to lawful authority, and by the mode in which they performed it, entitling themselves, in my opinion, to the public acknowledgement which I shall propose. Sir, others I consider to be responsible for the measures, the execution of which was committed to Sir Charles Napier. He was employed by the Governor-general. He received
"That the Thanks of this House he given to Major-general Sir Charles Napier, Knight Grand Cross of the Most honourable Order of the Bath, for the eminent skill, energy, and gallantry displayed by him in the recent Military Operations in Scinde, particularly in the two decisive battles of Meeanee and Hyderabad."535"The Senate's thanks, the Gazette's pompous tale,
With force resistless o'er the brave prevail.""I have deeply to regret the loss of the brave and excellent Captain Garrett, of the 9th Light Cavalry, who fell honourably in the battle; and also the fall of Lieutenant Smith of the Bombay Artillery; with unsurpassed and desperate valour he galloped in front of his battery, and rode up upon the top of the nullah (filled with enemies) to see where his guns could bear with the greatest effect. Here the hero fell."534"At one time, my lord, the courage and numbers of the enemy against the 22nd, 25th, and 12th regiments bore heavily in that part of the battle. There was no time to be lost, and I sent orders to the cavalry to force the right of the enemy's line. This order was very gallantly executed by the 9th Bengal Cavalry and the Scinde Horse; the details shall be afterwards stated, for the struggle on our right and centre was at that time so fierce that I could not go to the left."533"Because Sir Willoughby Cotton having received authentic intelligence of the imminent hazard of a rupture in Lower Scinde, marched two brigades of infantry, one brigade of cavalry, and a large force of artillery down the east bank of the Indus in the direction of Hyderabad. The troops of Shah Shoojah had been sent to occupy Sukanna, a town from which the Beloochee soldiery had been drafted to support the Ameers of Hyderabad.""The whole country in front and in rear of us is now aroused and under arms to exterminate us if they can. Troops are flocking in from all directions to the capital. Let a brigade of infantry, two regiments of cavalry, and a troop of horse artillery be sent down as soon as possible.""The treaty could not now be signed—the embassy might go or stay as they pleased, but they (the Ameers) could give them no pledge of safety, having no control over the Beloochees."532"On the 20th January, the treaty was given to the Ameers; on the 21st January, the Ameers desired the meeting should be postponed to the 22nd. On the 22nd the Ameers said they could not on that day give an explicit answer; they would not say whether they would accept the treaty or not. On the 23rd hordes of troops surrounded the city, and the reply of the Ameers was that the treaty should be sent back, for that they would not sign.""Things have come to a crisis in Lower Scinde; the gentlemen of the residency have been obliged to leave Hyderabad, and are now in my camp.""I have in former communications stated to you that Scinde has all along been considered a light affair, as it might be called a secondary consideration; as relating to the campaign, so near as I can judge at this hour, it assumes a different aspect, and takes a first place in the operations of the army.""Communications, Lord Auckland continues, were cut off—letters seized—boatmen and other workpeople threatened—and every appearance of intended open hostility exhibited,"531"No resistance was offered to its disembarkation, but from the date of its arrival every artifice was resorted to to thwart and impede its movements, notwithstanding the most fulsome professions of friendship and devotion."530529528"That on the approach of the British army the Beloochees did what, as an exhibition of courage, corresponds in European warfare with the actual conflict of the bayonet, the proof of European courage which is the most decisive, that after discharging their firelocks at the troops of Sir Charles Napier, they rushed from the watercourse in which they had taken up their position and attacked the British soldiers with their shields and swords, which they took as substitutes for their firelocks."527526Sir Robert Peel
546545544543"Beware," he said, "how you give to officers in command of your fleets and armies the temptation of high honours for successes in cases of accidental encounters. Beware bow you give them an expectation of high professional honours, lest you should bias their minds and render those encounters less unfrequent than they would otherwise be."R. Peel"War has not been declared, nor do I think it necessary to declare it."542***"He did not doubt the gallantry nor dispute the discretion of Sir Edward Codrington, but he must say to the House, be cautious before you create a precedent of thanks for an event which grew out of an accident, lest officers, looking at the signal benefit conferred on them by receiving such thanks, should cherish too easy a disposition to create a precedent, and lest such accidents so created should lead to consequences which the country might long have reason to regret."*541"That That there never existed on the part of Government the smallest intention to propose the thanks of Parliament to the officers and men engaged in that affair. He would tell the hon. Member why such a thought could not enter into the mind of a prudent and sensible Minister. It was this:—we voted the thanks of Parliament for triumphs over our enemies—we voted them to mark our satisfaction, that in a conflict which we had foreseen and dircted with a power against which we had declared war—the skill, and gallantry,
541540"As an independent man, giving an independent opinion to the best of my humble judgment, I am bound to say that I consider his (meaning Sir C. Napier's) ignorance of the language, the manners, and the habits of the people with whom he had to deal—his want of experience in native character and political life in India, and, above all, his total want of sympathy with the unfortunate Am0eers, were the main causes of the fatal result of these negotiations."539538537"The Governor-general would not proceed in this course without the most ample and convincing evidence of the guilt of the persons accused. The Governor-general entirely relies on your sense of justice, and is convinced, that whatever report you may make
537"Within the limits of your military command you will exercise entire authority over all political and civil officers."536 could assure the House that it was with the most unfeigned regret he felt himself under the absolute necessity of interfering with that unanimity which the right hon. Baronet had called for from the House; but, painful as it might be to him to take that course, a sense of imperious duty compelled him to adopt it, and he was bound to state to the House the grounds upon which, in his opinion, they ought to withhold from Sir C. Napier the high honour which the right hon. Baronet had proposed that they should bestow upon him. It was, he repeated, most painful to him to take that course, because he could truly say, that the right hon. Baronet himself could not more ad-
546545544543"Beware," he said, "how you give to officers in command of your fleets and armies the temptation of high honours for successes in cases of accidental encounters. Beware bow you give them an expectation of high professional honours, lest you should bias their minds and render those encounters less unfrequent than they would otherwise be."R. Peel"War has not been declared, nor do I think it necessary to declare it."542***"He did not doubt the gallantry nor dispute the discretion of Sir Edward Codrington, but he must say to the House, be cautious before you create a precedent of thanks for an event which grew out of an accident, lest officers, looking at the signal benefit conferred on them by receiving such thanks, should cherish too easy a disposition to create a precedent, and lest such accidents so created should lead to consequences which the country might long have reason to regret."*541"That That there never existed on the part of Government the smallest intention to propose the thanks of Parliament to the officers and men engaged in that affair. He would tell the hon. Member why such a thought could not enter into the mind of a prudent and sensible Minister. It was this:—we voted the thanks of Parliament for triumphs over our enemies—we voted them to mark our satisfaction, that in a conflict which we had foreseen and dircted with a power against which we had declared war—the skill, and gallantry,
541540"As an independent man, giving an independent opinion to the best of my humble judgment, I am bound to say that I consider his (meaning Sir C. Napier's) ignorance of the language, the manners, and the habits of the people with whom he had to deal—his want of experience in native character and political life in India, and, above all, his total want of sympathy with the unfortunate Am0eers, were the main causes of the fatal result of these negotiations."539538537"The Governor-general would not proceed in this course without the most ample and convincing evidence of the guilt of the persons accused. The Governor-general entirely relies on your sense of justice, and is convinced, that whatever report you may make
537"Within the limits of your military command you will exercise entire authority over all political and civil officers."536Viscount Howick
578577 wished to state, in a very few words, the grounds upon which it was his intention to give the motion of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) his warm and cordial support. He could not allow himself to consider this motion as involving, in any degree whatever, any political considerations. He regarded it as a simple proposal to confer upon most distinguished military merit the Thanks of that House—one of the highest rewards
578577Viscount Palmerston
 replied, that he had ascertained by inquiring, in consequence of the notification which the hon. Gentleman had given to him of his intention to put this question, that on the 9th of December last, Sir Charles Metcalfe did reserve his assent to a bill for the suppression of illegal associations in Canada. The bill in question had not yet been transmitted to the Colonial-office by the Governor of Canada, and not having any official information as to its contents, he therefore could not give any answer to the question of the hon. Member.Lord Stanley
 replied, that since the 9th of December, there had been only one mail, by which Sir Charles Metcalfe might have transmitted this bill, but in the circumstances in which he was placed, it was not unreasonable to suppose, that his time was so occupied as to render it difficult, or, perhaps, impossible to draw up all his reasons for withholding his assent to the bill in time to transmit it to this country by the mail. No doubt, in a very short time he should receive the bill from Canada, and he should then be ready to give an answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman; but he must add, that he did not think that such a long time had elapsed, as there had been the omission of only one mail which could form any ground of complaint against Sir Charles Metcalfe.Lord Stanley
726725"At non in parvâ manes jacuere favillâ,
Nec cinis exiguus tantam compescuit umbram,"724"If it be true, as they allege, that treason has tainted the people to the bone—if the poison of Jacobinism, as they call it, pervade the whole mind of the multitude—if disloyalty be so rooted and so universal that military despotism can alone make the country habitable, it would be against the experience of the world that such a wide and deadly disaffection could, or ever did, exist in any nation on the globe, except from the faults of its governors. To this country too—to England, what a contradiction in the conduct of these hon. gentlemen to their professions! This nation was to reap marvellous blessings from the Union, but of what benefit is the junction of four or five millions of traitors? Such, the laws proposed by these honourable gentlemen tell you, the Irish are; but such I tell you they are not. A grosser outrage upon truth, a greater libel upon a generous people, never before was uttered or insinuated. They who can find reason for all this, in any supposed depravity of the Irish, totally misunderstand their character. Sir, I love the Irish nation. I know much of Ireland from having seen it; I know more from private friendship with individuals. The Irish may have their faults, like others. They may have a quick feeling of injury, and not be very patient under it; but I do affirm, that, of all their characteristics, there is not one feeling more predominant in every class of the country, from the highest to the lowest order, than gratitude for benefactions, and sensibility to kindness. Change your system towards that country, and you
724723"The relation between landlord and tenant cannot subsist as it is in Ireland. It is a subject replete with the utmost difficulty. Its solution is filled with dangers. It would require the aid of the honest and feeling portion of Irish landlords to enable the honest and conscientious friends of Ireland to place the relations between landlord and tenant on a satisfactory footing to both.722"The connection between landlord and tenant in Ireland, arranged as it has been by a long course of vicious legislation, wants that mutual confidence which is essential to the benefit of productive industry. The labouring population, unable to obtain employment, live habitually on the verge of extreme destitution. They must obtain land or they die. The issues of life and death are in the hands of the landlords. The massacres of the clearance system consign to a premature and most miserable grave hundreds of thousands of victims. They are wholesale murders, followed by the assassination, in detail, of the instruments of landlord rapacity. These crimes, on both sides, cry to Heaven for vengeance and redress—for a redress capable of giving to the landlord his just right to adequate rent, and to the tenant just protection for the produce of his labour and capital."l.721l.720719718Edinburgh Review,717716715714713"In consequence of some of the lists in your district not being properly made, the sheriff selects whom he thinks fit to put upon the jury?—That is so. Is not that packing a jury?—No; I cannot call it packing a jury. Packing a jury is a different thing. It is putting a jury to acquit or convict."712"But the said John O'Connell says, that the said Recorder did not, as by said statuteable enactments is directed, cause to be made out from said several last-mentioned lists one general list containing the names of all persons whose qualifications had been so allowed, arranged according to rank and property, nor did the said Recorder thereupon, or at all, deliver such general list containing such names to the clerk of the peace, to be fairly copied by said clerk of the peace in the same order as by the said statuteable enactments is directed, but, on the contrary thereof, neglected so to do; and the said John O'Connell further says that a certain paper writing, purporting to be a general list purporting to be made out from such several lists so corrected, allowed and signed as aforesaid, was illegally and fraudulently made out for the purpose and with intent of prejudicing the said John O'Connell in this cause by some person or persons unknown; and the said John O'Connell says that the said list, purporting to be such general list as aforesaid, did not contain the names of all the persons whose qualification had been allowed upon the correcting, allowing, and signing of said lists as aforesaid, by the said Recorder, but omitted the names of divers, to wit sixty, persons whose qualification respectively to be on said list had been so allowed,
712Shaw:711710709708707706Morning HeraldMorning Chronicle,Times,705704703702"What I remark in Ireland at present, with the greatest satisfaction, is the growing feeling of respect for the law. There is springing up in the minds of the people a confidence in the Executive Government. One particular circumstance which I think has, more than any other, tended to produce this confidence in the law, is the different system which now prevails with regard to the challenging of juries. I look upon that as a circumstance which has, more than any other, created this confidence in the Executive Government. Has the value of property increased or diminished? Increased very much.""It has given confidence to the administration of justice, and has taken away from the persons accused, or their friends, a pretext for saying there has not been a fair trial."701"His sheet anchor is the body of Irish Papists and Rapparees whom the priests return to the House of Commons. These are the men who represent the bigotted savages, hardly more civilised than the natives of New Zealand, but animated with a fierce, undying hatred of England. I repeat, then, deliberately, that the Papists of Ireland, priest and layman, peer and peasant, are alike our enemies—aliens as they are in blood, language, and religion.""Look at the appointments these men and women have made. There is not one of them that is not a direct insult to the nation. See the Irish Papists promoted to place, to power, and to patronage."700"What we mean by Protestant government is, that the members of the Government are not to be, to quote the words of an hon. Member opposite, the 'minions of popery.'"699698"If Parliament conferred eligibility upon the Roman Catholics, the Crown ought not to exclude them from a just proportion of power, for in that case their exclusion would be ten times more mortifying than their existing disqualification, because it would then appear to be dictated by caprice, by injurious preference, and unfair suspicion."697696"I am determined to stand by the Reform Bill. Let its provisions be improved where necessary. Yes, I am perfectly prepared to concur in an attempt to remedy whatever defects may be found to exist—for instance, as to the machinery of registration; but I am resolved, at the same time, to guard the franchise as it stands."695694l.l.l.l.l.l.693s.692691690'You consider the practice to have been generally prejudicial to the administration of justice in criminal cases in Ireland?—Answer: Yes, certainly:""In my opinion, in the first place, it gave to the persons who were convicted, or the friends of these persons, an opportunity of saying, that they were not tried by an impartial jury.""I think the system which prevailed had a very injurious effect on the administration of justice."689"The law of England esteemed all men equal. It was sufficient to be born within the King's allegiance to be entitled to all the rights the loftiest subject of the land enjoyed, None were disqualified by it; and the only distinction was between natural-born subjects and aliens. Such, indeed, was the liberality of our system in times which we call barbarous, but from which, in these enlightened days, it might be well to take a hint, that even if a man were an alien born, he was not deprived of the protection of the law. In Ireland, however, the law held a directly opposite doctrine. The sect to which a man belonged—the cast of his religious opinions—the form in which he worshipped his creator—were the grounds on which the law separated him from his fellows, and inured him to the endurance of a system of the most cruel injustice."688"Non ego, nec Teucris halos parere jubebo, Nec nova regna peto; paribus se legibus ambæ
Invictægentes æterna in fœdera mittant.""Does a Union, under such circumstances, by free consent, and on just and equal terms, deserve to be branded as a proposal for subjecting Ireland to a foreign yoke? Is it not rather the free and voluntary association of two great countries, which join, for their common benefit, in one empire, where each will retain its proportional weight and importance under the security of equal laws, reciprocal affection, and inseparable interests, and which want nothing but that indissoluble connection to render both invincible."687"And we trust that, after full and mature consideration, such a settlement may be framed and established by the deliberative consent of the Parliaments of both kingdoms, as may be conformable to the sentiments, wishes, and real interests of your Majesty's faithful subjects of Great Britain and Ireland, and may unite them inseparably in the full enjoyment of the blessings of our free and invaluable constitution, in the support of the honour and dignity of your Majesty's Crown, and in the preservation and advancement of the welfare and prosperity of the whole British empire,""We entertain a firm persuasion that a complete and entire Union between Great Britain and Ireland, founded on equal and liberal principles, on the similarity of laws, constitution, and government, and on a sense of mutual interests and affections, by promoting the security, wealth, and commerce of the respective kingdoms, and by allaying the distractions which have unhappily prevailed in Ireland, must afford fresh means of opposing at all times an effectual resistance to the destructive projects of our foreign and domestic enemies, and must tend to confirm and augment the stability, power, and resources of the empire."686685684, pursuant to notice, to move for a Committee of the whole House, to take into consideration the State of Ireland. The noble Lord spoke to the following effect:
726725"At non in parvâ manes jacuere favillâ,
Nec cinis exiguus tantam compescuit umbram,"724"If it be true, as they allege, that treason has tainted the people to the bone—if the poison of Jacobinism, as they call it, pervade the whole mind of the multitude—if disloyalty be so rooted and so universal that military despotism can alone make the country habitable, it would be against the experience of the world that such a wide and deadly disaffection could, or ever did, exist in any nation on the globe, except from the faults of its governors. To this country too—to England, what a contradiction in the conduct of these hon. gentlemen to their professions! This nation was to reap marvellous blessings from the Union, but of what benefit is the junction of four or five millions of traitors? Such, the laws proposed by these honourable gentlemen tell you, the Irish are; but such I tell you they are not. A grosser outrage upon truth, a greater libel upon a generous people, never before was uttered or insinuated. They who can find reason for all this, in any supposed depravity of the Irish, totally misunderstand their character. Sir, I love the Irish nation. I know much of Ireland from having seen it; I know more from private friendship with individuals. The Irish may have their faults, like others. They may have a quick feeling of injury, and not be very patient under it; but I do affirm, that, of all their characteristics, there is not one feeling more predominant in every class of the country, from the highest to the lowest order, than gratitude for benefactions, and sensibility to kindness. Change your system towards that country, and you
724723"The relation between landlord and tenant cannot subsist as it is in Ireland. It is a subject replete with the utmost difficulty. Its solution is filled with dangers. It would require the aid of the honest and feeling portion of Irish landlords to enable the honest and conscientious friends of Ireland to place the relations between landlord and tenant on a satisfactory footing to both.722"The connection between landlord and tenant in Ireland, arranged as it has been by a long course of vicious legislation, wants that mutual confidence which is essential to the benefit of productive industry. The labouring population, unable to obtain employment, live habitually on the verge of extreme destitution. They must obtain land or they die. The issues of life and death are in the hands of the landlords. The massacres of the clearance system consign to a premature and most miserable grave hundreds of thousands of victims. They are wholesale murders, followed by the assassination, in detail, of the instruments of landlord rapacity. These crimes, on both sides, cry to Heaven for vengeance and redress—for a redress capable of giving to the landlord his just right to adequate rent, and to the tenant just protection for the produce of his labour and capital."l.721l.720719718Edinburgh Review,717716715714713"In consequence of some of the lists in your district not being properly made, the sheriff selects whom he thinks fit to put upon the jury?—That is so. Is not that packing a jury?—No; I cannot call it packing a jury. Packing a jury is a different thing. It is putting a jury to acquit or convict."712"But the said John O'Connell says, that the said Recorder did not, as by said statuteable enactments is directed, cause to be made out from said several last-mentioned lists one general list containing the names of all persons whose qualifications had been so allowed, arranged according to rank and property, nor did the said Recorder thereupon, or at all, deliver such general list containing such names to the clerk of the peace, to be fairly copied by said clerk of the peace in the same order as by the said statuteable enactments is directed, but, on the contrary thereof, neglected so to do; and the said John O'Connell further says that a certain paper writing, purporting to be a general list purporting to be made out from such several lists so corrected, allowed and signed as aforesaid, was illegally and fraudulently made out for the purpose and with intent of prejudicing the said John O'Connell in this cause by some person or persons unknown; and the said John O'Connell says that the said list, purporting to be such general list as aforesaid, did not contain the names of all the persons whose qualification had been allowed upon the correcting, allowing, and signing of said lists as aforesaid, by the said Recorder, but omitted the names of divers, to wit sixty, persons whose qualification respectively to be on said list had been so allowed,
712Shaw:711710709708707706Morning HeraldMorning Chronicle,Times,705704703702"What I remark in Ireland at present, with the greatest satisfaction, is the growing feeling of respect for the law. There is springing up in the minds of the people a confidence in the Executive Government. One particular circumstance which I think has, more than any other, tended to produce this confidence in the law, is the different system which now prevails with regard to the challenging of juries. I look upon that as a circumstance which has, more than any other, created this confidence in the Executive Government. Has the value of property increased or diminished? Increased very much.""It has given confidence to the administration of justice, and has taken away from the persons accused, or their friends, a pretext for saying there has not been a fair trial."701"His sheet anchor is the body of Irish Papists and Rapparees whom the priests return to the House of Commons. These are the men who represent the bigotted savages, hardly more civilised than the natives of New Zealand, but animated with a fierce, undying hatred of England. I repeat, then, deliberately, that the Papists of Ireland, priest and layman, peer and peasant, are alike our enemies—aliens as they are in blood, language, and religion.""Look at the appointments these men and women have made. There is not one of them that is not a direct insult to the nation. See the Irish Papists promoted to place, to power, and to patronage."700"What we mean by Protestant government is, that the members of the Government are not to be, to quote the words of an hon. Member opposite, the 'minions of popery.'"699698"If Parliament conferred eligibility upon the Roman Catholics, the Crown ought not to exclude them from a just proportion of power, for in that case their exclusion would be ten times more mortifying than their existing disqualification, because it would then appear to be dictated by caprice, by injurious preference, and unfair suspicion."697696"I am determined to stand by the Reform Bill. Let its provisions be improved where necessary. Yes, I am perfectly prepared to concur in an attempt to remedy whatever defects may be found to exist—for instance, as to the machinery of registration; but I am resolved, at the same time, to guard the franchise as it stands."695694l.l.l.l.l.l.693s.692691690'You consider the practice to have been generally prejudicial to the administration of justice in criminal cases in Ireland?—Answer: Yes, certainly:""In my opinion, in the first place, it gave to the persons who were convicted, or the friends of these persons, an opportunity of saying, that they were not tried by an impartial jury.""I think the system which prevailed had a very injurious effect on the administration of justice."689"The law of England esteemed all men equal. It was sufficient to be born within the King's allegiance to be entitled to all the rights the loftiest subject of the land enjoyed, None were disqualified by it; and the only distinction was between natural-born subjects and aliens. Such, indeed, was the liberality of our system in times which we call barbarous, but from which, in these enlightened days, it might be well to take a hint, that even if a man were an alien born, he was not deprived of the protection of the law. In Ireland, however, the law held a directly opposite doctrine. The sect to which a man belonged—the cast of his religious opinions—the form in which he worshipped his creator—were the grounds on which the law separated him from his fellows, and inured him to the endurance of a system of the most cruel injustice."688"Non ego, nec Teucris halos parere jubebo, Nec nova regna peto; paribus se legibus ambæ
Invictægentes æterna in fœdera mittant.""Does a Union, under such circumstances, by free consent, and on just and equal terms, deserve to be branded as a proposal for subjecting Ireland to a foreign yoke? Is it not rather the free and voluntary association of two great countries, which join, for their common benefit, in one empire, where each will retain its proportional weight and importance under the security of equal laws, reciprocal affection, and inseparable interests, and which want nothing but that indissoluble connection to render both invincible."687"And we trust that, after full and mature consideration, such a settlement may be framed and established by the deliberative consent of the Parliaments of both kingdoms, as may be conformable to the sentiments, wishes, and real interests of your Majesty's faithful subjects of Great Britain and Ireland, and may unite them inseparably in the full enjoyment of the blessings of our free and invaluable constitution, in the support of the honour and dignity of your Majesty's Crown, and in the preservation and advancement of the welfare and prosperity of the whole British empire,""We entertain a firm persuasion that a complete and entire Union between Great Britain and Ireland, founded on equal and liberal principles, on the similarity of laws, constitution, and government, and on a sense of mutual interests and affections, by promoting the security, wealth, and commerce of the respective kingdoms, and by allaying the distractions which have unhappily prevailed in Ireland, must afford fresh means of opposing at all times an effectual resistance to the destructive projects of our foreign and domestic enemies, and must tend to confirm and augment the stability, power, and resources of the empire."686685684Lord J. Russell rose
682 said, that before his noble Friend rose, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman opposite. On the motion, however, of the hon. Member for Cambridge, an account was ordered a few nights ago, for returns of regiments of Infantry and Cavalry sent to Ireland,
682Mr. Horsman
 said, that the reservation of the bill took place some time ago. He should therefore like to know when it was likely to arrive in this country.Mr. Leader
681 said, that he wished to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies. It appeared that two-thirds of the population of the provinces of Canada were Catholics, and the Roman Catholic religion was the established religion there by statute, nevertheless cases of violence have been committed by Orange Societies in that country. In consequence of this a bill was passed during the last Session of the Provincial Parliament for suppressing these Orange Societies, which act was, as he understood, nearly a transcript of one
681Mr. Leader
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question with respect to the bills which had been introduced by the hon. and learned Members for Chester and Kinsale, and entitled the Small Debts Bill and the Superior Courts (Common Law) Bill. By the first of these bills the whole jurisdiction for the recovery of small debts was given to the unpaid Magistracy of this country, which he could not help saying was a most improper tribunal. He wished to know whether this bill were introduced with the sanction of the Government?Mr. Roebuck
760759758757756animus capientisanimus imponentis;755754753752751750l.749748animus747746745animus744743d'occasion742741740739738737736735734733732731730729728727: I rise to second the motion of the noble Lord. Under ordinary circumstances, I should have felt how unequal I was to do justice to the many important bearings of the question now before the House, after the speech of the noble Lord,—at once so wise and so eloquent—so energetic, and so comprehensive—with his usual sagacity, searching the present and the past, and from both, educing the soundest policy for the future—so far from feeling this sense of my incapacity diminished, I regret to find it considerably augmented. But there is enough in the question itself, to make me forget even this consideration; it is a duty to perform—a sacred duty—at a period unexampled in the history of the country. At what period have existed greater necessities for prompt, thorough, conclusive legislation? When have there been mightier parties, greater contrasts, more astounding anomalies in conflict, than in our present position? If a stranger who had witnessed the passing of the Relief Act in 1829, were again to visit in the present year our shores, could he, by any ordinary rule of historic experience, or state policy, explain or comprehend it? I, in common with others of my fellow Catholics, assisted at that great event—for great in every sense it was—both in reference to past and future;—I thought I saw in it—and not unnaturally—atonement late, but still at last, for former wrongs and follies, recognition, forced it might have been, but still ample, of the utter inefficiency and cruel absurdity of the penal code;—I thought I saw in it something even more than this; not recognition only, but repentance—and not repentance only—but amendment;—I looked from the past to the future;—I considered it, far from being a final remedy, but as the first of a series of remedies, for the recovery of one country, and the welfare and security of both;—not indeed, good government established, but an obstacle to the establishment of good government removed; abjuration no doubt of error, but what I valued
760759758757756animus capientisanimus imponentis;755754753752751750l.749748animus747746745animus744743d'occasion742741740739738737736735734733732731730729728727Mr. Wyse
787786785784l.l.783l.l.782781780l."It is no answer to me to say, that the law affecting landlord and tenant, in Ireland, is the same there as in England, for the different circumstances of the two countries, and the different state of society in each, may cause the same law to produce very different effects."779"To inquire into the state of the law and practice in respect to the occupation of land in Ireland, and in respect also to the burthens of the county cess, and other charges which fall respectively upon the landlords and occupants, and to report what alterations may be made, with a due regard to the just rights of property, the cultivation of the soil, the extension of the advantages of agriculture, and the relation between landlords and tenants."Cries of778777776"The committee for this great national demonstration, being apprised of the intention of many repealers to appear mounted at Clontarf, recommend the following rules to be observed for the regulation of the cavalcade:—1. All mounted Repealers of the city or from the south and west sides of the county to muster on the open ground, Harcourt-street-fields, on Sunday, the 8th of October instant, at 12 o'clock at noon, and form into groups" (not troops) "each group to consist of 25 horsemen, to be kept in order by"—the words "officer" and "half-distance" are omitted—"some one or two in front, followed by six ranks, four a-breast, each bearing a wand."Wallace:"He would not have met them at Mullaghmast again, but for the purpose of showing the completeness of their position and expectations. He had arranged six or seven meetings more, and by the time they were held, he thought the Ministry would be shown that their do-nothing policy would not remedy the grievances of Ireland."775l."1st. All mounted Repealers from the city or from the south and west sides of the county to muster on the open ground, Harcourt-street-fields, on Sunday, the 8th of October, at 12 o'clock at noon, and form into troops, each troop to consist of 25 horsemen, to be led by one officer in front, followed by six ranks, four abreast, half distance, each bearing a wand and cockade distinguishing the number of his respective troop."774773772"In these days," says Madame de Stael, "On conspire toujours sur la place publique, où plutôt, on ne conspire pas, on s'excite les uns les autres."History of the French Revolution771J. Russellterminer;oyer770769768767766765J. Russell:764A MemberPilot763762761: I by no means complain, Sir, of the length of time consumed by the speeches which commenced our proceedings this evening. The magnitude of the subjects brought under discussion, the importance of the crisis at which we are called on to come to a decision, fully justify the length at which the noble Lord and right hon. Gentleman have addressed us. At the same time the House, I am sure, will feel with me, that the task I have undertaken in following the noble Lord and right hon. Gentleman, difficult as it must be at all times, will be rendered still more difficult by the length of the opening speeches, and the period of the evening at which I am called on to answer them. But as you have heard the accusation against the Government with great patience, I am quite sure you will extend to me the same indulgence, and listen with equal patience, while I attempt to defend it. I can assure you, that I shall not unnecessarily trespass on the time of the House; but the position I occupy will remind the House that I am required to make a statement of the case on the part of the Government. I must express something like a personal feeling at the commencement of what I am about to address to you. I cannot help lamenting that on this fatal Irish field I first parted from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell); that on this field we have often met in hostile array; and that on this field we shall never meet again, except as opponents. I state this with regret; but what has fallen to-night from the noble Lord convinces me that we never can agree in our views as to Irish affairs. But although I must express a wide difference of opinion generally with the noble Lord on this subject, yet there are two points, to
787786785784l.l.783l.l.782781780l."It is no answer to me to say, that the law affecting landlord and tenant, in Ireland, is the same there as in England, for the different circumstances of the two countries, and the different state of society in each, may cause the same law to produce very different effects."779"To inquire into the state of the law and practice in respect to the occupation of land in Ireland, and in respect also to the burthens of the county cess, and other charges which fall respectively upon the landlords and occupants, and to report what alterations may be made, with a due regard to the just rights of property, the cultivation of the soil, the extension of the advantages of agriculture, and the relation between landlords and tenants."Cries of778777776"The committee for this great national demonstration, being apprised of the intention of many repealers to appear mounted at Clontarf, recommend the following rules to be observed for the regulation of the cavalcade:—1. All mounted Repealers of the city or from the south and west sides of the county to muster on the open ground, Harcourt-street-fields, on Sunday, the 8th of October instant, at 12 o'clock at noon, and form into groups" (not troops) "each group to consist of 25 horsemen, to be kept in order by"—the words "officer" and "half-distance" are omitted—"some one or two in front, followed by six ranks, four a-breast, each bearing a wand."Wallace:"He would not have met them at Mullaghmast again, but for the purpose of showing the completeness of their position and expectations. He had arranged six or seven meetings more, and by the time they were held, he thought the Ministry would be shown that their do-nothing policy would not remedy the grievances of Ireland."775l."1st. All mounted Repealers from the city or from the south and west sides of the county to muster on the open ground, Harcourt-street-fields, on Sunday, the 8th of October, at 12 o'clock at noon, and form into troops, each troop to consist of 25 horsemen, to be led by one officer in front, followed by six ranks, four abreast, half distance, each bearing a wand and cockade distinguishing the number of his respective troop."774773772"In these days," says Madame de Stael, "On conspire toujours sur la place publique, où plutôt, on ne conspire pas, on s'excite les uns les autres."History of the French Revolution771J. Russellterminer;oyer770769768767766765J. Russell:764A MemberPilot763762761Sir James Graham
l.: far from it, the hon. and learned Member for Chester brought forward last Session, a similar measure to that which had been alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, as a rival measure to the bill introduced by the Government. The hon. and learned Member for Chester had introduced his rival measure in the present Session before Her Majesty's Government had been enabled to introduce their bill. He certainly should not feel disposed to give any support to the bill of the hon. Member for Chester, as he entirely agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Bath, in objecting to entrust the jurisdiction in matter of debt to the Magistracy, for he could not conceive a worse tribunal for that purpose. He must say, that this measure was of an extraordinary character, for it embraced all England and Wales, and it placed the whole jurisdiction in matters of debt under 5l.Sir J. Graham
683 should have been glad if the hon. Gentleman had given him notice of his intention to put this question, but he would endeavour to give the best answer in his power. With respect to the return to which the hon. Gentleman referred, the reason it had been moved for by his hon. Friend, and produced, was, that the noble Lord, the Member for Plymouth, the son of the late Lord-Lieutenant, had moved for the production of a letter written by his father, while Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, during the disturbances in England, offering to place at the disposal of the Government a certain number of regiments then in Ireland. He could state, that the object of this return was to show, that until March, 1843, five regiments altogether, more than were sent there, were withdrawn from Ireland for general service in this country. The return in the hands of hon. Members would show, that during the period referred to in it, four regiments of Infantry and one regiment of Cavalry were withdrawn more
683Sir J. Graham
803 could not agree with the hon. Gentleman in considering this as a question relating merely to what he called certain vexatious and improper proceedings in a court of law. They had to consider whether it were a question for the House to entertain, and whether it were properly speaking, a question which affected the public morality, and whether they had any proof of what was stated in the preamble of the bill. If the hon. Gentleman opposite had asked him at any club his opinion on this question, he very likely would have told him that he should be sorry if the enormous penalties were exacted; but when a bill was brought before the House of Commons, in order that certain gentlemen should be relieved from the consequences of a breach of the law, he thought they ought to consider whether it was a question which the House could entertain. He did not think it was. There might be some benefit in horse-racing in regard to preserving an excellent breed of horses in the country; but he
803Mr. V. Smith
 was prepared to state, that the parties against whom the actions were brought were perfectly unconscious of having transgressed the laws. The House ought to bear in mind that betting was only illegal, according to the act of Anne, when the bets were taken on an illegal subject.Colonel Peel
806 said, that the only fault he found with the bill was, that it did not go far enough. He thought, that they should not endeavour to legalise the sports of the rich only, but that they should extend the same favour to the poor. He should, therefore, give notice, that in
806Mr. C. Berkeley
, in common with the Attorney-general, understood the Bill to stop the action for three months, leaving the parties at the expiration of that period at liberty to pursue their own course. Should, however, any doubt exist on the subject, he should have no objection to concur in a resolution for suspending the action.Mr. S. Wortley
l.,l.l.l.l.,793l.792l.,l.l.791l.790l.hoped that the House would listen to him for a few minutes while he addressed them on the subject-matter of the bill, the second reading of which he was about to move, as it regarded a case of great importance involving nearly half a million of money, and involved persons who were not aware that they had committed any legal offence. He should not have felt called upon to trouble the House at all, if it were not for some symptoms of opposition which had been manifested with respect to this bill. The hon. Member for Montrose said a few nights ago, that the object of the bill was for the encouragement of gambling. Now, he would at once declare, that no one would give a more strenuous opposition to this bill than himself, if he believed that it had such an object, or would be productive of such an effect. He did not suppose that the hon. Member for Montrose had ever entered one of the numerous gambling houses which abound in the metropolis, and he could assure the hon. Member that he had never done so, for his professional pursuits had entirely destroyed any such disposition. He certainly had won as much as 10l.,l.l.l.l.,793l.792l.,l.l.791l.790l.Mr. James S. Wortley
858857Member856855854853852Bowring."Castle Saunderson, 8th June, 1843.—My Dear Lord,—The greatest alarm pervades this part of the country (county of Cavan), and both Protestants and Catholics expect an immediate insurrection—at all events a parochial enlistment of Repealers is taking place at the chapels, and, the well-disposed Catholics are reluctantly joining the ranks, seeing no force in the country to resist the movement expected; there is not a soldier in the county of Cavan. On the other hand, the Protestants are preparing their arms, in some instances sitting up at night; and the magistrates, feeling that if a simultaneous movement does take place, they will have no power to resist it, know not what to say to the poor people. Whatever measures of a political nature may be adopted to allay this fearful commotion, at least the Government should lose no time in demonstrating its strength, both to discourage the disaffected, and to relieve the just apprehensions of the peaceable. Our present situation undoubtedly is, that if a simultaneous movement were to take place at this moment, we should all be overpowered in twelve hours, except perhaps a few bodies of Protestants, who are preparing for the conflict; and for these, as there are no military to concentrate on, their resistance would only embitter our fate. I am urged to do something, to call a meeting of magistrates, county meeting, &c., but I do not like to do so without being able to communicate to such a meeting some measures which may appear practicable and sufficient, and which the Government approve of and promise to support us in. I shall be much obliged by your advice."851"When, however, circumstances had occurred to show the purpose kept in view all along by the parties who caused that meeting to assemble—when that purpose was clearly demonstrated by their subsequent acts, as the conspiracy proceeded to its termination, then, indeed, the subject assumed a different complexion; and the original meeting, which, standing by itself, could not be prosecuted as illegal, became at once criminal, illegal, and open to prosecution. It was for this reason that the Crown counsel considered the Repeal meetings unlawful; because it appeared, that they were held for the unlawful purpose of exhibiting to the Legislature, and the people of England a demonstration of the physical force of the country, which it was expected would frighten and intimidate them into the concession of the measure which they (the Repealers) wished to attain. Repeated warnings had been given to the traversers—in Sir R. Peel's speech on May 9, 1843; in the Speech from the Throne; in the dismissal of magistrates. Connivance, therefore, could not be charged against the Government." per se850" A meeting might be unlawful, because it had an unlawful object; because it was the means resorted to to bring about an unlawful end, and until it was known what that end was—until clear evidence could be adduced to prove the conspiracy to which these meetings were ancillary—until the time had arrived when the crime and purpose were ca-
 per se850849848847 said, that his right hon. Friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had already so ably vindicated the policy of the Queen's Government with respect to Ireland, had so successfully defended every act of theirs, that he should be well content to remain silent; but considering the situation which he held, and feeling anxious to correct
858857Member856855854853852Bowring."Castle Saunderson, 8th June, 1843.—My Dear Lord,—The greatest alarm pervades this part of the country (county of Cavan), and both Protestants and Catholics expect an immediate insurrection—at all events a parochial enlistment of Repealers is taking place at the chapels, and, the well-disposed Catholics are reluctantly joining the ranks, seeing no force in the country to resist the movement expected; there is not a soldier in the county of Cavan. On the other hand, the Protestants are preparing their arms, in some instances sitting up at night; and the magistrates, feeling that if a simultaneous movement does take place, they will have no power to resist it, know not what to say to the poor people. Whatever measures of a political nature may be adopted to allay this fearful commotion, at least the Government should lose no time in demonstrating its strength, both to discourage the disaffected, and to relieve the just apprehensions of the peaceable. Our present situation undoubtedly is, that if a simultaneous movement were to take place at this moment, we should all be overpowered in twelve hours, except perhaps a few bodies of Protestants, who are preparing for the conflict; and for these, as there are no military to concentrate on, their resistance would only embitter our fate. I am urged to do something, to call a meeting of magistrates, county meeting, &c., but I do not like to do so without being able to communicate to such a meeting some measures which may appear practicable and sufficient, and which the Government approve of and promise to support us in. I shall be much obliged by your advice."851"When, however, circumstances had occurred to show the purpose kept in view all along by the parties who caused that meeting to assemble—when that purpose was clearly demonstrated by their subsequent acts, as the conspiracy proceeded to its termination, then, indeed, the subject assumed a different complexion; and the original meeting, which, standing by itself, could not be prosecuted as illegal, became at once criminal, illegal, and open to prosecution. It was for this reason that the Crown counsel considered the Repeal meetings unlawful; because it appeared, that they were held for the unlawful purpose of exhibiting to the Legislature, and the people of England a demonstration of the physical force of the country, which it was expected would frighten and intimidate them into the concession of the measure which they (the Repealers) wished to attain. Repeated warnings had been given to the traversers—in Sir R. Peel's speech on May 9, 1843; in the Speech from the Throne; in the dismissal of magistrates. Connivance, therefore, could not be charged against the Government." per se850" A meeting might be unlawful, because it had an unlawful object; because it was the means resorted to to bring about an unlawful end, and until it was known what that end was—until clear evidence could be adduced to prove the conspiracy to which these meetings were ancillary—until the time had arrived when the crime and purpose were ca-
 per se850849848847Lord Eliot
801 said, that he thought those who willingly transgressed the law ought to suffer the penalties of the law, but in the present case the offences had been committed unwittingly, and without a knowledge that they were against the
801Lord J. Manners
811"Beware how you convert discontent into rage, and how you arm rage with new weapons. On you the responsibility must rest of such misguided and deluded conduct. You
811J. GrahamJ. Graham810809 observed that the able and comprehensive manner in which the noble Lord the Member for London had treated this subject last night could not fail of having a useful effect not only in Ireland,
811"Beware how you convert discontent into rage, and how you arm rage with new weapons. On you the responsibility must rest of such misguided and deluded conduct. You
811J. GrahamJ. Graham810809Lord Leveson
815"That it was not by wounding their enemies through the sides of the Constitution, nor by trampling on the laws, that they could hope to enlist any sympathy in their favour, or add to the number of their friends."814813812 remarked, that it had been stated in 1839, by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), on taking office, that the greatest difficulty of the Government would be Ireland; and he was sorry to say, that since the present Ministry had been in power, everything had occurred to fulfil that prediction. All other questions were of trifling importance, as compared with that. The Corn-law League agitation, the moment the right hon. Baronet had come boldly for- ward, and declared his determination to uphold the Corn-laws, that moment that agitation had declined—Ireland alone was the difficulty, No measure could be brought forward, no proposition could be made in reference to that country which was not made the ground of party strife and opposition. For three centuries there had been a contest of classes and creeds carried on in Ireland; was it not extraordinary, that in a country with natural resources unsurpassed and almost unequalled—with a people remarkable for their industry, their patience under the most severe suffering, their forbearance, and for all the social virtues, the feuds and prejudices of centuries should be perpetuated? Many causes had been assigned for this anomalous state of things; but he could not agree with those who considered the great evil of Ireland to be either the Church Establishment, the state of the Suffrage, or the Legislative Union. He did not believe, that the people themselves believed, that to either of these causes, the difficulties of the country were to be attributed. Take the Repeal of the Union. In the Parliament that followed the Union, not a single Member forfeited his seat for having voted for that act, and, except in the county of Dublin, no Member thought it worth while to appeal to the people on account of the vote he had given. Then, as to the Church Establishment. They had it on the evidence of Mr. O'Connell himself, that that was not the great difficulty. Mr. O'Connell had said, in his evidence before a Commission of the Lords, that if they removed the causes of the distress of the country, the question of the clergy or the Union would cease to be of importance. He believed the great cause of discontent in Ireland
815"That it was not by wounding their enemies through the sides of the Constitution, nor by trampling on the laws, that they could hope to enlist any sympathy in their favour, or add to the number of their friends."814813812Mr. Bailie Cochrane
802 entreated the House to pause before legislating with respect to gambling transactions, lest, by implication, it might be supposed that the House was about to protect these transactions. Of all the gambling transactions of the present day there were none, in his opinion, more mischievous, more dishonest, or in which there was greater cheating than those connected with the present system of horse-racing. It was the system of book-making which engendered most of the evils; and it was the consequence of that system that led, not more than twenty-five years ago, to a man being hung, for poisoning horses. Sooner than lend himself in any way to the continu-
802Captain F. F. Berkeley
830"The people have by their conduct confounded all their enemies. 80,000 men have been under arms nearly a week, and not one shop has been pillaged, not one drop of blood shed. Their insurrection was spontaneous; the result of an universal moral conviction. The insurrection was a great moral and popular effort, worthy of the enlightened people among whom it arose."829828827826825824823822821 trusted to be able to show, before he concluded, that the professions of kindness and regard towards Ireland, made on various occasions by Ministers, were not mere empty words, but that they had been adhered to, and carried into effect, and that not without some loss of popularity on the part of the Government. The noble Lord who had just sat down, had complained of the provisions of the Arms Bill; and he would direct his attention to that subject before referring to the question immediately under the
830"The people have by their conduct confounded all their enemies. 80,000 men have been under arms nearly a week, and not one shop has been pillaged, not one drop of blood shed. Their insurrection was spontaneous; the result of an universal moral conviction. The insurrection was a great moral and popular effort, worthy of the enlightened people among whom it arose."829828827826825824823822821Mr. Young
804 was surprised, that the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, who were always inclined to pass acts of Parliament to promote morality, should seek to relieve the parties in the present case from the penalties which they had incurred by infringing the law of the land. It appeared that betting on horse races had increased to an enormous extent, and he had moved for a return, which he had no doubt would show the gross immorality engendered by the system of betting on horse races. He had been told that many noblemen and gentlemen had been guilty of acts arising out of betting which would disgrace any class of society. He did not believe it, but it appeared that the parties who had brought these actions were prepared to prove it. He trusted the House would not pass this bill, which would annul the actions altogether. A better plan would be to adopt the course pursued in 1818, and suspend the actions for three months. The present bill gave power to every individual against whom a similar action might be brought to call on the judge to dismiss the action on payment of the costs. If the House should agree to this bill, they would release the parties from the penalties they had incurred, and they would hear nothing more about any re-
804Mr. Hume
 hoped, that the hon. Gentlemen opposite, and the House would keep clearly before them the question at issue. No man could wish to see the Noblemen and Gentlemen against whom these actions were brought, convicted in the enormous penalties they might be liable to under the act. Why not pass a bill for the distinct purpose of relieving them? And why not at the same time show their respect for the hon. Gentleman who moved the amendment by granting a select committee to inquire into these matters under the superintendence and judgment of that hon. Member?Mr. Milnes
"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the existing statutes against gaming of every kind and into the penalties enacted by them and whether the same, or any, and what part of those statutes have fallen into desuetude, or ought to be repealed."ex post facto800799s.s.,ex post facto798qui tam"But this is not the principal ground of modern complaint: it is the gaming in high life that demands the attention of the magistrate; a passion to which every valuable consideration is made a sacrifice, and which we seem to have inherited from our ancestors, the ancient Germans,whom Tacitus describes to have been bewitched with the spirit of play to a most exorbitant degree."797"But, taken in any light, it is an offence of the most alarming nature; tending, by neces-
797"All persons who desire to see the laws of the land co-operating with the interests of morality, and more especially all who (like ourselves) are inclined to look with peculiar jealousy at illegal practices, on the part of persons moving in the upper circles of society, must have rejoiced to see the report which was published on Monday, of a successful action in the Court of Exchequer against the keeper of a first-rate gaming-house in St. James's Street. For this we have not to thank either the Attorney-general, or the Solicitor-general, or the Home Secretary, or the Society for the Suppression of Vice, authorities who, we regret to say, are apt to consider the Corinthian atmosphere of St. James's-street out of their jurisdiction, and would doubtless feel a horror of running the remotest risk of detecting a colleague in office, or a Parliamentary or Exeter-hall supporter in his private sins. Our gratitude is due exclusively to an artist named Smith, and to an Act of Parliament of the good old days of Queen Anne."Times796qui tamqui tam795Mr. Wortley:794ex post facto said, the bill involved considerations of the most important kind. When the hon. Gentleman proposed to enact an "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the existing statutes against gaming of every kind and into the penalties enacted by them and whether the same, or any, and what part of those statutes have fallen into desuetude, or ought to be repealed."ex post facto800799s.s.,ex post facto798qui tam"But this is not the principal ground of modern complaint: it is the gaming in high life that demands the attention of the magistrate; a passion to which every valuable consideration is made a sacrifice, and which we seem to have inherited from our ancestors, the ancient Germans,whom Tacitus describes to have been bewitched with the spirit of play to a most exorbitant degree."797"But, taken in any light, it is an offence of the most alarming nature; tending, by neces-
797"All persons who desire to see the laws of the land co-operating with the interests of morality, and more especially all who (like ourselves) are inclined to look with peculiar jealousy at illegal practices, on the part of persons moving in the upper circles of society, must have rejoiced to see the report which was published on Monday, of a successful action in the Court of Exchequer against the keeper of a first-rate gaming-house in St. James's Street. For this we have not to thank either the Attorney-general, or the Solicitor-general, or the Home Secretary, or the Society for the Suppression of Vice, authorities who, we regret to say, are apt to consider the Corinthian atmosphere of St. James's-street out of their jurisdiction, and would doubtless feel a horror of running the remotest risk of detecting a colleague in office, or a Parliamentary or Exeter-hall supporter in his private sins. Our gratitude is due exclusively to an artist named Smith, and to an Act of Parliament of the good old days of Queen Anne."Times796qui tamqui tam795Mr. Wortley:794ex post factoMr. M. Gibson
808l. did not understand that any pledge had been given, that these gentlemen should come under the operation of the bill. He wished for a distinct answer on this point. What had the informer done to forfeit his right of action or his claim to the penalties? He wanted to know whether the informer was to be saddled with all the expenses of this action? He was aware that the bill gave the informer what the lawyers call the costs out of pocket; but that was only a small item in the expenditure. It was, in fact, a speculation on the part of the informer, for the purpose of getting a portion of the penalties, in order to obtain which he was compelled to incur divers expenses. Were they to have any evidence called in this action? Wright was heard by counsel at the bar. He laid his gains at 8,000808l.Mr. M. Gibson
Morning Post,Morning Herald,Times,Morning Chronicle,788 hoped that the House would extend its indulgence for a few minutes while he made one or two observations as to a question which he put on Monday evening to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, as to the separation of children in workhouses, under a certain age, from their mothers. He then commenced his question with the declaration—"That as Lord Chief-justice Denman had declared it to be the unanimous opinion of the judges of the Court of Queen's Bench, 'that there are some cases in which it is necessary to break in upon an Act of Parliament, and upon that which may have existed from all time;' and has also de-dared that 'it is the mother who is the proper party to have the custody of all her children under seven years of age, and that it is not for the benefit of the mother, but for the protection of the children.'"
Morning Post,Morning Herald,Times,Morning Chronicle,788Mr. Ferrand
A laugh.846845"To England it is obvious that such a contest would be the source of unspeakable calamity, and the signal, indeed, of her permanent weakness, insecurity, and degradation. That she is bound, therefore, for her own sake, to avert it by every possible precaution and
845Edinburgh Review,844843Hansard,842841840839838837836835834Cheers.833from the Ministerial Benches.832831 Whatever difference of opinion may exist as to some of the topics introduced into this debate, whatever difference of opinion may be found in the House as to the policy of her Majesty's Government in Ireland, or as to the measures which the present state of things in that country may demand, upon one point the House must be agreed, and no dif-
A laugh.846845"To England it is obvious that such a contest would be the source of unspeakable calamity, and the signal, indeed, of her permanent weakness, insecurity, and degradation. That she is bound, therefore, for her own sake, to avert it by every possible precaution and
845Edinburgh Review,844843Hansard,842841840839838837836835834Cheers.833from the Ministerial Benches.832831Sir G. Grey:
 inquired whether any intention existed of repealing other obsolete statutes?Captain Pechell
 could not answer that question, which had no connection with the present bill. As he was on his legs, perhaps the hon. Member for Manchester would allow him to inform him, with respect to the fines imposed for non-attendance on Divine Service, that the Government, in the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill proposed by them last Session, which unfortunately did not become law, introduced a clause respecting the statute alluded to by the hon. Member. The bill introduced into the other House, in the preparation of which he (Sir J. Graham) had participated, also contained a clause respecting the statute in question.Sir J. Graham
 confessed that he had had some difficulty in making up his mind as to the course to be pursued. He thought there would be considerable hardship in absolutely discontinuing this action on the simple payment of the costs out of pocket. In his opinion the best course was that which had been suggested, namely, instead of discontinuing the action, to suspend it in the position in which it now stood, pending the inquiry about to be instituted. He certainly had understood his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general to say that if this Bill should be read a second time, it would be quite open for any hon. Member to propose in Committee the suspension of the actions. Should such a proposition be made it should have his support.Sir J. Graham
Law Journal,Jurist789 having received no previous notice of the hon. Member's intention to ask this question, had not brought down with him an authorised report of Lord Chief Justice Denman's judgment in the case alluded to by the hon. Member. He was very far from imputing any motives to the hon. Member when he formerly answered his question, and he then stated that he believed that the hon. Member had used every caution to get correct information on the point, but notwithstanding this, the hon. Member had been mistaken. The hon. Member now stated that he found that the information which had been communicated to him, and on which he had founded his question, was confirmed on searching in the papers of the following morning, and that all the reports of the judgment in question substantially concurred; and this, he conceived, was a test of the accuracy of the words used. Now, at the same time, he (Sir James Graham) had it from the very highest source, that not only were those words not used, but words the very converse of them. The words quoted from the morning newspapers by the hon. Gentleman were, "That there are some cases in which it is necessary to break in upon an Act of Parliament, and upon that which may have existed from all time." Now the words used by Lord Denman were, "That although it was the general rule to adhere to established principles, yet cases have arisen, when, in order to give effect to the express words of an Act of
Law Journal,Jurist789Sir J. Graham
l.805 had a few observations to offer to the House. If the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montrose, had looked into the clauses of the bill, he would see that it made express provision to meet the point to which he had adverted. The bill expressly provided that the operation of the act should not extend beyond the space of three months from the period of its passing, and that nothing contained in it could apply to any proceedings that might take place after the lapse of that time. Although the bill would put a stop to the present actions, there was nothing in it to prevent similar actions from being brought hereafter unless Parliament should think fit to pass some general law upon the subject. He should, therefore, certainly vote for the bill. He believed, that it would effect the object which the hon. Member for Montrose had in view—namely, that of suspending the present proceedings; and if the hon. Gentleman should think fit, when the bill went into Committee, to move the substitution of the word "suspend" for the word "discontinue," it would be perfectly open to him to take that course. He should not deal fairly with the House if he did not add another observation. He agreed in much of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester, respecting the practice of gambling, and the present state of the
l.805The Attorney-General
820s.,l.819s.l."There is my cottage, which is all I have left. I am an old man on the verge of the grave. It does not signify. There was a day when the whole of this and the adjoining town land was in my possession, at a less rent than is now paid to the county cess per acre."818l.,l.l.l.,d.s.l."With reference to Colonel Hodder's letter of the 24th inst., which was forwarded to the Secretary, requesting a licence to import a gun from Nottinghamshire, the Clerk of the Council begs leave to inform Colonel Hodder that an Order in Council is necessary for the importation of arms, the fee upon which is 2d.s.l.Council Office, Dublin Castle, Sept."Council Office, Dublin Castle, Sept.817Laughter."John Hall, who was licensed to make and repair fire-arms, in Aungier-street, Dublin, having died in the last month, the Dublin police took charge of his stock in trade, pending the appointment of legal representatives. Letters of administration having been since granted, the administratrix obtained a licence from Government to sell off the stock, and the police authorities have restored it to her for that purpose."l.l.816 regretted very much the statement that had been made on a former occasion by the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department, that concession had reached its utmost limits. That declaration had gone forth to the Irish people, and had been productive of much discontent and dissatisfaction in that country. The right hon. Baronet had admitted that a military government was an unwholesome one for any country, and he fully agreed with him. But what was there in Ireland at the present moment, but a military government? They saw indefensible barracks fortified which were actually the ridicule of the peasantry of that country. They had an armed constabulary of 9,426 men and 277 officers equipped and drilled in a military manner. In the present day it was very much the habit to introduce the Code Napoleon for the purposes of centralization. Now, he was the decided opponent of that system.
820s.,l.819s.l."There is my cottage, which is all I have left. I am an old man on the verge of the grave. It does not signify. There was a day when the whole of this and the adjoining town land was in my possession, at a less rent than is now paid to the county cess per acre."818l.,l.l.l.,d.s.l."With reference to Colonel Hodder's letter of the 24th inst., which was forwarded to the Secretary, requesting a licence to import a gun from Nottinghamshire, the Clerk of the Council begs leave to inform Colonel Hodder that an Order in Council is necessary for the importation of arms, the fee upon which is 2d.s.l.Council Office, Dublin Castle, Sept."Council Office, Dublin Castle, Sept.817Laughter."John Hall, who was licensed to make and repair fire-arms, in Aungier-street, Dublin, having died in the last month, the Dublin police took charge of his stock in trade, pending the appointment of legal representatives. Letters of administration having been since granted, the administratrix obtained a licence from Government to sell off the stock, and the police authorities have restored it to her for that purpose."l.l.816Lord Clements
 moved, that the debate be adjourned.Captain Bernal
"I know Her Majesty shall not want the information of persons expert and industrious who have served her there and know the region; nor the advice of a grave and prudent council of estate here, which know the pulses of the hearts of the people, and the ways and passages of producing great actions."936935934in prœmio,in pœnâ,pœna,prœmiumin rerum natura"The reduction of that country, as well to civility and justice as to obedience and peace—which things, as affairs now stand, I hold to be inseparable—consisteth in four points: first, the extinguishing the relics of the war; second, the recovery of the hearts of the people; third, the removing the root and occasions of trouble; fourth, plantations and buildings. Towards the recovery of the hearts of the people (he says) there be but three things in prœmio,in pœnâ,pœna,prœmiumin rerum naturaSpectator."Another Britain—endowed with so many dowries of nature, considering the fruitfulness of the soil, the ports, the rivers, the fisheries, the quarries, the woods, and other materials; and especially the race and generation of men—valiant, hardy and active—as it is not easy—no, not on the continent, to find such confluence of commodities, if the hand of man did join with the hand of nature."933932931amiable compositeurs,from the Ministerial Side of the House.Cries of930***929"Give them (the Irish) all they ask. But for Canada, refuse all they ask—turn a deaf ear to every complaint—mock them with hopes never to be realised—insult them with rights which, if they dare to use, shall be rudely torn from them, and, for abiding by the law in seeking redress of their wrongs, punish them. We have all seen, or we have read, of the contrast between a parent and a step-mother in the treatment of a child—the contrast between tenderness, self-denial, self-devotion, and cruelty, self-indulgence, studied neglect. The one exhausts every resource of kindness and conciliation, anticipates all wants, yields to each wish that ought to be granted, studies to prevent offences by judicious training, and to reclaim from error by gentleness alone, nor ever have recourse to punishment until all means of prevention fail, and the safety of the cherished object forces her to do violence to her feelings rather than neglect her duty. But I have known conduct the reverse of all this. Who, indeed, has not heard of the step-mother watching for the occasion of quarrel, taking offence at everything and at nothing, fostering every little failing of temper in the child, till it ripen into disobedience, and furnish the pretext for the wished-for punishment; alternately too indulgent and too severe, by fits and by caprice, harsh and gentle—now flinging to it some plaything, and the instant the child uses it, flying into a fury, and snatching it away, and giving vent to anger by punishment or by restraint—now visiting on the offspring the faults of her own mismanagement, and never for an instant pursuing a steady, or a just, or a rational treatment. These things have I witnessed, and who has not? But never have I known an example of contrast so marked, so violent, so outrageous, as between the parental care of Ireland, and the step-mother treatment of Canada."928927926 spoke to the following effect; I am heartily in favour of the proposal of the noble Lord, the Member for London, to go into a Committee of the whole House. Nothing has fallen from Ministers to supersede the necessity of such a course. I have anxiously watched for some indication of a desire to do that full justice to Ireland which has been so earnestly sought, so long delayed, and which now more than ever is so essentially necessary to the well-being, not of Ireland alone, but of the United Kingdom. I make light of the hon. Baronet's petty improvements; his gentle alteratives are quite insufficient to cure the complicated diseases of that country. I lament the absence of such a disposition on the part of the Government and the majority of the
"I know Her Majesty shall not want the information of persons expert and industrious who have served her there and know the region; nor the advice of a grave and prudent council of estate here, which know the pulses of the hearts of the people, and the ways and passages of producing great actions."936935934in prœmio,in pœnâ,pœna,prœmiumin rerum natura"The reduction of that country, as well to civility and justice as to obedience and peace—which things, as affairs now stand, I hold to be inseparable—consisteth in four points: first, the extinguishing the relics of the war; second, the recovery of the hearts of the people; third, the removing the root and occasions of trouble; fourth, plantations and buildings. Towards the recovery of the hearts of the people (he says) there be but three things in prœmio,in pœnâ,pœna,prœmiumin rerum naturaSpectator."Another Britain—endowed with so many dowries of nature, considering the fruitfulness of the soil, the ports, the rivers, the fisheries, the quarries, the woods, and other materials; and especially the race and generation of men—valiant, hardy and active—as it is not easy—no, not on the continent, to find such confluence of commodities, if the hand of man did join with the hand of nature."933932931amiable compositeurs,from the Ministerial Side of the House.Cries of930***929"Give them (the Irish) all they ask. But for Canada, refuse all they ask—turn a deaf ear to every complaint—mock them with hopes never to be realised—insult them with rights which, if they dare to use, shall be rudely torn from them, and, for abiding by the law in seeking redress of their wrongs, punish them. We have all seen, or we have read, of the contrast between a parent and a step-mother in the treatment of a child—the contrast between tenderness, self-denial, self-devotion, and cruelty, self-indulgence, studied neglect. The one exhausts every resource of kindness and conciliation, anticipates all wants, yields to each wish that ought to be granted, studies to prevent offences by judicious training, and to reclaim from error by gentleness alone, nor ever have recourse to punishment until all means of prevention fail, and the safety of the cherished object forces her to do violence to her feelings rather than neglect her duty. But I have known conduct the reverse of all this. Who, indeed, has not heard of the step-mother watching for the occasion of quarrel, taking offence at everything and at nothing, fostering every little failing of temper in the child, till it ripen into disobedience, and furnish the pretext for the wished-for punishment; alternately too indulgent and too severe, by fits and by caprice, harsh and gentle—now flinging to it some plaything, and the instant the child uses it, flying into a fury, and snatching it away, and giving vent to anger by punishment or by restraint—now visiting on the offspring the faults of her own mismanagement, and never for an instant pursuing a steady, or a just, or a rational treatment. These things have I witnessed, and who has not? But never have I known an example of contrast so marked, so violent, so outrageous, as between the parental care of Ireland, and the step-mother treatment of Canada."928927926Mr. Ross
970"I consider," said Mr. Blake, in his evidence before the committee on the state of Ireland in 1835, "the Protestant establishment in Ireland a main link to the connection between Great Britain and Ireland. The Protestant Church of Ireland is rooted in the constitution; it is established by the fundamental laws of the realm, it is rendered, as far as the most solemn acts of the Legisla-
970969968Cheers and counter Cheers from Mr. Roebuck and other Members on the Opposition Benches.967966To the Clerks of the Peace."It appears that in the hurry of making up the jurors' list, some names have been omitted from what has been termed the special panel, and left on the common panel, and that by some error in copying or unintentional omission, the names of Mr. Roe, late Lord Mayor, D.L., Mr. Hoyte, late Alderman, Justice of the Peace, Mr. Grant, late Sheriff, Mr. Reynolds, wholesale merchant, have been pointed out to me as being the wrong part of the list. I think, under the 24th section of the Act, the sheriff might of his own authority have corrected them; but I understand he has been advised not to do so. I wish, therefore, to take upon myself the responsibility of transferring these names from the common to the special list in my original copy, and desiring you then to take them to the High Sheriff, and offer them as an amendment of the book you furnished to him, and at the same time inform the High Sheriff that if there are any other names similarly circumstanced, I am willing to do the same with them." F. S.Court-house, January"Court-house, January965l.964l.963962961 should probably not have troubled the House during the debate, but certainly not at that period of it, had he not been pointedly referred to by the noble Lord whose motion it was, and his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in relation to the alleged omission of sixty names from the Dublin Jury lists. Moreover, as much misrepresentation had gone forth, and much real misapprehension prevailed on the subject, he hoped the House would excuse him for taking that opportunity—the first legiti-
970"I consider," said Mr. Blake, in his evidence before the committee on the state of Ireland in 1835, "the Protestant establishment in Ireland a main link to the connection between Great Britain and Ireland. The Protestant Church of Ireland is rooted in the constitution; it is established by the fundamental laws of the realm, it is rendered, as far as the most solemn acts of the Legisla-
970969968Cheers and counter Cheers from Mr. Roebuck and other Members on the Opposition Benches.967966To the Clerks of the Peace."It appears that in the hurry of making up the jurors' list, some names have been omitted from what has been termed the special panel, and left on the common panel, and that by some error in copying or unintentional omission, the names of Mr. Roe, late Lord Mayor, D.L., Mr. Hoyte, late Alderman, Justice of the Peace, Mr. Grant, late Sheriff, Mr. Reynolds, wholesale merchant, have been pointed out to me as being the wrong part of the list. I think, under the 24th section of the Act, the sheriff might of his own authority have corrected them; but I understand he has been advised not to do so. I wish, therefore, to take upon myself the responsibility of transferring these names from the common to the special list in my original copy, and desiring you then to take them to the High Sheriff, and offer them as an amendment of the book you furnished to him, and at the same time inform the High Sheriff that if there are any other names similarly circumstanced, I am willing to do the same with them." F. S.Court-house, January"Court-house, January965l.964l.963962961Mr. Shaw
952 said, that although he was unconnected with Ireland he could not but feel interested in the welfare of that country. He had recently visited Ireland, and he was bound to say, that no one could leave it without feelings of kindness and sympathy for the Irish people. There was no country in the world possessing greater resources, and it ought to be in a more prosperous condition. He believed that the great cause of the decline of commerce and manufactures in that country of late years, of which they heard, and which all deplored, was the agitation for Repeal. Many persons of high authority in Ireland had declared that previous to the commencement of that agitation a great change for the better had taken place, and was spreading over the land, that capital was flowing into it every day, and great improvement was going on.
952Mr. Repton
951ex cathedra,950l.949l."The exports and imports as far as they are a test of a decay of profitable occupation—so far as the exports and imports are supplied from parliamentary returns—exhibit extraordinary evidences of the condition of the labouring classes. The importation of flax seed (an evidence of the extent of a most important source of employment) was in 1790 339,745 barrels; in 1800 327,621 barrels; in 1830 168,458 barrels. The importation of silk raw and thrown was in 1790 92,091 lbs.; in 1800 79,060 lbs.; in 1830 3,190 lbs. Of unwrought iron in 1790 2,791 tons; in 1800 10,241 tons; in 1830 871 tons. Formerly we spun all our own woollen and worsted yarn, we imported in 1790 only 2,294 lbs; in 1800 1880 lbs.; in 1826 662,750 lbs. An enormous increase. There were upwards of thirty master manufacturers in the woollen trade in Dublin, who have become bankrupts since 1821. There has been doubtless an increase in the exports of cotton. In 1800 9,147 yards; 1826 7,793,873 yards. The exports of cotton from Great Britain were in 1829 402,517,196 yards; value 12,516,247l.949l.948ne plus ultra.l.l.l."A case is established in the instance of Ireland which is written in characters too legible not to serve as a guide to future financiers—one which ought to bring shame on the memory of its authors. The revenue of Ireland in 1807 was 4,378,000l.l.l.l.l.947946l.ll945 asked the House and the people of England, if, after a dominion of some centuries, the people of Ireland, were to be governed by means of military occupation? Yet such was the confession of the Minister of the Crown in that House! Such was the confession of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Ireland, he confessed, was held to the British Crown by military occupation. He asked, in sober sadness, of the people of England, of the people of Scotland, of the people of Wales, and of the civilized world, if this were a state to which any people could submit who had the spirit of freedom existing in their hearts and in their hands? He told them, and he said it not in menace—as He who was above him would judge—he said it not in menace, but he said it in sober sadness, did they think that the people of Ireland ought to submit to it? He asked them ought the people of Ireland to submit to it? Ought they to submit to be kept in military bondage to any nation that ever existed? The people of England would not submit to it. They, the English, had given a noble example when they put down tyranny, when they forced the concession of Magna Charta from a tyrant; when they thought it to be their duty, (and he did not say whether they were right or wrong) to bring another king to the block, because he had desired to submit their lives and liberties to his dictation, and not to the laws of England. Why, then, should the people of Ireland submit to such a state of things, and, he now asked them, did they think that it was in human nature long to submit to it? He was satisfied that the people of Ireland would not long submit to it. He for one would never join, under any possible circumstances that he could foresee, in an opposition to the law of the land. He for one would never join in anything approaching to a military array against the
951ex cathedra,950l.949l."The exports and imports as far as they are a test of a decay of profitable occupation—so far as the exports and imports are supplied from parliamentary returns—exhibit extraordinary evidences of the condition of the labouring classes. The importation of flax seed (an evidence of the extent of a most important source of employment) was in 1790 339,745 barrels; in 1800 327,621 barrels; in 1830 168,458 barrels. The importation of silk raw and thrown was in 1790 92,091 lbs.; in 1800 79,060 lbs.; in 1830 3,190 lbs. Of unwrought iron in 1790 2,791 tons; in 1800 10,241 tons; in 1830 871 tons. Formerly we spun all our own woollen and worsted yarn, we imported in 1790 only 2,294 lbs; in 1800 1880 lbs.; in 1826 662,750 lbs. An enormous increase. There were upwards of thirty master manufacturers in the woollen trade in Dublin, who have become bankrupts since 1821. There has been doubtless an increase in the exports of cotton. In 1800 9,147 yards; 1826 7,793,873 yards. The exports of cotton from Great Britain were in 1829 402,517,196 yards; value 12,516,247l.949l.948ne plus ultra.l.l.l."A case is established in the instance of Ireland which is written in characters too legible not to serve as a guide to future financiers—one which ought to bring shame on the memory of its authors. The revenue of Ireland in 1807 was 4,378,000l.l.l.l.l.947946l.ll945Sir H. W. Barron
944943"There are in Ireland, (said he) two distinct races, alien to each other in blood, alien in language, and alien in religion."Hansard,942941940"You have obtained, (said he), your conviction; but what else have you gained? Have you not rather added strength to the hands of agitation than bound them up? Is not Mr. O'Connell likely to address the people of Ireland with more effect, when he appeals to them no longer as their liberator and friend merely, but as their suffering martyr, convicted and imprisoned for their sake?""Who would not laugh if such a man there be?
"Who would not weep if Atticus were he?"939938937 said, the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had added another to the many proofs afforded by the whole course of that debate, that one of the most desirable, and he was inclined to believe, one of the most
944943"There are in Ireland, (said he) two distinct races, alien to each other in blood, alien in language, and alien in religion."Hansard,942941940"You have obtained, (said he), your conviction; but what else have you gained? Have you not rather added strength to the hands of agitation than bound them up? Is not Mr. O'Connell likely to address the people of Ireland with more effect, when he appeals to them no longer as their liberator and friend merely, but as their suffering martyr, convicted and imprisoned for their sake?""Who would not laugh if such a man there be?
"Who would not weep if Atticus were he?"939938937Mr. Borthwick
960959958957956955J. Graham954J. GrahamJ. Graham953 had heard with much satisfaction the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and it was somewhat remarkable that every hon. Gentleman, when first speaking upon the subject of Ireland, was disposed to treat it with great liberality. He was surprised that in the course of a debate on a matter deeply involving the character of the Go-
960959958957956955J. Graham954J. GrahamJ. Graham953Mr. More O'Ferrall
 would strictly confine himself to an explanation. He understood, the hon. Gentleman to say, that he had announced the policy of Government to be that of retaining and occupying Ireland as part of the British dominions by military force, and by military force alone. It was in the recollection of the House, that he had stated distinctly, that in his opinion, the Protestant Church of Ireland must be maintained in all its rights, privileges, and property. He had stated, that it had been necessary, at a period so late, as, he thought, the commencement of March, 1843, to increase the military force in Ireland; but up to that period of March, 1843, from the time when Her Majesty's present Government had come into office in 1841, so far from an increase being made in the military force in Ireland, that force had been actually diminished. He had gone on to state, that attempts having been made to intimidate the Government, by demonstrations of physical force, it became necessary to augment the army; but he had also added, that he was convinced that it never could be the permanent policy of this country to hold possession of Ireland by military force, without any hold upon the affections of the people; and he had added, that he was convinced that the vindication of the powers of the law, coupled with steady impartial Government, neither leaning towards timidity on the one hand, nor intemperate counsels upon the other, would without the aid of military power, preserve to the Crown of this country that inestimable portion of Her Majesty's dominions.Sir James Graham
992991990989988987986985984983982981980979978977976975974973972971: As this debate proceeds, it seems to me to become more and more clear that Gentlemen on both sides of the House are agreed, not only as to the danger of the present crisis in Ireland, but also in this, that no prospect has yet been held out to us by Her Majesty's Government of measures which it can even be pretended, afford us a rational hope of restoring that country to a state of security. Such, undoubtedly, is the conclusion we must come to from the debate, so far as it has yet gone. The dangerous condition of Ireland, has not been more forcibly described by Gentlemen on this side than by those on the other; the House will remember, that immediately before it was addressed by the right hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last, the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, rose for the purpose of explaining certain expressions attributed to him by my hon. Friend, the Member for Kildare,
992991990989988987986985984983982981980979978977976975974973972971Viscount Howick
"I say the present Ministers of this country cannot govern Ireland in England; the loss of a nation's good will is synonymous with the loss of reputation. After an experience of years, your country, taking an impartial survey of all your offences, perhaps in the prodigality of mercy, may forgive, but surely she can never trust you."1006"Other 'battalions' arrived in regular order, and that the meeting comprised 'at least 75,000 persons.' At this meeting Mr. Waring made an inflammatory speech against the Catholics and National Education.""Shortly after eleven o'clock a tremendous shout from the town announced the approach of the first party. They were from Moira, and were headed by the rev. Holt Waring, who was drawn by the people. A flag, the Union Jack, was hoisted as the signal of their arrival. In a few minutes they were seen descending the steep hill from the town, and approaching the place of meeting, in a close, dark, and dense mass, comprising, certainly, not less than 20,000 persons. Having escorted Mr. Waring to the foot of the platform, they received his thanks, expressed in warm and energetic language; and having given three cheers (let the right hon. Baronet mark the next word), deployed around, and took the position assigned them."l."That in the General's but a choleric word,
Which in a Counsel were flat blasphemy."1005Shaw:"William Compton Espy, esq., Secretary to the Dublin Protestant Operative Association""ARTHUR C. MAGENIS."Sir,—I am directed by the Lord Lieutenant to acknowledge the receipt of you letter of the 14th instant, forwarding an address from the Dublin Protestant Operative Association; and his Excellency requests you to make known to the members of that association, who are parties to the address in question, his acknowledgement for this expression of their thanks for his conduct on a late occasion.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your very obedient servant,Viceregal Lodge, Oct."Viceregal Lodge, Oct.1004"A law to remove from the Legislature all persons who are disqualified by the nature of their principles from enacting laws of the kind which we have mentioned, that is to say, laws calculated to promote the spiritual interests of the people.""A law appointing a board of Commissioners to publish authoritative expositions of the errors of the Popish system, and answers to the attacks of its priests."An Act to withdraw all manner of support whatsoever from the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth, and from all other Roman Catholic educational institutions and ecclesiastical institutions at home and abroad."In fine, we most humbly submit to your Excellency that what we want for Ireland is, laws which shall have for their end the abolition of Popery, for example:—"May it please your Excellency, until idolatry is destroyed in Ireland the evils of this country will be perpetuated beyond the possibility of human remedy. … It follows, as an inevitable conclusion, that on us, the Protestants of Ireland, it rests, to destroy the idolatry that is in our country, and that on us accordingly the guilt of its prevalence will rest.1003"Let us not confound all things which were done at the Revolution with the principles of the Revolution, as in most great changes many things were done from the necessities of the times, well or ill understood, from passion, or from vengeance, which were not only not agreeable to its principles, but in direct contradiction to them. In England, it was the struggle of the great body of the people for the establishment of their liberties against the efforts of a small faction. In Ireland, it was the establishment of the power of the smaller number, at the expense of the civil liberties and properties of the majority. It was not a Revolution, but a conquest, which is not to say a great deal in its favour. But to insist on everything done in Ireland at the Revolution is to insist on the severe and jealous feeling of a conqueror in the crude settlement of his new acquisition, as a permanent rule for future government."1002 said, that after the able and eloquent speech last night of the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland, it was but natural for the House to suppose that some leading Member of the opposite side would have risen to reply to him. He waited for some time in expectation that this would be the case, and in moving the adjournment, he had been charged with standing between the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government and the House. He certainly should not have presumed to have got up at all had he known such would have been the case, and he thought it necessary to give this explanation, as he had been blamed, not only by friends, but by opponents. In resuming the discussion, he could not help observing that if they were to search for an illustration and a proof of the truth of the celebrated Swedish Chancellor's saying, "We are ignorant with how little wisdom the world is governed," it could no where be more readily found than in the conduct of the present Government in regard to their policy in Ireland. When he heard the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, and the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland defend the policy of the Government of Ireland, he could not help feeling that they were doing little more than splitting straws. He had listened with great surprise and equal attention to the speech of the right hon. Baronet. That it was all complaisance and mildness he was free to confess, but through all that speech of blandishments, it was very evident that in his heart was lurking the old principle of "Protestant ascendancy" and "No surrender." That speech would show to the people of Ireland that Ministers had never contemplated any measure whatever of effective concession and conciliation. He would not stop to enumerate the number of Repeal meetings held this year, and compare the number of people attending them with the numbers at the meetings in former years; but he would remind the
"I say the present Ministers of this country cannot govern Ireland in England; the loss of a nation's good will is synonymous with the loss of reputation. After an experience of years, your country, taking an impartial survey of all your offences, perhaps in the prodigality of mercy, may forgive, but surely she can never trust you."1006"Other 'battalions' arrived in regular order, and that the meeting comprised 'at least 75,000 persons.' At this meeting Mr. Waring made an inflammatory speech against the Catholics and National Education.""Shortly after eleven o'clock a tremendous shout from the town announced the approach of the first party. They were from Moira, and were headed by the rev. Holt Waring, who was drawn by the people. A flag, the Union Jack, was hoisted as the signal of their arrival. In a few minutes they were seen descending the steep hill from the town, and approaching the place of meeting, in a close, dark, and dense mass, comprising, certainly, not less than 20,000 persons. Having escorted Mr. Waring to the foot of the platform, they received his thanks, expressed in warm and energetic language; and having given three cheers (let the right hon. Baronet mark the next word), deployed around, and took the position assigned them."l."That in the General's but a choleric word,
Which in a Counsel were flat blasphemy."1005Shaw:"William Compton Espy, esq., Secretary to the Dublin Protestant Operative Association""ARTHUR C. MAGENIS."Sir,—I am directed by the Lord Lieutenant to acknowledge the receipt of you letter of the 14th instant, forwarding an address from the Dublin Protestant Operative Association; and his Excellency requests you to make known to the members of that association, who are parties to the address in question, his acknowledgement for this expression of their thanks for his conduct on a late occasion.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your very obedient servant,Viceregal Lodge, Oct."Viceregal Lodge, Oct.1004"A law to remove from the Legislature all persons who are disqualified by the nature of their principles from enacting laws of the kind which we have mentioned, that is to say, laws calculated to promote the spiritual interests of the people.""A law appointing a board of Commissioners to publish authoritative expositions of the errors of the Popish system, and answers to the attacks of its priests."An Act to withdraw all manner of support whatsoever from the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth, and from all other Roman Catholic educational institutions and ecclesiastical institutions at home and abroad."In fine, we most humbly submit to your Excellency that what we want for Ireland is, laws which shall have for their end the abolition of Popery, for example:—"May it please your Excellency, until idolatry is destroyed in Ireland the evils of this country will be perpetuated beyond the possibility of human remedy. … It follows, as an inevitable conclusion, that on us, the Protestants of Ireland, it rests, to destroy the idolatry that is in our country, and that on us accordingly the guilt of its prevalence will rest.1003"Let us not confound all things which were done at the Revolution with the principles of the Revolution, as in most great changes many things were done from the necessities of the times, well or ill understood, from passion, or from vengeance, which were not only not agreeable to its principles, but in direct contradiction to them. In England, it was the struggle of the great body of the people for the establishment of their liberties against the efforts of a small faction. In Ireland, it was the establishment of the power of the smaller number, at the expense of the civil liberties and properties of the majority. It was not a Revolution, but a conquest, which is not to say a great deal in its favour. But to insist on everything done in Ireland at the Revolution is to insist on the severe and jealous feeling of a conqueror in the crude settlement of his new acquisition, as a permanent rule for future government."1002Captain Bernal
1088"I do swear that I will defend, to the utmost of my power, the settlement and arrangement of property in this country as established by the laws now in being. I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, for the purpose of substituting a Catholic Establishment in its stead; and I do solemnly swear, that I will not exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled to disturb and weaken the Protestant religion and Protestant Government in this kingdom. And I solemnly here declare, that I take this oath in plain terms, and according to the common acceptation of the words, without any evasion or mental reservation whatsoever,""obstruct the Catholics. I have framed by the Relief Bill, an oath according to the suggestion of themselves, as a form of oath that would be most binding upon their consciences, and to their consciences I will leave them."1087"I will not," said my right hon. Friend,"That feeling, with his Majesty, convinced that these are institutions which must ever be held sacred in this Protestant Kingdom, we cordially thank his Majesty for the declaration that he deems it his duty; and that it is his determination to preserve them inviolate.""You will consider whether the removal of their liabilities can be effected with the full and permanent security of our establishments in Church and State, with the maintenance of the Reformed religion established by law, and of the rights and privileges of the Bishops and Clergy of this realm, and of the churches committed to their care. These are institutions which must ever be held sacred in this Protestant Kingdom, and which it is the duty and determination of his Majesty to preserve inviolate."1086Ward:No, no!"They recognise the right of the Clergy of the Church of England, as by law established, to the property and temporalities of the Clergy of the Established Church, and regarded the property and temporalities of the Church to be in those upon whom they had been settled by the laws of the land.""I am satisfied," he said, "to acquiesce in the manner in which the property and privileges of the Church of England are by law established and secured."1085"And your petitioners most solemnly declare, that they do not seek or wish in any way to injure or encroach upon the rights, privileges, possessions, or revenues, appertaining to the Bishops and Clergy of the Protestant religion, as by law established, or to the churches committed to their charge, or to any of them; the extent of their humble
1085"With regard," said they, "to the constitution of the Church, we are, indeed, inviolably attached to our own—first, because we believe it to be true; and next, because, beyond belief, we know that its principles are calculated to make us, and have made us, good men and good citizens. But as we find it answers to us, individually, all the useful ends of religion, we solemnly and conscientiously declare, that we are satisfied with the present condition of our ecclesiastical policy. With satisfaction we acquiesce in the establishment of the National Church; we neither repine at its possessions nor envy its dignities; we are ready, upon this point, to give every assurance that is binding upon man."1084"Now we, the Catholics of Ireland, for the
1084"And whereas the Protestant Episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, and likewise the Protestant Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, are established permanently and inviolably; and whereas it would tend to promote the interest of the same, and strengthen our free constitution, of which they are an essential part, if the civil disabilities were removed."1083"That the continuance and preservation for ever of the said united church as the Esta-
1083l.l.1082l.sine qua non10811080J. Russell:Go on.107910781077SheilLaughterSheil1076Sheil,Sheil,Sheil1075Member,Member,Oh! oh!1074Oh!usque ad nauseam,Oh! oh!Oh! oh!107310721071Mr. Sheil10701069: Sir, it is impossible to deny, and I feel no desire to deny to the noble Lord the Member for London, the credit of having made on this important subject, an able and very clever Opposition motion, and an able and clever Opposition speech; an able Opposition motion, because under the captivating form of a Committee for the purpose merely of inquiry, which the noble Lord well knows will most certainly be rejected—and, without that certainty, the noble Lord would never have ventured to bring it forward; but in the certainty of the rejection of his motion by the House, the noble Lord has created for himself a convenient opportunity for saying, "Look at the gross injustice of refusing the inquiry—behold the insults which this Government heap on the people of Ireland—a mere motion is made for an inquiry into the grievances of Ireland, and that motion is repelled by a contemptuous majority." Now, such is the language the noble Lord will hold, and such is the language that will be held, very probably already is held, and dinned into the people by his friends in Ireland. ["No, no."] The noble Lord knows too well to whom that language will be held in Ireland; and he knows that the form in which that motion is introduced, gives the greatest facility for the use of that language. The motion is a direct, a manifest, a palpable censure on Her Majesty's Government. It is so in intention, though it is not so in terms; and on this point I cannot help thinking, that it would have been more straightforward in the noble Lord, although perhaps not so politic, if he had not put his motion in that convenient form in which he casts blame on his political opponents for the grievances existing in Ireland, and at the same time avoids the necessity of suggesting any remedy for those grievances, or stating even an outline of the policy the noble Lord would himself adopt. Now I
1088"I do swear that I will defend, to the utmost of my power, the settlement and arrangement of property in this country as established by the laws now in being. I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, for the purpose of substituting a Catholic Establishment in its stead; and I do solemnly swear, that I will not exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled to disturb and weaken the Protestant religion and Protestant Government in this kingdom. And I solemnly here declare, that I take this oath in plain terms, and according to the common acceptation of the words, without any evasion or mental reservation whatsoever,""obstruct the Catholics. I have framed by the Relief Bill, an oath according to the suggestion of themselves, as a form of oath that would be most binding upon their consciences, and to their consciences I will leave them."1087"I will not," said my right hon. Friend,"That feeling, with his Majesty, convinced that these are institutions which must ever be held sacred in this Protestant Kingdom, we cordially thank his Majesty for the declaration that he deems it his duty; and that it is his determination to preserve them inviolate.""You will consider whether the removal of their liabilities can be effected with the full and permanent security of our establishments in Church and State, with the maintenance of the Reformed religion established by law, and of the rights and privileges of the Bishops and Clergy of this realm, and of the churches committed to their care. These are institutions which must ever be held sacred in this Protestant Kingdom, and which it is the duty and determination of his Majesty to preserve inviolate."1086Ward:No, no!"They recognise the right of the Clergy of the Church of England, as by law established, to the property and temporalities of the Clergy of the Established Church, and regarded the property and temporalities of the Church to be in those upon whom they had been settled by the laws of the land.""I am satisfied," he said, "to acquiesce in the manner in which the property and privileges of the Church of England are by law established and secured."1085"And your petitioners most solemnly declare, that they do not seek or wish in any way to injure or encroach upon the rights, privileges, possessions, or revenues, appertaining to the Bishops and Clergy of the Protestant religion, as by law established, or to the churches committed to their charge, or to any of them; the extent of their humble
1085"With regard," said they, "to the constitution of the Church, we are, indeed, inviolably attached to our own—first, because we believe it to be true; and next, because, beyond belief, we know that its principles are calculated to make us, and have made us, good men and good citizens. But as we find it answers to us, individually, all the useful ends of religion, we solemnly and conscientiously declare, that we are satisfied with the present condition of our ecclesiastical policy. With satisfaction we acquiesce in the establishment of the National Church; we neither repine at its possessions nor envy its dignities; we are ready, upon this point, to give every assurance that is binding upon man."1084"Now we, the Catholics of Ireland, for the
1084"And whereas the Protestant Episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, and likewise the Protestant Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, are established permanently and inviolably; and whereas it would tend to promote the interest of the same, and strengthen our free constitution, of which they are an essential part, if the civil disabilities were removed."1083"That the continuance and preservation for ever of the said united church as the Esta-
1083l.l.1082l.sine qua non10811080J. Russell:Go on.107910781077SheilLaughterSheil1076Sheil,Sheil,Sheil1075Member,Member,Oh! oh!1074Oh!usque ad nauseam,Oh! oh!Oh! oh!107310721071Mr. Sheil10701069Lord Stanley
1096"That the effect would be to give instantly to their opponents ten times the strength
1096The noble Lord further said, "I will suppose a government hard pressed to carry some measure of their own, or to resist some measure of their opponents, were to purchase the support of the Catholics by proposing to introduce changes injurious to or subversive of the Protestant religion. In the first place, the consent of the Sovereign on the Throne, who by law is a Protestant, must be obtained. But I will suppose, for the sake of argument, that which I hold to be impossible," (it is certainly very hard for hon. Members to say what is impossible.) "I will suppose, for the sake of argument, that which I hold to be impossible, that an English Cabinet should agree to advise, and a Protestant King should be found to sanction such a measure, yet the very foundation of the supposed case is a weak Administration tottering in their seats, and certain of support neither in the Parliament nor in the country. What, then, would be the effect upon such a Government of such a proposition.""By what magical power a minority is to lead captive an overwhelming majority, and compel them to sacrifice their principles and degrade their faith, has not been very distinctly stated. But it is said, that in times of nicely-balanced political discussion, when parties run high, a small but compact body in this House, acting upon one common principle, proceeding steadily towards one common object, and throwing their weight into the scale as opportunity and occasion may arrive, might accomplish purposes and objects which are seemingly unattainable. So far as relates to honours and emoluments, or anything which the leader of an Opposition may propose, or the head of a Government can give, this argument may have some weight. But the changes which the Catholics are said to aim at can only be effected by the concurrence of the whole of the Legislature. But see what various improbabilities, not to say impossibilities must combine before that period can arrive."10951094109310921091J. Russell10901089C. Buller:: I can assure the hon. Gentleman, that if he had only waited a few minutes I would have explained. I was going to say, that the hon. Gentleman had withdrawn the expression that he then used. The hon. Gentleman said, in the first instance, that it was an insult to the Roman Catholic, and more, that he thought it quite right there should be no misunderstanding on this point; that that was his opinion. I was going to say, when the hon. Gentleman interrupted me, that the hon. Gentleman had withdrawn that opinion, which fell from him in the heat of debate. But, Sir, I cannot see, if the Act of Settlement is not an insult to the Roman Catholics, how there should be that inequality of which the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman complain. The hon. and learned Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller) did not much improve the case, for he says, that that oath is unnecessary, because the object of it was to exclude from the Throne the Roman Catholic descendants of James I., and that those descendants being all extinct, it is now useless. [Mr. 1096"That the effect would be to give instantly to their opponents ten times the strength
1096The noble Lord further said, "I will suppose a government hard pressed to carry some measure of their own, or to resist some measure of their opponents, were to purchase the support of the Catholics by proposing to introduce changes injurious to or subversive of the Protestant religion. In the first place, the consent of the Sovereign on the Throne, who by law is a Protestant, must be obtained. But I will suppose, for the sake of argument, that which I hold to be impossible," (it is certainly very hard for hon. Members to say what is impossible.) "I will suppose, for the sake of argument, that which I hold to be impossible, that an English Cabinet should agree to advise, and a Protestant King should be found to sanction such a measure, yet the very foundation of the supposed case is a weak Administration tottering in their seats, and certain of support neither in the Parliament nor in the country. What, then, would be the effect upon such a Government of such a proposition.""By what magical power a minority is to lead captive an overwhelming majority, and compel them to sacrifice their principles and degrade their faith, has not been very distinctly stated. But it is said, that in times of nicely-balanced political discussion, when parties run high, a small but compact body in this House, acting upon one common principle, proceeding steadily towards one common object, and throwing their weight into the scale as opportunity and occasion may arrive, might accomplish purposes and objects which are seemingly unattainable. So far as relates to honours and emoluments, or anything which the leader of an Opposition may propose, or the head of a Government can give, this argument may have some weight. But the changes which the Catholics are said to aim at can only be effected by the concurrence of the whole of the Legislature. But see what various improbabilities, not to say impossibilities must combine before that period can arrive."10951094109310921091J. Russell10901089C. Buller:Lord Stanley
No, no.1038quâmdiu se bene gesserint;10371036 observed, that the hon. Gentleman who had just down had represented the Act of Settlement as a grievance in Ireland. Now, it was his opinion, that unless they adhered to that Act there would be no security for life or property in that country. The party opposite assumed too much to themselves when they supposed that they alone represented the feelings and opinions of the Irish people, and that these who sat on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, and who were connected with Ireland, had no knowledge, no idea, of the circumstances of the country, and could, therefore, offer no opinion upon the subject. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) was under the most egregious misapprehension as to the feelings of the Irish people, if he imagined that he enjoyed their confidence, or was at all trusted by them. Why, what had the noble Lord done for Ireland? With all the opportunities he and his party had had, not the shadow of a shade of any measure of redress for any of the existing evils of that country had they suggested. He was as anxious as any man to consider and redress any real evil that might exist; but he could not bring himself to think that the noble Lord or his party could fairly rejoice in the possession of that large amount of Irish popularity which they claimed, and which, according to them, nobody had any right to enjoy but themselves. With regard to the number of troops in Ireland,
No, no.1038quâmdiu se bene gesserint;10371036Colonel Conolly
1097Dublin Gazette said, the statement made by his noble Friend behind him was on the authority of a memorandum with which he furnished him, and he was responsible for it. In consequence of the observations of a noble Lord elsewhere last night he had thought it right to make a more searching inquiry. The result was, that seven magistrates had been appointed, but he found by the 1097Dublin GazetteLord Eliot
Ward:1017101610151014via media101310121011101010091008 said, that after the course he had taken last year it would be altogether unworthy if, on the present occasion, he were to shrink from expressing without reserve the views which he had taken on the general question before the House. He would, in the first place, remark upon an observation made by the noble Lord the Member for Sunderland. The noble Lord had repeated what he believed to be an historical error of the greatest importance in allusion to a fact a right appreciation of which would, he imagined, throw great light upon the subject, and facilitate the solution of this great political problem,—he meant the right government of Ireland. The noble Lord had mentioned, that the grievances of Ireland had existed for more than 300 years, referring to the introduction of the Reformed Religion into that country. The right hon. and learned Member for Devonport, while he equally with the noble Lord had avowed his conviction in the truth of Protestant principles, had alluded to the same circumstance. The natural inference was, that between the introduction of these Protestant principles, and the misgovernment of Ireland there was a necessary and an irresistible connection. If he were to refer to a period of the history of Ireland when the government of that country had approached nearer to the character which the hon. Gentlemen opposite desired, it would be a period by no means so distant as that to which the noble Lord referred. He would take a period only 200 years past—the period immediately preceding the breaking out of the civil war. At that period there was a Parliament in Dublin called by a Protestant King, presided over by a Protestant Viceroy, and at that moment there was a Protestant Established Church in Ireland; yet the majority of the Members of that Parliament were Roman Catholics. The Government was at that time carried on by a Council of State, presided over by a Protestant Deputy, yet many of the members of that council were Roman Catholics. The municipalities were then full of Roman Catholics. Several of the sheriffs also were Roman Catholics, and a very considerable number of magistrates were Roman Catholics. It was, therefore, very evident that it was not the necessary consequence of English connection—of a Protestant Monarchy, or even of a Protestant Church—that this embittered feeling at present existed; nor
Ward:1017101610151014via media101310121011101010091008Mr. Disraeli
1053l.l.l.l.l.l.1052"Illi longa decem tulerint fastidia menses."105110501049 said, it had been stated by a right hon. Gentleman in the course of this debate that this was the crisis in the affairs of Ireland. Often in his own comparatively brief experience had he heard the same thing stated, till the term had lost something of its terrors, but from what had passed in this debate he considered that a sort of crisis had now really arrived. The noble Lord the Member for London had stated plainly and distinctly that if his motion were carried the effect of it would be the dismissal of the present
1053l.l.l.l.l.l.1052"Illi longa decem tulerint fastidia menses."105110501049Mr. B. Escott
10681067106610651064106310621061106010591058Nation,105710561055"Non meus hic sermo est, sed quæ præcepit Ofellus
Rusticus, abnormis."1054: It was not his intention, in the remarks which he was about to address to the House, to dwell on the exciting part of the subject, which he was
10681067106610651064106310621061106010591058Nation,105710561055"Non meus hic sermo est, sed quæ præcepit Ofellus
Rusticus, abnormis."1054Mr. C. Buller
"Præsenti tibi maturos largimur honores."Punch"Oh, God, that bread should be so dear,
And flesh and blood so cheap."1048A Laugh.104710461045Dublin Evening Packet,1044104310421041"Do not hug yourselves with the notion that it is owing to our coming into power that
104110401039 thought that the observations of the hon. and gallant Colonel, as far as they related to the noble Lord near him, would be productive of no injury to the noble Lord. For his own part, he thanked the noble Lord for the manly expression of feeling which he had lately given utterance to, as respected Ireland. He might safely contrast that statement with the imputations of the hon. and gallant Colonel, and leave the country to draw its own conclusions for or against the noble Lord. In addressing himself to the question of the late State Trials in Ireland, he must be allowed to express what he most sincerely felt—his regret at the absence of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney-general for Ireland. He regretted it, because it had been his duty, on a former occasion, to animadvert on some portions of the conduct of the right hon. and learned Gentleman; and because he felt that, having done so, and it being now his intention to make allusion to certain other portions of that conduct, he should have been glad that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had been present in his place, to explain and defend if possible that which he was about to attack. With regard to these late trials in Ireland, he thought that something like a review of those trials, conceived in a spirit of calmness and impartiality, would show that—as far as regarded the manner of conducting them on the part of the Irish Attorney-
"Præsenti tibi maturos largimur honores."Punch"Oh, God, that bread should be so dear,
And flesh and blood so cheap."1048A Laugh.104710461045Dublin Evening Packet,1044104310421041"Do not hug yourselves with the notion that it is owing to our coming into power that
104110401039Mr. Sergeant Murphy
 had heard, with regret, the speech of the Secretary for the Home Department. He had brought a grave charge against the late Administration in Ireland, founded on facts which, it appeared, were not accurately stated. The gravamen of that charge was, that seven magistrates were added to the number of Stipendiary Magistrates in Ireland, under circumstances leading to the imputation that they were so added, not for the benefit of the people of Ireland, but as a job on the part of the Government. It now appeared that so far from these seven being additional nominations, three had been vacancies which had been filled up by the late Government. He much regretted the absence of his noble Friend Lord Morpeth, since he was sure he would have been able to give a still more satisfactory explanation on the subject.Mr. Labouchere
 rose to order: he was quite sure that the noble Lord did not wish to misrepresent him, and the noble Lord was not in the House when he had become aware of the interpretation put on his words respecting the Act of Settlement; and had explained them. He never meant to impute, or did impute, to the present generation of Catholics the slightest disposition to find fault with the Act of Settlement. The Catholics, who had fought at the Boyne, and defended Limerick, no doubt felt it as a hardship. It confirmed the confiscation of their property, and the proscription of their religion. But from 1745, to the present time, not the slightest imputation could be cast upon the loyalty of the Catholics as a body. They had acquired property themselves under this very Act of Settlement, and the Queen had no more devoted subjects.Mr. Ward
10351034"Hearken not to the unnatural voice, which tells you that the people of America, knit together as they are by so many chords of affection, can no longer live together as Members of the same family; can no longer continue the mutual guardians of their mutual happiness; can no longer be fellow-citizens of one great, respectable, and flourishing empire. Hearken not to the voice, which petulantly tells you, that the form of Government recommended for your adoption is a novelty in the political world; that it has never yet had a place in the theories of the wildest projectors; that it rashly attempts what it is impossible to accomplish. No, my countrymen, shut your ears against this unhallowed language. Shut your hearts against the poison which it conveys. The kindred blood which flows in the veins of American citizens, the mingled blood which they have shed in defence of their sacred rights, consecrate their union, and excite horror at the idea of their becoming aliens, rivals, enemies. And if novelties are to be shunned, believe me, the most alarming of all novelties, the most wild of all projects, the most rash of all attempts, is that of rending us in pieces, in order to preserve our liberties, and promote our happiness."1033l.1032Edinburgh Review"What must have been the feelings of the educated gentleman, if he consented to degrade himself and his ministry, by making the house of God the place for expatiating on the merits of the horse, or the dog, of his Protestant master? Is it surprising (although it is much to be regretted) that some Chapels have since become the scene of denunciation against the class, who degraded religion when unprotected by the laws.""W. F.""Your servant,"Sir—I will let out my stallion at 16s. 4d. a I—as the enclosed will shew. I will thank you to speak in his favour after Mass to the people. Both you and they can now shew your gratitude to me and mine."N.B. Your Reverence may mention that there are two wicked dogs in the yard.""J. Turner.""Your servant,1031"Reverend Sir—My lady is shocked with
1031"1780."F. C.""Sir—I hear you prevented Kitty Connor from kneeling at the front rail of your altar, and treated her with disrespect in my regard. I will have you to know that I will protect her, and level your Mass-house, if you, or yours, offend her; mind this."1780."Yours, &c., P. D.""Sir—Some of your damned rascals stole my pointer bitch; give her out in your Chapel after Mass, and I will expect her on Monday morning."1774."To Priest Daly.""Sir—I will draw my turf on Monday morning. Tell all the cars of the parish to be early at the bog, my own tenants in particular. Give this out at your Chapel, and show your good will in your language. J. S."1766.Edinburgh Review,StanleyStanley10301029"Every good man" says Sampson, in his quaint memoirs, "was in some degree rebellious; some more, some less; each according to the warmth of his heart, the firmness of his mind, his compassion, his honesty, perhaps his ambition, or his interest. It is only for Him, who searches all hearts, to know the pangs which a conscientious man, in such a state of things, must feel, particularly one, whose connections, intimacies, and youthful habits, lie on the one side, whilst the voice of reason, and humanity, and the instinctive horror of oppression and cruelty, call him to the other."1028Plus Royaliste que le Roi.1027Laughter.10261025On conspire sur la place publique1024"No! they cannot have an army to fight for them, without pay; and if the people refuse to pay taxes, how will that army be paid? Supposing the people foolish enough to pay taxes to pay such an army, where is the army to be found? Would the gallant men who have reaped immortal honours in foreign lands, consent to tarnish those honours by murdering their wives, their friends, and relatives. To support the tyranny of 400 men over 16,000,000, would they embrue their swords
1024"Now, their dynasty is nodding to its fall, the hand-writing has appeared against them, they have been weighed and found wanting, and if they do not speedily give to us that which is our own, it will be taken from them, Are you aware, my countrymen, we are met to the number of 150,000 to petition the Lords to pass the bill. The question has been frequently asked, will the Lords pass the bill? I answer that question by proposing another—Dare they refuse it? Can the Peers refuse the bill, because their trust is in the Army?"Ostendite bellum, pacem habetis,"I agree that the power of the people is greatest, not when it strikes, but when it holds in awe; not when the blow is actually struck, but when it is suspended. As Manlius said to the Roman people, Ostendite bellum, pacem habetis,"The spectacle which here presented itself was beautiful, and magnificently sublime. Every head was uncovered, every face was turned up to heaven, and at one moment one hundred thousand voices responded to the cry of 'God bless the King.'"Times"Mr. Attwood: I am about to ask you to cry out the words 'God bless the King.' I therefore desire that you will all take off your hats, and that you will look up to heaven where the just God rules both heaven and earth, and that you will cry out with one heart, one voice, 'God bless the King "1023The Times1022"The King might choose a new Ministry; but Lord Grey's Government had done its duty, in bringing forward the Reform Bill, and now he left the Duke of Wellington to take, if he pleased, place and infamy."1021102010191018 observed, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had made a most ingenious speech, which he could not pretend to follow, for the House had nothing to do with the hon. Member's regrets for occasional differences with his leaders, or with his definition of the old Tory principles. It was enough for them to deal with Tory principles as they found them. Another reason for not following the hon. Gentleman was, that he did not pretend to understand that which was unintelligible. He was in the habit of saying exactly what he meant, and he never was ashamed of his want of power of comprehension, when shared, as it must be in this instance, by a large number of those who sat around him. He would not, therefore, go into the singular theories propounded by the hon. Gentleman, or pretend to reconcile the hopes that he entertained of the speedy settlement of the Irish question, with the recent declarations made by his leaders. The hon. Member talked of an equality to be established, by some unexplained means, between the two Churches of Ireland, yet the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of
10351034"Hearken not to the unnatural voice, which tells you that the people of America, knit together as they are by so many chords of affection, can no longer live together as Members of the same family; can no longer continue the mutual guardians of their mutual happiness; can no longer be fellow-citizens of one great, respectable, and flourishing empire. Hearken not to the voice, which petulantly tells you, that the form of Government recommended for your adoption is a novelty in the political world; that it has never yet had a place in the theories of the wildest projectors; that it rashly attempts what it is impossible to accomplish. No, my countrymen, shut your ears against this unhallowed language. Shut your hearts against the poison which it conveys. The kindred blood which flows in the veins of American citizens, the mingled blood which they have shed in defence of their sacred rights, consecrate their union, and excite horror at the idea of their becoming aliens, rivals, enemies. And if novelties are to be shunned, believe me, the most alarming of all novelties, the most wild of all projects, the most rash of all attempts, is that of rending us in pieces, in order to preserve our liberties, and promote our happiness."1033l.1032Edinburgh Review"What must have been the feelings of the educated gentleman, if he consented to degrade himself and his ministry, by making the house of God the place for expatiating on the merits of the horse, or the dog, of his Protestant master? Is it surprising (although it is much to be regretted) that some Chapels have since become the scene of denunciation against the class, who degraded religion when unprotected by the laws.""W. F.""Your servant,"Sir—I will let out my stallion at 16s. 4d. a I—as the enclosed will shew. I will thank you to speak in his favour after Mass to the people. Both you and they can now shew your gratitude to me and mine."N.B. Your Reverence may mention that there are two wicked dogs in the yard.""J. Turner.""Your servant,1031"Reverend Sir—My lady is shocked with
1031"1780."F. C.""Sir—I hear you prevented Kitty Connor from kneeling at the front rail of your altar, and treated her with disrespect in my regard. I will have you to know that I will protect her, and level your Mass-house, if you, or yours, offend her; mind this."1780."Yours, &c., P. D.""Sir—Some of your damned rascals stole my pointer bitch; give her out in your Chapel after Mass, and I will expect her on Monday morning."1774."To Priest Daly.""Sir—I will draw my turf on Monday morning. Tell all the cars of the parish to be early at the bog, my own tenants in particular. Give this out at your Chapel, and show your good will in your language. J. S."1766.Edinburgh Review,StanleyStanley10301029"Every good man" says Sampson, in his quaint memoirs, "was in some degree rebellious; some more, some less; each according to the warmth of his heart, the firmness of his mind, his compassion, his honesty, perhaps his ambition, or his interest. It is only for Him, who searches all hearts, to know the pangs which a conscientious man, in such a state of things, must feel, particularly one, whose connections, intimacies, and youthful habits, lie on the one side, whilst the voice of reason, and humanity, and the instinctive horror of oppression and cruelty, call him to the other."1028Plus Royaliste que le Roi.1027Laughter.10261025On conspire sur la place publique1024"No! they cannot have an army to fight for them, without pay; and if the people refuse to pay taxes, how will that army be paid? Supposing the people foolish enough to pay taxes to pay such an army, where is the army to be found? Would the gallant men who have reaped immortal honours in foreign lands, consent to tarnish those honours by murdering their wives, their friends, and relatives. To support the tyranny of 400 men over 16,000,000, would they embrue their swords
1024"Now, their dynasty is nodding to its fall, the hand-writing has appeared against them, they have been weighed and found wanting, and if they do not speedily give to us that which is our own, it will be taken from them, Are you aware, my countrymen, we are met to the number of 150,000 to petition the Lords to pass the bill. The question has been frequently asked, will the Lords pass the bill? I answer that question by proposing another—Dare they refuse it? Can the Peers refuse the bill, because their trust is in the Army?"Ostendite bellum, pacem habetis,"I agree that the power of the people is greatest, not when it strikes, but when it holds in awe; not when the blow is actually struck, but when it is suspended. As Manlius said to the Roman people, Ostendite bellum, pacem habetis,"The spectacle which here presented itself was beautiful, and magnificently sublime. Every head was uncovered, every face was turned up to heaven, and at one moment one hundred thousand voices responded to the cry of 'God bless the King.'"Times"Mr. Attwood: I am about to ask you to cry out the words 'God bless the King.' I therefore desire that you will all take off your hats, and that you will look up to heaven where the just God rules both heaven and earth, and that you will cry out with one heart, one voice, 'God bless the King "1023The Times1022"The King might choose a new Ministry; but Lord Grey's Government had done its duty, in bringing forward the Reform Bill, and now he left the Duke of Wellington to take, if he pleased, place and infamy."1021102010191018Mr. Ward
 said, that in order to set at rest the recent disputes upon the subject, he begged to move for a return of the appointments of all the Stipendiary Magistrates in Ireland, from the 1st January 1839, to September 1, 1841, with the dates of their appointments, and of the periods when any of them were removed from service.Viscount Ebrington
 said that the hon. Member for Finsbury had been kind enough to communicate to him his intention of putting that question, and in answer he begged to say that he had no doubt the proprietors of the newspapers in question had been well advised, and that they exercised a sound discretion in retiring from the Repeal Association. With regard to the extent to which an Association might be affected by the publication of an article on the part of any of its members, it would be impossible for him (Sir F. Pollock) to form a judgment upon the general question whether everything that appears in every newspaper was to affect every member of any Association with which the writer of the matter was connected, unless he knew what the Association was, what were its purposes, what was the object of the publication, and what use had been made of it.The Attorney General
 said, the hon. Member had addressed his question to him, but he did not know that he was entitled to the honour of such a distinction. He would strongly advise the hon. Member to take the opinion of his ordinary professional legal adviser.The Attorney General
: If the hon. Member put to him any question with regard to the hon. Member himself, he would at once answer it, and without a fee; but he did not think that by answering all those questions he should be properly occupying the public time.The Attorney General
12081207J. Russell:120612051204Mr. Sheil:ex parteSir T. Wilde:1203120212011200Macauley11991198J. Russell:1197Oh, oh!11961195John Russell: I assure the House that at this hour, and on the fifth night of debate, I shall not attempt to follow the right hon. Gentleman through his powerful and elaborate speech on the history and past condition and past legislation of Ireland. On this as on other occasions the right hon. Gentleman has delighted the House by his eloquence; but I may be allowed to say that I look in vain for any arguments which ought to induce hon. Members to vote for the motion of the noble Lord. What is that Motion? I will take it from the statement on the opposite side; the object of the Motion is to induce this House to pass a Vote of Censure on the conduct of Ministers, for the course of policy they have adopted towards Ireland since their accession to office, and above all for the steps taken by them in the recent State Prosecutions. [Lord 12081207J. Russell:120612051204Mr. Sheil:ex parteSir T. Wilde:1203120212011200Macauley11991198J. Russell:1197Oh, oh!11961195John RussellThe Solicitor General
: As the hon. and learned Gentleman has referred to my statements, I feel it necessary to say, that he has misunderstood some of my observations. He spoke as if I said that the law of conspiracy, as founded on the Common Law of the land, ought not to be put in force; but I took it as laid down by the Chief Justice, and I said that if the law were so, the greatest care ought to be taken that it was not enforced without a fair jury. With regard to the other point, the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to suppose that I said the appointment of Master of the Rolls ought to have been given to a Roman Catholic. What I said was, that several offices had been filled up under the present Administration in Ireland. I mentioned the offices of Master of the Rolls and two Puisne Judgeships, and I said it was surprising that not one of these had been filled by a Roman Catholic.Lord J. Russell
1117 rose for the purpose of explaining a sentiment in a speech which he made last year, and which had been alluded to by the hon. Member who had just sat down. It had been said, that he wished to see Ireland governed in the spirit of Tyrconnel. Such a sentiment was never expressed by him. He said the very reverse. What he said was, that while he disliked both extremes, he preferred seeing Ireland governed in the spirit of Tyrconnel rather than that of Cromwell: but he disliked both extremes—persecutions and prosecutions, on one hand, and undue truckling to the Roman Catholics on the other. He could not give his vote on this occasion without expressing a hope that the Government would come forward with some well-timed measure—such as the settling of the relations between landlord and tenant, which, if brought forward in a spirit like that which
1117Mr. Smythe
111611151114111311121111 said, he heartily concurred in the opinion which had been expressed, that it was the duty of those who wished for the welfare and happiness of Ireland, fearlessly to come forward and state their opinions as to the evils which affected that country, and the remedies which would be likely to remove them. He must say, that he himself, standing in that House as he did, as an Irish proprietor, and therefore feeling a deep interest in the prosperity of Ireland, felt much regret at the tone and manner in which the question had been submitted to the House. He had hoped, when he saw the original announcement on the Paper, that this question was to be brought forward for discussion by the noble Lord, of whose statesmanlike quali-
111611151114111311121111Mr. S. Herbert
1136113511341133 said, that after the many eloquent and excellent speeches that had already been made upon the subject now under discussion, he felt it might be considered premature in him to trouble the House; but being one of those returned to that House by an Irish constituency, he felt that when he asked their indulgence, it would be granted. He knew and felt how inferior he must be to many Gentlemen who had addressed the House; inferior in learning, to which he could not aspire; and in eloquence which he so greatly admired. But he felt that having been quartered in many different parts of Ireland for some years, and resident in it for many more, would and had given him opportunities of seeing and hearing many things which perhaps had not come under the observation of hon. Gentlemen differently situated; and though he might not prove an able advocate, at any rate he knew and trusted the House would believe he was a faithful witness; and he felt the more so, because the opinions which he professed, were not likely to advance his interests in the things he most valued, the profession he belonged to, and, secondly, when he professed himself no advocate for Repeal, with some of
1136113511341133Captain Layard
1106 was not satisfied with the answers which had been given by the Attorney-general. He (Mr. Hindley) had consulted his professional adviser as to the legality of the Anti-Corn-law League, and that Gentleman informed him that it was perfectly legal. But if the Attorney-general were directed by Her Majesty's Government, after ten or eleven months had elapsed, as in the case of Mr. O'Connell, to prosecute him, it would not be enough that his legal adviser had already given
1106Mr. Hindley
"The old relations of Ireland to France, and her very pardonable hatred to England, combined with as much of blind and hot passion as of jealousy, must always continue circumstances pregnant with danger to England. But that very warmth of blood and temperament which renders the injured Irishman so jealous, lightens the difficulty of winning him over, and the only true guarantee for retaining the fidelity of a people in no wise to be despised, is the cordial and thorough reconciliation and uniting of the two countries, not by any compulsory assimilation, but by interests acquired, dangers overcome, and glory enjoyed in common. Should England, however, not alter her bearing, should she give coldly and hesitatingly, delaying for months, with a niggard hand, what she ought to give of herself cheerfully and at once—should she only admit from time to time some small inroads on her tyranny, Ireland may yet continue to obey her for some time, but not for ever, and the loss of that country would be the death-day, not only of the greatness, but of the very existence of England."111011091108animus1107 resumed the Adjourned Debate, and said, it had been admitted, on all hands, that we had arrived at a great crisis in the affairs of Ireland, and he should support the motion of the noble Lord, because he thought that an inquiry was imperatively called for. There were certain facts on which no difference of opinion existed. It was admitted, that three years ago, Ireland had been handed over to hon. Gentlemen opposite in a state of peace and tranquillity. The habits of the people had improved, troops had been withdrawn, the administration of justice was respected, and the Repeal cry was, comparatively speaking, unheard. Now, however, the Repeal cry had become a national cry. More troops had been sent to Ireland, and the country was covered with garrisons; as if the Government intended to act upon the announcement made last year, that conciliation had been carried to its utmost extent. The hon. and learned Member for Cork had been prosecuted to conviction, and that hon. and learned Gentleman was now only awaiting the sentence of the Court, which would consign him to a gaol. By what means had that conviction been obtained?
"The old relations of Ireland to France, and her very pardonable hatred to England, combined with as much of blind and hot passion as of jealousy, must always continue circumstances pregnant with danger to England. But that very warmth of blood and temperament which renders the injured Irishman so jealous, lightens the difficulty of winning him over, and the only true guarantee for retaining the fidelity of a people in no wise to be despised, is the cordial and thorough reconciliation and uniting of the two countries, not by any compulsory assimilation, but by interests acquired, dangers overcome, and glory enjoyed in common. Should England, however, not alter her bearing, should she give coldly and hesitatingly, delaying for months, with a niggard hand, what she ought to give of herself cheerfully and at once—should she only admit from time to time some small inroads on her tyranny, Ireland may yet continue to obey her for some time, but not for ever, and the loss of that country would be the death-day, not only of the greatness, but of the very existence of England."111011091108animus1107Mr. Horsman
11581157115611551154: It is impossible to deny, Sir, that the period has at length arrived in the political struggles of Ireland when a Government, adequately alive to its duties, can no longer temporize in the course they shall adopt. They must wisely conciliate and finally redress the wrongs of that country, or they must be prepared to encounter the formidable, and in any result, disastrous issues which await their refusal. Which alternative is more consistent with the suggestions of a past experience, and which is more consonant with those principles of legislation which give tranquillity to a people and safety to a State? The one class of policy you have long tried, and the disastrous records of Ireland, the social and political condition of her people, sufficiently attest its character. For centuries you have ruled us in the spirit of a jealous domination; you availed yourselves of the arts and of the power of a superior civilization to invade the rights of a people too uninstructed to combine against an enemy strong by their discord, and triumphing by their dissensions. Still yours was an imperfect policy. You did not entirely subjugate, you did not wisely incorporate, your triumphs were not the preparation for improved laws, for consolidated institutions, for an advancing civilization. You stood aloof from a people whom fear did not subdue, and whose affections you did not gain, in cold and hostile isolation. The colony you planted you long preserved untouched by the sympathies of the people among whom they were; and when, at length, nature and necessity overcame the obstacles you created—when your colony expanded to a nation—when the recollections of origin gave way before the stronger and more imperious claims of country—you renewed the experiment of our earlier subjugation; and upon a people now possessing on you the conjoined claims of kindred and of country, you repeated, with a remarkable fidelity, those unforgotten scenes which still oppressed and haunted the national mind, in the confiscated rights of a spoliated people. You established successive oligarchies—now appealing to the prejudices of country, and now to the animosities of creed. Yet I cannot find that England collectively has gained by the course you pursued. I cannot find that Ireland, though allied to your fortunes, has added much to your domestic pros-
11581157115611551154Mr. J. O'Brien
l.l.l.1126l.l.l.l.11251124112311221121112011191118 wished to observe, in reply to the remarks that had been made relative to the Catholic Clergy of Ireland, that the Catholics of Ireland were justly satisfied with their Clergy as they were. The people of Ireland revered their priesthood as they deserved to be revered, for their piety, their excellence, and their virtues. He fearlessly challenged the hon. Member, or any hon. Member of that House, to point out a priesthood so pure, or so devoted to their religions duties, or so worthy of admiration, as the Catholic priesthood of Ireland. The hon. Gentleman had, indeed said, that the Catholic religion was essentially monarchical. With all due respect, he must say, that the characteristic more peculiarly belonged to the religion of the hon. Gentleman himself, because with him it would be found, that the head of the Church was also the head of the State. Catholics considered it a decisive proof of the divine origin of their religion, its admirable adaptability to man in every stage and phase of social existence. That religion nurtured and fostered in Belgium those principles of rational liberty, that were now being so admirably worked out in that country. On the other hand, in America, the Catholic religion was supplying the element of order, whereby would be checked the wild overgrowings of democratic liberty. Its action in Ireland was two-fold: it restrained the people by its holy precepts from letting themselves be hurried into crime, by the stinging impulses of their wrongs and wretchedness: while it encouraged and cheered them on to peaceable but earnest efforts for the legislative independence of their country. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) had not, however, risen to answer hon. Gentlemen at the other side. He had risen as one of those, who, in the early part of the debate, had been styled "convicted conspirators." He did not acknowledge the justice of that designation, unless it could be considered
l.l.l.1126l.l.l.l.11251124112311221121112011191118Mr. John O'Connell
1152 expressed his earnest hope that the Government, in whose recent policy towards Ireland he fully concurred, would vigorously follow up that policy, by suppressing agitation, at the same time that they proposed remedial measures, which he was prepared to support, and which he trusted would be productive of the most salutary effects in that distracted country. He did hope that the measures proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers would, above all, tend to the improvement of the condition of the peasantry of Ireland. In that country there was an enormously increasing population, and no diffusion of capital to give the people employment; and where there was a redundant population, without employment, misery and consequent dissatisfaction must be prevalent. The first duty of the Government should be to encourage the introduction of capital; but, then, the capitalist must be assured of protection for his capital before he would embark it in a country agitated as Ireland was. The great grievance of Ireland was want of employment for the people. When he contrasted the condition of the peasantry of Scotland with those of Ireland, and he was certainly ready to admit, that the misery of the latter had other and various causes as well as to want of employment. They must all be inquired into, and gra-
1152Mr. M. Gore
116911681167Member11661165"They were the natural instructors of the people, and he was afraid of their being influenced by the Government, had the provisions proposed for them last year been made."regium donum"That a provision through Government, for the Roman Catholic Clergy of this Kingdom, competent and secured, ought to be thankfully accepted; that in the appointment of the Prelates of the Roman Catholic religion to vacant Sees within the Kingdom, such interference of Government as may enable it to be satisfied of the loyalty of the persons appointed is just, and ought to be agreed to."1164"Amongst the Protestants and Catholics in Ireland, let there be equality of rights, and not equality of privation.""Having before us a perfectly organized Church, whose formation at the first, and still more, its sustenance at this hour, never could be the result of human will, and whose dissolution we at least have no means of achieving, why should we not set ourselves as much as possible to ameliorate what in fact, we cannot destroy.""I endeavoured to make them Protestants, but in vain; the endeavours of all my predecessors have been equally fruitless; I, therefore, thought myself usefully employed in the service of God and my country, in making them good Catholics; this will content me, for they may become good Christians, and, of course, good subjects."11631162"Whatever privileges the Act of Union might pretend to confer, it would leave the Catholics to all practical purposes in their present condition; they would be nominally eligible to the great Offices of State, and to the lesser functions from which they are now excluded in terms, but though eligible they would not be elected. Though capable in law they would be incapacitated by the prevalent influence of Protestantism, an incapacity which would render them less contented with their situation than before, inasmuch as an exclusion founded on popular dislike, or the ascendancy of the opposite faction, would seem to be the result of personal considerations, and not of mere legal regulations."11611160"Against the Bishops pleads the Church's cause,
"And from the Judges vindicates the laws.'1159 said, he could not entirely coincide in the phrase of the excellent speech of the hon. Member the Secretary to the Admiralty, that the time had now arrived when every Member of that House ought to give his opinion on the present state of Ireland, and on the measures which should be adopted for improving the condition of that country. But as he had himself placed upon the Books some time since a Notice of Motion on a subject of very great importance connected with the welfare of Ireland, and, as that Notice was altogether merged in the great Motion of the noble Lord, the Member for London, which was then under discussion, it might not perhaps be deemed misplaced, if he, on the present occasion, offered a few remarks on the subject which he had intended to bring before the House. He could, however, assure the noble Lord, that he did not intend making upon his Motion the same speech that he would have made
116911681167Member11661165"They were the natural instructors of the people, and he was afraid of their being influenced by the Government, had the provisions proposed for them last year been made."regium donum"That a provision through Government, for the Roman Catholic Clergy of this Kingdom, competent and secured, ought to be thankfully accepted; that in the appointment of the Prelates of the Roman Catholic religion to vacant Sees within the Kingdom, such interference of Government as may enable it to be satisfied of the loyalty of the persons appointed is just, and ought to be agreed to."1164"Amongst the Protestants and Catholics in Ireland, let there be equality of rights, and not equality of privation.""Having before us a perfectly organized Church, whose formation at the first, and still more, its sustenance at this hour, never could be the result of human will, and whose dissolution we at least have no means of achieving, why should we not set ourselves as much as possible to ameliorate what in fact, we cannot destroy.""I endeavoured to make them Protestants, but in vain; the endeavours of all my predecessors have been equally fruitless; I, therefore, thought myself usefully employed in the service of God and my country, in making them good Catholics; this will content me, for they may become good Christians, and, of course, good subjects."11631162"Whatever privileges the Act of Union might pretend to confer, it would leave the Catholics to all practical purposes in their present condition; they would be nominally eligible to the great Offices of State, and to the lesser functions from which they are now excluded in terms, but though eligible they would not be elected. Though capable in law they would be incapacitated by the prevalent influence of Protestantism, an incapacity which would render them less contented with their situation than before, inasmuch as an exclusion founded on popular dislike, or the ascendancy of the opposite faction, would seem to be the result of personal considerations, and not of mere legal regulations."11611160"Against the Bishops pleads the Church's cause,
"And from the Judges vindicates the laws.'1159Mr. M. Milnes
Nation,Pilot,1105 wished to put a question to the Attorney-general, which was of great importance to all those connected with public Associations in this country and Ireland. He understood that certain proprietors of newspapers in Ireland had withdrawn their names from the Repeal Association, and stated that their reason for doing so was in consequence of Chief Justice Pennefather having laid down the principle that the whole Association was responsible for any articles which might appear in any newspapers, the proprietors of which were members of the Repeal Association. He (Mr. Duncombe) had seen letters in the newspapers, from Mr.
Nation,Pilot,1105Mr. T. Duncombe
11941193Hansard,119211911190de medietate linguœ.1189de medietate linguœ1188Sheil:1187Oh, oh.table d'hôte,1186qui tamtuum,meum118511841183l.1182118111801179117811771176"I have seen the corruption of Westminster Hall, I have seen jobbing of all sorts in colonial legislatures, I have seen corruption in the Council of Five Hundred, but anything bordering on the infamy of College-green never entered the heart of man to conceive."117511741173117211711170: I cannot refrain, Mr. Speaker, from congratulating you and the House that I did not catch your eye when I before presented myself to your attention. I should have been exceedingly sorry to have prevented any Irish representative from addressing the House on a question so interesting to his country; but peculiarly sorry to have stood in the way of that Gentleman (Mr. J. O'Brien), who pleaded the cause of his country with so much force and eloquence. I now wish to submit to the House those reasons which appear to me to vindicate the vote I am about to give; and in doing this I am sorry to say, that I shall not feel myself justified in following the course traced out to us by my hon. Friend opposite, with all
11941193Hansard,119211911190de medietate linguœ.1189de medietate linguœ1188Sheil:1187Oh, oh.table d'hôte,1186qui tamtuum,meum118511841183l.1182118111801179117811771176"I have seen the corruption of Westminster Hall, I have seen jobbing of all sorts in colonial legislatures, I have seen corruption in the Council of Five Hundred, but anything bordering on the infamy of College-green never entered the heart of man to conceive."117511741173117211711170Mr. Macaulay
1142Hear!11411140"From the insulting injustice of the present weak and wicked Administration (that of Earl Grey), I appeal, not without hope, to your sense of right and justice. Is it just that the people of Ireland should be insulted and trampled upon merely because the insanity of the wretched old man at the head of the Ministry developes itself in childish hatred and maniac suspicions of the people of Ireland? Earl Grey has but two leading ideas in his mind: the first, that of procuring for his family and friends the greatest quantity of the public spoil; no Minister had ever one-twentieth, or even one-fiftieth of the number of relatives and connexions receiving public pay that he has: and none ever existed less deserving of it,—he and his family are perfect inflictions upon the country. The second sentiment in his mind is hostility to the people of Ireland, evinced by every act of his Administration. Ireland was never so badly governed as during
11401139"There was not so much Irish blood shed under Strafford; yet he was justly sacrificed.""More blood has been shed in Ireland during the year and a-half of Lord Anglesey's Government than during the last twenty years of a Tory Administration. The distinguishing feature of the Government is the frightful quantity of blood that has been shed under it. It was a history of blood.""If the Union be not repealed within two years I am determined I will pay neither rent, tithes, nor taxes! They may distrain my goods, but who'll buy, my boys! who'll buy? I don't tell any man here to follow my example; but so help me God! if I don't do it you may call me Sheil with the silk gown."1138"Meetings were designed at the hotel to excite disaffection against the administration of the law and against the constituted authorities,""Society, under the shift and device of preventing unlawful meetings and procuring justice for Ireland, had been established really to intimidate the Government of Ireland, and to control the exercise of lawful authority, and for other dangerous designs,"1137"The assembly was calculated to lead to disturbance of the public peace, that it would create serious apprehensions thereof in the minds of Her Majesty's peaceful subjects, and that language of an inflammatory nature had been used by some of the persons who had signified their intention to attend." had listened attentively to the speeches of hon. Gentlemen opposite, who had endeavoured to convince the House and the country that the Whigs were better fitted to govern Ireland than the Conservatives; but he should be able to show, from the language of Members of that very party, that the reverse was the truth. During the last Session he had conscientiously voted against the Government upon this subject, under the conviction that they were not using the means necessary to put down the disgraceful agitation which had taken place in Ireland. Since that period they had adopted measures that had vindicated the law and asserted its majesty. And even the language used by the supporters of the noble Lord, would have induced him to vote against the motion; for the noble Lord and his friends had exerted themselves to bring the law of the country into contempt. What was the conduct of hon. Gentlemen opposite when a convicted conspirator had entered the House? He was received with cheers, by a small Republican party; powerless, "Thank God!" in this House and in the country too? There was among that small section one who raised his voice more lustily than the rest in applause of the learned Member for Cork. It was the hon. Member for Montrose, who had been proved to have carried on a treasonable correspondence with a body of colonists, whom he had recommended "to cast off the hateful domination of the mother country." A genial spirit that to condole with Mr. O'Connell. Very great stress had been laid on the proclamation of the Government against the Repeal meetings. Unfortunately, the noble Lord (the Member for London) had been a Member of the Government which had found it necessary to issue proclamations for the purpose of putting down seditious meetings in Ireland. In 1830, when Earl Grey was Prime Minister, and Lords J. Russell and Palmerston were in office, Lord Anglesey issued a Proclamation, prohibiting a procession of trades-unions in Dublin, only one day before that appointed for the procession, on the ground that—
1142Hear!11411140"From the insulting injustice of the present weak and wicked Administration (that of Earl Grey), I appeal, not without hope, to your sense of right and justice. Is it just that the people of Ireland should be insulted and trampled upon merely because the insanity of the wretched old man at the head of the Ministry developes itself in childish hatred and maniac suspicions of the people of Ireland? Earl Grey has but two leading ideas in his mind: the first, that of procuring for his family and friends the greatest quantity of the public spoil; no Minister had ever one-twentieth, or even one-fiftieth of the number of relatives and connexions receiving public pay that he has: and none ever existed less deserving of it,—he and his family are perfect inflictions upon the country. The second sentiment in his mind is hostility to the people of Ireland, evinced by every act of his Administration. Ireland was never so badly governed as during
11401139"There was not so much Irish blood shed under Strafford; yet he was justly sacrificed.""More blood has been shed in Ireland during the year and a-half of Lord Anglesey's Government than during the last twenty years of a Tory Administration. The distinguishing feature of the Government is the frightful quantity of blood that has been shed under it. It was a history of blood.""If the Union be not repealed within two years I am determined I will pay neither rent, tithes, nor taxes! They may distrain my goods, but who'll buy, my boys! who'll buy? I don't tell any man here to follow my example; but so help me God! if I don't do it you may call me Sheil with the silk gown."1138"Meetings were designed at the hotel to excite disaffection against the administration of the law and against the constituted authorities,""Society, under the shift and device of preventing unlawful meetings and procuring justice for Ireland, had been established really to intimidate the Government of Ireland, and to control the exercise of lawful authority, and for other dangerous designs,"1137"The assembly was calculated to lead to disturbance of the public peace, that it would create serious apprehensions thereof in the minds of Her Majesty's peaceful subjects, and that language of an inflammatory nature had been used by some of the persons who had signified their intention to attend."Mr. Ferrand
113211311130112911281127 said: If he heard the hon. Member correctly, who had just sat
113211311130112911281127Colonel Verner
11511150Laughter.a laugh11491148d.s."They cried the mass down, 'cause (they said)
The priest in unknown language prayed;
And yet themselves their prayer-book sent
To such as knew not what it meant;
And it was read, and psalms were sung,
And sermons preached in English tongue,
Among wild Irish, when not one
Knew what they said, but cried, 'O' hone!'
'O' hone!' they cried, and shook their heads,
With grief, to change their mass and beads
For what they knew to be a prayer,
No more, poor souls! than Banks his mare."1147No.11461145Eliot11441143 had felt some surprise that the hon. Member who had just spoken had omitted all mention of his old hobby, the Keighley Union. The hon. Gentleman had, on the authority of Mr. O'Connell, charged Lord Grey with having governed Ireland with great tyranny, and with having received more of the public money directly and indirectly, than any
11511150Laughter.a laugh11491148d.s."They cried the mass down, 'cause (they said)
The priest in unknown language prayed;
And yet themselves their prayer-book sent
To such as knew not what it meant;
And it was read, and psalms were sung,
And sermons preached in English tongue,
Among wild Irish, when not one
Knew what they said, but cried, 'O' hone!'
'O' hone!' they cried, and shook their heads,
With grief, to change their mass and beads
For what they knew to be a prayer,
No more, poor souls! than Banks his mare."1147No.11461145Eliot11441143Sir C. Napier
 said, he was a member of the Anti-Corn-law League, for the purpose of doing away with monopoly. There was a paper published in connection with that League, and he wished to know if he was liable for any articles which appeared in that paper.Mr. Elphinstone
 said, that it was the intention of the Government to bring in a measure of that description. The subject had been brought under the consideration of the Commission to inquire into the disturbances in South Wales. The Government expected the Report of that Commission in a very short time, and he thought that it would be of great advantage that they should see that Report before the measure was brought in.Sir J. Graham
 wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department—whether it were the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a measure during this Session on the subject of Turnpike Trusts?Viscount Ebrington
1225122412231222Murphy:12211220 was not going to follow the hon. Member who had just sat down through all his details, but would confine himself to a few observations on one or two points which the hon. Member had revived, although be (Lord C. Hamilton) thought enough had been previously heard about them. The hon. Member who had just sat down had told them that "Coming events cast their shadows before," and it would appear so from the motion of the noble Lord, for although they were told that it was brought forward in consequence of the Government having introduced no measure for the improvement of Ireland, yet notice of this motion had been given on the very first day of the Session. The hon. Gentlemen opposite must have been sadly at a loss for argument against the Government when, as a proof of the party spirit which had influenced the appointments of the Government, he was obliged to speak as he did of the elevation of two Judges, and of the two right rev. Prelates. He was not going to follow the hon. Gentleman through the whole of his argument, but he must say a few words with respect
1225122412231222Murphy:12211220Lord Claude Hamilton
1236"I wish (said he) that some senior optime, from Oxford, or some senior wrangler, from Cambridge, would explain to me how this is to bind a Roman Catholic in his legislative capacity. There are hon. Members in this House, and Protestants too, who think like the hon. Member for Montrose, that the revenues of the Church are national property—that they may be dealt with as a State fund to be distributed as Parliament shall think fit; there are other Members, as the Member for Colchester, who think that the property of the Church is an incumbrance to her. Now, suppose the Member for Colchester to move the appropriation of Church property to other than Church purposes, and the Member for Montrose to second that Motion, do you mean to tell me that the Catholic would be acting against his Parliamentary oath if he sanctioned such a measure, so proposed and so seconded by Protestants, and probably supported by sixty or seventy Protestants? Would the Roman Catholic be restricted from supporting that vote by the oath in the Bill? He defied the casuists from Oxford or Cambridge, or any man in the House, to answer that question."123512341233123212311230"There was great negligence and gross want of care in the way in which authentic documents had been treated, and I am not prepared to say that the whole was the result of mere accident."1229"However large and apparently dangerous the Repeal meetings might have been, the persons composing them had abstained from any breach of the peace. He believed it was the desire of the leaders so to do, and it was not unreasonable to suppose that the Magistrates in question only meant to carry a constitutional object by peaceful means. The Lord Chancellor of Ireland never conveyed an intimation that these meetings were illegal."122812271226 said, that any observations which he had intended to make
1236"I wish (said he) that some senior optime, from Oxford, or some senior wrangler, from Cambridge, would explain to me how this is to bind a Roman Catholic in his legislative capacity. There are hon. Members in this House, and Protestants too, who think like the hon. Member for Montrose, that the revenues of the Church are national property—that they may be dealt with as a State fund to be distributed as Parliament shall think fit; there are other Members, as the Member for Colchester, who think that the property of the Church is an incumbrance to her. Now, suppose the Member for Colchester to move the appropriation of Church property to other than Church purposes, and the Member for Montrose to second that Motion, do you mean to tell me that the Catholic would be acting against his Parliamentary oath if he sanctioned such a measure, so proposed and so seconded by Protestants, and probably supported by sixty or seventy Protestants? Would the Roman Catholic be restricted from supporting that vote by the oath in the Bill? He defied the casuists from Oxford or Cambridge, or any man in the House, to answer that question."123512341233123212311230"There was great negligence and gross want of care in the way in which authentic documents had been treated, and I am not prepared to say that the whole was the result of mere accident."1229"However large and apparently dangerous the Repeal meetings might have been, the persons composing them had abstained from any breach of the peace. He believed it was the desire of the leaders so to do, and it was not unreasonable to suppose that the Magistrates in question only meant to carry a constitutional object by peaceful means. The Lord Chancellor of Ireland never conveyed an intimation that these meetings were illegal."122812271226The O'Connor Don
1243Laughter.mutatis mutandis,124212411240123912381237 said, that he had listened with great attention and much pleasure to the speech which the House had just heard, but he did think that the hon. Gentleman ought to make a little allowance for party feeling on one side as well as the other. He was very reluctant to intrude upon the attention of the House on an Irish debate, but perhaps the House would excuse him when he laid claim to some hereditary right to do so on the ground of family connection with that country, through the late Lord Castlereagh, who had been mainly instrumental in promoting the measure of the Union. That noble Lord, although much vilified by the hon. and learned Member for Cork, had always been remarkable for his consistency and firmness, and his love of country and of justice. Hon. Gentlemen on the other side seemed to say that all the benefits which had been conferred upon Ireland had been given by them. But this, in his opinion, was a most extraordinary thing to say in the face of the Emancipation Act, which was a child of the Tory
1243Laughter.mutatis mutandis,124212411240123912381237Sir W. James
1264126312621261Laughter.12601259Hannard,1258 said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down conceded that the Gentlemen on the other side of the House had as yet made no progress in their attack on the Government. That opinion, he believed, would be shared by the country at large. It had been his lot, since he had been in Parliament, sometimes to vote against the present Government, but he had always done so through conscientious feelings and with the greatest reluctance. It had, however, been much more frequently his privilege to vote with them—sometimes for the sake of supporting the Government, sometimes through deference for the opinions of others whom he thought better informed than himself. But he never remembered to have given a vote on any occasion with more sincerity than he should on this, as a testimony of his approbation of the admirable tact, discretion, firmness, fairness, and wisdom with which they had conducted the recent affairs in Ireland. He did not care how long this debate might continue, or how long it might interrupt the business of the country, for he was certain that the result of it would be that the Government would occupy a higher ground and a stronger position in the opinion of the country. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him, and above all the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh, had alluded to the question of the Irish Church. He should be content to limit the duration of that Church to the time when the hon. Gentleman on the other side would have agreed among themselves what thep should do with it—for every variety of opinion had been hazarded about it, and every resource of human ingenuity exhausted in schemes for the disposal of its property. Some wished to transfer it whole to the other side—some wished to divide it into three part—some into two parts—some to pare it
1264126312621261Laughter.12601259Hannard,1258Mr. A. S. O'Brien
1251125012491248 said, that after the lengthened discussion which had already taken place, it was not his intention to trespass on the House at any length of time, but
1251125012491248Mr. Lascelles
1219"Furthermore, from what information we have been able to procure, we observed with the deepest concern and alarm that its discussion in Ireland has already been attended with the most fearful symptoms. From the increased powers with which it has recently been deemed necessary to arm the Executive, we cannot but infer that the prospect of an incorporating union has failed to conciliate the minds of the disaffected, and from the ferment occasioned by its discussion it is evident that all other parties in Ireland are alienated or divided, and the means of resistance, in the case of insurrection or foreign invasion, thereby materially weakened. We thought it, therefore, more prudent in this moment of alarm, to desist from the prosecution of a measure which might become a fresh subject of complaint, and a new source of discontent and division; and we were more disposed to seek for the establishment of mutual confidence in the adoption of conciliatory laws, in the removal of odious disabilities, in the redress of grievances, and the operation of a milder system of policy on the affections of the Irish people, than in any experiment of theory and nominal union of governments."1218"If we wish to accomplish the great work that we have undertaken, we must look to the whole of this important and complicated question; we must look at it in a large and comprehensive point of view; we must consider it as a measure of great national policy, the object of which is effectually to counteract the restless machinations of an inveterate enemy, who has uniformly and anxiously endeavoured to effect a separation between two countries, whose connection is as necessary for the safety of the one as it is for the prosperity of the other; we must look to this as the only measure we can adopt which can calm the dissensions, allay the animosities, and dissipate the jealousies which have unfortunately existed—as a measure whose object is to communicate to the sister kingdom the skill, the capital, and the industry which have raised this country to such a pitch of opulence, and to give her a full participation of the commerce and the constitution of England; to unite the affections and resources of two powerful nations, and to place under one public will the direction of the whole force of the Empire."1217121612151214121312121211"He governed as Lord Deputy, or Lord Lieutenant, with vigilance, with rigour, with success, but he did not govern with popularity."1210 in resuming the Adjourned Debate, wished, first, in all sincerity, to make a declaration in opposition to what had fallen on the previous evening from the hon. and learned Gentleman; in his view of the matter, this was not a party vote or a party question. Such motives should not be imputed to that side of the House at a moment like this, and by a Government which had proposed nothing whatever to meet the emergency of the case—nothing to give tranquillity to Ireland, nothing to remove apprehension as to the future. A noble Lord, in an early part of the debate, sketched most clearly to the House the question at issue between the Government and those who were opposed to it on this question. He said that the main point of difference between the two parties was this—that the one proposed to do away with or to reduce the Established Church in Ireland, and the other insisted that its revenues and its dignities should be maintained inviolate to their full extent. This principle was confirmed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who spoke on the preceding evening; and the country had now before them a distinct declaration on the part of the Government, that the Irish Church was to be retained inviolate. They were, in point of fact, to adhere implicitly to the old policy, to retain the Church of the minority in the face of all experience, of all history; though all history, all experience told them that this policy was inevitably the source of misery, discord, and danger. To the maintenance of that miserable and mischievous policy, all thought of giving peace and prosperity to Ireland must be set aside. An eminent authority of former days had stated that Ireland was naturally one of the richest countries of Europe, and might be made a source of vast strength and revenue; but the policy of the present Government seemed to be to turn the fruitful source of strength and revenue into a source of weakness, of impoverishment, of danger. It had been said more than once, on that side of the House, that Ireland was given into the hands of the present Government in a state of perfect tranquillity. This statement had been met by the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department by the counter-statement that there were large public meetings in Ireland in 1840 and in 1841, whence the right hon. Secre-
1219"Furthermore, from what information we have been able to procure, we observed with the deepest concern and alarm that its discussion in Ireland has already been attended with the most fearful symptoms. From the increased powers with which it has recently been deemed necessary to arm the Executive, we cannot but infer that the prospect of an incorporating union has failed to conciliate the minds of the disaffected, and from the ferment occasioned by its discussion it is evident that all other parties in Ireland are alienated or divided, and the means of resistance, in the case of insurrection or foreign invasion, thereby materially weakened. We thought it, therefore, more prudent in this moment of alarm, to desist from the prosecution of a measure which might become a fresh subject of complaint, and a new source of discontent and division; and we were more disposed to seek for the establishment of mutual confidence in the adoption of conciliatory laws, in the removal of odious disabilities, in the redress of grievances, and the operation of a milder system of policy on the affections of the Irish people, than in any experiment of theory and nominal union of governments."1218"If we wish to accomplish the great work that we have undertaken, we must look to the whole of this important and complicated question; we must look at it in a large and comprehensive point of view; we must consider it as a measure of great national policy, the object of which is effectually to counteract the restless machinations of an inveterate enemy, who has uniformly and anxiously endeavoured to effect a separation between two countries, whose connection is as necessary for the safety of the one as it is for the prosperity of the other; we must look to this as the only measure we can adopt which can calm the dissensions, allay the animosities, and dissipate the jealousies which have unfortunately existed—as a measure whose object is to communicate to the sister kingdom the skill, the capital, and the industry which have raised this country to such a pitch of opulence, and to give her a full participation of the commerce and the constitution of England; to unite the affections and resources of two powerful nations, and to place under one public will the direction of the whole force of the Empire."1217121612151214121312121211"He governed as Lord Deputy, or Lord Lieutenant, with vigilance, with rigour, with success, but he did not govern with popularity."1210Mr. Hawes,
1247124612451244 was understood to say, that it appeared to him, that both sides of the House were agreed that the condition of Ireland demanded the grave attention of the Legislature, and that on some subjects respecting the amelioration of the condition of the people they were also agreed. The distracted state of Ireland was embarrassing to the Empire at large. No one could deny that during the spring and summer of last year, a state of things had existed in Ireland, calculated to excite feelings of alarm and apprehension, and that a system of agitation had been kept up which interfered with all the social and industrial pursuits of the people of that country. But from what did that distraction arise? From a continuous system of misrule, interrupted indeed for a short period by the wise and conciliatory policy of the late Administration, but again adopted and acted upon by Her Majesty's present advisers. He did not mean to say, that they had not a right to put down the meetings held in Ireland during the last year. But what gave rise to these meetings? Undoubtedly the denial of justice to Ireland by the present Ministry, from whose speeches he was now forced to conclude, that they meant to continue that denial. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department, had read extracts from some speeches delivered at the meetings in Ireland, and denounced them as highly inflammatory. The right hon. Baronet did not consider that his own inflammatory speeches were the cause of the meetings held—the agitation provoked, and the speeches delivered at those meetings. Previous to the right hon. Baronet's coming into power Ireland was tranquil. The Administration which preceded that of which he now formed a part, left Ireland in peace. In what state was she now? Was she not occupied by military force? The right hon. Gentleman had endeavoured to show the contrary, and had told the House, that the Returns on the Table would prove, that for the last two years the military force in Ireland had been lower than had ever been known; and then they were told by the noble Lord, that it was in March, 1843, and not till
1247124612451244Mr. E. Buller
13121311 rose to explain. He was anxious throughout the proceeding to give all the information in his power. Up to the period of closing the sittings of the Court, no difference or misapprehension had occurred. This was on the 24th. He remained for a week in Dublin, and then had occasion to leave it for a short time; but he never took with him a single original document. Hedesired the registrar, while he was making out the lists, special and common, to make out a rough copy of the special list, for the arrangement of which he was desirous, and he desired the registrar to send him a copy; and that was the only document which he ever received in England, or indeed anywhere else out of the Court-house. During his absence, application was made for the lists. Surely it would not be contended, that they were bound to furnish the lists in an unfinished state. When it was completed it was to be handed to the Sheriff, who might, if he liked, give copies of it to all the world. But as long as the list was making out, it would be highly incorrect for the officers to allow any one to see it. To go over these 5,000 names, some time was necessary. It was done by the clerks in the peace office, who said, that they could not do it quicker. When it was finished, it was handed to the Sheriff. That was on the 29th of December. He had occasion to state in Court, either on the 28th or 29th, that the List had been made out and given, to the Sheriff. Application was then made on behalf of the traversers, to have a copy given them to save time, and that they might have facilities in getting the list before the Sheriff could furnish them with a copy. His answer was, that he did not think the Act gave him power to
13121311Mr. Shaw
1257Robert Peel1256animus1255125412531252 thought that the speech
1257Robert Peel1256animus1255125412531252Mr. Gisborne
13101309"I read," said the right hon. Baronet, "the lesson of that period, when Mr. Pitt was at the head of a House of Commons which rejected the Roman Catholic petition. It was not that they rejected a Bill, or a resolution, that their claims should be taken into consideration; but they refused to listen even to their petition, by a majority of about three to one. The French war broke out in 1793, and then I find, that in spite of all the declarations recorded, and opinions proclaimed, that very Session of 1793 was opened with a recommendation from the Throne to consider their decision on that Motion, and immediately after a Bill was passed. Until I see a bolder man than Mr. Pitt, and a more Protestant House of Commons than that of 1792, I cannot be sure that the same scenes may not be acted over again; and that, in spite of our declaration, we may find ourselves under the necessity, in the event of a war, of receding from our professions."13081307hominem "I was told on a former occasion (the right hon. Baronet continued), in language which, though familiar, was forcible, this is the old story, the repetition of facts with which we are familiar for the last twenty-five years; therefore there is no reason for any change.' It is because it is the old story—because this state of things has so long existed—because it is found impossible to put an end to them, that I am tired of maintaining the present system. It may be an argument ad hominem "I, and the other Ministers of the Crown, think that there is greater evil to be apprehended from advising continued resistance to the adjustment of the Catholic question, than in advising a deliberate attempt to settle it."130613051304MemberMember said, 130313021301130012991298"Saith that all these names are the names of persons professing the Roman Catholic re-
12991298"Saith that it appears from said four copies as they were so altered after said comparisons, and brought back by said persons to this deponent, that the names of the following persons were adjudicated upon by said Recorder, and their qualifications to be Special Jurors allowed by him. The following are the said names: Nicholas James Caffrey, Hugh Duffy, James Duggan, James Egan, Charles Egan, Thomas Egan, George Faulkner, Nathaniel Halbert, Bernard Martin, Nicholas Martin, Thomas Murray, James Reilly, John Vicars, Thomas White, and Sylvester Young."ShawShaw:Shaw:12971296"Saith that several gentlemen whose claims to be on the jurors' list had been allowed before said Recorder were in attendance on said 4th January instant, at said office of said Walter Bourne, ready to prove the fact that their said claims had been so allowed before said Recorder, and were tendered as witnesses by this deponent to said Walter Bourne to prove said fact, but said Walter Bourne refused to hear any evidence on the subject, but insisted on proceeding to draw the forty-eight
12961295"Saith that deponent appealed to the persons acting on behalf of the Crown to postpone the striking of a Special Jury in this case until the said Jury List should be set right, according to the adjudication of the right hon. the said Recorder, but the persons acting for the Crown peremptorily refused to do so, and the said Walter Bourne refused the application to adjourn, unless the persons acting for the Crown consented, which said persons refused to do."1294l.1293"Deponent saith, that said Sheriff declined complying with deponent's application, unless both the Crown and the traversers should duly consent and unite in making such application: saith that the Clerks of the Peace for the said city informed this deponent, and which he believes to be the fact, that they applied by direction of the said Recorder:to Mr. Kemmis, attorney for the prosecution, for such consent, but he declined to give same. Saith that deponent attended at the office of Walter Bourne, Esq., on the 3rd instant, for the purpose of striking the Special Jury, and that on that occasion Mr. Whiteside, as counsel for the traversers, applied for an adjournment of said striking of such Special Jury, on the ground that the traversers or their agents had no opportunity of examining the Special Jurors' List, and were therefore unprepared for striking a Special Jury. Saith that after some discussion, an adjournment to the next day was agreed to by Mr. Brewster, as Counsel for the
12931292Shaw:Shaw:Shaw:Shaw:12911290"Hear, hear," and laughter.Shaw Shaw:1289128812871286128512841283"By far the most cogent objections to the prosecution of O'Connell and others' have been based upon the confused and cumulated character of the charge. If, say these objections, Mr. O'Connell had been prosecuted for alleged sedition uttered by him at some specified time and place, or at several specified times and places, and if, similarly, the other traversers had been charged merely with their own alleged words or acts at times and in places distinctly particularised, the prosecution would have been a fair and intelligible one, to which no reasonable man could have objected. But when you mass together the speeches and acts of eight or nine individuals—when you involve in one common charge these eight or nine individuals for words spoken, or things done, at meetings where sometimes one was present, sometimes another—if you charge a newspaper proprietor with the mischief done at meetings where he was not, and in the same indictment charge a popular orator with the guilt of newspaper articles, which are not alleged to have been written, or even read by him, you make up so confused and worthless an accusation as ought not to be brought against public men in this country of free institutions and exact law, and you make an accusation by which, even if you obtained a verdict, you obtain no moral conviction of the traversers at their country's bar. We must confess, that with no predisposition in favour of the accused, we have thought that there was no little force in such representations as this; and we have wished that it had been the part of the Crown to prosecute each individual for a specific offence, rather than to prosecute the whole for an offence made up of the aggregate of the sayings and doings of all of them."1282"Life of Lord Keeper Guildford." 12811280bona fide "You may infer an agreement if you see persons acting in common; if you find a newspaper writing an article in favour of Mr. O'Connell, and reporting his speeches, you may use that against the newspaper to prove that it is conspiring with Mr. O'Connell, and you may use Mr. O'Connell's speech as evidence that he has conspired with the newspaper."It is true that the indictment contains certain overt acts: but not one of those overt acts need be proved, for the crime consisted in the agreement, and not in the acts.""The people of England have unkind feelings towards you; they are not disposed to consult your interests; they have oppressed you for a long series of years, and they have no sympathy with you, and do not legislate for your benefit."Times 127912781277127612751274127312721271127012691268126712661265 thought it was necessary to call the attention of the House to
13101309"I read," said the right hon. Baronet, "the lesson of that period, when Mr. Pitt was at the head of a House of Commons which rejected the Roman Catholic petition. It was not that they rejected a Bill, or a resolution, that their claims should be taken into consideration; but they refused to listen even to their petition, by a majority of about three to one. The French war broke out in 1793, and then I find, that in spite of all the declarations recorded, and opinions proclaimed, that very Session of 1793 was opened with a recommendation from the Throne to consider their decision on that Motion, and immediately after a Bill was passed. Until I see a bolder man than Mr. Pitt, and a more Protestant House of Commons than that of 1792, I cannot be sure that the same scenes may not be acted over again; and that, in spite of our declaration, we may find ourselves under the necessity, in the event of a war, of receding from our professions."13081307hominem "I was told on a former occasion (the right hon. Baronet continued), in language which, though familiar, was forcible, this is the old story, the repetition of facts with which we are familiar for the last twenty-five years; therefore there is no reason for any change.' It is because it is the old story—because this state of things has so long existed—because it is found impossible to put an end to them, that I am tired of maintaining the present system. It may be an argument ad hominem "I, and the other Ministers of the Crown, think that there is greater evil to be apprehended from advising continued resistance to the adjustment of the Catholic question, than in advising a deliberate attempt to settle it."130613051304MemberMember said, 130313021301130012991298"Saith that all these names are the names of persons professing the Roman Catholic re-
12991298"Saith that it appears from said four copies as they were so altered after said comparisons, and brought back by said persons to this deponent, that the names of the following persons were adjudicated upon by said Recorder, and their qualifications to be Special Jurors allowed by him. The following are the said names: Nicholas James Caffrey, Hugh Duffy, James Duggan, James Egan, Charles Egan, Thomas Egan, George Faulkner, Nathaniel Halbert, Bernard Martin, Nicholas Martin, Thomas Murray, James Reilly, John Vicars, Thomas White, and Sylvester Young."ShawShaw:Shaw:12971296"Saith that several gentlemen whose claims to be on the jurors' list had been allowed before said Recorder were in attendance on said 4th January instant, at said office of said Walter Bourne, ready to prove the fact that their said claims had been so allowed before said Recorder, and were tendered as witnesses by this deponent to said Walter Bourne to prove said fact, but said Walter Bourne refused to hear any evidence on the subject, but insisted on proceeding to draw the forty-eight
12961295"Saith that deponent appealed to the persons acting on behalf of the Crown to postpone the striking of a Special Jury in this case until the said Jury List should be set right, according to the adjudication of the right hon. the said Recorder, but the persons acting for the Crown peremptorily refused to do so, and the said Walter Bourne refused the application to adjourn, unless the persons acting for the Crown consented, which said persons refused to do."1294l.1293"Deponent saith, that said Sheriff declined complying with deponent's application, unless both the Crown and the traversers should duly consent and unite in making such application: saith that the Clerks of the Peace for the said city informed this deponent, and which he believes to be the fact, that they applied by direction of the said Recorder:to Mr. Kemmis, attorney for the prosecution, for such consent, but he declined to give same. Saith that deponent attended at the office of Walter Bourne, Esq., on the 3rd instant, for the purpose of striking the Special Jury, and that on that occasion Mr. Whiteside, as counsel for the traversers, applied for an adjournment of said striking of such Special Jury, on the ground that the traversers or their agents had no opportunity of examining the Special Jurors' List, and were therefore unprepared for striking a Special Jury. Saith that after some discussion, an adjournment to the next day was agreed to by Mr. Brewster, as Counsel for the
12931292Shaw:Shaw:Shaw:Shaw:12911290"Hear, hear," and laughter.Shaw Shaw:1289128812871286128512841283"By far the most cogent objections to the prosecution of O'Connell and others' have been based upon the confused and cumulated character of the charge. If, say these objections, Mr. O'Connell had been prosecuted for alleged sedition uttered by him at some specified time and place, or at several specified times and places, and if, similarly, the other traversers had been charged merely with their own alleged words or acts at times and in places distinctly particularised, the prosecution would have been a fair and intelligible one, to which no reasonable man could have objected. But when you mass together the speeches and acts of eight or nine individuals—when you involve in one common charge these eight or nine individuals for words spoken, or things done, at meetings where sometimes one was present, sometimes another—if you charge a newspaper proprietor with the mischief done at meetings where he was not, and in the same indictment charge a popular orator with the guilt of newspaper articles, which are not alleged to have been written, or even read by him, you make up so confused and worthless an accusation as ought not to be brought against public men in this country of free institutions and exact law, and you make an accusation by which, even if you obtained a verdict, you obtain no moral conviction of the traversers at their country's bar. We must confess, that with no predisposition in favour of the accused, we have thought that there was no little force in such representations as this; and we have wished that it had been the part of the Crown to prosecute each individual for a specific offence, rather than to prosecute the whole for an offence made up of the aggregate of the sayings and doings of all of them."1282"Life of Lord Keeper Guildford." 12811280bona fide "You may infer an agreement if you see persons acting in common; if you find a newspaper writing an article in favour of Mr. O'Connell, and reporting his speeches, you may use that against the newspaper to prove that it is conspiring with Mr. O'Connell, and you may use Mr. O'Connell's speech as evidence that he has conspired with the newspaper."It is true that the indictment contains certain overt acts: but not one of those overt acts need be proved, for the crime consisted in the agreement, and not in the acts.""The people of England have unkind feelings towards you; they are not disposed to consult your interests; they have oppressed you for a long series of years, and they have no sympathy with you, and do not legislate for your benefit."Times 127912781277127612751274127312721271127012691268126712661265Sir Thomas Wilde
, but it also proposed to increase the travelling allowance; and, therefore he should divide the House against it.Mr. Williams
 hoped, that to meet the convenience of the House, with reference to the important debate now in progress, the hon. Gentleman as well as other hon. Members who had Bills on the Paper, would consent to postpone them.Lord J. Russell
 entirely concurred with the noble Lord in his anxiety to limit, if it were not possible entirely to repress, the practice of betting; but he thought there was no necessity for the amendment proposed by the noble Lord. The Act was to last only for a limited period, in the expectation of an alteration of the law, and if no such alteration took place, after the expiration of the Session, or three months, or whatever time the House should assign for its limitation, all persons concerned in such transactions would be liable.Mr. Wortley
1330 said, perhaps this alteration would answer all purposes" Whereas several proceedings have been
1330The Attorney General
13641363136213611360Nationl.Evening Freeman1359l.1358Carrington and Payne.verbatim et literatimCarrington and Payne1357in banc135613551354135313521351Moody and Robinson's Reports1350Dublin Directory.Name, name.134913481347"That the said Messrs. Ford and Cantwell did object to proceed with the striking of the said Jury on an allegation that several of the names of persons qualified to be placed on the Special Jurors' List had been omitted therefrom, and did make many general charges and. allegations in respect to same, but deponent saith that the said Panel having been submitted to the officer by the High Sheriff in the ordinary way, and this deponent not having, as aforesaid, either directly or indirectly, been concerned in the revision of the said Jury panel, and being ignorant as to the correctness of the allegations so put forward on the part of the traversers, did, as he conceived it his duty to do, call on the said officer to proceed to strike said Jury. And saith he was not in any respect party or privy to, or acquainted with any suppression of names from said Special Jury panel, if any such, in fact, occurred."1346"That deponent, in company with two others of the agents for the traversers—namely, Messrs. Ford and Cantwell, attended next day at the office of the said Walter Bourne, and then and there protested most earnestly against any further proceeding being taken in the striking of said Special Jury, on various grounds, but chiefly on the ground that a gross and wilful suppression of the names of persons qualified to be placed on the Special Jurors' List had taken place, and deponent is thoroughly convinced that such wilful and corrupt suppression did actually take place."1345"I cannot but think that there was great negligence and a gross want of care in the way in which authentic documents have been treated; and I am not prepared to say that the whole was the result of mere accident. The Court, however, has no power to quash the Special Panel, without notice to the parties concerned, nor have we any right to go out of it. The proper course, if there has been any misconduct or gross neglect on the part of the officer, is to proceed against the party who is guilty; but here no misconduct is charged upon any of the persons concerned for the prosecution. The fact of misconduct has been
1345"That in the event of any failure in the preparation of the Jury Panel for any particular year, all causes are to be tried by the Jury List of the year before."1344mandamus134313421341per fas aut nefas,13401339per fas aut nefas,1338respondeas ouster;East's Reports,1337133613351334mandamus,13331332 (Attorney-General for Ireland) resumed the Adjourned Debate, and said, the hon. and learned Member for Worcester (Sir T. Wilde) having thought it right at the close of the debate that morning to bring forward charges against him with respect to the mode in which he had conducted the recent prosecutions in Ireland, and having gone the length of imputing to him, not perhaps in express terms, but by insinuation, matters reflecting personal dishonour on himself, he trusted he should be permitted by the House to lay before them his defence. The course which he meant to adopt was this: He had not, unfortunately, had the opportunity of hearing the whole of the debate. He had, however, heard a portion of it, and as some matters had been adverted to by other hon. Gentlemen which had not been noticed by the learned Member for Worcester, he thought the fair course for him to adopt was—to go into the details from the commencement to the close of the case, to trace every step that he had taken in the conduct of that prosecution, and to state the grounds on which he came to the conclusions he did on every branch of the case. The earliest period to which it was necessary to advert, was the period when the informations were sworn; he believed it was about the 15th or 16th of October. The first circumstance which occurred after the informations had been sworn was one of the most extraordinary nature, which was adopted by one of the defendants—a circumstance to which he thought it necessary to advert, because, to a certain extent it regulated the course which he (Mr. Smith) adopted with re-
13641363136213611360Nationl.Evening Freeman1359l.1358Carrington and Payne.verbatim et literatimCarrington and Payne1357in banc135613551354135313521351Moody and Robinson's Reports1350Dublin Directory.Name, name.134913481347"That the said Messrs. Ford and Cantwell did object to proceed with the striking of the said Jury on an allegation that several of the names of persons qualified to be placed on the Special Jurors' List had been omitted therefrom, and did make many general charges and. allegations in respect to same, but deponent saith that the said Panel having been submitted to the officer by the High Sheriff in the ordinary way, and this deponent not having, as aforesaid, either directly or indirectly, been concerned in the revision of the said Jury panel, and being ignorant as to the correctness of the allegations so put forward on the part of the traversers, did, as he conceived it his duty to do, call on the said officer to proceed to strike said Jury. And saith he was not in any respect party or privy to, or acquainted with any suppression of names from said Special Jury panel, if any such, in fact, occurred."1346"That deponent, in company with two others of the agents for the traversers—namely, Messrs. Ford and Cantwell, attended next day at the office of the said Walter Bourne, and then and there protested most earnestly against any further proceeding being taken in the striking of said Special Jury, on various grounds, but chiefly on the ground that a gross and wilful suppression of the names of persons qualified to be placed on the Special Jurors' List had taken place, and deponent is thoroughly convinced that such wilful and corrupt suppression did actually take place."1345"I cannot but think that there was great negligence and a gross want of care in the way in which authentic documents have been treated; and I am not prepared to say that the whole was the result of mere accident. The Court, however, has no power to quash the Special Panel, without notice to the parties concerned, nor have we any right to go out of it. The proper course, if there has been any misconduct or gross neglect on the part of the officer, is to proceed against the party who is guilty; but here no misconduct is charged upon any of the persons concerned for the prosecution. The fact of misconduct has been
1345"That in the event of any failure in the preparation of the Jury Panel for any particular year, all causes are to be tried by the Jury List of the year before."1344mandamus134313421341per fas aut nefas,13401339per fas aut nefas,1338respondeas ouster;East's Reports,1337133613351334mandamus,13331332Mr. T. B. C. Smith
 said, the hon. and learned Member for Weymouth (Mr. Christie) and the hon. Member for Gateshead (Mr. Hutt) had both made long speeches, and had travelled over a good deal of ground which had already been fully discussed. What was the plain state of the case? This was a Bill of expediency to relieve certain individuals from certain penalties, which were no doubt, a matter of great importance to those Gentlemen whoever they were. A committee however was to be appointed. Let them inquire into the whole case and introduce to the House what seemed best to them; but don't let them interrupt the business of the House and of the country by these puerile and foolish motions.Colonel Wyndham
 said, if they legalised horse-racing without legalising the sports of the poorer classes, that would be class legislation. He proposed to the hon. mover that this Bill should extend to the sports and amusements of the poor, but the hon. Gentleman refused to comply with that suggestion. He would move a clause to that effect.Mr. C. Berkeley
 would suggest that as the only clause referring to an increase of allowances was the 20th, which he proposed to move the omission of, it would be undesirable to divide the House against the whole Bill.Mr. Craven Berkeley
l.l.1323l.l.l.l. observed, that there were a great many Gentlemen now making books upon the Derby, and if they were to be prevented from betting after the 1st of March, a great injury would be done them. For many of them who had only "got on," or bet against, perhaps twenty horses, would not to be able to get round by betting against others; and would thus have to stand to be shot at. He would state another case of very great hardship in these laws against betting. He stood, for instance, to lose 100l.l.1323l.l.l.l.Captain Rous
 said, that the understanding come to the other night, was, that the operation of the existing law should be altogether suspended for the space of three months, in order to leave parties altogether unprejudiced by it until the Committee which was to sit upoa the subject had come to some decision in regard to it.Mr. James S. Wortley
 said, that it did not appear to him that the amendment could have any really practical effect; for by the existing law, the party who lost money had three months to sue the winner, before the common informer could interfere.Mr. James S. Wortley
 contended that the law of Anne was never intended to apply to horse racing. In this case the actions which had been brought against the parties for penalties were vexatious and extortionate, and that was the only ground for calling for the interference of Parliament. The parties, if they had erred, had done so through ignorance, and as there were doubts as to the true meaning of the law, it was necessary that they should be removed.Mr. James S. Wortley
 saw the objection to the words in question. They had not been originally inserted by him, and he would readily consent to their being struck out.Mr. James S. Wortley
 said, he was placed in a difficult position between the advices and suggestions which were tendered to him. There could be no doubt, however, that the real reason why the Bill was introduced was because the actions had been brought by common informers for penalties totally disproportionate to the offence, even had the parties charged been conscious that in acting as they had done they had been committing any. He must insist on retaining the words in the Preamble.Mr. James S. Wortley
 contended that the 9th of Anne, the law to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, did not apply to bets made upon horse races. And whatever might be the construction put upon that law by the Court, he was quite sure that if Lord Eglingtoun were sued for penalties under that act, no Yorkshire jury would give a verdict against him. If the parties who had been proceeded against were obnoxious to the operation of the Act, they had erred through ignorance of the law.Lord George Bentinck
qui tam said, that no bets which were made upon the coming "Derby" could possibly be made the subject of any qui tamLord George Bentinck
1329 said, that if the words were omitted, they would be in fact passing a Bill without any reason for it being assigned on the face of the document at all. Now, with respect to common informers, it had been the policy of
1329Lord John Russell
 thought that the Preamble was imperfect as it stood, and that some words should be introduced, to the effect that as the penalties were so utterly disproportionate to the offence, that therefore they should not be allowed to be levied—that would be an intelligible reason for the Bill. However, if the hon. Gentleman in charge of the Bill wished for some time for consideration, he conceived there would be no objection to postpone the Preamble.Mr. Hawes
 objected to the Bill altogether. The Bill was, in fact, a Private Bill, the object being to relieve certain private individuals from liabilities they had incurred. The preamble of the Bill had not been proved.Mr. Hawes
 did not think the Amendment at all necessary, even to meet the object of the noble Lord who proposed it, for if the law were not altered before the present Bill expired, or a renewed one expired, all parties making bets in the interim would be liable to be sued after the expiration of the Bill for the penalties under the existing law.Mr. Darby
 objected to the admission of the principle, that ignorance of the law was a good idea against the liabilities of its infringement. He wished to see those words struck out of the Preamble which, by recognising that principle, introduced a dangerous precedent, which might be turned against them. If they relieved the rich man from the penalties to which he was liable, on the plea of ignorance, how could they refuse to do so in the case of a poor man who broke the law, and offered the same plea?Mr. Roebuck
1326 would put the case of a countryman coming to London and found begging in the streets. The excuse of ignorance of the law would not avail him if brought up before his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Alderman Humphery), or any
1326Mr. Roebuck
 said, that he thought the people of England had just cause to complain of the conduct of this House in wasting so much time in an attempt to screen certain noble Lords and Gentlemen who had been guilty of committing a breach of the law. It is said they were ignorant of the law; but would any man say, that in betting such large sums on horse-racing, they were not aware that they were committing a great offence against society? How can you expect the poor to be moral and orderly, when the rich set such examples? It was said that the penalties were disproportioned to the offence. These penalties were large in consequence of the enormous sums of money which were betted. He considered that all the arguments which had been urged in favour of the Bill were but intended to shield an extensive system of gambling. He regarded the Bill as tending to encourage gambling rather than to suppress it. Ignorance of the law was not regarded as an excuse for the Dorchester labourers, who were transported; and yet because the parties implicated in the present case had incurred penalties to the amount of half a million of money, they were to be protected. He should protest altogether against the Bill, as he thought the rich should be made amenable to the law as well as the poor.Mr. Brotherton
 said, that the only ground upon which these parties came to the House for relief, was their plea of ignorance of the penalties they were incurring by the operation of the existing law. The noble Lord, by his Amendment, proposed to allow them protection for the past, but to guard against the repetition of the practice of betting for the future. He thought this was a perfectly fair proposition. He should vote for it; and if it were not agreed to, he hoped that every means would be taken to reject the Bill in its future steps.Mr. Hume
 objected to the increase which it proposed to make in the travelling allowances to Coroners. That the present rate of payment was considered sufficient, was proved by the immense competition that always took place for coronerships.Mr. Hume
: If the hon, and learned Mover of this Bill had not taken the counsel of the right hon. Baronet opposite, (Sir B. Peel), we should never have heard of this innovation, and have gone on smoothly in the good old Conservative way. There was no proof that the persons prosecuting these actions were not actual losers. It had been said that some of them had actually lost money. It would have been much better to have allowed the word suspension instead of discontinuance to have stood in the Bill. If this change had been effected, we should have been delighted and edified at this hour by the Attorney General for Ireland.Mr. T. Duncombe
 objected to the striking out of the words in question. He thought that had they not been in the Preamble the Bill would never have been brought to the stage at which it now stood. Why, the excuse and the reason for the Bill had been the ignorance which prevailed upon the subject. He could understand, however, why striking out the words referring to ignorance of the law, might be a favourite scheme on the other side of the House. They might create or put in force some law in Ireland which nobody knew any thing about, and then, when some other parties came down to ask for a Bill of Indemnity, pleading that the people proceeded against did not know that they were committing an offence in attending, say meetings, monster meetings— the opposite party could say, "Oh, ignorance of the law does not excuse you." He should certainly divide the House against the proposition for the omission of the words.Mr. T. Duncombe
l. hoped his hon. Friend would insist upon the omission of the words. The parties could not plead ignorance of the law. He held in his hand a book which had been published on the law of gaming, by a barrister named Edwards, in which it was clearly shown, and cases were cited, in which it had been ruled by the Court that a bet for more than 10l.Mr. M. Gibson
13201319 protested against the practice of making vague and indefinite
13201319Mr. Gibson
 considered this Bill a credit to those who brought it forward, and he wished that all the measures of the Government party were equally creditable to them. The arguments of the hon. Member for Weymouth were wholly inapplicable to the present Bill. He should give his cordial and hearty support to the motion for going into committee, but that support should be still more cordial and hearty if the Bill had gone a great deal further. It seemed to be considered by some Gentlemen that there was no immorality in the clergy being non-resident. Now, the proceedings adopted by Mr. Wright in 1814 were popular, but here the object was to make money by those who themselves had cheated others. ["Cries of name, name."] The fact was perfectly notorious—he should not and he would not mention names—but it was notorious that these actions were brought from base, wicked, and malicious motives; and the Blouse ought to adopt a masculine spirit in resisting them. He wished to call the attention of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to some circumstances not unconnected with this subject, which took place in this town. A number of little boys were in the habit of amusing themselves by playing at pitch and toss—which some persons considered a highly immoral and injurious practice, while others regarded it as innocent and one to which no punishment ought to be attached, but he regretted to say that there were Magistrates in this town—Stipendiary Magistiates—who were in the habit of sending little boys to prison and to the treadmill for indulging in that practice. In the course of the present week, only two days ago, three boys were committed for having been guilty, as was stated in the warrants of the enormous crime of playing at "pitch and toss." He should be happy to relieve persons, whether in high or low stations, from vexatious penalties, and if this Bill was for the relief of the wealthy and independent, he was sure it was only necessary to remind the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, of the practice of the Magistrates to which he had referred, and he hoped that if the Bill were passed into law care would be taken, at the same time, that all these innocent children should be liberated from their confinement.Mr. Wakley
qui tamex post facto1316ex post factoex post factol.1315"According to the construction which a great variety of cases have put on these acts, it must be taken, first, that horse racing is a game within the meaning of the statute of Charles II.; and, secondly, that the games contemplated in the statute of Anne, though not there enumerated, are the same as those referred to in the statute of Charles II."qui taml.,l.,1314 rose to move as an amendment, "That it be an instruction to the Committee to extend the provisions of the Bill to all proceedings of common informers, under the authority of any penal statute." He said his object was to turn the Bill—which as it stood was a Bill to protect a few individuals, who, by violating a law, have incurred unreasonably high penalties, which were sued for by common informers, actuated, very probably, by malice, and a desire to put money into their pockets, but still the very motives on which the Legislature relied for the execution of the law that had been violated—into a Bill applying broadly and impartially the only principles which afforded a shadow of support, to all cases where the Legislature had apportioned penalties on the same plan, and provided the same means of recovering them, and trusted to the same motives, and to all cases, whether of rich or poor, where individuals were at the mercy of common informers, actuated by similar vexatious and mercenary motives. He could not recognise the distinction between high betting on horse racing and other species of gaming, nor any difference, in respect of operation on the morality of the poorer classes, between their smaller bets on horse races and boat races, and on the humbler games of chance, such as pitch and toss, for which they are every day liable to summary conviction by Justices. Nor could he see any difference between the unreasonableness in the penalties imposed by this statute on betting on horse racing, and the unreasonableness of the same penalties as regards gaming at cards or rouge et noir, so that public opinion would naturally lead to a general non-enforcement of the statute, but which, being unrepealed, might be unexpectedly revived any day to the ruin of some individual who had presumed upon the sleeping law. And there were many other penal statutes as absurd as these, to which the present Bill related; for instance, a statute against lotteries, passed in the
qui tamex post facto1316ex post factoex post factol.1315"According to the construction which a great variety of cases have put on these acts, it must be taken, first, that horse racing is a game within the meaning of the statute of Charles II.; and, secondly, that the games contemplated in the statute of Anne, though not there enumerated, are the same as those referred to in the statute of Charles II."qui taml.,l.,1314Mr. Christie
1325 said, that the parties who had incurred penalties had acted with the full knowledge of the law as it existed, and he proposed to leave out of the Pre-
1325Mr. Christie
 did not understand the argument of the right hon. Baronet. He did not know on what grounds relief was claimed, if not upon the ground of ignorance of the law.Mr. Watson
 said, the House would be led away by those who represented the laws in question to be obsolete laws The plaintiffs in these actions had been denounced as scoundrels and blackguards, and all sorts of coarse language had been applied to them, and it was natural for them to turn round upon their assailants and say, "show that you do not let your lands for gambling booths." The noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire might be able to enlighten the House on this point, whether land was ever let for the construction of gambling booths.Captain Pechell
 entirely concurred in the principles laid down by the noble Lord. He was anxious that the whole subject of gaming should be examined by the Committee, and that a total check should be put to gaming, and especially to making books upon horses on the terms, "play or pay." But at the same time he was bound to say, that the proposition of the noble Lord appeared to him objectionable, inasmuch as it partook of the character of a surprise. It was probable that, up to the very moment when they were speaking, bets to a large amount were being made against various horses for coming events, upon the terms of "play or pay;" and a great many of these bets, were, no doubt, made under the expectation of what was called "hedging" them at some future period. The consequence of adopting the Amendment of the noble Lord, would be to saddle these parties with great danger, and probable loss, which they did not contemplate incurring. Upon these grounds he should vote against the amendment of the noble Lord if he persisted in dividing the House upon it.Sir J. Graham
1313pro forma, said, the noble Lord's object would be answered by reading the bill a second time 1313pro forma,Mr. Pakington
 said, the main object of the bill was to improve the present very defective mode of election.Mr. Pakington
 moved the second reading of the County Coroners Bill.Mr. Pakington
1327 thought that the principle involved in the Bill was one of considerable difficulty. He would vote in favour of the Bill, although he thought that those cases in which Parliament interfered to intercept the operation of the law were attended with great difficulty, and open to many objections. It was the peculiar circumstances of the present case which made him ready to grant the relief asked for. He apprehended that there was a general impression through the community that the law in reference to Horse Racing could not bear the construction which was sought to be put upon it. He did not believe that any one thought that betting on Horse Racing subjected those who did bet to enormous penalties, and he thought that the enforcement of these enormous penalties would be extremely unjust and objectionable. On these grounds there was sufficient reason for the House to interfere in the present case. At the same time he considered that it would be better to omit the words from the Preamble which involved the principle that ignorance of the law entitled a party to exemption from the penalties attached to a breach of the law. He was quite aware that there had been general ignorance upon the point in question, but he did not think that the insertion of the words referring to it would aid the case. His vote would be upon the grounds of the peculiar nature of the case. There was a very general impression abroad as to the enormity of the penalty; but if the principle were broadly stated that ignorance of the law warranted impunity in the breach of the law—such a plan of procedure, so far from aiding, would prejudice the case, and he would strongly advise those hon. Gentlemen who were concerned in introducing the Bill, not to subject the Measure to the prejudice which it would excite were the Preamble allowed to remain as it was. There were other classes
1327Sir R. Peel
1331 said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had shown good reasons for his objecting to make ignorance of the law a ground for staying those actions, because he said it was probable that he should
1331Sir R. Peel
 advised that all the Preamble should be omitted, excepting the words relative to the doubtful state of the law upon the point in dispute. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Bath as to the impropriety of introducing the words relative to the ignorance of the law, and he thought that the hon. Gentlemen concerned in the Bill ought to take it as it was offered, and be glad to get it.The Attorney-General
1317in toto, who upon rising was greeted with loud cries of "Divide," said a great deal of pains had been taken by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) to describe this Bill as a measure of class legislation—a proposition which would not have been brought forward and sanctioned by that House if it had not had some relation to persons of station within its walls. He repelled the insinuation 1317in totoMr. Hutt
1322 concurred in the object of the noble Lord's Amendment, but with a view to avoid the charge of
1322Viscount Ebrington
 fully concurred in the object of relieving parties against whom these actions were brought, but he hoped it was not the intention of the House to encourage the continuance of the system of betting on horses. If the Bill did not go to repress that system, he was bound to say that he must require some change in it, because otherwise, betting clubs might go on to-morrow without check, and the system be continued, which was very injurious to the country. This Bill was intended for the protection of persons who were taken by surprise, having acted in ignorance of the law. Let it, then, be confined to that. He proposed, for that purpose, the introduction of the words "such playing or betting being alleged to have taken place previous to the 21st of February, 1844," so that no betting taking place after this day, should have any protection.Viscount Howick
1321 said, that the necessity for his amendment was proved by this circumstance, that if the inquiry to be instituted should be found longer and more difficult than was expected—if they should fail to obtain the assent of the other House to their endeavours to put an end to gaming—at the end of the Session the House would be obliged to renew the Bill, and practically all bets made after this day, would be protected. This was what he wished to guard against. He admitted, that his Amendment might be inconve-
1321Viscount Howick
 had no objection to name the 1st of June as the limit of the protection.Viscount Howick
 might have been induced to withdraw his amendment, if it had not been for the argument which the Secretary of State for the Home Department had used against it. The right hon. Baronet said it would be unjust to stop betting at the present moment, as it would prevent people from "hedging" their bets. It seemed, then, that what people were really afraid of was, a stop being put to the system of betting carried on at the present day; and that was precisely what he (Viscount Howick) wished to see accomplished. He would agree to fix the 1st of March instead of the 21st of February; indeed, he would cheerfully agree as to any reasonable date which might be proposed, but he was decidedly anxious to have some date fixed.Viscount Howick
 could not admit the argument of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, against his amendment. Was it not reasonable to expect that one "hedging bet" would give occasion to other parties to make other "hedging bets." The effect would be entirely to suspend the operation of the law against betting for a time, and when the Act expired, there would be found little difficulty in getting it renewed, and thus the practice of betting would be effectually legalised in a way which no one now dared to oppose.Viscount Howick
1324 confessed he preferred the clause as it stood, to the amendment proposed by the noble Lord near him. He thought it more consistent with the general understanding which the House came to the other night, and also with the usual course of proceedings in such mat-
1324Viscount Palmerston
Instruction"Instruction moved that it be an
Instruction"InstructionMr. Gladstone
l.l. said, a Member was often more interested indirectly than directly. He had an interest of some 8l.l.Lord J. Russell
20 rose to solicit information from the Government with respect to an important subject, on which statements had recently appeared, to the effect that a practice existed in some portions of the eastern counties of the following character:—It was alleged, that when a poor man applied for Poor Law relief, it was refused him unless he could produce certificates from all the farmers of his parish of his having accepted all the work that was offered him, and that if it appeared that he had declined any work, at whatever wages it might have been offered, he was liable not only to a refusal of relief, but to committal by justices of the peace under some clauses of the
20Sir W. James
21 had understood there were some prisoners committed for trial at
21Lord J. Russell
"That although every Javanese was at liberty to quit his village and go to another, he seldom availed himself of the privilege, for, fondly attached to the soil of his ancestors, he was little anxious to remove from it."2726 considering how the subject had been exhausted, would not follow the hon. Gentleman into the general topics to which he had referred, or enter into the question of the consistency or inconsistency of himself and his right hon. Colleagues; neither should he, having already stated his views at some length, repeat his opinion as to what might be the effect of the Bill in admitting some portion of sugar, not the produce of free-labour, and whether or not the Government could be held responsible for that effect; but he would proceed to consider the statements of the hon. Gentleman as to the existence of slavery in the countries to which the hon. Gentleman had referred. First, with regard to China, he did not understand the hon. Gentleman to state that agriculture was carried on in that country by means of slave labour. No doubt domestic slavery existed to a limited extent, but he believed no one would contend that agricultural labour was pursued by slavery. China was a country, however, from which the supply
"That although every Javanese was at liberty to quit his village and go to another, he seldom availed himself of the privilege, for, fondly attached to the soil of his ancestors, he was little anxious to remove from it."2726Mr. Gladstone
 said, Siam was not included in the Bill. The question as so whether they could admit its sugars remained still open. The Government had not been able to obtain recent information as to the state of the working population of that country; but, so far as he knew, he believed that a severe system of slavery existed there, and that that system was supported by a cruel Slave Trade.Mr. Gladstone
36Mangles:35Mangles:s.pice34 had not intended to trouble the House for a moment upon the question before it, but after the manner in which he had been alluded to by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he could not help trespassing upon them for a few minutes. He would not discuss the question of the East-India sugar; but he could not help remarking, in passing, how apt hon. Gentlemen, who were in general the strongest advocates for free-trade, were, at the moment it was proposed to apply these principles to a case which touched their own interest, immediately to find out that there were places and cases, with respect to which there was something higher to be taken into consideration than free-trade, and which forbad its application. He hoped that in future they would hear no taunts from the opposite side of the House about hon. Gentlemen being free-traders in the abstract, but unwilling to carry their principles into practice. But the hon. Gentleman stated that he considered that the East Indies had been hardly dealt with as to the Sugar Duties. Now, for the last seven years they had been placed upon precisely the same footing as the West Indies in this respect True, a complaint was made as to rum. Very well, he would come to that presently. But were the East-Indian planters on a perfect footing with the West-Indian growers as to labour? The hon. Gentleman stated as the great grievance of the West Indies their
36Mangles:35Mangles:s.pice34Lord Stanley
494847s.464544Hansard,43, before he spoke of this particular Bill, must make some reference to the statements of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies, with respect to industry and labour in the West Indies, in the historical account he had given on that subject. He had been charged with having in some degree thwarted the introduction of labour into the West Indies some years ago. The noble Lord stated that there was a measure of the late Government, about 1837 or 1838, which
494847s.464544Hansard,43Lord J. Russell
66 was desirous of mentioning a few facts which had crossed his mind. The industrious classes of the community experienced great difficulty in obtaining gold to carry on their business. [The hon. Baronet was proceeding to show by references to the official, and declared value of exports, that merchants and manufacturers of the present time exported more than double the amount of goods for the same money sums formerly received by them, when the interruption became so persevering that he suddenly resumed his seat, with an observation that, though he had intended to say much more, he considered that it was perfectly useless to
66Sir W. James
 said, that the hon. Gentleman had supposed a time when the Bank would be called upon to supply the whole country circulation; but what he wanted to know was how the Bank could do so, acting upon the principle which it had deliberately laid down, with the approbation of Parliament — that one-third of their issues should be supported by bullion, and the other two-thirds by securities.Mr. S. Wortley
 was unwilling to vote against the right hon. Baronet; for be considered this, on the whole an excellent measure, though a bold experiment, and not without risk. He could not agree with his hon. Friend who had put the question on the present state of the Bank; for they all knew that the harvest and a sudden demand for money would bring about that change in the circulation which had been proposed. If the country circulation, from any circumstances should be withdrawn, then six millions would be required on securities to supply the void. The right hon. Baronet said he did not wish to restrict the circulation; but what inducement was held out to the Bank to obtain bullion, upon which the three millions might be issued. He did not understand at all that that was made a condition by the Government; it certainly was not expressly provided.Lord J. Russell
74"The appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire into the expediency of facilitating the Inclosure and Improvement of Commons and Lands held in Common, the exchange of Lands and the division of intermixed Lands; and into the best means of providing for the same, and to report their opinion to the House." moved for
74"The appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire into the expediency of facilitating the Inclosure and Improvement of Commons and Lands held in Common, the exchange of Lands and the division of intermixed Lands; and into the best means of providing for the same, and to report their opinion to the House."Lord Worsley
25"Slavery in Java prevails to a much less extent than in other islands. The slaves do not exceed 30,000, and none of them are native Javans, but obtained by purchase or capture from Celebes or Borneo. Sir S. Raffles attempted and succeeded, during his Government, in mitigating the extent of the trade."24"In 1822 a Treaty was concluded by Captain Moresby, R.N., on behalf of the British Government, with the Imaum, by which the trade with Christian countries was declared abolished for ever throughout his dominions and dependencies. But this arrangement, it must be remembered, does not in any way touch upon the Slave Trade carried on by the Imaum's subjects with those of their own faith. By means of this reserved trade slaves are exported to Zanzebar, to the ports on both sides of the Arabian Gulf, to the markets of Egypt,
24"Of the foreign trade of Siam the most important branch is that with China. This is wholly carried on in vessels of Chinese form, navigated by Chinese; but the greater portion of them built in Siam, A far as Siam is concerned, the whole of the Chinese trade centres in Bankok, with the exception of a few junks which trade to Sungora and Ligor. The ports of China which carry on trade with Siam are Canton, Kiangmui, and Changlin; Amoy, Nimpo, Sianghai, and Sao-Cheu; besides several ports of the great island of Hai-nan. The most considerable exports from Siam are black pepper, sugar, tin, &c.""Returning home after it was dusk, we met two persons conversing together in the Javanese language. Its accents, in this remote place, excited our curiosity, and we entered into conversation with the strangers. One of them recognised me as an old acquaintance, and described himself as one of a party, consisting of seven young men and six young women, who had been kidnapped at Samarang, in Java, about three years before, by the commander of a Chinese junk, and sold as slaves to the Siamese."23"All slaves who are guilty of designedly striking their masters, shall, without making any distinction between principals and accessaries, be beheaded. All slaves designedly killing, or designedly striking, so as to kill their masters, shall suffer death by a slow and painful execution. If accidentally killing their masters, they shall suffer death by being strangled at the usual period. If any person beats to death, or intentionally kills a slave belonging to his family, who had not been guilty of any crime, the person so offending shall be punished with sixty blows and one year's imprisonment. … The master, or relations of the master of a guilty slave, may, however, chastise such slave, in any degree short of occasioning his death, without being liable to any punishment""A very extensive branch of trade is carried on by a direct communication between Java and China, entirely upon Chinese capital, in a description of vessels called junks.""According to the Returns obtained in 1814, it appeared that the following were the numbers (of slaves) in the principal divisions of the island:—At Batavia and its environs, 18,972; in the Samarang division, 4,488 in the Surabáya division, 3,682; total 27,142. These slaves are the property of the Europeans and Chinese alone; the native chiefs never require the services of slaves, or engage in the traffic of slavery."22 observed, that the principle which the Government pretended to aim at in this Bill was to prohibit the importation of sugar the produce of slave-labour, and to encourage that of free-labour. Now, he thought he should be able to show that very little sugar would be imported from the East which was not more or less tainted with slave-labour. It had been stated on a former evening by his hon. Friend the Member for Renfrewshire (Mr. P. M. Stewart), that in Java there was forced labour, and that the labourers there might properly be regarded as slaves. The right hon. the President of the Board of Trade had, however, disputed that statement, and since then he (Mr. Hawes) had made inquiries, and looked into various authorities, and he believed he was in a position to show, by evidence the most conclusive, that slavery did exist in Java.
25"Slavery in Java prevails to a much less extent than in other islands. The slaves do not exceed 30,000, and none of them are native Javans, but obtained by purchase or capture from Celebes or Borneo. Sir S. Raffles attempted and succeeded, during his Government, in mitigating the extent of the trade."24"In 1822 a Treaty was concluded by Captain Moresby, R.N., on behalf of the British Government, with the Imaum, by which the trade with Christian countries was declared abolished for ever throughout his dominions and dependencies. But this arrangement, it must be remembered, does not in any way touch upon the Slave Trade carried on by the Imaum's subjects with those of their own faith. By means of this reserved trade slaves are exported to Zanzebar, to the ports on both sides of the Arabian Gulf, to the markets of Egypt,
24"Of the foreign trade of Siam the most important branch is that with China. This is wholly carried on in vessels of Chinese form, navigated by Chinese; but the greater portion of them built in Siam, A far as Siam is concerned, the whole of the Chinese trade centres in Bankok, with the exception of a few junks which trade to Sungora and Ligor. The ports of China which carry on trade with Siam are Canton, Kiangmui, and Changlin; Amoy, Nimpo, Sianghai, and Sao-Cheu; besides several ports of the great island of Hai-nan. The most considerable exports from Siam are black pepper, sugar, tin, &c.""Returning home after it was dusk, we met two persons conversing together in the Javanese language. Its accents, in this remote place, excited our curiosity, and we entered into conversation with the strangers. One of them recognised me as an old acquaintance, and described himself as one of a party, consisting of seven young men and six young women, who had been kidnapped at Samarang, in Java, about three years before, by the commander of a Chinese junk, and sold as slaves to the Siamese."23"All slaves who are guilty of designedly striking their masters, shall, without making any distinction between principals and accessaries, be beheaded. All slaves designedly killing, or designedly striking, so as to kill their masters, shall suffer death by a slow and painful execution. If accidentally killing their masters, they shall suffer death by being strangled at the usual period. If any person beats to death, or intentionally kills a slave belonging to his family, who had not been guilty of any crime, the person so offending shall be punished with sixty blows and one year's imprisonment. … The master, or relations of the master of a guilty slave, may, however, chastise such slave, in any degree short of occasioning his death, without being liable to any punishment""A very extensive branch of trade is carried on by a direct communication between Java and China, entirely upon Chinese capital, in a description of vessels called junks.""According to the Returns obtained in 1814, it appeared that the following were the numbers (of slaves) in the principal divisions of the island:—At Batavia and its environs, 18,972; in the Samarang division, 4,488 in the Surabáya division, 3,682; total 27,142. These slaves are the property of the Europeans and Chinese alone; the native chiefs never require the services of slaves, or engage in the traffic of slavery."22Mr. Hawes
l.65l.l., said, that since some misunderstandings of his opinions on the advantages of a convertible Currency appeared to exist among hon. Members, he was anxious to explain that he did not ob-object to the principle of convertibility, of which he approved, but he objected to the manner in which it was now to be applied to the circumstances of this country—a country burthened with a debt of 800,000,000l.65l.l.,Mr. Newdegate
 said, the rule did not apply to public matters. If the only interest of a Member in a question was such that it could not be separated from the interest of the public, his vote was not affected by it.The Speaker
 said, there was no doubt that the rules of the House, so far as they applied, were equally binding on Committees. It had been so decided in 1836, when the question was raised whether the Chairman of a Committee could give a casting vote. The hon. Member for Oxford had referred to Mr. Speaker Abbott's decision in 1811, since which time there had been several decisions to the same effect. Certainly, if a Member had a direct pecuniary interest—a separate interest—in a question before the House, and in like manner before a Committee, his vote ought not to be allowed.The Speaker
18 would beg to ask the hon. Member for Finsbury, who seemed so ready to attribute interested motives to others, whether he himself had ever voted on a question in which he was personally interested? Had the hon. Member voted
18Colonel Sibthorp
 objected to the Motion at so late an hour of the night. What chance he would ask would the noble Lord have of bringing the deliberations of this Committee to a close before the termination of the Session? It appeared to him that the proposal so made was not characterized by fairness, nor was the Committee itself particularly well selected.Colonel Sibthorp
l.,70 said, that the additional case of emergency which the hon. Gentleman spoke of had no reference whatever to the Clause of the Bill which they were then discussing. He thought it would be much better to postpone the discussion of it then, until they came to the Clause which had reference thereto. The question was simply this, when country bankers might withdraw their circulation, should the Bank supply the deficiency by its notes? The emergency contemplated by the hon. Gentleman was amply provided for. It was important to look at the present state of the Bank to judge of the effect of this measure. As to its future state there might be a difference of opinion, but
l.,70Mr. C. Wood
 inquired if it was the intention of Government to introduce any measure for revising the system of banking in Scotland and Ireland in this or the ensuing Session?Mr. Wodehouse
 had then moved "That the vote of Mr. Eliot Yorke upon the Middle Level Drainage Bill is a good vote."Mr. E. Yorke
l. asked if this Bill and its system was to regulate the circulation of the Bank of England and Joint-stock banks, why could it not regulate the currency as well? What would be the consequence of withdrawing 100,000l.Mr. Muntz
 thought that there would be a difficulty in the Committee deciding on the rejection of a vote, and that therefore each case should be reported to the House for its decision.Mr. Warburton
l.l.l.s.,s. objected to the measure on account of the great protection it afforded to the East and West Indians; a protection amounting to 50 per cent. upon the cost of sugar as estimated, in the Liverpool market, on Brazilian sugar imported into this country. A 10l.l.l.s.,s.Mr. Warburton
l.l.l.l.,l.s.38d.d.d.,d. said, the hon. Member for Cumberland, the hon. Member for Renfrewshire, and some other hon. Members on the same side of the House, had pro claimed to the House that sugar which was selling for 6l.l.l.l.,l.s.38d.d.d.,d.Mr. Bright
71 could assure the House that this Amendment involved no violation of the principle of the Bill; for the country circulation was not based upon bullion, but upon Bank of England notes. It was very easy to talk of this plan over full coffers, but he was sure the right, hon. Baronet wished to make it
71Mr. P. M. Stewart
s.s.29d.s.s.d.s.Gladstone:Gladstone:28 said, the right hon. Gentleman had stated that slavery did not exist in regard to the supply of labour in Java, and that the labourers there were as free to quit the land upon which they were employed as were the labourers of this country. Now, he should like to know from the right hon. Gentleman what was his definition of free-labour. The statement he (Mr. P. M. Stewart) had made on a previous occasion, and which he now repeated, was, that the labour of Java was forced, and that all the exported produce of the country was obtained by forced labour. It was not one French pamphleteer that should settle this question. He had taken some pains in looking into authorities upon the subject, and he would take, as far as it went, the authority of Mr. Crawford; and it appeared that the revolt in Java had been occasioned by the labouring population having been subjected to the yoke of slavery, after having tasted of the sweets of freedom under British rule. He found also, that the exportable produce of the island, under the Dutch governor, was raised by forced labour. This statement he made from authority. In 1830, the Governor Vanderdosh introduced the system of prescribed cultivation and forced delivery of produce, under which the quantity of sugar was increased twenty-five times in ten years. The Governor directed that the inhabitants of villages should be brought to cultivate the land, and that for every 1 8/1 acre (English) four labourers were to be appointed, each to relieve the other alternately, so that one or other
s.s.29d.s.s.d.s.Gladstone:Gladstone:28Mr. P. M. Stewart
42l.l.4140s.39 hoped hon. Gentlemen opposite, in support of whom he had given a rather popular vote some few nights ago, would excuse him if he did not consult them now, when he ventured to explain the justice of the vote he intended to give. He had not, in any one of the stages of this rather long discussion, sought the indulgence of the House to say one word upon it, and he trusted he might be pardoned if he said that one word now. Yes, one word, it should be no more—to show that the course he was about to pursue was consistent with justice, and that which ought to be pursued by those who, like himself, viewed this question not as one of interest, but as a question of national honesty and virtue. Whatever might be the merits of this somewhat ingenious opposition which met the Bill of the Government, it appeared to him that the time chosen for it was not appropriate. This discussion was introduced to the House, first of all in the shape of a proposition submitted to a Commitee of the whole House, on which proposition this Bill was to be founded. Upon
42l.l.4140s.39Mr. Borthwick
64ad captandum63626160 said, that allusion had been made in the course of the debate to a very remarkable Memorial which had been presented to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, and which was signed by a considerable majority of the private bankers of the city of London. He (Mr. R. Currie) had the misfortune to differ from the views of that Memorial. It was signed by the firm to which he had the honour to belong. His partners, for whom he entertained the greatest regard and respect, differed from him, and agreed with the majority of the London Bankers. In compliance with what they knew of his views, they had offered to abstain from signing the Memorial; but as he thought that the only intelligible principle in such matters was, that the minority should be ruled by the majority, he begged they would sign it, reserving to himself the right of expressing his individual opinion on any future occasion. This was a purely personal matter, but it was necessary to guard himself against the charge of inconsistency. He was bound to say, that the Memorial had received the signatures of a body of men who would always be entitled to most respectful attention; and on this occasion, having expressed their opinions on a subject on which they had much experience and practical knowledge, he had no doubt their Memorial had received from the right hon. Baronet the fullest consideration; but though it was true that those were the opinions of a majority of the private bankers of London, still there were many, not only bankers, but commercial men, who differed from those opinions, and agreed with him. When he alluded to the names of Mr. Loyd, Mr. Grote, and Mr. Norman, he might almost say, "errare malo cum Platone quam cum istis vera sentire." Those who signed that Memorial, as far as he could collect their sentiments from the speeches and votes of the hon. Member for London (Mr. Masterman), and the hon. Member for Westmoreland (Mr. Thompson), their exponents in that House, declared that they agreed in the principle and object of the measure. Now, this he did not understand. If they agreed in the principle and object of this measure, then the wishes of the memorialists seemed to him
64ad captandum63626160Mr. Raikes Currie
33"With respect to the labouring population, formerly slaves, but now perfectly free, and more independent than the same class in other free countries, I venture to say that in no country in the world can the labouring population be more abundantly provided with the necessaries and comforts of life, more at their ease, or more secure from oppression, than in Jamaica; and I may add, that ministers of the Gospel for the religious instruction, and schools for the education of their children, are established in all parts of the island, with a tendency to constant increase."pice3231l."Although it is now some years since the equalization of the duties on the East and West India sugar (during which time the enormous increase in the imports has already been before Parliament), it is only now, I mean literally only last year, that European skill and capital was first applied to the cultivation of the cane in India, it is only a recent discovery that the Otaheitean variety of cane can be successfully cultivated in various parts of India, and more especially in Tirhoot, where by the last accounts great efforts were being made to extend the cultivation. You heard from our Committee of management the day you called, that machinery to the value of 25,00031l.s.s.30 was of opinion that the Bill did great injustice to both East and West-India interests. As to the West-Indian sugar-growers, indeed, he did not think that they had experienced the most ordinary fair play. There would have been little use in his saying anything with respect to the claims of India upon this country, and he would not have opened his mouth upon the subject, were it not for the manner in which these claims had been spoken of by hon. Gentlemen in this House. Let them recollect the facts of the case. From Returns he held in his hand, he perceived that our exports to India alone, last year, exceeded those to the West Indies and to the Brazils put together.
33"With respect to the labouring population, formerly slaves, but now perfectly free, and more independent than the same class in other free countries, I venture to say that in no country in the world can the labouring population be more abundantly provided with the necessaries and comforts of life, more at their ease, or more secure from oppression, than in Jamaica; and I may add, that ministers of the Gospel for the religious instruction, and schools for the education of their children, are established in all parts of the island, with a tendency to constant increase."pice3231l."Although it is now some years since the equalization of the duties on the East and West India sugar (during which time the enormous increase in the imports has already been before Parliament), it is only now, I mean literally only last year, that European skill and capital was first applied to the cultivation of the cane in India, it is only a recent discovery that the Otaheitean variety of cane can be successfully cultivated in various parts of India, and more especially in Tirhoot, where by the last accounts great efforts were being made to extend the cultivation. You heard from our Committee of management the day you called, that machinery to the value of 25,00031l.s.s.30Mr. Mangles
17"That it is the undoubted rule and uniform practice of this House, that no Member shall vote (either in the House or in any Committee thereof) upon any question in which he has a direct pecuniary interest, separately belonging to him; That a Member having property, the value of which
17 suggested that the Amendment of the hon. Member (Mr. Greene) should be withdrawn, and that the following Amendment should be adopted:—
17"That it is the undoubted rule and uniform practice of this House, that no Member shall vote (either in the House or in any Committee thereof) upon any question in which he has a direct pecuniary interest, separately belonging to him; That a Member having property, the value of which
17Mr. Estcourt
 wished to inquire whether, the right hon. Baronet having asserted that incendiarism in the eastern counties had not been to any great extent the work of the peasantry, but had been produced by perambulatory incendiaries, he would be prepared to assent to a commission of inquiry into the condition of the agricultural poor in those counties, and the causes of the recent incendiarism? If so, he would be ready to move an Address to the Crown for such a commission.Mr. Gibson
, who rose for the purpose of explanation, stated that the principal part of his observations relative to Mr. Loyd was, that that gentleman was one of those free traders whe said, "Free trade in everything except that in which I deal." He (Mr. Gisborne) had used the word "monopoly:" he acknowledged it was unnecessary, and he regretted that he had used it. But the substance of what he said was, that Mr. Loyd placed himself before the world as a free-trader in everything else, but in credit, which he believed was the article in which that Gentleman dealt.Mr. Gisborne
l.: The right hon. Baronet had asked him a question, which he could answer by asking one also of the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet had referred to the highest amount; why might he not refer to the time when there were only 2,000,000l.Mr. Gisborne
 asked in what possible way was this country to obtain gold except by offering more manufactures in exchange for it than other countries? That would be the effect of the hon. Baronet's measure, viz., to lower the prices of manufactures. It was his great objection to that measure that it tended to lower prices. That Clause placed circulation in a very different state to that which it was then in. It would have the effect of curtailing the currency. He really thought that that measure of two-thirds was not based upon the principle of the right hon. Baronet, viz., that he did not wish to curtail the currency.Mr. Gisborne
"That the rule and practice of this House is, that no Member shall vote upon any question in which he has a direct pecuniary interest: That where any Member has voted in violation of this rule, such vote when challenged in the House, has been disallowed: That every rule of the House applies equally to all Committees of the House: That a Member of the House of Commons having property within the limits of an Improvement Bill, which property will be affected by the passing of the Bill, has such an interest as disqualifies him as a Member of the House, and the representative of general local interest, from voting on all questions affecting the Preamble or Clauses of such Bill." had moved as an amendment thereon,—
"That the rule and practice of this House is, that no Member shall vote upon any question in which he has a direct pecuniary interest: That where any Member has voted in violation of this rule, such vote when challenged in the House, has been disallowed: That every rule of the House applies equally to all Committees of the House: That a Member of the House of Commons having property within the limits of an Improvement Bill, which property will be affected by the passing of the Bill, has such an interest as disqualifies him as a Member of the House, and the representative of general local interest, from voting on all questions affecting the Preamble or Clauses of such Bill."Mr. Greene
 observed, that the longer his experience in that House extended, the more he was convinced that it was one of the most extraordinary assemblages in existence. From the nature of the discussion which had occupied the House for the last hour, it would appear that the Members here were the most immaculate body of men in the world, and that they evinced great and laudable anxiety lest any Member should be allowed to vote on a matter in which he had a personal and private interest. Now, if the assertion of that principle were worth any thing—if hon. Members were really sincere in urging its adoption, what became of the decision of the House last night on the question of the Corn Laws? Why, two-thirds of those who voted against the repeal of those laws consisted of men who had a direct personal and private interest in the question. There was also the Sugar Duties Bill, which, by the way, stood on the orders for that evening. What became of the majority of those who voted on that Bill? Were they not men who had a direct personal interest in the question on which they had voted, and were again about to vote? And was any exception taken to the vote of any one of those hon. Members. Yet could any one get up in that House, and assert that these hon. Members had no interest in the matter? The interest of the one class was to have dear corn, and of the other to have dear sugars—that by high rents and high prices of sugar, they might put money into their own pockets out of those of the other classes of the community. Seeing these things, he must say, that it was a perfect mockery to try and make the public believe that Members of that House were not allowed to vote on any matter in which they were personally interested.Mr. Wakley
 was glad that the hon. and gallant Member had put that question to him, and he hoped that he and his hon. Friends around him, would be benefited by the answer he was about to give. He could state, then, that whenever the County Coroners Bill was before the House, and on every question of increased mileage fees, he made it a rule to retire from the House, without voting at all. Having got his answer, he hoped the hon. and gallant Colonel and his Friends would follow his example on other and more important questions.Mr. Wakley
 observed, that the Speaker's opinion applied to the printed rules of the House. The practice was different. How was it possible to decide when Members had a pecuniary interest? Suppose, with respect to the subject of opening letters in the Post Office, a vote of want of confidence should be proposed, could the Members of the Government vote against a Motion, the effect of which would be to deprive them of their offices? If that rule was to be observed, no Member of the Government would be able to vote on such questions.Mr. Wakley
 said, there could be no doubt that this part of the Bill must have a contracting influence. It was true that as matters stood at the Bank at present there was no necessity for availing itself of this Clause; but the change of the country circulation into the Bank circulation would cause an efflux of gold, which would render the Clause then available; and the consequence would be a contraction of the circulation to the amount of three millions. There was however, a check to this, in this respect, that the Bank of England had no interest in acquiring these fresh issues; but would on the contrary, lose by it. It should be remembered that they had not relieved the Bank from responsibility to the proprietors, whose influence had been more prejudicial in the management of the Bank than any other. With that check, which he considered amply sufficient, he thought they ought to leave every latitude in a measure which must be regarded as a great experiment; and one of which he would not risk the success by forcing upon the Government any positive reduction.Mr. F. T. Baring
 expressed his intention of voting with the right hon. Baronet. He had heard the arguments of his hon. Friend in support of the Amendment; they were calculated to give a very exaggerated notion of the effect of the measure; his hon. Friend had spoken as if he supposed that the whole of the country circulation would come into the Bank at once; whereas really the gradual effect of this measure was one of its best features.Mr. F. T. Baring
19 observed, that it would be difficult to ascertain what was a direct pecuniary interest. An indirect interest might sometimes be more influential than a direct one. The only means of preventing the difficulty would be by referring the Bills to a Select Committee, chosen indifferently from the House, instead
19Sir G. Grey
53525150 was obliged to the noble Lord, the Member for London, for having afforded him an opportunity of saying a few words upon his vote of a former evening. The noble Lord admits that he (Sir H. Douglas) declared his intention of voting against the proposition of the Government, and that he would likewise oppose that of the hon. Member for Bristol. But the noble Lord says, that he (Sir H. Douglas) did not intimate or entertain an intention of still voting against the Government, measure. Now he appealed to the House, whether, when he intimated his
53525150Sir Howard Douglas
"Whether it be true that the system of denying relief altogether to the poor, except upon the production of a certificate stating that the farmers of the parish had no work to give the applicant, signed by them, be prevalent in the counties of Suffolk and Norfolk, and particularly in the union of Haverhill?"Times. must decline answering as to certain statements that might have appeared in the "Whether it be true that the system of denying relief altogether to the poor, except upon the production of a certificate stating that the farmers of the parish had no work to give the applicant, signed by them, be prevalent in the counties of Suffolk and Norfolk, and particularly in the union of Haverhill?"Times.Sir James Graham
 was obliged to the noble Lord for having put his question. It was true that there were now several persons awaiting their trial on charges of arson in those counties; and beyond all doubt these trials conducted before judges most competent to elicit and investigate evidence, would cast considerable light upon the causes of recent incendiarism. He had been untruly represented as having said that it had been produced exclusively by parties perambulating the country for the commission of the crime. He had stated his belief that the great body of the peasantry were not tainted by the guilt of this cowardly offence, and that, generally speaking, it was to be traced to personal malignity on the part of labourers acting under an impression of personal injury. As to the issuing of a commission for inquiry, it was impossible for him, without any notice, to answer as to what might or might not be the future intention of the Government. As at present advised, assuredly, he anticipated important information from the coming trials, and was indisposed to assent to the issuing of a special commission of inquiry.Sir J. Graham
 observed, that it was an important constitutional question how far a Committee ought, without a special delegation, to have the power of depriving a Member of his vote.Sir R. Peel
 said, the question was, who should decide on the Member's right to vote? Was the decision to be by a majority of the Committee? He feared that some decisions might not in that case be quite satisfactory.Sir R. Peel
58l.,57s.56s.s.55s.,H. Douglas:54 said, he was unwilling to say one word that should have the effect of prolonging the discussion, because he was most anxious to proceed with other business of the greatest importance; and nothing should have induced him to utter
58l.,57s.56s.s.55s.,H. Douglas:54Sir R. Peel
59 said, that when Parliament had affirmed the measure with respect to England, the Government would apply themselves to the subject, and put themselves in friendly communication regarding the currency both of Scotland and Ireland with the proper parties. The question of the banking and currency of those two countries would undergo the fullest consideration of the Government, and they would endeavour to bring in a measure
59Sir R. Peel
l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l. said, that assuming the circulation of the country banks to be 9,000,000l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.Sir R. Peel
l.l.,l.l.l.: Sir, when Parliament determines that, only a certain amount, of notes shall be issued on securities, the increase of that amount will be an important fact, of which the public ought to have due notice. The words in the Clause direct that the Bank shall notify to Her Majesty in Council the circumstances under which alone an increase may take place. These circumstances are an extinction, from some cause or other, of some portion of that amount of paper issues, which other banks than the Bank of England will be allowed to enjoy. The Bank of England having 9,000,000l.l.,l.l.l.Sir R. Peel
72 said, that many of these arguments might be applicable, if the Bill gave the Bank any power of itself to extinguish the country circulation and substitute its own; but by this Bill the country circulation might be continued or not, at the option of the country issuers. The argument was, that the country preferred country paper; but if that were so, ought they not then to be satisfied that there would be no such displacement of the country paper as was apprehended? The country issuers had a decided interest in its continuance, because in the first place it was a monopoly in their hands; and secondly, because it was a direct advantage to them to keep their securities in their own hands. It was improbable, therefore, that the Bank of England should have any opportunity of substituting its own paper for that of the country banks; but the noble Lord had asked what there was to induce the Bank of England to make that substitution; it was true the Bank would derive no profit from it; but the inducement would be, to guard itself against loss. For if the country circulation were withdrawn, and the Bank refused to supply the void, a great influx of gold would be the consequence,
72Sir R. Peel
 thought the noble Lord quite right in moving for a Committee, as he would have had little or no prospect of being able to proceed with the Bill during the present Session. He (Sir R. Peel) had originally entertained very strong objections to the Bill; but in justice to the noble Lord he must say that the strongest disposition had been evinced by him to remove the objectionable features of the measure, and to prevent its undue interference with the rights and enjoyments of the people. With the understanding therefore that the step now proposed was not to imply that the Government sanctioned the Bill in its present form, he would give his assent to the appointment of the Committee.Sir R. Peel
: Will the hon. Gentleman give me an answer to the following? It will be in the power of the Bank of England to supply the whole circulation, and at the same time part with five millions of its gold; but the Bank has fifteen millions; now ten millions will be sufficient to work with; if the Bank parted with five millions would it not still have six millions to insure the convertibility of its paper?Sir R. Peel
 could not perceive the possibility of abuse. The hon. Member must have been driven very bard for an argument when he supposed that any partiality could exist on the part of the Queen in Council for any particular locality in regard to the issue of notes on securities.Sir R. Peel
69l.: I do not understand how the hon. Gentleman can contend that this Clause is inconsistent with the principle of the Bill. I wish to keep up the full amount of the currency, to exclude every 569l.Sir R. Peel
 objected to the power. He objected to the control of the Government over the circulation on political grounds, as it gave them a power which was too great to be confided to any hands. He therefore moved that the words "Her Majesty in Council be empowered to grant permission" be omitted.Sir W. Clay
l.,l.l.pro tanto68 asked where the gold was to come from which was to be the basis of the one-third of these issues from the Bank of England? If from the existing
l.,l.l.pro tanto68Sir W. Clay
 wished to know the meaning to be attached to the words "Her Majesty in Council." If its meaning was to give an unreserved power of determining the issue of Bank of England notes to the country, he should oppose the terms in the Clause, and take the sense of the Committee upon them.Sir W. Clay
Warburton37 believed, that as soon as the West-Indian proprietors obtained a sufficient supply of labour, they would be able to compete with any other country, without any protection. He entirely disapproved of the proposition of the hon. Member who had just sat down. A great national possession ought not to be destroyed for want of an ample supply of labour to enable West-Indian proprietors to work their estates to advantage. That
Warburton37Viscount Sandon
pro formâ, moved, that the Joint-stock Companies Registration and Regulation Bill be committed pro formâ,Mr. Gladstone
110109 said, that before the question was finally disposed of, he wished to say a few words as regarded the Irish Presbyterians. He could assure the House that when first made acquainted with the case of the non-subscribing Presbyterians, he had no prepossessions in their favour. He was, therefore, an unbiassed witness. He had had various communications both with non-subscribing Presbyterians, and with a deputation of the Synod of Ulster—that deputation headed by gentlemen for whose character, opinions, and talents, he had the highest respect. He had been anxious to effect an amicable settlement of differences; but, unfortunately, his endeavours altogether failed, and he was bound to say, after giving the most calm and attentive consideration to the subject, that legislation was actually necessary to prevent the infliction of a grievous wrong on the non-subscribing Presbyterians of Ireland. He felt that an attempt to revive an obsolete law which, during its existence, had never been put in force in this country—certainly not in Ireland—ought to be resisted. It was very clear that in most cases to which reference had been made, that if it had not been for the previous state of the law between the passing of the Act of
110109Lord Eliot
 wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether he had received any direct account from Dr. Woolf respecting the fate of Colonel Stodart and Captain Conolly; and he also wished to know whether Her Majesty's Government had given their support to Dr. Woolf on his mission to Bokhara, and whether he went into that country with the sanction of Her Majesty's Government.Mr. B. Cochrane
 said, it would be satisfactory to know how far these officers, at the time when they were imprisoned at Bokhara, were employed in the service of the Government.Mr. Cochrane
 considered it of the utmost importance that the accommodation which had been usually extended in agricultural districts, should be continued under this Bill; and he doubted whether, by taking the average circulation for the last three months as the basis, that effect would be produced in many cases.Colonel Sibthorp
116115"I was licensed by one non-subscribing Presbytery, and ordained by another; and, consequently, I was never called upon to subscribe, nor would I have subscribed, being then, as now, an Arian. Almost the whole of my brethren were similarly circumstanced."114113 assured the hon and learned
116115"I was licensed by one non-subscribing Presbytery, and ordained by another; and, consequently, I was never called upon to subscribe, nor would I have subscribed, being then, as now, an Arian. Almost the whole of my brethren were similarly circumstanced."114113Mr. Shaw
 said, that the desire of the Zollverein to increase the duty on pig iron had been greatly strengthened by the low prices prevailing in this country at the time. Since then a considerable, advance had taken place, and the arguments used in favour of an increase of duty must have lost a good deal of their weight, because, from that, circumstance there was not so much danger of competition from this country.Dr. Bowring
 begged leave to put the question, of which he had given notice, to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of Her Majesty's Government, respecting the renewed intention of the Zollverein to place a higher duty upon British iron, and particularly on pig iron. He had seen that communications had taken place between the different deputies and the States they represented; and that the concurrence of those States had been obtained to discuss this question. He did not understand that any peremptory instructions had been given to the delegates to insist on the rise of duty, but they were to assemble in September next, when this topic would be again introduced. The question he wished to ask was, whether Her Majesty's Government had taken any measures on the subject, or made any representations to prevent such a disastrous result from taking place?Dr. Bowring
108l.107106: There was one remarkable circumstance respecting this Bill, and that was that while all the weight of authority and argument within the House was in its favour, out of the House the feeling of the country was quite in an opposite direction. This was to be gathered from the great number of Petitions that had been presented. The great body of Dissenters in England had no hostility to the Unitarians, they had fought for a long time beside them, more particularly during the past year in the struggle on the education question. He therefore repudiated, on the part of the Church and the great body of Dissenters, the charge of hostility against the Unitarians. As far as the present Bill went to place the Unitarians on a footing with the great body of Dissenters he had no objection to the Bill, but he did not wish it to go further. If the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government had issued a
108l.107106Mr. Colquhoun
 proposed the omission of the last paragraph of the Clause before the Committee, which contained certain restrictions as to issues by joint-stock banks, and as to the lawful number of partners. His proposition went to give security to those sources of issue recognized as lawful in the Bill before the Committee.Mr. P. M. Stewart
 said, that those hon. Gentlemen who had made a fortune and retired from business, supported the Government measure cordially, as its tendency was to make money valuable, while those who were still struggling on in commerce, opposed it on account of its restrictive tendencies. He would not press his Amendment either upon that Clause, or that of which he had given notice on the next Clause.Mr. P. M. Stewart
 did not think that joint-stock banks failed in giving security to depositors, and the failures which had taken place among them might frequently be traced to the directors not having early been accustomed to banking business. The tendency of the measure was to teach the mercantile community to look to "coming events," and direct their attention to the fluctuations of foreign exchanges. As such it would be beneficial.Mr. M. Phillips
, in seconding the Motion, said, that although the Bill had been somewhat altered since he had last opposed it, it was still the same in all its objectionable features. To the first Clause he did not object; but to the second, which went to establish the prescriptive right, he had a decided objection. The third Clause was not only at variance with the law as it stood, but also with the Bill as it appeared on its first introduction. He had not treated the question as a religious question, nor did he mean to do so now, but would merely state that, under all the circumstances, he felt bound to second the Amendment.Sir R. Inglis
 objected to the Amendment, as giving facilities to joint-stock banks to multiply their branches, and swallow up private country banking establishments. He did not wish to meddle with the privileges already enjoyed by joint-stock banks, but he did not wish to allow them to hawk about those privileges for sale in the public market. He, therefore, declined, adopting the suggestion, and hoped that the country bankers would approve of his conduct in doing so.Sir Robert Peel
119 said it was perhaps impossible, in taking an average, to take in every case. In the first instance the average of the last two years had been taken as the maximum of issues; but under that provision it was found that many cases of hardship would arise which it would be necessary to provide against by special clauses. The point was consequently reconsidered; and as it was found that by taking the average on the circulation of the twelve weeks previous to the announcement of the Bill, would give an increased circulation, and conform to the wishes of the joint-stock and country banks, and more especially that it involved less risk of disturbing existing interests, it was thought desirable to institute the twelve weeks for the two years. It was found that the further they went back for the averages, the greater would
119Sir Robert Peel
 said, that Her Majesty's Government had not received any direct official information with regard to the steps to which the hon. Gentleman referred; but private communications had been received, which led them to believe, that there was a strong desire in Germany to raise the duty on iron. Urgent representations had been made by Her Majesty's Government, appealing to their sense of their own interest; and it was slated to Her Majesty's Government, that there might be an increase of duty for a certain limited period. It would be difficult to answer what might be the result of the assembly which would take place, for they had every reason to think that there would be a strong opposition to the measure.Sir Robert Peel
104 said, that Dr. Woolf did not undertake his journey to Bokhara with the direct sanction of Her Majesty's Government, because their means of working on the fears of the governor of that country were very ineffectual; but they told Dr. Woolf that, if he undertook the journey on his own responsibility, he should receive every assistance that Her Majesty's Government could afford; and they had an acknowledgment from Dr. Woolf, thanking Her Majesty's Government for the assistance which he had received in his journey from British agents. Communications had been received from Dr. Woolf, and Colonel Sheil, Her Majesty's representative at Teheran. The letter of Colonel Sheil was dated so recently as the 6th of May; and the letter of Dr. Woolf was dated the 12th of April, at which time he was within three days of Bokhara. Colonel Sheil's letter of the 6th of May, contained the information of a native of Teheran, named Jacoob, who was released from captivity at Khohan, near Khiva, by Captain Conolly, whom he accompanied to Bokhara; and when the two officers were thrown into prison, he shared their fate, being actually imprisoned with them. He remained upwards of a year at Bokhara, and witnessed the execution of a Greek servant of Captain Conolly, named Yousouf. During the time that he remained at Bokhara, no public execution took place, or, at least, he had not heard of any, and he could not have failed, had it taken place. This Jacoob had a strong hope that Colonel Stodart was still alive; but he was not so sanguine as to Captain Conolly, because he was looked upon as a spy. It was right to say that Colonel Sheil did not participate in the hope expressed by this person; and it was remarkable, that two years had now elapsed without the slightest communication from Colonel Stodart, although previously
104Sir R. Peel
105** replied, that when this Bill had been brought in, it was intended
105**Sir R. Peel
* said, that Colonel Stodart had been authorised to repair to Bokhara, and was directly employed by the Government to make communications at Bokhara. Captain Conolly had been sent by the Indian government to make communications at Khiva and Khohan. He had no express mission to Bokhara, but an intimation was made to Colonel Stodart, that Captain Conolly was at Khiva, and if he thought he could be useful to him, he had authority to send for him to Khiva. Captain Conolly had not any direct instructions to proceed to Bokhara. He had authority to go to Khiva; but, acting on his own discretion, and doing that which he believed to be for the service of his country, he went there when Colonel Stodart sent for him. Colonel Stodart had direct official instructions, and Captain Conolly did, from a sense of duty, repair to Bokhara.*Sir R. Peel
112111l.;l. said, that this Bill had occupied a considerable portion of his attention, and he admitted that he had originally entertained an opinion adverse to it. At an early stage of its progress, he received a deputation from members of his constituency, consisting of Wesleyan Methodists and other bodies of Dissenters, who required him to give the Bill his opposition. At that time his own opinion was adverse to the Bill, though he differed from the Gentlemen who composed the deputation in many points. Subsequently to that occasion he conversed with many persons, and amongst whom were several to whose judgment he paid deference, and who urged very strong opinions in favour of the Bill. Eventually he (Sir T. Wilde), upon mature consideration of the subject, became convinced that the Bill was a good one, and so far from being one of injustice, would have the effect to prevent the confiscation of property and the misapprehension of the intentions of the founders of religious trusts. This Bill could not extend, as seemed to be apprehended, to afford protection to trustees who should abstract the property of which they were trustees, and apply it to their own uses; or in any other way contrary to the purposes of the trust; but to afford relief and protection, after lapse of time, against vexatious and expensive inquiries as to who were the precise parties for whom he ought to consider himself trustee. The Bill would avoid much expensive litigation—so expensive, that in the one case of Lady Hewley's charities, which had been several years in progress, it was said that as much as 30,000112111l.;l.Sir T. Wilde
102 suggested for the consideration of the right hon. Gentleman, whether it would not be desirable to make such an alteration in the existing law as to give to a court summary power to pronounce judgment against a second member of a company, where the judgment already
102Sir T. Wilde
 wished to know, from the right hon. Baronet, what were his intentions with respect to the Irish Registration Bill.Viscount Howick
 rose to order. He wished to know whether it was competent to any Member of that House to speak of so valuable a body, and to charge them with cowardice.Mr. Miles
 said, the Government did not intend to propose any reduction of the duty on Staves in the present Session. He had received a good deal of statistical information, which he had no objection to present to the House, which would show that the statements made to the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the Coopers had been coloured to an unwarrantable extent.Mr. Gladstone
"The Governor of Gibraltar proceeded to Ceuta on the 12th ult., in the Locust steamer, and repaired forthwith to the Moorish camp. The next morning he sent the British Vice Consul to Tangiers, doubtless with a view to some accommodation; but the Governor of Ceuta and the Spanish Consul General at Tangiers, do not seem to have appreciated his good intentions." had not, he said, time to give notice to the right hon. Baronet of the question he meant to ask. It was with respect to the accuracy of the statement of a paragraph which he had seen in a morning paper. It was to this effect:—
"The Governor of Gibraltar proceeded to Ceuta on the 12th ult., in the Locust steamer, and repaired forthwith to the Moorish camp. The next morning he sent the British Vice Consul to Tangiers, doubtless with a view to some accommodation; but the Governor of Ceuta and the Spanish Consul General at Tangiers, do not seem to have appreciated his good intentions."Colonel Fox
144 observed, that the question raised by his hon. Friend (Mr. T. Duncombe) was not as to the principle of the Bill, but whether it was fair at that period of the Session, with so large an arrear of business before them, to take up the time of the House for one or perhaps two nights upon a Bill which the right hon. Gentleman admitted, it was not his intention to proceed further with during
144Mr. V. Smith
 observed, that between friends and foes, he was in a somewhat difficult position. He and some of his hon. Friends who were opposed to the measure, had held a meeting on Saturday last to arrange the course of proceeding, and it was then arranged that he (Mr. M. J. O'Connell) should commence the opposition by moving the second reading that day three months, and in the course of the observations he had intended to offer, he had proposed to go into the details of his objections to the measure. What had been said out of doors might be answered out of doors. The noble Lord asked them to go into a discussion of the grounds upon which the Bill had been denounced out of doors; but he had not come there to defend general denunciations, or to repeat what had been said here or there, but to state fairly his objections to the Bill as a measure of legislation. The right hon. Baronet had stated, that he was anxious to take a discussion upon the second reading, in order to ascertain what were the objections of Irish Members to the Bill, in order that those objections might be duly considered, and a more perfect measure introduced in another Session, but if that were the object, he thought the wiser course would be for the right hon. Baronet or the noble Lord to summon a meeting of the Irish Members at the Irish office, for the purpose of ascertaining their views on the subject. Under all the circumstances—seeing the little advantage that could result from the House being called upon to bestow one or two days on the discussion of a Bill, which it was not intended to pass during the present Session, and the hope he should have to suppress a speech which he had been at some inconvenience to prepare—he thought it right to vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury.Mr. M. J. O'Connell
 was disposed to think that it would not be wise to adopt the course suggested by the hon. Member for Finsbury, as unless the Government were made acquainted with the objections to the measure, they might expect the same Bill to be re-introduced next Session.Mr. V. Stuart
 thought his right hon. and learned Friend had forgotten what they were now called on to do was to pronounce an opinion, by a direct vote, in favour of the principle of the Bill before them. They were, as it appeared to him, placed in an odd and somewhat ludicrous position. It was, he believed, an unheard-of thing to call for a discussion on the second reading of a Bill which it was not intended to carry further, and to launch forth into all the objections that might be entertained to the several details on the second reading, as though they were in Committee, when they had none of the advantages of a Committee, no hon. Member being allowed to speak more than once. He would put it to the right hon. Baronet, what practical advantage could result from such a discussion. What information could he hope to obtain from it as to the opinions of the opponents of the Bill, the more especially when he found that many of those hon. Gentlemen intended to absent themselves, and to abstain from taking any part in the discussion? The right hon. Baronet, if he pressed the second reading under such circumstances would only elicit the opinions of a very small number of the Irish Members, and that only by the irregularity of going into the details of the Bill on the discussion of its principle. He trusted, therefore, that the right hon. Baronet would be induced to postpone the measure altogether until another Session of Parliament.Mr. Bernal
150 should support the Amend-
150Mr. Collett
153 said, that, with reference to the case which had been alluded to, he
153Mr. T. B. C. Smith
 thought the Clause necessary, although he admitted that the measure was one the enforcement of which it was necessary to watch with extreme caution. The Bill only proposed to renew the existing law for a year.Lord Eliot
145: Though the course proposed by the hon. Gentleman might be the more convenient—it was not the most straightforward. The measure had been denounced as an insult to Ireland, and an attempt to deprive Ireland of the franchise. Now, the Government by whom that measure had been introduced, were anxious that those hon. Gentlemen who had made these charges should have an opportunity of substantiating them, and of showing what were the Clauses of the Bill that would have such an effect. He and his right hon. Friends were convinced, that if a discussion were taken, they could show that so far from the Bill
145Lord Eliot
148 felt himself placed in some difficulty by the Motion of the hon. Member; for though he did not approve of every part of the Irish Registration Bill, yet he meant to give his vote to the Government in support of the second reading. At the same time he must confess, that after the avowal of his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel), that the Bill was to be abandoned for the present Session, he saw little advantage that could arise from a debate upon it, and much inconvenience, if not more serious evil. His noble Friend (Lord Eliot), seemed to think that the great agitation and violence to which the discussions on the subject had given occasion in Ireland made it desirable that the question
148Mr. Shaw
 was happy that his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel) had intimated his intention of postponing the Irish Corporations Amendment Bill, along with the Registration Bill, for the present Session. He had given notice of various Amendments to the Municipal Bill, and in its present form he did not think the Government could have passed it. He, however, then understood that that Bill, as well as the Registration Bill, was to be withdrawn, and he was glad of it.Mr. Shaw
 begged to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, whether he had been able to mature any scheme which would have the effect of relieving the Coopers, and, if so, whether there was any probability of its being brought forward in the present Session?Mr. Labouchere
 thought, if the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) were given to superstition, the war now raging in the elements should deter him from proceeding with the Bill. [At this moment the House was in a state of darkness from dense clouds illuminated now and then by flashes of lightning.] He should vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury.Mr. Curteis
 wished to know if the House was to understand that no Bill of any importance, other than those which had been mentioned to-night, would be introduced this Session? He recollected that last year a most important Bill, the Chelsea Pensioners Bill, had been introduced at the close of the Session when very few Members were in town.Mr. J. Bright
 was stating what were the allegations of the Petition; it said, that such a force was not only cowardly, but cruel also, as cowardly persons generally were. It said, that the regular force was a better one in all respects, as for neighbours to fire on each other raised ill blood and enmity that might take years to assuage; and that young men were called away from their business and shops to their injury, as they had not the means of affording to play at soldiers in this manner; it was injurious to themselves and detrimental to the district. The question he wished to ask the Secretary of State was, whether the Government had given encouragement to the formation of such troops; and, if so, whether the right hon. Gentleman had any objection to lay on the Table the correspondence that had taken place upon the subject?Mr. Bright
 had on Wednesday last presented a Petition, signed by 5,000 persons at Rochdale, praying that the House would not sanction the raising of a troop of yeomanry in that district. It stated that that force was expensive and needless, as breaches of the peace rarely took place in that district; it also stated, that the members of this troop of yeomanry were all of one political party; that in case of any breach of the peace occurring, the force would be wholly inefficient, as it was notoriously cowardly when brought in conflict with danger.Mr. Bright
 would be glad to know the intentions of the Government with respect to the Presbyterian Marriages Bill.Colonel Rawdon
 could not consent to place any further responsibility in the hands of the Attorney General for Ireland after the way in which he had acted with regard to the juries.Colonel Rawdon
 expressed his fears that secret informers would work out their ends by means of this Bill. They would, as they had already done, put papers containing illegal passwords into the hands of innocent men, and thus attempt to convict them of crimes of which they were innocent.Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell
: If it were not that the fact was notorious that those passes were attached to the persons of men without their knowledge, he should, if he were on a jury, have great difficulty in saying that a man was innocent upon whose person they were found. He believed the necessity for such a Bill was now less than ever, for when the public mind was strongly excited by great national questions, those secret societies ceased. He moved that the Chairman do leave the Chair.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
primâ facie objected to the words in the Clause, permitting the discovery of any copy of any unlawful password or oath of an unlawful society upon a person to be primâ facieMr. More O'Ferrall
 remarked that, as far as he himself was concerned, he had not intended to go into any discussion of the details of the Bill, but merely to contend as against its principle that it went to repeal an important part of the Irish Reform Bill, by taking away the franchise which that Bill gave, and establishing a franchise which that measure had not provided. He had not known until within the last hour that his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury intended to move the Amendment against the second reading: but being compelled to admit that every opportunity had been given for the full and fair discussion of Irish questions during the present Session, he for one should be most unwilling to press a discussion extending over one or two nights upon an Irish question that could not result in any practical legislation at that period of the Session, in opposition to the wish of English Members. If, therefore, the question went to a division, he should vote with the hon. Member for Finsbury.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
147146 said, it was to be regretted
147146Mr. Sheil
: Having such a document on a man's person was by this Bill made a crime; whereas it should only be taken as evidence that he belonged to an illegal society. The practices alluded to, as adopted by some policemen in Ireland, was nothing new; it was as old as Benjamin's cup. He admitted that those illegal societies were the curse of the country, whether they belonged to one party or the other; but that was no reason for confounding the plainest principles of jurisprudence.Mr. Sheil
157156 observed, that the state of the prisons and of their inmates in a great many of the gaols in Scotland, together with the expense which their maintenance occasioned to the inhabi-
157156Mr. Wallace
142 said, as an English Member, he rose to protest against this most enormous waste of time; more especially as they were about to establish a precedent which was unknown in the proceedings of that House. He was not going to discuss the merits of this Bill. What he complained of was, that after the right hon. Baronet had withdrawn three or four importants Bills, he asked them to proceed with a discussion upon a Bill which could not pass through its stages in the present Session. He had looked over the Journals of the House, and could not find any other instance of a Minister of the Crown thus dragging his supporters through the mire, for the purpose of having a Bill
142Mr. T. Duncombe
137 had seen during the past week in the public papers letters addressed to the Protestants of the north of Ireland, cautioning them against violating the law and public tranquillity by originating or taking part in the party processions which were formerly customary about this time, but which were prohibited by the existing Party Processions Act. He found no fault with these friendly and wise admonitions—quite the contrary—he would be glad to see similar counsels of forbearance more frequently producing their effect in Ireland; but there were passages in those letters which induced him to look with something like doubt on the advice given, and which urged him to put the present question. One of these letters bears the signature of Lord Farnham, and is dated, London, June 21; it speaks of the statute as being "insidious and unjust," but calls on the Protestants, to whom it is addressed, "to bear in mind that it is still the law of the land." It requests that they will strictly obey it, "however they may be provoked and aggravated by their opponents to pursue a different conduct." Another letter is signed by Henry J. Johnston, Grand Master of the county of Monaghan, dated Fort Johnston, June 20, 1844, and states
137Mr. Wyse
 judging from the experience of past years, had reason to hope that the Protestants of the north of Ireland would, on the approaching anniversaries, abstain from processions as they had so wisely done for several years past. But there were two Acts of Parliament about to expire, both of which were of very great importance. He alluded to the Act for the suppression of Secret Societies and unlawful Oaths, and to the Act for the Suppression of Orange Processions. A Bill was already on the Table of the House for the renewal of the former Act, and it was the intention of the Government, in the present state of affairs in Ireland, also to propose the re-enactment of the Orange Processions Bill. He was, however, happy to say that Government, under all the circumstances, felt justified in limiting the duration of both these Bills to the 31st August, 1845.Sir James Graham
134 said, that the noble
134Sir James Graham
158 did not think the present was the fittest opportunity for discussing the important question whether the system of prison discipline now enforced in the prisons of Great Britain was the best that could be devised or not. His experience of the system as it was in operation at Pentonville and Parkhurst, had led him to the conclusion, that it was on the whole highly conducive to the amelioration of those persons who had been placed there to undergo its effects. The system had been expressly limited to those two prisons, with a view to ascertain its results before it was applied on a larger scale throughout England. His hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate, who was a Member of the Prison Board of Scotland, took the same view that he did with respect to the successful operation of the system in that country, and he was prepared to state to the House his belief, that the experiment was not proved to be a failure, but that on the whole it had been attended with success. Passing on to answer the hon. Member's question, the House must not misunderstand the point, nor be led to attribute the state of health of the prisoners whose confinement in gaol was the subject of the complaint of the hon. Gentleman, to the length of imprisonment which they had endured, for the fact was, that these were all recent cases of confinement, and the bodily condition of the prisoners previous to their conviction was such as not to enable them to undergo their sentence of transportation. This state of things was not peculiar to Scotland: it was common to every prison throughout the kingdom, and in those instances where prisoners were found unable to endure transportation, an humble Address was presented to Her Majesty representing the facts, and the result was, a commutation of the former sentence into one of imprisonment in lieu of transportation. In the absence of any such circumstances, he uniformly advised the Crown to carry the sentence of transportation into effect. He thought that punishment was a salutary one; indeed, he considered it
158Sir J. Graham
154primâ facieprimâ facie remarked, that they all seemed agreed upon the necessity of putting down unlawful societies, an object which in Ireland must always be one of paramount national importance. This object was brought under the consideration of the late Government. They assiduously applied themselves to the suppression of illegal oaths and associations; and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Clonmel, the Irish legal adviser of that administration, originally introduced the present measure. He was quite satisfied that the Clause under discussion was in fact the essence of the measure, and that if it was not passed, all the rest of the Bill would be useless. What did the Clause propose to do? It threw the onus of proof, under certain safeguards, upon the party accused. This was certainly liable to abuse, and he admitted that the executive, in administering this Act of Parliament, must proceed with the utmost caution and suspicion with respect to any accusations made under it. But having made these admissions, he did not see how they could prosecute for the crime of being a member of an illegal society, unless the possession of a secret pass-word should be 154primâ facieprimâ facieSir James Graham
 hoped the Committee would bear in mind that the effect of carrying this Motion would be to lose the Bill altogether. There was nothing to prevent hon. Gentlemen opposite moving that this clause be expunged at a subsequent stage, though to such a proposal the Government could not consent. He asked for no new powers in the present state of Ireland. His predecessors asked for those powers for five years, whereas he (Sir R. Peel) asked for them but for one.Sir R. Peel
143 said, with respect to the period of the Session at which the Bill was proposed, he begged to observe that the second reading of the Bill was fixed,
143Sir R. Peel
 replied, that if he were to answer the question literally, he should answer that there were other Bills which were intended to be introduced—for instance, the Appropriation Bill—the introduction of which, he thought, would give general satisfaction, as indicative of the approach of the close of the Session; but if the hon. Gentleman asked if the Government contemplated the introduction of any other measure of public importance, he would reply that they did not. Yet still he would not pledge himself not to introduce any measure of importance if circumstances should arise to render it necessary.Sir R. Peel
152 thought he was entitled to infer that it was the predominant wish of hon. Members on both sides of the House connected with Ireland that this Bill should not now be discussed—and that he (Sir Robert Peel) should not be considered
152Sir R. Peel
151 had not expected to hear an hon. Gentleman connected with the agricultural districts express fear at a flash of lightning, accompanied by the prospect of rain. Government had proposed to proceed with the second reading, in order to remove unjust and erroneous impressions reapecting the measure. The House would remember that when the Motion for leave was made the discussion had been brief, and it had appeared to him that it was in accordance with the general sense of the House that a discussion should be taken, and that the Government should have an opportunity of stating their views fully, and of endeavouring to remove hostile and erroneous impressions on the second reading. Now if, under such circumstances, he had voluntarily and immediately postponed the discussion of the principle of the measure, he should have been told he had insulted Ireland. See what had taken place. There had been a meeting of Irish members; they had considered and arranged the objections to the measure, and were prepared to argue them on the second reading, and the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. M. J. O'Connell) had avowed that he was to have led the opposition. The views of hon. Gentlemen opposite connected with Ireland were in accordance with those of the Government, that an opportunity should be given of considering, upon the second reading, whether those objections to the Bill were well founded or not; and he thought if he had announced at once that it was not intended by the Government to ask the House to read the Bill a second time, hon. Gentlemen opposite would, he little doubted, have accused the Government of having acted most unfairly towards the Irish Members, by preventing them stating their objections to the measure. If, however, he now understood that hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House connected with Ireland, were against going
151Sir R. Peel
, in answer to the question which had been put to him by the noble Lord, and of which he had been so good as to give him notice, had to state, that Her Majesty's Government had felt it to be their duty not to be dependent upon French sources of information of the events which might take place on the frontier of Morocco. Her Majesty's Government had given such directions as they had deemed requisite, for the purpose of having correct information from sources over which they had control, and also had adopted those measures which they deemed requisite for the protection of British interests, in case British interests should be affected.Sir Robert Peel
141Member:140139138 said, be would take the opportunity of moving, that the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Irish Registration of Electors Bill be now read to explain, as far as it was in his power to do so, the course which Her Majesty's Government proposed to pursue with respect to those Bills which had been already submitted to Parliament, and were now waiting the sanction of the House. Upon looking at the Orders of the Day which stood for Thursday, Wednesday, and today, he believed that they included all the Bills which were at present awaiting the decision of the House. There were, however, some Bills which were not yet introduced, but which he had reason to hope would cause very little trouble or debate.
141Member:140139138Sir R. Peel
 said, it was the intention of the Government to persevere with the measure; which he thought would give entire satisfaction to the parties concerned; and he hoped another Session would not pass without that measure becoming the law of the land.Sir Robert Peel
 stated, that apparently the question the hon. and gallant Gentleman ought to have asked was, whether a paragraph in a newspaper were correct? It would be difficult for him to answer such questions. He had to say that Sir Robert Wilson had been to Ceuta, but not with any authority from Her Majesty's Government.Sir Robert Peel
 wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, of which he had given notice. It was with respect to the state of affairs on the coast of Morocco. It was well known that events were taking place in that part of the world which might be in their results of serious consequence, as bearing on very important interests in this country. That this was their character, was not only his opinion, but also the opinion, it was presumed, of Her Majesty's Government, because Her Majesty's Government had already stated that they had had communications with the Government of France on this matter, and that they had received from that Government explanations and assurances which they considered satisfactory. Of course those assurances were to be so considered, as well from the diplomatic form in which they were given, as in their substance and nature. But it was usual, when matters were taking place in any part of the world in which Great Britain had important interests at stake, that the Government of Great Britain took the means, by officers of its own, to secure for itself accurate information as to what was passing. Therefore he wished to know whether, in the present instance, they had employed, or were about to employ, any military commissioners with regard to the transactions that were taking place on the frontiers of Morocco; and whether they had any naval officers or ships on the coast of Morocco, for the purpose of keeping up a regular and authentic report of the course of events as they were passing, or whether they simply trusted to the accounts which might be received from the naval and military authorities of the French Government?Viscount Palmerston
149 also thought it would be more expedient for the Government not to press for any discussion on the second reading of the Bill at the present time. He was inclined to agree with the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that a Bill so interesting to Ireland in general, and in respect to which such strong opinions were entertained must, when discussed, necessarily create a great deal of warmth. He would go no further on both sides which, unless some practical result were expected, it might be well to avoid. It appeared to him too, that the course proposed by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was a most unusual one. It was no doubt proper and useful on some occasions that bills should be brought in and read a first time without any intention to carry them through any further steps during that Session, but that they should be allowed to lie over in order that an opportunity for the expression of public opinion out of doors in respect to them might be afforded. That was a usual, and, in many instances, a very proper course of proceeding. Another course was to bring in a Bill with the avowed and understood intention of endeavouring to carry it into a law, but in that case, the discussion taken upon the second reading was of the principle not the details of the measure. And the principle being affirmed, they then went into Com-
149Viscount Palmerston
244243242 then said,—Sir, after the course which has been taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, supported by the right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, were it not for some allusions which the right hon. Gentleman made in the course of his speech, as laying the grounds for the appointment of this Committee, I
244243242Lord J. Russell
 observed that in the course of his remarks he had alluded only to the exercise of this power of opening letters for political purposes. The Marquess of Normanby, he believed, had in another place mentioned that this power was sometimes exerted to further the ends of justice in cases of crime, when without its exercise justice would be defeated.Lord J. Russell
252 said, if the Government persisted in having a Secret Committee, it ought to be one in which the people would have confidence. There were no Gentlemen of higher character and honour than every one of the hon. Members who were to be appointed, but they were so peculiarly connected with the two great parties in the House, not merely as partizans,
252Mr. Williams
 moved that the name of Thomas Duncombe be another Member of the said Committee.Mr. James
 then moved that the name of Mr. Hume should be added to the Committee.Mr. Williams
ll.l.;s.l.s.s.s.The Timess.l.s.l.265l.l.l.;l."We further beg to observe, in relation to any plan of building which the magistrates may adopt for the separate confinement of prisoners, that, for the prevention of intercourse, it is indispensable that the windows of the cells should be closed, and the partition walls of the cells, such as to render impracticable oral communication from cell to cell, except by means which, by attracting the attention of the officers, would insure detection; that the cells should be ventilated, warmed, supplied with water, and provided with water-closets, as at Pentonville Prison; and that the yards should be so divided as to allow of each prisoner taking exercise alone." "The number of cells already built, or about to be constructed for, or adapted to separate confinement in this country, amounts to upwards of 8,000; and we feel justified in stating our conviction that the day is not distant when the individual separation of prisoners will be the established system of prison discipline throughout England."264"Sir J. Graham is desirous, before he proceeds further, that arrangements should be made by the magistrates for the separate confinement of prisoners before trial, especially of the younger prisoners." seconded the proposition. He had seen a correspondence between the Home Office and the Middlesex magistracy, calculated to excite the alarm of the entire country as to the intentions of Government on this subject. The Under-Secretary wrote:—
ll.l.;s.l.s.s.s.The Timess.l.s.l.265l.l.l.;l."We further beg to observe, in relation to any plan of building which the magistrates may adopt for the separate confinement of prisoners, that, for the prevention of intercourse, it is indispensable that the windows of the cells should be closed, and the partition walls of the cells, such as to render impracticable oral communication from cell to cell, except by means which, by attracting the attention of the officers, would insure detection; that the cells should be ventilated, warmed, supplied with water, and provided with water-closets, as at Pentonville Prison; and that the yards should be so divided as to allow of each prisoner taking exercise alone." "The number of cells already built, or about to be constructed for, or adapted to separate confinement in this country, amounts to upwards of 8,000; and we feel justified in stating our conviction that the day is not distant when the individual separation of prisoners will be the established system of prison discipline throughout England."264"Sir J. Graham is desirous, before he proceeds further, that arrangements should be made by the magistrates for the separate confinement of prisoners before trial, especially of the younger prisoners."Mr. Williams
 considered the Committee proposed by the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) to have been very fairly selected, and he had no wish to alter it; though he did not by any means consider that his hon. Friend (the Member for Finsbury) was at all disqualified sitting on the Committee.Lord John Russell
 observed, that, at an early period of the Session, he had asked the right hon. Baronet a question as to the legality of permitting the separate system to be applied to the prisoners before their trial. It having come to his knowledge that such a practice had been pursued in several instances, he had ventured to inquire where the Act of Parliament was to be found which legalized such a punishment upon a possibly innocent person. All he would now say was, that he still continued in ignorance of the law by which such a serious wrong was perpetrated, and that, if there was no such legal power in existence, it was high time that the House stepped in to prevent such things from being done.Mr. B. Escott
210simpliciter209208 would only state such circumstances as he thought would constitute grounds for resisting his Motion. The hon. Member had alluded to the nature, the powers, and the duties attaching to the office he had the honour of holding; he was fully sensible of the importance of those duties and the responsibility which attached to their exercise; and, therefore, he had endeavoured, being obliged to entrust the performance of some of those duties to other persons, to select such persons as he thought most
210simpliciter209208The Lord Advocate
 said, it was most desirable every one should think a Committee had been appointed which would carry on a full and fair investigation; and he was extremely surprised, that the name of Mr. Duncombe had been omitted. The reason that had been assigned was, that the hon. Gentleman stood in the position of an accuser; but he did not see the validity of the objection. He would propose that the Under Secretary of State should be added, on the one side, and Mr. T. Duncombe on the other. If the Under Secretary was objected to, he saw no reason why Mr. T. Duncombe should not be added.Mr. Horsman
 moved, as an Amendment, that the name of Thomas Duncombe, Esq., should be substituted.Mr. Horsman
 was prepared, if the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury had gone to a division, to have given his vote in its favour, and against the Government. He would not have pursued this course from any want of confidence, either in the Government in general, or in the right hon. Baronet in particular; but he felt it his duty to vote in accordance with the view he had formed of the merits of this question, and with a sense of his responsibility as a Member of that House. On some occasions during the present Session hon. Members of that House, on a reconsideration of questions which had been brought before it, had come to conclusions precisely opposite to those at which they had in the first instance arrived; and it seemed that in the present case Her Majesty's Government had benefited by the opportunity afforded them of reconsidering this subject, and had adopted a determination the reverse of that they had before announced.Mr. M'Geachy
237236235: I am anxious to take this opportunity of making some explanation upon a point with reference to what took place in this House, but still more, in another place. As it is a matter of a personal character, I hope that the House will indulge me for a few moments. It has been asserted that in 1837, in consolidating the Acts relating to the Post Office, the Government with which I was connected not only gave fresh sanction to the power now under discussion, but actually pushed that power to a further extreme. I beg to say, that if such were the case, it was my own individual deed, for which I alone was responsible. Let me remind the House that, in 1837, I was a member of the Post Office Commission, and it was signified to me that it would be a great public convenience if the 187 Acts relating to that department were consolidated. This was repeatedly urged upon me, among others, by the hon. Member for Greenock; and I undertook the task upon one condition, viz., that the Bill was to be treated as one of mere consolidation, and time was not to be consumed by debates upon the merits of the different enactments. The hon. Member for Greenock kept his undertaking with the most honourable fidelity, and allowed the measure to pass as one of consolidation. I stated at the time that no Member was pledged by any of the provisions—nay, more, that I was not myself pledged by any of them. Therefore it has not been truly and fairly
237236235Mr. Labouchere
 said, he regarded it as an act of humanity to ascertain whether the present or any late Government had been party to opening the letters of foreigners, and forwarding them to their Governments. That would be most cruel and utterly indefensible; and if it were only to save poor foreigners from being so shamefully entrapped, the public thanks were due to the hon. Member for Finsbury in bringing forward the question. Whatever might be the Report of the Committee, nothing could render it justifiable in a Government to open and privately reseal letters. He thought that a Government doing that would be party or privy to almost any crime whatever. Had it not been for the independent press of this country, they would not have stood in the position they now were of a Committee of Inquiry having been granted. He regretted that personal pain should have been caused to the right hon. Secretary of State, but he had now manfully met the question. Looking then upon the question as one of humanity, he (Mr. Curteis) offered his thanks to the hon. Member for Finsbury for having brought it forward.Mr. Curteis
257 considered the hon. Member for Finsbury to be the representative of the public opinion within the walls of the House, and although the modesty and delicacy of his hon. Friend restrained him, still he felt it absolutely necessary
257Dr. Bowring
234233"Therefore (added Lord Camden) it is not too much for us to pronounce a practice illegal, which would be subversive of all the comforts of society.""Papers are the owner's goods and chattels. They are his dearest property, and are so far from enduring seizure, that they will hardly bear inspection."232: There is one point of great importance to which I wish to call the attention of the House. The object of appointing a Committee is to produce a feeling of security in the public mind, which feeling has been much shaken by what has recently occurred; I believe that the right hon. Baronet desires a thorough scrutiny into the whole matter of which we are talking, in order to create security out of doors. First, we have to ascertain what is the state of the law; and great doubts exist in the minds of the most learned lawyers; the next inquiry will be, how that law has been administered? By whom has it been departed from, by whom acted upon: thirdly, we have to consider what the law ought to be. Security being the end in view, I ask the House whether that end is likely to be attained by means of a Secret Committee? I know the difficulty, and I admit at once that the inquiry ought to be carried on with closed doors; but what I wish to secure is the complete and perfect publication of the evidence. The law in this case is doubtful, and after what has passed elsewhere, with most learned Lords on one side and with learned Lords on the other, you are about to appoint a Committeee—a Committee of very capable and perspicacious persons certainly—but not especially acquainted with the law. Let me first call your attention to the written law. By an Act of Parliament, 9th Anne, certain powers were given to the Post Office, and I direct my observations particularly to my hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor-General. Into that
234233"Therefore (added Lord Camden) it is not too much for us to pronounce a practice illegal, which would be subversive of all the comforts of society.""Papers are the owner's goods and chattels. They are his dearest property, and are so far from enduring seizure, that they will hardly bear inspection."232Mr. Roebuck
256: although this is to be a Committee for the consideration of a law, not a single lawyer has been put upon it:
256Mr. Sheil
 had only one remark to make, and that was, to point out the extraordinary circumstance of a Secret Committee being appointed to determine the construction of an Act of Parliament, and yet not one single member of the legal profession was nominated to serve on it. There was also, if he apprehended the right hon. Gentleman rightly, to be instituted a searching inquiry into the practices of the secret department of the Post-office; the officers and subordinates of that department were to be called before the Committee and to be examined; and yet there was no person to be found in the list of the Committee read by the right hon. Baronet who was competent to examine such functionaries, or to draw from them the details which it was the special business of that Committee to report upon. If it were wished that this inquiry should be as full as it had been admitted it ought to be, such precautions as he had pointed out ought surely to be taken to secure that result. He had observed the wish expressed by the right hon. Baronet to have the conduct of his predecessors in office subjected to the same scrutiny as his own. They were, he admitted, as much implicated in the inquiry as the present Ministry. The right hon. Baronet had said they were as criminal as himself and Colleagues, was it not, he would ask, fair for each party that members should be appointed on the Committee competent to sift and to arrive at the truth? It might be that his professional predilections had some effect upon his opinion in this matter, he could not divest his mind of the belief that an Act of Parliament should not be made the subject of inquiry before a Committee of that House unless some of the Members of that Committee were qualified, as lawyers, to investigate the subject.Mr. Sheil
203202"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission
202 rose to move, pursuant to notice,
203202"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission
202Mr. Wallace
 believed Mr. Muir never intended to give up the case, and with regard to the Protest to which the learned Lord Advocate had attached so little importance, he had abundant reason to believe that the whole of the fifteen jurymen coincided in it. They said that it was not their verdict—that it had been put into their mouths, and they wanted more evidence to be laid before them. Now the unfortunate girl was turned out upon the world with obloquy upon her character, and without a fair panel; and the man got off without any punishment.Mr. Wallace
248 fully concurred in the
248Mr. Wallace
254R. Peel:253, in reply, said that if he had been fortunate enough to possess the power which had been ascribed to him by an hon. Member, of directing Her Majesty's Government, he should certainly have used it this evening, in endeavouring to persuade them to go a little further than they had done; for he felt convinced the public would not be satisfied with the investigation proposed. He
254R. Peel:253Mr. T. S. Duncombe
 hoped that his hon. Friend would not divide the House on the question. He had not the slightest wish to be on the Committee; though he certainly denied that he stood in the character of an accuser. He was perfectly sure that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) did not intend any personal disrespect by omitting his name as a Member of the Committee.Mr. T. Duncombe
259 hoped that an indemnity would be given to the witnesses
259Mr. T. Duncombe
primâ facie221220habeas corpus219218"Hamburgh, June 22, 1844.""The Duke of Wellington denies that Mazzini's letters were opened at the instigation of the Sardinian government. I am convinced when his Grace made that avowal that he felt convinced of the truth of it. But I can bring forward proof that the letters of this individual were detained and opened and copied, and which copies were handed to the Sardinian embassy at the request of 'an individual connected with the Sardinian government.' This is, therefore, a play upon words. This is, however, not all. The extent of this system is carried on wholesale, and perhaps rightly so; because if we oblige one country, why should we not do the same to all? What does it signify whether we open one letter or one hundred? The stigma is the same. The writer of the present letter has had several letters opened and detained, not even forwarded to the party; and this at the request of a very, very small state—or, to be better understood, at the request of its minister, or some one connected with the state as a 'goer-between.' These letters, being all relative to one subject, were all detained—I should say suppressed—of no political character, but certainly of a grave nature as regarded the judicial proceedings of the place respecting an awful calamity. This is an undeniable fact, as stated to me here by an authority, who charged me with having written about certain matters, although I was so friendly with them, &c. I therefore trust the country will insist upon the expunging this statute from our code; and until this is done I for one shall dispatch my letters through other channels than the British Post Office, or present designation, Spy Office.Morning Chronicle217"M. GUIZOT.—Both as regards natives and foreigners.""M. AYLES.—Is the privacy of letters equally respected as regards natives and foreigners?"M. GUIZOT (speaking from his place) said—The hon. Member who has just spoken, is quite in the right. In law and in fact, the privacy of letters is completely respected in France, and we have not thought it necessary (nor can any one think it is so) to contradict all the errors which may be uttered in respect to this either in England or elsewhere (very good.)216Moniteur"M. LEON DE MALLEVILLE said—It is with pain I have seen the accusation of the hon. Member of the British Parliament, Mr. Duncombe, republished in the 216MoniteurGallignani's Messenger215"That the said Committee do report their opinion to the House, as well as upon the expediency of making any alterations in the law uuder which the secret opening, delaying, or detaining, of Post Letters is conducted.""That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into a department of Her Majesty's General Post Office, commonly called 'The Secret or Inner Office,' the duties and employment of the persons engaged therein, and the authority under which the functions of the said office are discharged."214213 said, that he had to return his thanks to those Gentlemen who had given him precedence on the present occasion. He must say that at an early part of the evening, when this House was made at four o'clock, he did not then discover the great anxiety of the Government to have this matter discussed, as there were then none of the Government Officials present to request permission for him to be allowed to bring this question under the consideration of the House. There was not one single Member of the Government in his place at four o'clock, and the right hon. Gentleman the Speaker alone had made up the number to forty Members, so as to constitute a House. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) might depend upon it that the public would never be satisfied unless the Committee were granted for which he was about to move. The public mind was filled with considerable disgust and alarming apprehension in reference to this matter, which was much increased by the tone in which the right hon. Baronet (Sir
primâ facie221220habeas corpus219218"Hamburgh, June 22, 1844.""The Duke of Wellington denies that Mazzini's letters were opened at the instigation of the Sardinian government. I am convinced when his Grace made that avowal that he felt convinced of the truth of it. But I can bring forward proof that the letters of this individual were detained and opened and copied, and which copies were handed to the Sardinian embassy at the request of 'an individual connected with the Sardinian government.' This is, therefore, a play upon words. This is, however, not all. The extent of this system is carried on wholesale, and perhaps rightly so; because if we oblige one country, why should we not do the same to all? What does it signify whether we open one letter or one hundred? The stigma is the same. The writer of the present letter has had several letters opened and detained, not even forwarded to the party; and this at the request of a very, very small state—or, to be better understood, at the request of its minister, or some one connected with the state as a 'goer-between.' These letters, being all relative to one subject, were all detained—I should say suppressed—of no political character, but certainly of a grave nature as regarded the judicial proceedings of the place respecting an awful calamity. This is an undeniable fact, as stated to me here by an authority, who charged me with having written about certain matters, although I was so friendly with them, &c. I therefore trust the country will insist upon the expunging this statute from our code; and until this is done I for one shall dispatch my letters through other channels than the British Post Office, or present designation, Spy Office.Morning Chronicle217"M. GUIZOT.—Both as regards natives and foreigners.""M. AYLES.—Is the privacy of letters equally respected as regards natives and foreigners?"M. GUIZOT (speaking from his place) said—The hon. Member who has just spoken, is quite in the right. In law and in fact, the privacy of letters is completely respected in France, and we have not thought it necessary (nor can any one think it is so) to contradict all the errors which may be uttered in respect to this either in England or elsewhere (very good.)216Moniteur"M. LEON DE MALLEVILLE said—It is with pain I have seen the accusation of the hon. Member of the British Parliament, Mr. Duncombe, republished in the 216MoniteurGallignani's Messenger215"That the said Committee do report their opinion to the House, as well as upon the expediency of making any alterations in the law uuder which the secret opening, delaying, or detaining, of Post Letters is conducted.""That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into a department of Her Majesty's General Post Office, commonly called 'The Secret or Inner Office,' the duties and employment of the persons engaged therein, and the authority under which the functions of the said office are discharged."214213Mr. Thomas Duncombe
251250249 said, I would not now presume to address the House, were it not that I understand, during my absence, some allusion has been made to me by the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department. It is extremely difficult for a person who has not been present during a debate in this House to collect precisely what has been said during his absence; and it is proportionally difficult for him to give an answer to any charges which have
251250249Mr. Macaulay
247246245Member: said, I am convinced that the public will not be satisfied with the reasons assigned, either by the Members of Her Majesty's Government, or by the noble Lord and his right hon. Friends, for referring this subject to a Secret Committee. It is certainly a most extraordinary mode of satisfying public curiosity. Do the Members of the Government suppose that they are to have exclusively all the curiosity in the world? They have been in the habit of looking into people's letters; and the public want to know why and how and to what extent this practice has been pursued. The public have expressed much surprise and great indignation at the conduct of the Government in this respect. In the first instance, the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) was taciturn; he very boldly said, "I won't tell you what I have done. I feel it most consistent with my duty to be silent. You shan't know anything about the matter." But the public have evinced great anxiety on the subject; and the press, as I think—contrary to the opinion of my hon. and learned Friend—with very laudable zeal, and with a very excellent spirit, has taken up the question, and has excited the feeling which now exists in England, and has so far succeeded in bringing the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) to an account, that he now expresses his willingness to consent to some inquiry. It is to the press that we are indebted for this result. The public say, "Let us have an investigation—let us know what has been done." The right hon. Baronet states, as one reason for consenting to inquiry, that he does so in deference to public opinion; he says that public feeling is so much excited on the subject, that he considers it his duty to consent to an investigation. But how are the public to be satisfied? By being told that the investigation is to be confided to nine hon. Members of this House, who are to make no revelation whatever of the manner in which this odious practice has been exercised, or of the extent to which it has been carried. [An hon. 247246245Member:Mr. Wakley
272271270 believed it was quite true that the particular Act referred to, gave the power which the right hon. Gentleman mentioned; but, nevertheless, he quite concurred in the remarks of the hon. Member for Winchester, and he firmly believed that the House when they passed that Act never contemplated anything more than the due security of the untried prisoner. For his part, he could not conceive on what principle it was recommended that a man should be subjected
272271270Mr. Wakley
 would not press the Motion to a division, hoping that the Committee would be granted early next Session.Mr. Mackinnon
263262"That each prisoner should be separately confined at night that during the day they should be occupied at various trades according
262261260"That a Select Committee be appointed to consider the Report of the Inspectors of Prisons, and the state of discipline in the Gaols for the adoption of an uniform system of punishment, with such improvements in the management as can be safely adopted." rose to move—
263262"That each prisoner should be separately confined at night that during the day they should be occupied at various trades according
262261260"That a Select Committee be appointed to consider the Report of the Inspectors of Prisons, and the state of discipline in the Gaols for the adoption of an uniform system of punishment, with such improvements in the management as can be safely adopted."Mr. Mackinnon
231A Voice:230229 said, that as the right hon. Baronet had thought proper to allude to the vote which he had given on the former discussion of the question before the House, he wished to disclaim in the strongest manner possible any participation in the attempts—attempts which the
231A Voice:230229Sir G. Grey
228227"That a Committee of Secrecy be appointed to inquire into the state of the Law in respect to the detaining, and opening of Letters, at the General Post Office, and into the mode in which the authority given for such detaining and opening has been exercised."226225224T. Duncombe:223222: Sir, I am obliged to the hon. and learned Member for Bath for not following the hon. Gentleman, who has just sat down, and I am sure that the House will feel that I am entitled to a hearing immediately after that hon. Gentleman. Sir, I am most anxious that the House should believe the assurance I now give that on the part of Government there was the most earnest desire that this discussion should not be postponed, and that a House should be made. Sir, if any Member of the Government was more anxious than another upon the subject, I am that man, and I rejoice in the opportunity now given to me of addressing you. The hon. Gentleman says he imagines that Government are about to call for a vote of
228227"That a Committee of Secrecy be appointed to inquire into the state of the Law in respect to the detaining, and opening of Letters, at the General Post Office, and into the mode in which the authority given for such detaining and opening has been exercised."226225224T. Duncombe:223222Sir James Graham
, in reply, said that the General Prisons Act gave the power of classifying prisoners, and nothing, in his opinion, was more important than that tried and untried prisoners in the same gaol should be kept separate. He considered the application of the system in those cases to be perfectly justifiable, but he begged it might be observed, as he had before mentioned, that the separation was only at night time, communication between the prisoners being permitted under restrictions throughout the day.Sir J. Graham
269268267"Non mihi regnandi venit tam dira cupido."266 by no means complained of the course which had been pursued by his hon. Friend in bringing on this Motion this evening; on the contrary, he had to thank him for consulting his convenience on more than one occasion. It was not his intention on the present occasion to enter on a defence of that obnoxious system termed centralization, nor to discuss the various topics referred to in the speech of the hon. Gentleman, who, in addition to Prison Discipline, had touched on currency, railroads, and the Poor Law. He must observe, however, that it appeared some-what inconsistent that the hon. Member for Coventry should have seconded the Motion moved by his hon. Friend, for he could not conceive two Gentlemen
269268267"Non mihi regnandi venit tam dira cupido."266Sir J. Graham
255, would again read the names of the hon. Gentlemen proposed to be nominated. The Government had selected a Gentleman who had been long in that House, a Gentleman of high character and spotless integrity, in forgetfulness of the fact, that some twenty years ago, he had been in practice at the Bar. As it was the pleasure of the House that he should be excluded, he would propose to substitute, for the name of Mr. Home Drummond, the name of Mr. Wilson Patten. The right hon. Baronet then read the names as follow: Lord Sandon,
255Sir J. Graham
 trusted if the House approved generally of the Committee that had been named, they would vote for it as it now stood. The Government had avoided placing upon the Committee any of those who had been accused; and let it not be said, as upon another occasion, that they looked for a judge and found an accuser. The hon. Gentleman had expressed a strong opinion in regard to the conduct of Her Majesty's Government; and he could not, therefore, but think it would be more just and satisfactory that his name should be omitted. In so omitting him, they cast no imputation upon that hon. Gentleman; but acted in precise conformity with the course taken by the hon. Gentlemen opposite, in the case of the charge preferred by the hon. Member for Bradford against the hon. and learned Member for Cork; and there was an opinion expressed on that side of the House, that the hon. Member should be excluded from that Committee, because he had exhibited indications of strong party opinions. The Government then had acted conformably to the precedent they had found established by those who were opposed to them. If then the House were satisfied generally with the Committee proposed, he trusted they would sanction the unusual course the Government had proposed of nominating a majority of five Gentlemen opposed to them, and not enter into a personal conflict respecting the names of individuals.Sir R. Peel
241240239 said, Sir, I must observe, in the first place, that I cordially and personally share in the satisfaction expressed by my right hon. Friend, that there will be an opportunity to give the fullest information on the subject of the most invidious power of detaining and opening letters. I say, I heartily rejoice in it, because the acts done are not the acts of an individual Member of the Government, for them I consider the whole Administration responsible; and that it is not just and not fair, that he upon whom the law imposes this painful duty should bear the whole responsibility of it. These acts are done with the general cognizance and authority of the Government, and individual Members of the Government ought not to be made responsible for them. Sir, the great object for which the appointment of this Committee will take place, is, that there may be full and complete information as to the length of time the usage has prevailed, and the circumstances under which this authority has been exercised, and that there should proceed from that Committee, an opinion whether or no in the case of any particular Administration this power has been perverted from the purposes for which it was granted—whether it has been used for the promotion of private interests, whether it has been used for the gratification of private curiosity, or the indulgence of private malignity, or whether the great purposes for which the power was given, namely, the maintenance of the interests of the country, has been all that has been regarded by those who have exercised it. That was the great object we had in the appointment of this Committee. We left out all lawyers purposely, after consideration. We thought it right to state the origin of the law, and in what manner the law had varied from time to time; but we thought that we should be justly charged with diverting from public attention the real object of this Committee, if we had put upon it any lawyers to squabble about this or that construction of the law. Let us discuss that at another time. If we had put any lawyers upon it, whom should we have named? Without reflection upon anybody, the men best qualified in the opinion of all, would, probably, be those who had filled the highest offices under the late Government as well as under the present Government. I presume that that would have been the general opinion,
241240239Sir R. Peel
 thought that nothing would be so unjust as to subject subordinate officers to the consequences of an act which they had committed under the control of their superiors. The responsibility certainly rested with the Government. But, if a legal indemnity should be requisite, it would be perfectly competent for the Committee to report the circumstances under which the House should be called upon to form their judgment upon that point. He should certainly think it inconsistent with the honour of the Government to visit a penalty on the subordinate officers of the Post Office establishment.Sir R. Peel
278277276Hawes:275 was surprised that a measure like the present should have been met in the manner it had been by the hon. Member for Lambeth. The hon. Member
278277276Hawes:275Mr. Gladstone
 could not suppose that the Board of Trade, was actuated by any hostility to Joint-Stock Companies. But he would suggest the propriety of excluding Railway Companies from the operations of the Bill.Lord Seymour
 was opposed to the Bill, not so much because it interfered with Joint-Stock Companies, as because it interfered with Railway Companies; but he would not object to going into Committee, because he could in Committee propose those alterations he thought advisable.Mr. Hodgson
 proposed that they should go through the provisions of the Bill generally, and that it should then be open to any Gentleman to propose that railways should be excepted in certain particulars.Mr. Gladstone
 said, that the advices which would go out by the July mail from this country to Java and Manilla, would find persons there qualified to issue certificates as to the produce of those islands. In answer to the other part of the noble Lord's question, he said that a discretionary power of course would be vested in the Board of Customs as to the admission of sugar without certificate.Mr. Gladstone
 could inform the House that the subject had occupied the serious attention of Government, with the view of devising some substitute for Ministers' Money. They had not yet succeeded, but he trusted that before the close of next Session they would be enabled to submit some measure on the subject to Parliament.Lord Stanley
 hoped that, while excluding Railroad Companies from the operations of the Bill, they would not exclude sham railroad companies. One of the grossest frauds ever perpetrated had been called a railroad company. He thought the Clause making those who lent the guarantee of their names liable to a most wholesome enactment. He had no pity for those persons who thus lent their names and induced others to risk their property in undertakings of this nature. He thought the word "promoter" ought to be more clearly defined. He had himself, before he had the honour of a seat in that House, been a promoter of a Railway Bill before a Committee. He thought the words of the Clause ought to be so defined as not to include those who were professionally employed in promoting Bills before Committees. The hon. Member for Lambeth had agreed to the whole of the resolutions of the Committee on which the Bill was founded with one exception, a point on which he divided the Committee. If the resolutions were compared with the Bill, they would be found closely to resemble each other.Mr. James S. Wortley
 had certainly promised last Session to take the subject into consideration, and he had redeemed that pledge, for both his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland and himself had maturely considered the subject, but be regretted to state that the Government had been unable as yet to devise any plan which would be satisfactory to the persons subject to the payment of the tax, without depriving the clergy of that to which the hon. and learned Gentleman himself admitted they were fairly entitled. It should be remembered that at the time this Act passed, Roman Catholics were incapacitated by law from holding houses; therefore it was a tax imposed upon Protestant property exclusively, and Roman Catholics, who had since become possessed of that property, had acquired it subject to this tax, and, therefore, had purchased it for less than they would otherwise have given for it. He did not abandon the hope of being able to devise a measure at some future time to remedy the grievance, which he admitted the existence of, but he could not accede to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he hoped he would not press it.Lord Eliot
Gladstone: said, the right hon. Gentleman had intimated that the Bill did not apply to Railways. ["Mr. Gladstone:Mr. Hawes
dissent from Mr. Gladstone believed the Bill was imperfectly understood, and it was not known that the Bill would be proceeded with so soon. From communications which he had had with several persons, he found that the provisions of the Bill were not known to Joint-Stock Companies. The provisions of the Bill were not merely applicable to future Railway Companies, but to existing Railway Companies. They were of such a nature, and went into such minute details, that the Bill, if passed, would throw the greatest possible obstruction in the way of Joint-Stock Companies, present and future. It seemed to be the object of Her Majesty's present Government to interfere with everything and to settle nothing. The great object of the Committee which sat on this subject was to prevent the formation of fraudulent companies. But this Bill would not prevent the formation of fraudulent railway companies. It was an attempt to grasp at power which was perfectly unprecedented. There was no kind of petty legislation which this Bill did not embrace. He thought they had a right to know what was the opinion of Her Majesty's Ministers generally. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) seemed remarkably hostile to the employment of capital in those great undertakings to which this country was so largely indebted. From beginning to end Joint Stock Companies were to be placed under the control of the Board of Trade. The Bill had been materially altered since it was first printed, and very extensive powers had been given to the Board of Trade in reference to Railway Companies—[dissent from Mr. GladstoneMr. Hawes
: The hon. Gentleman, until the Order of the Day be read, cannot discuss the Clauses of the Bill.The Speaker
287l.l.,l.l."That this House will, upon Tuesday next, resolve itself into a Committee, to take into consideration the Act 17 and 18 Car. 2, c. 7, intituled, 'An Act for provision of Ministers in Cities and corporate Towns, and making the Church of St. Andrew's, in the suburbs of the city of Dublin, presentative for ever', with a view to the repeal of so much thereof as relates to the payment of ministers in corporate towns in Ireland." rose to move,
287l.l.,l.l."That this House will, upon Tuesday next, resolve itself into a Committee, to take into consideration the Act 17 and 18 Car. 2, c. 7, intituled, 'An Act for provision of Ministers in Cities and corporate Towns, and making the Church of St. Andrew's, in the suburbs of the city of Dublin, presentative for ever', with a view to the repeal of so much thereof as relates to the payment of ministers in corporate towns in Ireland."Mr. Sergeant Murphy
294 said, that although the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had wandered somewhat widely from the sub-
294Mr. Curteis
, according to notice, begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government, whether the Government had given its sanction to the introduction of oaths in Custom-house matters in China, as directed by the British Consul at Ningpo. He understood that this practice was carried on to a very great extent, captains being called upon to make oath of the number of passengers, and to swear to the manifests of cargo.Dr. Bowring
 said, that since the Bill was introduced, it had been his business to make some inquiries on the subject of the parties interested in the Bill, and the result was so very unsatisfactory that he felt the greatest difficulty in pronouncing any decided opinion upon it; and as he did not think the House was then in a condition to come to a decision upon that important measure, he hoped the further consideration of it would be adjourned.Mr. Manners Sutton
293292291290289288 said: In addressing you on the important subject now under consideration, it would be presumptuous in me to suppose I could suggest any view, or unfold any argument not already submitted to the legislative wisdom of Parliament, or the collective intellect of the country. The present is a branch of that great question which, so fatally for Ireland, has long absorbed the feelings of that country, and painfully occupied the attention of this House. The temporalities of the Protestant Church in Ireland
293292291290289288Mr. John O'Brien
279 agreed that great harm had been done by the abuse of the principle of Joint-Stock Companies; but he considered that the advantages which had arisen from them more than preponderated, and they should be careful while legislating against the dangers, that they did not destroy the advantages also. One great principle distinguishing this country from others was, the non-interference of the Government with the regulations of trade. The right hon. Gentleman had accused them of being actuated by party spirit, because they alluded to the manner in which the Bill had been drawn up, and on the late period of the Session at which it had been introduced. Now, he recollected when the right hon. Gentleman would have been eloquent against any Bill of ninety-one Clauses, with every Clause ill-drawn, which should have been introduced on the 2nd of July. One great advantage they were promised from the change of Ministry was, that they were to have no ill-drawn Bills. Every measure was to be carefully considered, everything
279Mr. Parker
 objected to part of the principle of the Bill, and stated also that within a very few hours a most important Clause had been introduced into the Bill. He did not see any objection to including Joint Stock Companies and the formation of railways in the Bill. If it was to prevent fraud, it was as proper to prevent frauds in railway companies as in any other. He complained that the Solicitor General was not present on an occasion of discussing a Bill so important as the present one, and objected to the power under the Act given to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, which was no less than that of preventing parties from coming before Parliament for Bills. This was a distinct principle, and as it had not been discussed sufficiently, he hoped the Committee would not be pressed.Mr. Roebuck
bonâ fide thought there had been a good many railway schemes brought forward in connexion with which there had been more fraud and felony than ever he had heard of before in connexion with public matters. Many persons were extremely anxious to have railway matters excluded from the operation of this Bill; but, though he was aware it was an unpopular opinion, he felt bound to say they ought not to be excluded. There were constantly bubble schemes going forward to derange the market, and injure the honest bonâ fideMr. Brotherton
 hoped, that before another Session the Government would prepare a measure to carry out the object of his hon. and learned Friend.Mr. Bellew
, instead of the Bill going too far, he thought it did not go far enough. One object of the Bill was to register existing companies, in order that they might be known. The Bill merely regulated the great discretionary powers already vested in the Board of Trade. Its object was to prevent the imitation of good companies by bad ones.Mr. Godson
 thought the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade was not justified in introducing some of the Clauses he had done into this Bill, with respect to railways. It was surely not the duty of the Board of Trade to throw obstacles in the way of measures of this description. All that the Board of Trade was called on to do, was to put an end to fraud; and if the right hon. Gentleman would only bring in a Bill for that purpose, he had no doubt it would receive the support of every Member. No statement had been made why railways were included in this Bill. He was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman intended to take this measure into his further consideration.Mr. Gill
 said, there was now sought in this Bill a power to regulate railway companies in their proceedings, even before coming to that House for their Act. This was a power which might be exercised in a very dangerous manner, and which, therefore, he should strongly warn the House to be careful of conceding. The Bill gave the power to receive the deposits of shareholders—a thing unheard of before. Again, it was proposed to invest in the Board of Trade a power to purchase hereafter such railways as might now or at any future period be contemplated and formed. These things, he must really suggest, were eminently worthy of the reconsideration of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade.Mr. Entwisle
 seconded the Motion. The Bill was one for giving to the Board of Trade unlimited control over all Joint-Stock Companies. Every document even connected with the companies was to be sent to the Board of Trade. The Board of Trade by this measure was assuming to itself all those powers for the purpose of making itself an irresponsible tribunal, and enabling it to throw a net over every company, from which they could not escape. That was the real object of the Bill. Every penalty fixed by the Bill was, he would venture to say, unknown to the Constitution, enormous in amount, and unexampled in all times. Under such circumstances, he felt bound to support the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth.Mr. Hayter
284283 on moving that Mr. Speaker do leave the Chair, that the House may resolve itself into a Committee on the Smoke Prevention Bill, said, he deemed it his duty to explain to the House the reasons that had induced him to bring forward this measure and to frame this enactment. In the course of last Session a Committee was formed of which he was named Chairman to investigate whether detriment arose to the health of the community from the increase of smoke in all large manufacturing places. The attention
284283Mr. Mackinnon
 had never held a railway share in his life, and he believed that he never should. Therefore anything which he might say would not be open to the objection that he was an interested party. He was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman should have thrown something like a slur upon those Gentlemen who had given the sanction of their names to the projected railway from London to York. He himself was one of those individuals; and his sole object had been to provide a check against the existing monopoly. Notwithstanding what the right hon. Gentleman had said, he was still of opinion that not only additional, but very great powers, were given to the Board of Trade with respect to the formation of new Railway Companies. The twenty-seventh Clause declared that it should not be lawful for the officers of the Company to exercise the powers given to them by Act of Parliament without the consent of the Committee of the Privy Council.Sir G. Strickland
 said, if the Bill were persevered in, he was determined to oppose it in every stage. He moved that the House would resolve itself into a Committee that day three months.Mr. Ward
: I presented a petition from the town of Leicester, in accordance with the general principle of the measure proposed by the hon. Member for Lymington, and I am quite disposed to concur in the general principle of his Bill; but, perceiving as I do the prevailing sentiment of the House to be against proceeding with it at the present time, I recommend his consenting to its postponement, and I hope it will be revived with success early in the next Session.Sir J. Easthope
 had come down to the House entertaining considerable prejudice against the Bill, but the course which the debate had taken had convinced him of the propriety of going into Committee. He certainly, with regard to railways, thought considerable caution ought to be exercised to prevent companies making an improper use of names. He himself had been asked some time ago by an hon. Member to put his name on the back of the Carlisle and Glasgow Railway Bill, and considering that a direct communication between Manchester and Glasgow would be advantageous, he had consented to do so. To his surprise, a few days afterwards he had seen his name in the newspapers as a member of a provisional committee of a railroad in embryo. He of course took measures immediately to rectify the mistake.Mr. M. Phillips
 also expressed a hope that if the hon. Gentleman withdrew his Bill for the present, he would be enabled to take it up more successfully next year. This, however, would mainly depend upon the assistance he could get from those who were capable of affording it; and he did hope, that all persons connected with the manufacturing districts, and who were anxious for the health of the towns with which they were connected, would turn their attention to the subject; otherwise the exertions of the hon. Member for Lymington next year would probably turn out as fruitless as they had been on the present occasion. He understood that there were some forty or fifty inventions for abating this nuisance, and he hoped that men of practical experience would examine some of them.Sir R. Peel
286 said, that the administration of oaths in the way described by the hon. Member, had been done without direct authority from Her Majesty's Government. Her Majesty's Government, however, would take care to communicate with the Consul at Ningpo, directing him to adopt, as far as possible, the practice of the English Custom-house in these matters. The Consul had, probably, acted hitherto in the way described, under the
286Sir R. Peel
281 thought the Bill a most useful measure, encouraging, as it
281Mr. Walter James
 thought the Bill called for by the necessity of the case though some of its provisions might be susceptible of improvement, ft fairly carried out the Resolutions of the Committee, of which he was a Member. As to the effect of the Bill on Joint-Stock Companies, if there was anything on which the public mind was made up, it was on the necessity of some change in the mode of forming Joint-Stock Companies. The object of the Bill, by one general enactment, was to give all Joint-Stock Companies those advantages which they now sought by separate Acts. He should support the Motion for going into Committee.Sir W. Clay
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade at what time there would be parties in Java and Manilla who would be authorised to issue certificates of origin of sugar, and also whether in cases where certificates could not be obtained sugar would be admitted without a certificate?Viscount Sandon
357"In all cases where it may be thought proper to alter the size of the union, the Committee recommend that especial consideration be had to the easy access of the poor, and to the good attendance of the guardians at the board; those conditions being in their opinion of essential and paramount importance."356"There never was such a bugbear conjured up to fright men's minds, as to suppose that the parishes of a whole county are to be united, and that all the paupers of large districts, whether agricultural or manufacturing, are to be brought together and to be placed in one immense prison. If the Commissioners be not absolutely deranged, they will never attempt anything of the kind. The sole object of this clause is to put a convenient number of parishes together, probably some six or seven, for the purpose of having a common workhouse, and of managing it economically."355"The very object of an alteration made by myself, and not previously suggested by any hon. Member in this House, of giving a discretion to the Commissioners to dispense with the change in places where it may be desirable that it should not be carried into effect, is to enable the Bill to be carried into operation without the possibility of any such result as collision.""It certainly will not be a part of the duty of the Commissioners to include all the parishes of this country in unions." said, that if the Resolution now before the House had been differently worded he perhaps should have had not much difficulty in voting for it; but, whatever modification ought to be effected in the law he objected to the wording of the Resolution. He would not consent to pronounce any act unconstitutional which had been maintained and sanctioned by repeated votes of Parliament. Besides that, in other respects the wording of the Resolution was vague and unintelligible. The Bill invested the Commissioners with strong and extraordinary powers: but it did not necessarily follow that such powers were unconstitutional. The Resolution was either a truism or it went beyond the truth. There was no occasion for a vote of the House to that effect. He should have no objection to support the hon. Member for Evesham, if that hon. Gentleman moved a resolution to the effect that the Poor Law Amendment Act was unsound in principle and oppressive in its operation; for in many respects it was oppressive in its operation, as well as unsound in its principle. He repeated that it was oppressive in its operation, for this among other reasons,—that it was not properly or fairly carried out. At the time the Bill of 1834 was introduced, Lord Althorp said,
357"In all cases where it may be thought proper to alter the size of the union, the Committee recommend that especial consideration be had to the easy access of the poor, and to the good attendance of the guardians at the board; those conditions being in their opinion of essential and paramount importance."356"There never was such a bugbear conjured up to fright men's minds, as to suppose that the parishes of a whole county are to be united, and that all the paupers of large districts, whether agricultural or manufacturing, are to be brought together and to be placed in one immense prison. If the Commissioners be not absolutely deranged, they will never attempt anything of the kind. The sole object of this clause is to put a convenient number of parishes together, probably some six or seven, for the purpose of having a common workhouse, and of managing it economically."355"The very object of an alteration made by myself, and not previously suggested by any hon. Member in this House, of giving a discretion to the Commissioners to dispense with the change in places where it may be desirable that it should not be carried into effect, is to enable the Bill to be carried into operation without the possibility of any such result as collision.""It certainly will not be a part of the duty of the Commissioners to include all the parishes of this country in unions."Mr. Stewart Wortley
364363s.s.d.362361"A vagabond above the age of fourteen years shall be adjudged to be grievously whipped and burned through the gristle of the right ear with a hot iron of the compass of an inch, unless some credible person will take him into service for a year; and if, being of the age of eighteen years, he after do fall again into a roguish life, he shall suffer death as a felon, unless some credible person will take him into service for two years; and if he fall a third time into a roguish life, he shall be adjudged as a felon."360"That from the 1st day of November next ensuing the end of this Session of Parliament no person or persons whatever shall go wandering abroad and beg in any place whatsoever, by license or without, upon pain, to be esteemed, taken, and punished as a rogue."359358S. Wortley:: I think the House is indebted to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Evesham (Mr. Borthwick), who brought forward this Motion, and I therefore entirely differ from the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. The complaint of the public which has been raised is, that the law is unconstitutional in principle and oppressive in operation, That is a common feeling, and if the law really be so, let us at once proceed to reconstruct that law; but if we be not persuaded of the truth of that sentiment let us put a negative upon the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. It seems to me that there cannot be a fairer question brought before the House than that which the hon. Gentleman has moved. The hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding surprised me not a little by his going chiefly into one particular matter of detail, and by his stating that he had never proposed a repeal of this law. I thought I had read a printed placard of the hon. Gentleman's prepared when he was addressing the persons whom he sought to represent, stating that he was for a modification—an alteration, or if necessary, the repeal of the New Poor Law. [Mr. 364363s.s.d.362361"A vagabond above the age of fourteen years shall be adjudged to be grievously whipped and burned through the gristle of the right ear with a hot iron of the compass of an inch, unless some credible person will take him into service for a year; and if, being of the age of eighteen years, he after do fall again into a roguish life, he shall suffer death as a felon, unless some credible person will take him into service for two years; and if he fall a third time into a roguish life, he shall be adjudged as a felon."360"That from the 1st day of November next ensuing the end of this Session of Parliament no person or persons whatever shall go wandering abroad and beg in any place whatsoever, by license or without, upon pain, to be esteemed, taken, and punished as a rogue."359358S. Wortley:Lord J. Russell
365 said, that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had offered to prove cases in which out-door relief had been given. This was an extraordinary argument to use in favour of the law, which went on the principle of the workhouse test. It was a virtual abandonment of the workhouse test. He considered the workhouse test to be a harsh principle, one not to be defended upon any ground of truth, justice, wisdom or humanity. It said to the labourer—you have a right to relief, but we will accompany the granting of that relief with so many obstacles that you
365Sir W. James
 sincerely hoped something would be done to diminish the size of the unions; that it was one of the greatest evils of the present system. It had been asked whether wages had been raised, and whether the state of the poor had improved since the passing of the New Poor Law. Looking to the condition of the poor in every part of the country he contended there had been an improvement. And comparing any well-regulated union workhouse with a parish workhouse under the old system, where the profligate and unfortunate, men, women and children, promiscuously herded together, there could be no doubt great improvements had been effected under the new Bill. What a well regulated union workhouse should provide, was, first, a good school, where the children of the destitute should be properly educated; secondly, comfortable retreats for the aged and infirm; and lastly, wards where the able-bodied could be set to work; that was the system they had endeavoured to carry out in his part of the country. By this means the condition of the poor would be really improved.(Brecon)Colonel Wood (Brecon)
380 observed that the hon. Gentleman had said that the Bill had not been satisfactorily discussed. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman, for the present Bill had not been discussed at all. They were anxious that the present Bill should be discussed, and discussed, too, in Committee, so that all its details might be considered, and where it could be done and mended. What, then, the Government complained of was this, that hon. Gentlemen complained of and abused the existing law, they complained of the hardships of that law, and then, when there was a
380Lord Stanley
381 continued: The noble Lord spoke of some charitable institution—he knew not what it was. He did not find that any measure was to be introduced into that House; but that it was some private scheme. That scheme, it seemed, was to be carried into effect by private exertion, if it had not appeared that its object would be effected by the Bill that was introduced. If, then, that object could be effected by the present Bill, then let them, in God's name, proceed to the consideration of the measure, but let them not detain the House and waste the time of all, by a profitless dis-
381Lord Stanley
384 begged to assure the hon. Gentleman that in the observations which he had made he had intended no immediate reference to him. He was quite sensible of the obliging manner in which the hon. Gentleman had consulted the wishes
384Lord Stanley
 observed if the noble Lord really wished him to explain what he had stated, it was this. There was about to be formed in London, by private subscription, an institution for the reception of the destitute. ["Oh, oh!"] It was very well to say "oh, oh," but he declared, that such an institution was about to be formed, and was given up on the announcement in Parliament of a Bill by which would be effected that which a private society endeavoured to accomplish.Lord J. Manners
: Sir, if I had not heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, I could not have believed it possible that in this House a Prime Minister would get up and say that there was no obligation on him to bring in a Bill to mitigate the rigours of this law — that he only did it to please the opponents of the measure—Lord John Manners
379: If the Government feel it to be an obligation arising from a "sense of duty," to bring forward such a measure as this, surely they must feel it "an obligation arising from a sense of duty," to persist in carrying it whether its discussion extend over two nights or two weeks. I cannot conceive how the right hon. Baronet can, "consistently with his sense of duty," talk of giving up a measure of this consequence, merely because we ask for a single adjournment of a debate. I beg the House to remember that it is now three years since the principle of the Poor Law was discussed—that this measure was brought in at the earliest period of the Session—that six months have elapsed since it was placed on the Order Book—that during that time we have discussed every conceivable question under the sun but this—and, recollecting this, I ask the House to say whether the Government ought to begrudge a second night's debate upon a measure which affects the happiness and involves the liberties of millions. I implore Her Majesty's Government to reconsider their determination. I beg them, if they wish to stand well with the people of this country, not to throw up this important Bill in dudgeon, or pretended dudgeon, at our persisting in demanding two nights to consider it. We have discussed this Session, with no limitation as to time, measures in which the working people of the country felt no earthly interest and had no possible concern. It was entirely in consequence of
379Lord John Manners
382 thought that, for himself and for his hon. Friends who concurred with him upon this subject, he might fairly complain of the tone which the noble Lord had adopted, taking advantage of the official situation which he held. The noble Lord had alluded to the period of the Session in which this question was discussed, but he, (Mr. B. Cochrane) would ask, whose fault was it that the subject was brought forward at
382Mr. B. Cochrane
333"Between a splendid and a happy land.""How wide the limits stand332"A strong feeling in opposition to a legal assessment has, however, existed in Scotland, and the clergy in general have strenuously exerted their influence to prevent recourse being had to any compulsory means for the relief of the poor. It is maintained that the existence of an assessment in a parish has a tendency to encourage pauperism, and to increase the number of the poor and the expense of supporting them, without materially benefiting their condition. The establishment of a fund so raised is said to lead the poorer classes to place an undue reliance on a legal provision, and thus to break down their spirit of independence. The exertions they might thus make in their own behalf are thus supposed to be relaxed, while at the same time the efforts of private charity, the care and kindness of relations, and the sympathy of the poor for the poor, are held to be so much diminished as to render any advantage which the pauper may obtain from the introduction of assessments but a small compensation for what he loses in other respects."331"Workhouses for old men weaken the ties of families, and destroy those feelings of affection which children owe to their parents; they give birth to the monstrous idea that the old are a burthen upon society, of which it must endeavour to rid itself.""The immediate advantage of allotments is so great that if there were no other means of supplying them we think it might be worth while, as a temporary measure, as a means of smoothing the road to improvements, to propose some general plan for providing them.""We find in this excellent Report, that of all the heads of families holding allotments in Kent, not one of them was committed for any crime during 1841 and 1842. In the parish of Harlow there were thirty-five commitments in 1825. The allotment system was introduced in 1836, and in 1837 the commitments were reduced to one."330"I say, fortunately we have at last adopted the redemption fund. The benefits of it are already felt. They will every year be more and more acknowledged; and in addition it is only necessary to say, that instead of consulting a present advantage, and throwing the burthen as heretofore upon posterity, we shall fairly meet it ourselves, and lay the foundation of a system which shall make us independent of all the events in the world.""Notwithstanding all philosophical arguments, is it actually true that the result of the Act of 1819 was to pay double what you had borrowed?—Yes. If the House of Commons had known the effect of the Act, would they have passed it?—I believe not. Do you believe the Bill was passed in utter ignorance of its consequences?—I believe it was so. It affected the whole nation?—Yes, it affected every fixed payment that was made.""To what do you attribute the impoverished state of the farmer? Mr. Langholm.—I attribute the distress of the farmer chiefly to the diminished quantity of currency. Mr. Wodehouse.—Do you disapprove of the New Poor Law? Mr. Thirnall.—Most assuredly, I think it it will compel the labourer to work for low wages. They will not be able to consume our produce. Consequently, I think it will be very prejudicial to the farmers. Is the labourer better or worse off than he was ten years since?—He was better off till the New Poor Law came in. Then he was thrown upon his own resources."329"When the noble Lord says, that low prices incident to the distress which agriculture suffers benefit no man, I answer that I sincerely wish that such distress did not exist: but I cannot be blind to the fact, that they certainly do benefit a great majority of the people; do they not benefit the annuitant and mortgagee."328l.l.;l.;l.;l.;l.;327l.l.;l.;l.;l.;l.;l.l.326325324l.323"Why do not Governments decide offhand a question growing out of the usages of centuries—interwoven with the habits, and deeply rooted in the prejudices of the people? Of all subjects of legislation on which Governments ought not harshly or prematurely to interfere, without ascertaining, and, if possible, carrying with them the prevailing sentiments of the country, this of the Poor Law appears to me the one on which it would be most undesirable to take a pricipitate course.""I am convinced that the evils which the Poor Law occasioned did not arise from their original constitution; and I coincide with the opinion of Blackstone, that in proportion as the wise regulations which were adopted in the long and glorious reign of Elizabeth have been departed from and superseded by subsequent enactments, the utility of the institution has been impaired, and the benevolence of the plan rendered fruitless.""Sickness was a thing which prudent men should look forward to and provide against in prosperity; and old age was before all men, and they should lay up stores for that time."322"Where the workhouse has been actually offered to, and refused by an applicant, if you are of opinion that the case of the applicant was one of real necessity, you should endeavour to ascertain the result of the refusal of relief by such applicant. The Commissioners believe that in such cases you will generally find that the refusal of relief in the workhouse by the applicant, has arisen from the possession of some means and resources which are withheld from the knowledge of the guardians. Occasional illustrations of this operation of the workhouse will increase the confidence of the guardians in this mode of relief. With regard to those classes of cases in which out-door relief is given, you should watch vigilantly the appearance and growth of any abuse in this mode of administration."321"Except as to medical attendance, and subject to the exception respecting apprenticeships hereinafter stated, no relief whatever to able-bodied paupers, or to their families, otherwise than in well-regulated workhouses, shall be declared unlawful and shall cease." (Again)—'No one to receive relief while earning any thing for himself.' (Again)—'To permit outdoor relief as an exception, would be to permit it as a rule.'"320"That the new Poor Law, though improved by the proposed amendments, is still opposed to the ancient Constitution of this realm, and inadequate to the necessities of the people." then rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice:—
333"Between a splendid and a happy land.""How wide the limits stand332"A strong feeling in opposition to a legal assessment has, however, existed in Scotland, and the clergy in general have strenuously exerted their influence to prevent recourse being had to any compulsory means for the relief of the poor. It is maintained that the existence of an assessment in a parish has a tendency to encourage pauperism, and to increase the number of the poor and the expense of supporting them, without materially benefiting their condition. The establishment of a fund so raised is said to lead the poorer classes to place an undue reliance on a legal provision, and thus to break down their spirit of independence. The exertions they might thus make in their own behalf are thus supposed to be relaxed, while at the same time the efforts of private charity, the care and kindness of relations, and the sympathy of the poor for the poor, are held to be so much diminished as to render any advantage which the pauper may obtain from the introduction of assessments but a small compensation for what he loses in other respects."331"Workhouses for old men weaken the ties of families, and destroy those feelings of affection which children owe to their parents; they give birth to the monstrous idea that the old are a burthen upon society, of which it must endeavour to rid itself.""The immediate advantage of allotments is so great that if there were no other means of supplying them we think it might be worth while, as a temporary measure, as a means of smoothing the road to improvements, to propose some general plan for providing them.""We find in this excellent Report, that of all the heads of families holding allotments in Kent, not one of them was committed for any crime during 1841 and 1842. In the parish of Harlow there were thirty-five commitments in 1825. The allotment system was introduced in 1836, and in 1837 the commitments were reduced to one."330"I say, fortunately we have at last adopted the redemption fund. The benefits of it are already felt. They will every year be more and more acknowledged; and in addition it is only necessary to say, that instead of consulting a present advantage, and throwing the burthen as heretofore upon posterity, we shall fairly meet it ourselves, and lay the foundation of a system which shall make us independent of all the events in the world.""Notwithstanding all philosophical arguments, is it actually true that the result of the Act of 1819 was to pay double what you had borrowed?—Yes. If the House of Commons had known the effect of the Act, would they have passed it?—I believe not. Do you believe the Bill was passed in utter ignorance of its consequences?—I believe it was so. It affected the whole nation?—Yes, it affected every fixed payment that was made.""To what do you attribute the impoverished state of the farmer? Mr. Langholm.—I attribute the distress of the farmer chiefly to the diminished quantity of currency. Mr. Wodehouse.—Do you disapprove of the New Poor Law? Mr. Thirnall.—Most assuredly, I think it it will compel the labourer to work for low wages. They will not be able to consume our produce. Consequently, I think it will be very prejudicial to the farmers. Is the labourer better or worse off than he was ten years since?—He was better off till the New Poor Law came in. Then he was thrown upon his own resources."329"When the noble Lord says, that low prices incident to the distress which agriculture suffers benefit no man, I answer that I sincerely wish that such distress did not exist: but I cannot be blind to the fact, that they certainly do benefit a great majority of the people; do they not benefit the annuitant and mortgagee."328l.l.;l.;l.;l.;l.;327l.l.;l.;l.;l.;l.;l.l.326325324l.323"Why do not Governments decide offhand a question growing out of the usages of centuries—interwoven with the habits, and deeply rooted in the prejudices of the people? Of all subjects of legislation on which Governments ought not harshly or prematurely to interfere, without ascertaining, and, if possible, carrying with them the prevailing sentiments of the country, this of the Poor Law appears to me the one on which it would be most undesirable to take a pricipitate course.""I am convinced that the evils which the Poor Law occasioned did not arise from their original constitution; and I coincide with the opinion of Blackstone, that in proportion as the wise regulations which were adopted in the long and glorious reign of Elizabeth have been departed from and superseded by subsequent enactments, the utility of the institution has been impaired, and the benevolence of the plan rendered fruitless.""Sickness was a thing which prudent men should look forward to and provide against in prosperity; and old age was before all men, and they should lay up stores for that time."322"Where the workhouse has been actually offered to, and refused by an applicant, if you are of opinion that the case of the applicant was one of real necessity, you should endeavour to ascertain the result of the refusal of relief by such applicant. The Commissioners believe that in such cases you will generally find that the refusal of relief in the workhouse by the applicant, has arisen from the possession of some means and resources which are withheld from the knowledge of the guardians. Occasional illustrations of this operation of the workhouse will increase the confidence of the guardians in this mode of relief. With regard to those classes of cases in which out-door relief is given, you should watch vigilantly the appearance and growth of any abuse in this mode of administration."321"Except as to medical attendance, and subject to the exception respecting apprenticeships hereinafter stated, no relief whatever to able-bodied paupers, or to their families, otherwise than in well-regulated workhouses, shall be declared unlawful and shall cease." (Again)—'No one to receive relief while earning any thing for himself.' (Again)—'To permit outdoor relief as an exception, would be to permit it as a rule.'"320"That the new Poor Law, though improved by the proposed amendments, is still opposed to the ancient Constitution of this realm, and inadequate to the necessities of the people."Mr. A. B. Cochrane
 did not agree with the speeches of either the noble Lord who had just sat down or the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. He could not agree that the discussion on this measure was deferred to too late a period of the Session. It was a Bill calculated greatly to advantage the people and greatly to improve the law, and therefore it never could come too late. At the same time, he thought they ought not to goon with it at half-past twelve at night. He knew there were many Members who were quite prepared to divide, whether the measure were debated or not; but, for his own part, he believed the question to be one which required serious discussion, and which they ought to strive to make, not only as perfect a remedy as possible for existing evils, but as satisfactory as possible both to rate payers and rate receivers. He hoped, therefore, that more time would be allowed.Mr. B. Escott
 said, the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman was not in accordance with the forms of the House. The question was that the Order of the Day for going into Committee be now read, and it was competent to the hon. Member to move as an Amendment either that a particular Order of the Day be read, or that the Orders of the Day be read. The Amendment of the hon. Member must be put in one or the other of these two forms.The Speaker
335 had listened with great attention to the observations of the hon. Member for Bridport, and he fully concurred in what had fallen from that hon. Gentleman with regard to the existing Poor Law. His opinion always had been, that the present Poor Law was a measure most uncongenial to the feelings and habits of that class of the people to whom it referred. He took this opportunity to express his detestation of that measure, which he would venture to term a brutal law. He conceived, that the best course they could adopt would be, to abolish the body of Poor Law Commissioners, which he considered the mainstay and great cause of all the evils in the administration of the existing law. He did not mean to impute blame to any individual member of that body; but he must say that the manner in which the Commissioners had acted throughout the country was such as to deprive them of all confidence on the part of the people He wished to impress upon the House, as a first step towards remedying the evils complained of, the necessity of getting rid of the whole body of Poor Law Commissioners. With regard to the law itself, he agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Bridport, that so far from tending to promote the comfort of the poor, or to improve their condition morally or religiously, it was calculated to lead to the extension of misery and crime. Independently of this, all the rational enjoyment which the people had a right to experience in this country had been interfered with by the operation of this law. But it was not his intention, after the able exposition of the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, to detain them by entering into any details with reference to the Bill under discussion, however he might be opposed to it. It would not be right for him to do so at this stage of the proceedings. Should the House resolve itself into Committee, he should then have an opportunity of entering more at length
335Colonel Sibthorp
319 apprehended that at the present moment very little inconvenience was experienced from light gold. Whatever extent the evil might have gone to some time back, it was a satisfaction to know that it existed but to a very slight degree at the present moment. He knew of no mode, however, of taking light gold out of circulation, unless by sending it to the Bank. Before the passing of the Bank Restriction Act, it had been the custom for bankers generally to clip all light gold with a pair of shears kept for the purpose, so that it should no longer circulate, and that was still the practice at the Bank of England; but he could not at that moment see how they could com-
319Mr. C. Wood
 said, he had determined upon bringing forward his Motion in consequence of a conversation which he had had only two days ago with Lord Ashburton, from which he understood that that noble Lord still adhered to the opinions he had declared in 1828. He would, however, withdraw the Motion, as the sense of the House appeared to be against it.Mr. Wodehouse
316d.s.l."That any sum, not exceeding the sum of 25d.s.l. rose to move the insertion of a Clause of which he had given notice, to the effect
316d.s.l."That any sum, not exceeding the sum of 25d.s.l.Mr. Wodehouse
l.l.d.318"And with a view to prevent loss to the working classes, that from and after the pass-
318 moved the following Amendment at the end of Clause 9:—
l.l.d.318"And with a view to prevent loss to the working classes, that from and after the pass-
318Mr. Turner
 believed, that if the Clause were adopted, it would not attain the object the hon. Gentleman had in view. He would take that opportunity of correcting a misapprehension which had occurred with respect to what he had said on a former occasion. He was represented to have said that he advocated a depreciation in the currency, a thing which he had never done.Mr. Muntz
s.s.377 had invariably opposed the New Poor Law, because, in the first place, he considered it beginning at the wrong end, considering it unjust to throw the poor man on his own resources, and then, by other laws to prevent him from gaining employment, which would enable him to maintain himself and family, In the next place, he thought too much power was given to the Poor Law Commissioners, and he further objected to the extension of unions and the workhouse test, while he always thought the Act would be inoperative in manufacturing districts. These were his chief objections to the law; but now, when the question was, whether they should go into Committee for the amelioration of the law, he could not vote against such a proposition. He agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury that it would be impossible to repeal the present law: and, if it were possible, he did not see how they could go back to the old system. The right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) had shown, that 85 per cent of the relief
s.s.377Mr. Brotherton
 said, as the right hon Baronet was not disposed to entertain his Clause for abolishing the legal tender Clause, he did not propose to take up the time of the House in moving it. He could not, however, avoid expressing his regret that the right hon. Baronet had not, by adopting his suggestion, made his Bill more complete. With two standards of paper currency, one convertible immediately, and the other in a few days, he feared the right hon. Baronet would endanger the success of his whole plan. If they omitted the legal tender Clause, they might allow the country banks to issue as much as they pleased, and there would have been no danger.Mr. Hume
315 had a question of great importance to the people of Scotland to put to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government; it was in consequence of an intimation given by the right hon. Baronet, on the Bank Charter Bill, that Parliament having sanctioned that measure, the right hon. Baronet would feel himself at liberty to take into consideration the currency and system of Banking as it prevailed in Scotland and Ireland. That intimation had caused considerable excitement in Scotland. He had himself presented a Petition from a large meeting held in Renfrewshire, deprecating any change. The right hon. Baronet then, in reserving to himself the right of taking into consideration the Banking and Currency in Scotland and Ireland, it was to be hoped would not proceed so far as to form a resolution, nor take a decided step, without having a previous conference with those parties who were immediately concerned. He knew that the statement of the right hon. Baronet, that he would take no immediate step—that he would not do anything without previous consultation with those the most conversant with these
315Mr. P. M. Stewart
"1. That the Act 4 and 5 William IV. c. 76, commonly called the New Poor Law, is unconstitutional in principle, and oppressive in operation. 2. That it is therefore expedient that the said Act should be taken into consideration, with a view, not to its partial amendment, but to its entire re-construction."343342341"This morning, 22nd February, 1844, a poor man came to me to beg I would give him an order for work to be found him. 'I want nothing but work; I have had none this fortnight. My poor wife was brought to bed on Tuesday morning. I have two other young children crying for want of victuals, and for cold. I went to the relieving officer; he gave me two brown loaves, which helped me and the two children; but oh, Sir, what be I to do for the poor woman? I'm afraid she will be cast away for want of what is necessary.' The big tears coursed each other down his honest face in this recital—and I was obliged to hear—without power, legal power, to redress. This is one of the numerous cases in which I want the appellant jurisdiction of a magistrate."340339l.l.338"My Lords, those who framed the statute of Elizabeth were not adepts in political science—they were not acquainted with the true principles of population—they could not foresee that a Malthus would arise to enlighten mankind upon that important, but, as yet, ill understood, branch of science—they knew not the true principle upon which to frame a preventive check, or favour the prudential check to the unlimited increase of the people. To all that they were blind; but this I give them credit for—this they had the sagacity to foresee—that they were laying the foundation of a system of wretchedness and vice for the poor—of a system which would entail upon them the habitual breach of the first and most sacred law of nature, while it hardened the heart against the tenderest sympathies, and eradicated every humane feeling from the human bosom; and, therefore, the same statute of Elizabeth which first said that labour and the reward of labour should be separated; the same atatute which enacted a law contrary to the dispensation of Providence, and to the order of nature—foreseeing that the consequences would be to estrange the natural feelings of the parent for his child, and of the child for his parent—for the first time in the history of human legislation, deemed it necessary to declare, by a positive enactment, that a child should be compelled by the statute in such case made and provided, to obey the dictates of the most powerful feelings of nature—to follow the commands of the law implanted in every breast by the hand of God, and to support his aged and infirm parent."337Hansard,336"I entirely agree with the noble Earl in thinking that the Bill just brought up, less than any other measure, ought to be considered as a party measure; and I trust that it will not be so considered. The Government have, as in duty bound, bestowed the most careful and deliberate attention upon this most complicated and difficult subject, affecting, as the noble Earl has truly stated, most extensively the interests of the people, and involving more important consequences than almost any other measure ever submitted to Parliament." said, the subject which they were then discussing was one of the most important which had yet come under their consideration. He was anxious to direct the attention of the House to the words which fell from Earl Grey; following Lord Malmesbury, in July 2, 1834, upon introducing the Poor Law Bill into the House of Lords, the noble Earl said—
"1. That the Act 4 and 5 William IV. c. 76, commonly called the New Poor Law, is unconstitutional in principle, and oppressive in operation. 2. That it is therefore expedient that the said Act should be taken into consideration, with a view, not to its partial amendment, but to its entire re-construction."343342341"This morning, 22nd February, 1844, a poor man came to me to beg I would give him an order for work to be found him. 'I want nothing but work; I have had none this fortnight. My poor wife was brought to bed on Tuesday morning. I have two other young children crying for want of victuals, and for cold. I went to the relieving officer; he gave me two brown loaves, which helped me and the two children; but oh, Sir, what be I to do for the poor woman? I'm afraid she will be cast away for want of what is necessary.' The big tears coursed each other down his honest face in this recital—and I was obliged to hear—without power, legal power, to redress. This is one of the numerous cases in which I want the appellant jurisdiction of a magistrate."340339l.l.338"My Lords, those who framed the statute of Elizabeth were not adepts in political science—they were not acquainted with the true principles of population—they could not foresee that a Malthus would arise to enlighten mankind upon that important, but, as yet, ill understood, branch of science—they knew not the true principle upon which to frame a preventive check, or favour the prudential check to the unlimited increase of the people. To all that they were blind; but this I give them credit for—this they had the sagacity to foresee—that they were laying the foundation of a system of wretchedness and vice for the poor—of a system which would entail upon them the habitual breach of the first and most sacred law of nature, while it hardened the heart against the tenderest sympathies, and eradicated every humane feeling from the human bosom; and, therefore, the same statute of Elizabeth which first said that labour and the reward of labour should be separated; the same atatute which enacted a law contrary to the dispensation of Providence, and to the order of nature—foreseeing that the consequences would be to estrange the natural feelings of the parent for his child, and of the child for his parent—for the first time in the history of human legislation, deemed it necessary to declare, by a positive enactment, that a child should be compelled by the statute in such case made and provided, to obey the dictates of the most powerful feelings of nature—to follow the commands of the law implanted in every breast by the hand of God, and to support his aged and infirm parent."337Hansard,336"I entirely agree with the noble Earl in thinking that the Bill just brought up, less than any other measure, ought to be considered as a party measure; and I trust that it will not be so considered. The Government have, as in duty bound, bestowed the most careful and deliberate attention upon this most complicated and difficult subject, affecting, as the noble Earl has truly stated, most extensively the interests of the people, and involving more important consequences than almost any other measure ever submitted to Parliament."Mr. Borthwick
Laughter.383Stanley:: I must say, Sir—I must say that I consider the speech of the noble Lord to be anything but worthy of himself or the high position which he holds. The noble Lord thinks it not unworthy of him to tell us that we come down here animated with a wish to hear ourselves talk. The noble Lord, perhaps, will not be guilty of the discourtesy of not listening so what I have to say. I can only say, that I have never heard the noble Lord talk without feelings of pleasure and admiration. This, I believe, Sir, is the universal sentiment of the House. It is impossible not to admire the talents of that noble Lord, and to derive pleasure from his observations whenever he addresses the House. Yes, even now I feel that. Some hon. Members may not understand how a man can admire talent even when directed against oneself. I admire the satire, the powers of argument, and the cunning logic of the noble Lord—I admire them even though directed, as I think, in a most unworthy fashion, for the purpose of putting me down. I believe, however, that the House, in the course of the present Session, has listened patiently to many debates, and many speeches, quite as dull in themselves, and much less important in their bearings than those which they have heard to-night. What I have to complain of is, that a solemn pledge has been broken by Her Majesty's Government in regard to this question. As early as the 11th of April last they told us that this subject whenever it was brought forward would be brought forward as early as five o'clock, in order to give full time for discussion. [Lord Laughter.383Stanley:Mr. Borthwick
, though he did not intend to move the adjournment, would support any hon. Member who would propose such a Motion; and he thought he should be fully justified in doing so, after what had been said by the noble Lord (Lord Stanley). He did not charge the right hon. Baronet with having acted unfairly towards the opponents of the measure. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had redeemed every pledge which he had given.Mr. P. Borthwick
 rose for the purpose of confirming the statement of the right hon. Gentleman as to what had taken place on the introduction of the Bill, and the promise which had been made at the second reading. If any undue advantage had been taken, the blame rested with him (Mr. T. Duncombe), and those who with him had solicited the right hon. Baronet to take the course he had adopted, and not with the right hon. Baronet.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, that great injustice would be done if the House did not allow counsel to be heard at the Bar.Mr. T. Duncombe
 observed, that his hon. Friend did not oppose the Bill, but merely contended for the hearing of counsel. He wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government would or would not oppose the hearing of counsel?Mr. M. Gibson
ex officioex officio375374373372 was grateful for the speech of the noble Lord, who had unfortunately, however, withheld his vote, but whose speech was, nevertheless, highly valuable, particularly as coming from the noble Lord. The noble Lord stood out certainly
ex officioex officio375374373372Mr. Wakley
 moved, that the debate be adjourned.Mr. Christie
 objected to proceeding with the measure.Mr. Christie
 then put it to the Home Secretary whether he had not repeatedly during the Session pledged his honour in the most solemn manner, that if the House would only allow the Poor Law Bill to be postponed, he would give an opportunity for the fullest discussion. The House and the country could not forget the circumstances under which the Bill had been brought in, and the second reading moved. It was introduced on a Saturday, contrary to the express desire of the House. It might have been agreeably to the wishes of a few Members, but not to those who were opposed to the Bill. He, himself, was absent, and when the second reading was proposed, he believed at twelve o'clock at night, the right hon. Baronet promised an opportunity for the fullest discussion. He now called upon the Government to redeem that pledge. If not, he should feel himself warranted in offering every opposition to the Bill.Mr. Ferrand
 moved the adjournment of this debate.Mr. Ferrand
369368367 had no wish to trespass unnecessarily on the time of the House, but he felt it his duty, as one of the representatives of England, to express his sentiments on this Bill. He protested against the call which had been made upon the hon. Member for Evesham to alter the terms of his Resolution, and he was prepared to stand by him in retaining those terms. The resolution stated that this law was unconstitutional, "that the Act 4th and 5th William IV., c. 76, commonly called the New Poor Law, is unconstitutional in principle and oppressive in operation" He was ready to support those words. He maintained that the powers which were given to the Commissioners by that Act were in every way unconstitutional. A body of guardians having been constituted for the various unions, powers were given to the Commissioners to control and upset their decisions in the most unconstitutional manner. Powers were given to them to make laws which that House only ought to make. The defenders of the Poor Law had proved the unconstitutional character of it; for, when the law was assailed, they confessed that it was not the law of the land, but the law of the Commissioners, thereby showing that an unconstitutional power had been vested in the hands of the Com-
369368367Mr. S. Crawford
366 was bound to say that the right hon. Baronet had very courteously received those persons who were deputed in the first instance from the several places which felt aggrieved by the measure. As far as the alterations which had been made went he had very little to offer upon them; but there were still certain Clauses in the Bill which, unless the right hon. Baronet would give an assurance that in some future stage of the Bill they would be modified, would render it his duty still to oppose the measure. He referred particularly to the interference of the Commissioners in places which had local acts. He felt bound to adopt every possible course to repress the power of the Poor-Law Commissioners. Their conduct had been such, and their reports contained so much insinuation and so much exaggeration, that it was impossible to tolerate their interference any longer. When the hon. Member for Evesham called on those who agreed with him to support his Motion, although the hon. Member might very naturally expect a great many defaulters from his standard, he advised the hon. Member to look to those hon. Gentlemen on his own side who were so very earnest in their denunciation of the Poor Law, when on their canvass at the last general election. He would advise him to begin with the hon. Baronet who was candidate for Greenwich, whose electioneering flags were so strong against the Poor Law, and said so much about the
366Captain Pechell
354353Cheers.352351"I conceive that the disorders which have taken place here, are chiefly attributable to the long continued exercise of the defective Poor Law. The labourers are so discontented that they are ready to commit any act of insubordination. In almost every parish riots and fires have taken place. I am inclined to attribute a great deal of this to the cruel policy of paying single men lower wages. The object of the fires is not the destruction of property, but to obtain higher wages.""My opinion is, that the burnings and riots arose out of the Poor Law, for I find that they were almost exclusively confined to places where the poor-rates were high.""I consider the burnings and riots of 1830 and 1831, to have been occasioned by the Poor Law. The operation of the law has created a malignant spirit among the workpeople who were unemployed, together with idleness, discontent, and dissatisfaction with the superior classes. They know of no limit to their illegal exactions from the farmer; if they do not receive what they demand, they burn stacks and terrify the farmers; a decrease of wages and a high amount of poor-rates are the results. The paupers are more threatening in their language, and more insolent in their demands than I have ever known them."350349348Considerations on a Bill for the Better Relief of the Poor,"That it is the opinion of this Committee that the laws relating to the relief of the poor are in many respects defective; that the present mode of regulating the poor by means of separate parochial officers annually elected is inadequate for the purpose for which it was intended."347346"Let any man," says he, ""look over the most populous parishes of England; he will find poor-rates made on which the poor live miserably; at best, from hand to mouth; and if they cannot get work, they and their children set up the trade of begging.""Whereas the necessity, number, and continual increase of the poor, not only within the cities of London and Westminster, with the liberties of each of them, but also, through the whole kingdom of England and dominion of Wales, is very great and exceeding burthensome, being occasioned by reason of some defects in the law concerning the settling of the poor, and for want of a due provision of the regulations of relief and employment in such parishes or places where they are legally settled, which doth enforce many to turn incorrigible rogues, and others to perish for want, together with the neglect of the faithful execution of such laws and Statutes as have formerly been made for the apprehending of rogues and vagabonds, and for the good of the poor. For remedy whereof, and for the preventing the perishing of any of the poor, whether young or old, for want of such supplies as are necessary, may it please, &c."345344 said, I think, Sir, that after the speeches which have been addressed to the House, it is expedient that I should now offer some observations before we proceed further in this debate, and it will be necessary for me, I am afraid, to occupy the attention of the House, though very unwillingly, for some short space of time. I am bound in the outset of the observations I am about to make, to state, that if I could agree in the first resolution just moved by the hon. Gentleman—if I could think that the Poor Law as it now stands is unconstitutional in principle and oppressive to the poor—no consideration of the advanced period of the Session would induce me to hesitate for one moment to vote in favour of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, and to agree to take into immediate consideration the law as it now stands, with a view to the formation of some new code for the relief of the poor; but, having deliberated much upon this subject, and having had some experience both in the details of the administration of the law, and in the supervision and general control over that Administration in the discharge of the duties of my present office, I am bound to say that experience has confirmed my opinion, that upon the whole, the amended Poor Law is conducive to the interests of the working classes, is constitutional in principle, and that this House and the Legislature have
354353Cheers.352351"I conceive that the disorders which have taken place here, are chiefly attributable to the long continued exercise of the defective Poor Law. The labourers are so discontented that they are ready to commit any act of insubordination. In almost every parish riots and fires have taken place. I am inclined to attribute a great deal of this to the cruel policy of paying single men lower wages. The object of the fires is not the destruction of property, but to obtain higher wages.""My opinion is, that the burnings and riots arose out of the Poor Law, for I find that they were almost exclusively confined to places where the poor-rates were high.""I consider the burnings and riots of 1830 and 1831, to have been occasioned by the Poor Law. The operation of the law has created a malignant spirit among the workpeople who were unemployed, together with idleness, discontent, and dissatisfaction with the superior classes. They know of no limit to their illegal exactions from the farmer; if they do not receive what they demand, they burn stacks and terrify the farmers; a decrease of wages and a high amount of poor-rates are the results. The paupers are more threatening in their language, and more insolent in their demands than I have ever known them."350349348Considerations on a Bill for the Better Relief of the Poor,"That it is the opinion of this Committee that the laws relating to the relief of the poor are in many respects defective; that the present mode of regulating the poor by means of separate parochial officers annually elected is inadequate for the purpose for which it was intended."347346"Let any man," says he, ""look over the most populous parishes of England; he will find poor-rates made on which the poor live miserably; at best, from hand to mouth; and if they cannot get work, they and their children set up the trade of begging.""Whereas the necessity, number, and continual increase of the poor, not only within the cities of London and Westminster, with the liberties of each of them, but also, through the whole kingdom of England and dominion of Wales, is very great and exceeding burthensome, being occasioned by reason of some defects in the law concerning the settling of the poor, and for want of a due provision of the regulations of relief and employment in such parishes or places where they are legally settled, which doth enforce many to turn incorrigible rogues, and others to perish for want, together with the neglect of the faithful execution of such laws and Statutes as have formerly been made for the apprehending of rogues and vagabonds, and for the good of the poor. For remedy whereof, and for the preventing the perishing of any of the poor, whether young or old, for want of such supplies as are necessary, may it please, &c."345344Sir J. Graham
376, in explanation, said he had cited the Report of the Poor Law Commissioners for Scotland in answer to the hon. Member for Evesham, who had declared that the honest, industrious labourer, was entitled to be fed by the State. He had said that doctrine in England was unsound, but as applied to Great Britain it had at no time been recognised; so far from it, that in the reign of Charles the 2nd, the Poor Law of Scotland had enacted that able-bodied men should in no circumstances of destitution, however extreme, be entitled to relief; and that the seven Scottish gentlemen who had been so much and so deservedly eulogised, had argued strenuously in favour of the maintenance of the law of Scotland, which provided that the able-bodied in the last
376Sir J. Graham
387 said, that he should appeal to the hon. Member for Finsbury as to the circumstances to which the hon. Gentleman had just referred. On a Saturday, the notice of a Motion for leave to bring in the Bill was a dropped Order from a former day, and he was about to postpone it till the next week, when the hon. Member for Finsbury asked him to make a statement of the outline of the Bill without further delay, with which request, as it appeared to meet with the concurrence of the House, he felt it his duty to comply, and he made a statement of the objects of the Bill, although under the disadvantage of having no abstract of the Bill, nor any note by him. On the second reading of the Bill, it was true he had assured the House that a full opportunity should be given in a future stage, to discuss not only the details of the Bill, but its prin-
387Sir J. Graham
l. understood the hon. Member (Mr. B. Cochrane) to say, that the interest with which he (Sir J. Guest) was connected did not pay its fair proportion of poor-rates. He begged to assure the hon. Member, that there was no foundation whatever for such a statement. He paid in poor-rates more than 1,000l.Sir J. Guest
l. referred his hon. Friend to Mr. M'Culloch's work as to the supply of gold from the Russian mines. Mr. Murchison, a gentleman connected with the Geological Society, had also published a work as to the probable supply of gold from the newly-discovered mines in Siberia. His hon. Friend, however, did not seem to understand the object or effect of the measure. His hon. Friend thought it was intended by it to found a paper circulation upon a gold currency; but that had been done since the measure of 1819. Every man who had a 5l.Sir R. Peel
 said, that this Bill had nothing whatever to do with the currency, but left it as it found it; so that whether it were desirable or not to make any new regulations as to light sovereigns was a matter in no way connected with this Bill.Sir R. Peel
 did not imagine that the abolition of the legal tender Clause would enable them, with any degree of safety, to permit unrestricted issues. In the United States, where the competition had been unlimited, the evils of unrestricted circulation had not been avoided, although the principle of that circulation was convertibility on demand. He thought it desirable to disturb as little as possible existing principles, and that they should adhere to the legal tender as laid down by Lord Althorp.Sir R. Peel
378 expressed an anxious hope, that the hon. Member would address to the House that night any observations he might have to make upon the Bill. The Government had proposed to assign that night and the night following to the discussion of this measure, in the hope that it might pass through Committee at once. "Observe," said the right hon. Baronet, "We brought forward the Bill, this Session from a sense of duty, for the Act is not about to expire. We were under no obligation to bring in this Bill, this is no temporary measure; we brought it in to mitigate what you thought a grievance, and in conformity with the opinions of those who are opposed to the Poor Law rather than with the views of its supporters. If a determination is evinced that we shall not proceed with the measure, the only alternative we can have is to drop it, and it is clear that those who are opposed to the law will gain nothing by driving us to pursue that course." Under these circumstances, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would forego his Amendment
378Sir R. Peel
: What I said was, that we were under no obligation, but we brought forward the Bill from a sense of duty. I meant to contrast the obligation we were under in this case with the sort of obligation which arises when an Act of a temporary character requires to be renewed, and when it is absolutely necessary to introduce a measure to continue it in operation; and I observed simply, that in complying with what we considered a sense of duty, we were complying with the wishes of those who are opposed to the law.Sir R. Peel
 replied, that the hon. Gentleman had correctly apprehended what he had stated on a former occasion. He had stated that he had no wish to legislate on the Scotch or Irish Banks, because it had been impossible for him to communicate with those conversant with these matters. He had an advantage with respect to the Bank of England which he had not with the Banks of Scotland and Ireland; but then it was to be observed that they had already touched the currency both in Scotland and Ireland, or they had prevented the establishment of new banks of issue. He apprehended that those whom the hon. Gentleman represented were not so very sensitive on that point. It was not the point on which alarm existed, namely, that there should be no new Banks to compete with those already established. But the hon. Gentleman might be assured, that in forming an opinion, he should not so commit himself in any way as to prevent his communication with the parties most conversant with these matters. He well knew how sensitive the Scotch were on this particular point; how well contented they were with their paper circulation. In making a provision to cover that circulation with gold, they might be assured he would take no step without having good and sound advice.Sir R. Peel
317l.1.l.s.,s.s.l. said, that a great portion of the speech of the hon. Member ought to have been addressed against the third reading of the Bill. If Mr. Herries had authorised the hon. Gentleman to state opinions against this Bill, it was upon the question of the third reading that he ought to have delivered them. He would, however, turn to the discussion of the particular Clause which the hon. Gentleman proposed, which he must admit would be a very proper clause, if silver were a legal tender up to 25317l.1.l.s.,s.s.l.Sir R. Peel
 said, he was not prepared to give any assurance on the subject.Sir R. Peel
 said, what he proposed by the Bill was, to continue things in the same state as by common agreement they ought to remain, viz., as they were, until Parliament should have time to consider the state of the law. He trusted the Bill might be read a second time. The plaintiff in the actions might be heard by counsel, if that was his object, at any other stage.Viscount Palmerston
 moved the Second Reading of the Actions for Gaming Discontinuance (No. 2) Bill.Viscount Palmerston
"We hold that no just system of Poor Laws can exist, excluding, in the distribution of relief, the consideration of character—which should be a fundamental consideration. The man who has conducted himself with activity and industry for the bettering of his condition, and has only fallen through misfortune, not by fault, has a just title to the sympathy of his fellow-men. And not only that the necessary relief be cheerfully accorded, but full scope given for all the ministrations of charity to his comfort."371"The distinguishing principle of this system is, that its efficacy as a test of destitution or stimulus to industry depends upon the restraint it imposes upon personal liberty. In proportion as the regulations of the workhouse cease to be irksome, the operation of the test is obstructed. The discipline of the gaol must be approached by the discipline of the workhouse, which is of a purely mechanical character, appealing only to the lowest principles of our nature. It did not promote the development of any intellectual energy, neither did it foster feelings of manliness and independence. Its influence dries up the last impulses of social life. It destroys all feelings of self-respect and alienates the inmates from almost every sympathy which either in equals or superiors is inherent in rightly constituted natures. Repulsion and discomfort being the sole means by which this workhouse test works—that repulsion and discomfort must be carefully kept up for its operation."370 was exceedingly glad to hear the disclaimer, that the principle of the New Poor Law was the workhouse test. Although it came late, he repeated that he was glad to hear it; but it certainly was not the language held in the earlier discussions in that House upon the subject. We had to thank the strong expression of public feeling upon its operation for this result. And here he felt that he could not avoid paying a tribute of gratitude to one great public journal, which (though he disagreed with it on some important points) had rendered vast service on this question. Its language might occasionally have been inflammatory; but he felt confident that
"We hold that no just system of Poor Laws can exist, excluding, in the distribution of relief, the consideration of character—which should be a fundamental consideration. The man who has conducted himself with activity and industry for the bettering of his condition, and has only fallen through misfortune, not by fault, has a just title to the sympathy of his fellow-men. And not only that the necessary relief be cheerfully accorded, but full scope given for all the ministrations of charity to his comfort."371"The distinguishing principle of this system is, that its efficacy as a test of destitution or stimulus to industry depends upon the restraint it imposes upon personal liberty. In proportion as the regulations of the workhouse cease to be irksome, the operation of the test is obstructed. The discipline of the gaol must be approached by the discipline of the workhouse, which is of a purely mechanical character, appealing only to the lowest principles of our nature. It did not promote the development of any intellectual energy, neither did it foster feelings of manliness and independence. Its influence dries up the last impulses of social life. It destroys all feelings of self-respect and alienates the inmates from almost every sympathy which either in equals or superiors is inherent in rightly constituted natures. Repulsion and discomfort being the sole means by which this workhouse test works—that repulsion and discomfort must be carefully kept up for its operation."370Viscount Sandon
 proposed an Amendment, to the effect that the mother might also summon the putative father "at any time after the twelve months subsequent to the birth of the child, upon satisfactory proof that the man alleged to be the father has admitted the truth of such allegation." He said that the father might voluntarily agree to give the mother an allowance for twelve months; and he thought that this voluntary payment might be taken as a proof of his being the father, even after the period of twelve months had expired.Mr. J. Stuart Wortley
 said, that the father might pay a sort of hush-money for twelve months, and that, if after that period he ceased the payment, the mother under the present Clause would have no remedy against him. He suggested the addition of a few words to the Amendment, so that it would run as follows:—"Upon satisfactory proof that the man alleged to be the father has admitted the truth of such allegation, by payment of money."Mr. Tatton Egerton
exposé,426 proposed to substitute three for two. His object in proposing this Amendment was to force the way for the rejection of the Appeal Clause, of which he intended to propose the omission. His opinion was, that unless that Clause was struck out, all this part of the Bill would be totally inoperative. In the first place, this Appeal Clause threw upon the woman for the first time the responsibility and cost of defending herself. Hitherto she had been defended by the parish, now she was to conduct her own defence; and he put it to the common sense of Parliament, what chance had a poor woman, with a child, friendless, in the presence of strange magistrates — against a father backed by a sharp attorney ready to take
exposé,426Mr. B. Denison
 said, it was a mistake to suppose that two magistrates always constituted a petty session. For the purpose of auditing accounts under the Common Fields Enclosure Bill three magistrates were requisite to form a petty sessions, and, if so many were necessary for such a purpose as that, surely an equal number was required for the purpose of affiliating a child against whose affiliation there was an appeal. In the event, too, of any difference of opinion between the magistrates, no affiliation could be made without the presence of a third, and in that case the woman would be saddled with the keep of the child.Colonel Wood
 moved to omit all the words in the Clause after line 7—that is to say, every part of it relating to the appeal to the quarter sessions from the decision of the magistrates.Mr. B. Dennison
l.l. said, under all the evils which the hon. Member for Finsbury had pointed out in this case, he proposed to put the woman who wanted assistance, in such a situation that she could not obtain it. If two magistrates at petty sessions made an order against A., B., C, or D., and he appealed against it, the remedy the woman had was to go to the quarter sessions; and she, coming out of the workhouse perhaps, had to go to the quarter sessions in some other part of the county, and then she might be kept for a week together at her own expense—that being to his own knowledge, not less than 10l.l.Mr. B. Denison
 expressed his satisfaction that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) was inclined to give the mothers of illegitimate children an opportunity of obtaining a reconsideration of their cases, after decisions had been given against them by the justices; but this concession did not meet his objection to the Clause. The objection he (Mr. Denison) took was this—that if, after an order had been made upon the man for the maintenance of an illegitimate child he entered an appeal, it was in most cases impossible for the mother to sustain the order. He would remind the Committee that, in many cases, the mother might have just come out of the workhouse without a penny in her pocket; she might obtain, from the justices in petty sessions, an order upon the alleged father of her child; but, an attorney might recommend the man to enter an appeal, and, if the appeal were prosecuted at the quarter sessions, how was the unfortunate woman to obtain funds to support her case.Mr. B. Denison
 observed, the effect of the Clause would be that the Commissioners should settle forms of indentures so far as the master's duties were concerned.The Solicitor General
 conceived that the Clause would be of the greatest benefit. Supposing that the time arrived when the Poor Law Commissioners might be done away with, he was convinced, that in such case, some other board ought to be appointed not only to superintend the education of parish apprentices, but also to regulate their hours of labour.Captain Hamilton
 thought this Clause was a premium for perjury; many an abandoned woman would make a profit by swearing other women's children against a man.Captain Rous
447 moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend and consolidate the Laws Relating to Merchant Seamen, and for keeping a Register of seamen: The Bill followed closely the principle of the Bill introduced in 1835, and merely enacted several alterations in the details of the measure which experience in its working had shown to be necessary. The principle alterations were the carrying out to a greater extent of the system of registration and providing a personal registration, giving greater facilities to shipowners to prevent and punish de-
447Mr. S. Herbert
 had, as Chairman of the Committee under the Controverted Elections Act, been requested to move for the renewal and continuance of the Act for the trial of Controverted Elections of Members of Parliament.Lord G. Somerset
 supported the Clause, he did not wish to say anything harsh of the different boards of guardians, but he must say, that the principle which had been allowed to guide the conduct of individuals as well as of public bodies for the last twenty or thirty years—a principle which, as Lord Bolingbroke said, never made a man do his duty to God or his country — namely, that of self-interest, had tended very much to depress the poor people of this country.Lord J. Manners
 said, that the woman under the circumstances contemplated would have already obtained all that could be desired for her. The decision of the magistrates in petty sessions being in her favour was conclusive, unless the man wished to have the opinion of the superior court, in which case he might carry it at his own expense to the quarter sessions.Mr. B. Hawes
 said, he had practised formerly at sessions, and he had seen a great many cases of hardship upon the fathers of illegitimate children. Now, this Clause would give the power of committing the father of a child for three months in the event of non-payment of arrears due to the mother and of there being no goods on which to distrain. He would like to know what good reason could be given for attempting to inflict such a punishment upon the father, and he expressed great doubt if such an exercise of power was consistent with the principles of the Constitution.Mr. B. Escott
 said, that this was a most important part of the Bill. His opinion had been in favour of limiting the term to six months rather than twelve months; but he now believed there was good reason for adopting the larger term. However, he thought that the present Amendment, if carried, would renew the most objectionable parts of the old bastardy system.Mr. Escott
 was afraid that it would be impossible for the Poor Law Commissioners to discharge the duty, which was now proposed to be assigned to them; and the result would be to prevent those who had the natural care of the children from bestowing that attention to them which they ought. The next Clause abolished compulsory apprenticeship, and yet by the present Clause they were requiring the Poor Law Commissioners to interfere in those voluntary contracts between masters and apprentices, and they were about to do that which they refused to do the other day, namely, to limit the hours of labour with respect to these children, and not directly but through the intervention of a tribunal which could not possibly know anything about the matter.Mr. Escott
 said, the reason why the appeal was one-sided was because the punishment was all on one side. The penalty awarded by the law to the offence was a very heavy one, considering the circumstances and position of the labouring man; and, therefore, he had a right to appeal from the decision which fixed it on him, to the superior court. He had seen so much of the proceedings of magistrates in petty sessions, that he should be very loathe to do anything that would extend their power.Mr. B. Escott
 objected to the admission of proxies.Mr. Hindley
"That no order for the maintenance or support of the bastard child, made in pursuance of this Act, shall be of any force or validity after the child in respect of whom it was made has attained the age of thirteen years." referred to the latter part of the Clause, which provided
"That no order for the maintenance or support of the bastard child, made in pursuance of this Act, shall be of any force or validity after the child in respect of whom it was made has attained the age of thirteen years."Colonel Sibthorp
424 complained of the manner in which he had been treated. In common candour and decency, he ought to have been informed of the proper period for bringing forward his Motion. As to future opportunities, when, he should like
424Colonel Sibthorp
 thought the Clause imposed too much on the Commissioners when it required that they should "define the trades or businesses to which poor children should be apprenticed." Surely the guardians taking into consideration the peculiar position of the parish, and all the accompanying circumstances, would be best able to settle all that. He thought controlling, not prescribing powers proper for them on this point.Mr. C. Wood
445 proposed that the words of the Clause giving power to stewards bailiffs, land-agents, or collectors of rent to
445Mr. Wawn
 said, that it appeared from this Clause, that when the woman became chargeable upon the parish, she would not be able to obtain any money from the putative father for the support of the child. That was a point which he thought was deserving the serious consideration of the right hon. Baronet. Some alteration ought to be made in it, to obviate that objection.Mr. J. Henley
s. did not mean to say that the Government were wilfully deluding the country by introducing these Clauses. As far as experience went, he believed it was the fact, that not 5s.Mr. Henley
 would not trouble the Committee by recapitulating the arguments which he had already urged in support of the alteration which he had proposed, but should simply confine himself to the expression of a hope that justice would be done to the woman who should be placed in the circumstances contemplated by the Clause. His only object was to prevent the man from escaping from the consequences of his conduct, in consequence of the inability of the woman owing to her poverty, to prosecute her claim against him at quarter sessions. If the Clause remained as it now stood, this result would happen in nine cases out of ten.Colonel Rolleston
 thought, that boards of guardians must be infinitely better judges in these cases than the Commissioners could be. He was surprised to find from a letter he had received within the week, that they did at this moment exercise this power. His correspondent stated a case in which they had objected to a boy being apprenticed to his own uncle.Colonel Rolleston
 was understood to say that, admitting the difficulties with which this subject was encompassed, he would have been much better satisfied if the right hon. Baronet had agreed to postpone this Clause, in order to give the matter more mature consideration. His objection to the Clause was, that it would be inoperative for good, and that it might and would be operative for evil.Mr. P. Borthwick
 wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet had any objection to the money being placed in the hands of a trustee for the benefit of the mother? If it was the wish of the right hon. Baronet he would bring up a Clause to that effect at the end of the Bill.Mr. Borthwick
 had brought this matter under the notice of the House on a former occasion. It appeared that the money was only payable to the mother of the bastard child provided the woman was of sound mind, was not confined in any gaol or prison, under sentence of transportation, or chargeable to any parish or union. The mother of the illegitimate child would be subjected therefore, to the constant visits of the person who had already been too successful in his attack upon her virtue.Mr. P. Borthwick
427 observed that, as the Clause stood, the mother of an illegitimate child was necessitated to receive the weekly sum awarded by the magistrates from the father of her child. Now, that would bring her into a weekly contact with her seducer, which might be dangerous. She might, and in all probability would become the mother of two or three
427Mr. P. Borthwick
428s.;l. hoped the suggestion thrown out by the last hon. speaker would be adopted. It would be wholly impossible for the unfortunate woman to raise such a sum as would be requisite to enable her to prosecute her claim at the quarter sessions. The cost of making an appeal could not be estimated at less than 4428s.;l.Mr. P. Borthwick
 hoped, that the right hon. Baronet would not consent to withdraw the Clause, for both as a magistrate and as chairman of a board of guardians he could see that this Clause would be one of the most useful in the Bill. The effect would be to protect the parish apprentice. It would prevent the guardians from getting rid of an idle boy from the workhouse, by apprenticing him to a person of little respectability, who might neglect both his education and morals; and it would provide a sufficient control over any master to oblige him to bring up his apprentice in a proper manner. He considered the power as a most useful check, and he cordially supported the Clause.Mr. Christopher
 said, if the proviso of this Clause were omitted, a woman might make application after application to magistrates for an order upon the alleged father of her child, until she succeeded in her object. This was a subject of considerable difficulty; but he considered it was essentially necessary, to further the ends of justice, that men should possess a power of appeal in cases of this nature. For his own part, he believed that in many cases when orders were made upon men for the maintenance of illegitimate children, they would find great difficulty in prosecuting appeals at quarter sessions. The Committee must also remember that it was the interest of the parishes to which the mothers of illegitimate children were chargeable that the adjudication in case of appeal should be in favour of the woman; and there could be little doubt, therefore, that (at all events in the great majority of cases) the parishes would assist women in endeavouring to obtain a confirmation of orders of maintenance. He hoped that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) would retain the Clause as it stood at present.Mr. Estcourt
 said, that the hon. Member had not said one word to show that the old, acknowledged, and recognised tribunal of the Petty Sessions was insufficient for the trial of such an offence. For his own part, he had always found that the more Judges there were the less was the responsibility, and he really saw no reason for arriving at the conclusion that two magistrates were not quite sufficient.Mr. T.G.B. Estcourt
 inquired whether the Government did not think that the term within which the mother of a bastard child could under this Clause summon a putative father was too short? By the Clause the term was limited to six months after the birth of the child, but he thought it ought to be extended to twelve months.Mr. T. Duncombe
441 thought this Clause went further than necessary. It would "prescribe the duties of the masters and the terms and conditions to be recited in the indentures." Now, he believed that it was on these points the jealousy of the Commissioners' interposition chiefly was excited. He considered this an enlargement of the powers of the Commission, the existence of which he had always been told was to be temporary only, but the continuance of which was rendered more
441Mr. T. Duncombe
 adverted to the proposal embodied in this Clause to fix a new scale of voting proportioned to the extent of property possessed and held by owners and occupiers. It was his wish to do away with the plural system altogether, and to give each ratepayer one vote. He had never heard a good reason assigned why a scale of voting of this sort should be persisted in, and he should propose as a simple Amendment to the Clause to leave out all the words after the 33rd line, by which the scale was enforced, and to insert the words "each, ratepayer to have one vote."Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, that the alteration made in the present law with respect to voting at the election of guardians was good, but it was not carried far enough. All proxies ought to be done away with, except those of female ratepayers, who alone ought to be allowed to vote by proxy. At all events, if the system were not to be entirely abolished, the exemptions accorded under the Clause as it now stood, to bailiffs, land-stewards, and rent-collectors ought to be struck out of the Act, and the proxies of those functionaries made renewable every two years. At Gravesend, he was informed the proxies held by two rent-collectors alone decided the election of the majority of Poor Law Guardians, in a population of 16,000 persons.Mr. T. Duncombe
442 hoped no conflict for powers on behalf of different bodies would cause the poor suffering children to be sacrificed. Such had been the result in the case of education on which the conflict led to the loss of great benefit to millions. Let all endeavour in this instance to look at the case of the parish apprentices. He believed many had never seen one of these poor children. He had made it often his business to inquire into their condition; and he affirmed it to be perfect slavery. To this Clause then he should give his unqualified support, as it tended to protect their interests, for the guardianship of which the present law was grossly insufficient. They were apprenticed seven, eight, and nine years to persons whose object it was all that time to make money by their labour. He had endeavoured frequently to advocate their cause before magistrates, and not only had he failed, but been insulted by the magistrates for his pains. The poor children worked from five or six to nine or ten o'clock. "The parish officers visit them," it was said. Yes; but how? They went into a nice neat parlour, where the master waited upon them with one or two or three of the apprentices, who before their master are asked as to their condition and treatment. "Have you anything, my dear to complain of?" "Don't be afraid to speak, my dear," when perhaps within the child's sight is the instrument of his last chastisement! The cruelty was monstrous that was too often practised towards these poor children; and there was no one to help or protect them. The responsibility of undertaking their protection was far too great for the Commissioners ever to have voluntarily assumed it
442Mr. Wakley
431d,s. would ask whether the victims of misfortune who came within this Act were to be left without an appeal against the decision of the magistrates where their decision had been unjust? It was their bounden duty in such cases, after what they had heard as to the feelings against the present law, and the horrible results of throwing the maintenance of the child upon the woman, not to give to the man an advantage which they withheld from the woman. With an infant at her breast, her character ruined, how was she to obtain a livelihood? And what was one of the results of throwing the burthen of maintenance of the child upon the woman? Child murder! Could it be denied? The coroners of the country could assert the truth of it. It was only the day before yesterday that he saw as fine an infant as was ever seen, which had been picked up in Oxford Street, within 200 yards of his own house. Scarcely a week passed that he did not meet with an instance of the kind. He had sometimes seen two or three a-day, and frequently several in a week. The juries were horrified—they were disgusted with the law and with that House. And what was the House now doing to amend the law? They said that two justices should decide whether an order should be made on the putative father; and suppose they made an order on the father for the maintenance of the child—and a most miserable maintenance it was—only 2431d,s.Mr. Wakley
 did not think that the right hon. Baronet had given a satisfactory answer to his question. The hon. Member who spoke last had asserted that all the punishment was on the side of the man. Did he mean to say, the woman endured no punishment? What did the Act say? That if a woman failed to support her illegitimate child she was liable to be treated as a rogue and a vagabond, under the Act of George III. A woman ought to have the right of appeal to quarter sessions, if the magistrates at petty sessions refused to grant her an order of affiliation. She would never dare to face the bench at quarter sessions if she had not justice on her side. He therefore requested the right hon. Baronet to introduce into the Clause a right of appeal for the woman as well as for the man, or else a great deal of discontent would be created by this measure out of doors.Mr. Wakley
432 said, the hon. Member for Yorkshire had argued this question as though he (Mr. Wakley) had originally proposed an appeal to the quarter sessions. Now, he knew that sometimes an appeal from the petty sessions to the quarter ses-
432Mr. Wakley
429 asked the right hon. Baronet what the views were by which he had been guided in framing the Bill, as it at present stood; and why the appeal
429Mr. Wakley
434 considered that such statements as had been made to-night on the subject of infanticide—especially when proceeding from individuals who had access to the best sources of information, as was the case with the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley)—had a very unfortunate tendency. Now, he put it to the hon. Member for Finsbury, whether he could deliberately assert that, within his own knowledge, the crime of infanticide was on the increase. He might state that when the Commission, of which he had the honour to be a Member, was prosecuting inquiries in Wales, one of the first grievances brought before them by gen-
434Mr. Cripps
 did not deny, that these matters required some kind of superintendence, but he felt that the Clause, even as amended, would give the Poor Law Commissioners a power which was wholly inconsistent with the government of the guardians, and under all circumstances, he felt it to be his duty to vote for the total omission of the Clause.Mr. S. Crawford
 said, his constituents had instructed him to object to this Clause. It was true this Clause was not imperative on the Poor Law Commissioners, but still he thought the guardians must be the best judges, in all cases, of the proper fees and the trades to which children should be bound, and he was decidedly opposed to the Clause?Mr. W. Ellis
440 objected to this Clause as giving an unnecessary power of interference to the Commissioners. When the right hon. Baronet said this was a measure of amelioration, he could not think why he encumbered it with this Clause, which the right hon. Baronet knew had drawn on his Bill the hostility of places containing 2,000,000 of inhabitants. The Clause went to give the Commissioners' order the force of law. In many cases it would operate to throw obstacles in the way of binding out children. At any rate, the Clause ought to be embodied in a separate Act. He did not know what it had to do with the Poor Law. He considered it was totally unnecessary. The right hon. Baronet had failed to make out his case. Legislation on the subject ought to have been preceded by an inquiry. The right hon. Baronet said that local prejudices might work to the disadvantage of the children to be apprenticed. That he thought was casting a slur on the boards of guardians throughout the country, which those that he was connected with certainly did not deserve. The right hon. Baronet was
440Captain Pechell
 admitted, that the modification introduced into the present measure of the old power of voting by proxy for the election of Poor Law guardians was a great improvement in the system; for large sums had been taken out of the ratepayers' pockets by the inertness or ignorance of those who intrusted their proxies to others. The modification, however, of the practice in vogue did not, in his opinion, suffice to remedy the evil occasioned by it. He wanted to see the system of using proxies done away with altogether.Captain Pechell
 said, his constituents had the same objection to giving this power of interference to the Commissioners, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman, on consideration, would consent to some relaxation of this central supervision.Sir H. Douglas
 said, it was not clear from the early portion of the Clause what was to become of the money due to the mother when she became chargeable upon the parish. Was the woman to be entitled to the arrears? Was the parish to receive the money, should the woman be chargeable on the parish?Sir H. Douglas
 must confess that the point which the hon. and gallant Member had raised was one well worthy of consideration. It certainly was not intended by the Clause that the putative father, under the circumstances pointed out by the hon. and gallant Member, should go scot free. This Clause must be considered conjointly with Clause 7. He thought that by omitting after the word "transportation" the words "chargeable to any parish," the objection which had been raised would be obviated.Sir J. Graham
 could not see any force in the hon. and gallant Member's objection to the age specified in the Clause. It was clear that before the Act of 1834 passed the order of maintenance upon the father did not extend beyond the age of seven. It was thought that at the age of seven, the period of nurture expired, and until that age the mother had a distinct right to keep the child, and to call upon the father to pay for its support. Between the age of seven and nine there existed only a contingent liability on the part of the father for the support of his child. But he had nearly doubled the period during which the mother would have a right to demand payment from the putative father.Sir J. Graham
435 said, that if, as was proposed by his hon. Friend, the words in this Clause by which a power of appeal was given to the man were omitted, he (Sir James Graham) would propose to retain the proviso. If, on the other hand,
435Sir J. Graham
 did not see the force of the hon. Member's objection.Sir J. Graham
res gestœ433 said, this Clause was sufficiently difficult without any extraneous matter being introduced into it. Various questions had been referred to which it was not the duty of the House at that time to consider. With regard to the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury, as to the increase of infanticide, he must deny its accuracy. Returns had been made upon that very subject from various counties both manufacturing and rural, and both for a period before and since the passing of the New Poor Law. The variation was extreme in many counties; but the result did not sustain any theory of the increase of infanticide. He could understand, though he would not say that such was the effect of the existing law, that the difficulty of obtaining any maintenance for the child might lead to such a crime: but, when the simple question was, whether the decision of the magistrates should be final or not, he could not think that that would be a feather in the scale with the mother whether she should sacrifice the life of her child; but he had already said how nicely balanced the question
res gestœ433Sir J. Graham
430 said, that appeals were rare under the Act existing prior to 1834, because the appellant had to fight against
430Sir J. Graham
 had some difficulty in understanding the hon. Member's objection. It was generally found that when money was paid to a third party for the benefit of another individual, a portion of it rested half way. He could not see why the mother should not receive the money directly, without the intervention of a third person.Sir J. Graham
ex officio439 said, whatever might be thought of this Clause, the motives with which he had prepared it could not be impugned. He had been told that there were cases in which the intervention of a central disinterested authority would operate for the protection of the poor apprentice; because local interests frequently prevailed in such cases, at the expense of the future comfort of the apprentice. There was always an interest with the board of guardians to transfer the young person to a parish out of the union. Perhaps the House remembered the Mines and Collieries Bill, which had passed into a law two years ago. In that Act there was a positive prohibition against binding to a collier. The Legislature absolutely prohibited that species of apprenticeship. Under this Bill he proposed no prohibition; all he proposed was, that a power of supervision and control should be exercised by a responsible tribunal as to the species of employment to which the child was to be bound. He thought it better to leave generally the arrangement of binding out to the local body, but he did not see any sound objection to the supervision and control of a responsible tribunal to the extent he had mentioned. He had been taunted with wishing to support the Com-
ex officio439Sir J. Graham
 did not desire that the Commissioners should exercise any origiginal power upon details on this subject, but he wished that they should have a complete controlling power. He had been informed and believed that the 15th and 61st Clauses of the Act gave the Commissioners all the power conferred by this Clause, which in reality only added that in which the Act was deficient,—a penalty for the enforcement of obedience. He should not be disinclined to adopt words rendering the construction clear, that upon the points referred to the local authorities should have the original power.Sir J. Graham
 said, that he considered, on the whole, it not to be an advantage, if the woman were to have the power on her side of carrying an appeal from the petty sessions to the quarter sessions, and of supporting her claim against the putative father, by producing corroborative evidence of her shame. The whole feelings of the country were opposed to such a course as that of permitting a woman, under these circumstances, to come forward and produce confirmatory testimony to her own shame, before a crowded court. On the whole, therefore, the legislation which had formerly prevailed upon this matter had been deliberately departed from, and as far as the woman's claim was concerned, the decision in the petty sessions was final.Sir J. Graham
6d.s. said, that great caution was requisite in considering the point in question, and hon. Members must guard against allowing their feelings to guide their judgment. If extraordinary facilities for recovering the sum awarded for the maintenance of her illegitimate child were to be granted to a woman, the Bill would have a demoralizing effect. For himself, he confessed he was generally in favour of granting an appeal to quarter sessions from the decision of magistrates in petty sessions. A revision of such decisions in open court, where there was a bar to watch over the conduct of the magistrates, and public opinion to check it, operated as a most wholesome provision against injustice being done in the petty sessions. The 3rd Clause of the Act gives the magistrates in petty sessions power to fix a poor lahourer with the sum of 26d.s.Sir J. Graham
 was satisfied that, unless there existed a penalty upon the person these Clauses would be entirely inoperative. His experience led him to the conclusion that the remedies of the mother would be entirely nugatory without such a power was given by the law.Sir J. Graham
 was disposed to think the affiliation Clause a very important subject of consideration, but certainly he could not see that any greater security would be obtained by the substitution of the Amendment now proposed by the hon. Member. The judgment of three magistrates was not likely to be more sound than the judgment of two, and he really did hope that the Amendment would not be pressed; but that the hon. Gentleman would permit them to put the question whether there should be an appeal or not.Sir J. Graham
 would propose to insert these words in line 19,—"Or any time thereafter, on proof that the alleged father of such child, within twelve months after the birth of such child, had paid money for its maintenance."Sir J. Graham
, before answering the question of the hon. Member, alluded to an Amendment of which the hon. and gallant Officer (Colonel Sibthorp) had given notice, relating to abolishing the Poor Law Commission, and said that it would be still competent for the gallant Member to bring it forward at the end of the Committee. In reference to the question just put to him, he was bound to state, that after consideration, he thought the limit of six months was perhaps too short; and he should not object, if it met with the general concurrence of the House, to extend the period from six months to twelve months. He therefore moved that "six months" be omitted, and "twelve months" inserted.Sir J. Graham
425 said, that the principle of the Clauses was to give every facility to the mother for obtaining her remedy against the putative father, not through the medium of the parish officer, but by directing a summary remedy as of debt against the putative father, and he solemnly declared that the Clause was sincerely and honestly brought forward. He was anxious and willing to discuss any Amendments, from whatever quarter they might come, provided they were consistent with justice, and tended to carry out the principle of the Clause. As to the Amendment of the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, he would state that he objected to the words "at any time
425Sir J. Graham
 opposed the Amendment.Sir J. Graham
 said, that if the Clause were rejected, the present system of unlimited voting by proxies would be continued.Sir J. Graham
 said, that although the hon. Member styled his propisition simple, he would take leave to remark that it was very drastic.—The scale now sought to be established had received the sanction of Parliament in the Irish Poor Relief Amendment Bill of last Session. He could not with any justice to the rights of property make a greater alteration; he thought he had already gone as far as justice would allow, and he felt it to be his duty to resist the proposed Amendment.Sir J. Graham
 said, that a limitation had been introduced into the Bill with respect to the number and duration of the proxies, which was not to be found in the existing Poor Law. He could not assent to the withdrawal of this mode of voting altogether, but he considered that it was put upon a proper footing by being limited to four proxies in one person's hands, and the duration of two years for each proxy.Sir J. Graham
448 considered the time had fully arrived when the House ought to decide upon retaining in its own hands the jurisdiction respecting Controverted Elections. He could not help thinking that there was, on the part of a great majority of the Members of that House, at least, a determination not to part with that jurisdiction, and a conviction of the danger of giving it up to Courts of Law. He, for one, should see with regret the House of Commons delegate to a Court of Law the power of de-
448Sir R. Peel
 wished to suggest that the Bill should be temporary instead of being permanent. Such had been the precedent in two former Sessions, in each of which the Bill had passed for one year only reserving both its principle and its details to be considered as a permanent measure, at an earlier period after Parliament met. The Bill involved two very important points which he was anxious to have discussed. These points were, first, whether the appointment of a tribunal, not consisting of Members of Parliament, would not be most conducive to the justice of each case; and the second was, as to the numbers of the Committee, whether it ought to consist of three or seven Members. At that late period of the Session, and when the second reading of the Bill could not take place until the week after next, he would ask, whether they were not in such a position, that a temporary measure would now as in former Sessions be best calculated to ensure in the end a good law on this important subject. It ought to be remembered, that they could not now come to a discussion on the Bill without losing the advantage of the assistance of the legal Members, every one of whom would be absent from London on the business of the Circuit. Under these circumstances, he hoped that the noble Lord would be content with a temporary Bill, and would feel the justice of reserving the permanent measure until the beginning of the next Session.Viscount Mahon
452 replied, that the Government had not communicated upon the subject with the Queen's Advocate at present, and it was not their intention to do so. This question, the right hon.
452Mr. Gladstone
476l., said, that if the right hon. Gentleman wished only to take a discussion on the present Session, he saw no objection to it on the part of Railway Companies, and he thought he might almost answer for the hon. Gentleman opposite, that he would withdraw his Motion. He was anxious that the right hon. Gentleman should have an opportunity of explaining away what he considered unfounded apprehensions of Railway Companies: but if the right hon. Gentleman proposed to take the discussion with a view to proceed further with the Bill, then he must say, he thought they were entitled in fairness to have such time as would enable them to read the evidence and rebut the arguments, if unfounded; and as they would not have that opportunity during the present Session he was prepared to support the unusual, but necessary, Motion of his hon. Friend. He would appeal to the right hon. Baronet and to the late President of the Board of Trade, and would ask them whether, where parties had invested their money to the amount of 80,000,000476l.,Mr. H. Hinde
471 could hardly think that the hon. Member for Nottingham had well considered the effects which so extreme a proceeding as that contemplated by his Motion would necessarily produce. That Motion was so violent in its very principle that he was sure the hon. Member must perceive, on reconsideration, that it was hardly in conformity with the received usages of that House; for if affirmed it amounted to a total refusal to entertain even the consideration of the Bill which the Ministers had thought it their duty to prepare and present to Parliament. He had said, and he would repeat it, that the House was not in a condition to refuse to entertain the Bill until the Government had had an opportunity of explaining its proposed operation and the Clauses which it contained. When that explanation had been given, and when the measure with all its details and the reasons which had induced the Government to prepare and bring it forward, were before the House and the country, then it was competent for those who were out of doors to petition against its progress, and for those hon. Members who were adverse to it to move that its further consideration be
471Mr. Gladstone
465: The noble Lord has omitted the point with respect to which my right hon. Friend really complained.
465Lord Stanley
509508507Timesl.,l.506505504"The Committee entertain the opinion that the announcement of an intention on the part of Parliament to sift with care the particulars of railway schemes, to associate them with the public interest (in the cases of all future schemes, and of all subsisting Companies which may voluntary accede to such an arrangement), by the option which they have recommended to be taken to facilitate the elucidation of the facts by Reports from competent and responsible Officers of Government, and, at the same time, to relax, wherever it can be done with safety, the restraints heretofore imposed by the Standing Orders of Parliament upon railway enterprise, will produce very beneficial effects in deterring parties from the attempt to entrap the public by dishonest projects, in securing railway property against the shocks to which, in periods of great commercial excitement, it must otherwise be liable from such causes, and in assuring to the projectors of new enterprises, qualified to bear examination upon their merits, the means of establishing their case, and of confronting illegitimate opposition with a degree of facility
504503502s.s.s.s."Do you not think that as matters now stand, if another Railway Company is ready to come forward, and offers to carry the public at a lower rate than the London and Birmingham now carry them, that is a reason for Parliament to say, we will have the public carried cheaper, and therefore will sanction the line?" The answer was—"Most unquestionably not." "The London and Birmingham charging 30s.s.s.s."Breves inimicitiæ, amicitiæ sempiturnæ"501500499"It appears, therefore, to your Committee, that the present moment, while Parliament still retains in its own hands an entire and unimpaired discretion with regard both to the incorporation of new Companies, and to the enlargement of the powers of old ones, affords an opportunity more favourable than any that can be expected hereafter to recur, for attaching beforehand to the Legislative sanction, which is sought by these parties on their own behalf, the condition which may be deemed necessary for the public good, and which may realize and apply such conclusions as our experience of the railway system up to the present time may be deemed to have sufficiently established.""Assuming that no measures are taken by Parliament for systematising railway regulation upon some general principles, what do you think in the course of the next few years would be the result?—I am afraid that the property of many of the existing railways must become very seriously depreciated.""Are you of opinion that the present time is a convenient time for entering into the consideration of a general arrangement of that kind, or do you think that if they were postponed for another Session of Parliament, Parliament on the one hand, and the Railway Companies on the other, would stand in a better pesition for such an arrangement?—I cannot see that any good could arise from the delay; and I conceive that you have the advantage of legislating for a great many Railway Companies."498497496495494l.,493492brutum fulmen,491490489"But although the efforts of earlier projectors have reduced to comparative certainty, for the benefit of their successors, much of what was to themselves doubtful and hazardous, it still remains in a high degree problematical what results of the railway system, at present unforeseen, may be developed during the next fifteen or twenty years. In this state of things the Committee would deem it unwise to enter into any engagements which should tend to restrain the free action of the Legislature or the Government in future times, as it is impossible to judge what amount of inconvenience might thereby be entailed; but they would propose that such powers only should be taken as, even though they may fall short of the full extent of the occasion when it arrives, may be either exercised for some substantial advantage, or at the worst, left in abeyance without detriment.""It is a question which the Committee are far from thinking themselves able at present to determine, whether it would or would not be advisable that the Government should at a future period endeavour to effect a material reduction of this charge; and although, on the one hand, it would be premature and most unwise in any degree to prejudge this question, yet in the opinion of the Committee it is desirable to reserve to public authority the means of forming a judgment upon it when a proper time shall have arrived, at least in all those cases with regard to which the Legislature does not stand committed, by proceedings already taken, to a different course."488bonâ fide487486485d.parte?484exex parteex parteex parte.483482481 was glad the time had at length arrived when the statements of the promoters and opponents of this Bill respectively might be compared in equal debate on the floor of that House. He confessed, so far as the contest had hitherto gone, it had been an unequal one. This was not a question of party, on which the Government could appeal to the sympathy of its supporters. It was not a question of that direct popular interest in which the passions of persons out of doors were likely to be largely interested. Government had stood on the ground of these measures alone, such as they might be, while every interest that the most assiduous and manifest solicitation could bring to bear against them had been employed in organizing opposition to this Bill. As regarded the amount of solicitation addressed to parties to oppose this Bill, that was a small matter. What he complained of was, that the statements by which this Bill had been opposed were, in their main particulars, entirely at
509508507Timesl.,l.506505504"The Committee entertain the opinion that the announcement of an intention on the part of Parliament to sift with care the particulars of railway schemes, to associate them with the public interest (in the cases of all future schemes, and of all subsisting Companies which may voluntary accede to such an arrangement), by the option which they have recommended to be taken to facilitate the elucidation of the facts by Reports from competent and responsible Officers of Government, and, at the same time, to relax, wherever it can be done with safety, the restraints heretofore imposed by the Standing Orders of Parliament upon railway enterprise, will produce very beneficial effects in deterring parties from the attempt to entrap the public by dishonest projects, in securing railway property against the shocks to which, in periods of great commercial excitement, it must otherwise be liable from such causes, and in assuring to the projectors of new enterprises, qualified to bear examination upon their merits, the means of establishing their case, and of confronting illegitimate opposition with a degree of facility
504503502s.s.s.s."Do you not think that as matters now stand, if another Railway Company is ready to come forward, and offers to carry the public at a lower rate than the London and Birmingham now carry them, that is a reason for Parliament to say, we will have the public carried cheaper, and therefore will sanction the line?" The answer was—"Most unquestionably not." "The London and Birmingham charging 30s.s.s.s."Breves inimicitiæ, amicitiæ sempiturnæ"501500499"It appears, therefore, to your Committee, that the present moment, while Parliament still retains in its own hands an entire and unimpaired discretion with regard both to the incorporation of new Companies, and to the enlargement of the powers of old ones, affords an opportunity more favourable than any that can be expected hereafter to recur, for attaching beforehand to the Legislative sanction, which is sought by these parties on their own behalf, the condition which may be deemed necessary for the public good, and which may realize and apply such conclusions as our experience of the railway system up to the present time may be deemed to have sufficiently established.""Assuming that no measures are taken by Parliament for systematising railway regulation upon some general principles, what do you think in the course of the next few years would be the result?—I am afraid that the property of many of the existing railways must become very seriously depreciated.""Are you of opinion that the present time is a convenient time for entering into the consideration of a general arrangement of that kind, or do you think that if they were postponed for another Session of Parliament, Parliament on the one hand, and the Railway Companies on the other, would stand in a better pesition for such an arrangement?—I cannot see that any good could arise from the delay; and I conceive that you have the advantage of legislating for a great many Railway Companies."498497496495494l.,493492brutum fulmen,491490489"But although the efforts of earlier projectors have reduced to comparative certainty, for the benefit of their successors, much of what was to themselves doubtful and hazardous, it still remains in a high degree problematical what results of the railway system, at present unforeseen, may be developed during the next fifteen or twenty years. In this state of things the Committee would deem it unwise to enter into any engagements which should tend to restrain the free action of the Legislature or the Government in future times, as it is impossible to judge what amount of inconvenience might thereby be entailed; but they would propose that such powers only should be taken as, even though they may fall short of the full extent of the occasion when it arrives, may be either exercised for some substantial advantage, or at the worst, left in abeyance without detriment.""It is a question which the Committee are far from thinking themselves able at present to determine, whether it would or would not be advisable that the Government should at a future period endeavour to effect a material reduction of this charge; and although, on the one hand, it would be premature and most unwise in any degree to prejudge this question, yet in the opinion of the Committee it is desirable to reserve to public authority the means of forming a judgment upon it when a proper time shall have arrived, at least in all those cases with regard to which the Legislature does not stand committed, by proceedings already taken, to a different course."488bonâ fide487486485d.parte?484exex parteex parteex parte.483482481Mr. Gladstone
515514d.d.Ironical cheers.d.d.dd.513512511Gladstone510 was aware of the disadvantage under which he must labour in following the able and excellent speech which had been just delivered by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and he should, therefore, throw himself on the indulgence of the House whilst he attempted, not to answer the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, but to state the reasons which had induced him to take the liberty of urging the matter on his consideration. Having been requested by a number of Gentlemen to explain the ground on which their opposition to the measure was founded, he would endeavour so to do, first, however, stating his own views upon the subject. It had been stated on a former occasion that this measure should not be forced on the attention of Parliament, but that some period should be allowed to the Railway Directors to turn their attention to the subject. That was considered very fair, and he did not think they were claiming too much when they attempted to force that on the Board of Trade. The right hon. Gentleman complained of some misrepresentations which had taken place on the subject. Surely that alone was a proof to some extent that the merits of the question were neither understood by Railway Companies nor the country. If they were unable to appreciate the merits of the Bill, because they were unable rightly to understand its provisions, it was quite impossible for them to anticipate the effect it might have upon their property, and they ought to have further time to consider it. The right hon. Gentleman had laid great stress upon the third Report. All he (Mr. Entwistle) could say with reference to that Report was, that it did not excite the apprehension of the Railway Directors to the extent it would have done under other circumstances, and for this very good reason. He was one of a deputation, before he had the honour of a seat in the House, which waited on the Government prior to the formation of the Select Committee, to express their views, and afford such information as might enable them to frame a measure calculated to meet the approbation of the Railway Companies. On that occasion one phrase was used, on which great stress was laid, and it was considered of
515514d.d.Ironical cheers.d.d.dd.513512511Gladstone510Mr. Entwistle
 contended, that it was impossible at this late period of the Session to give a Bill of such importance the consideration which it deserved.Mr. C. Bindley
472Gladstone did not see how the Government could, consistently with justice or reason, be permitted to proceed to the second reading of a measure avowedly founded upon a Report and a large volume of evidence which three-fourths of those who were called upon to take a part in the discussion, and to give their votes upon it, had not had time or opportunity to read. He must retort the argument urged to induce the House to let the measure proceed, and ask the right hon. Gentleman whether it was reasonable on his part to press the Bill forward when the House positively did not know the contents of the Report upon which it was founded? The right hon. Gentleman had all the advantage which a constant attendance on the Committee and daily familiarity with the evidence given there could give him over the House generally, whereas hon. Members had only had a few days. [Mr. 472GladstoneMr. Hawes
470l.l.l.469468 was reluctant to take any share in the discussion at that early stage; but having an intimate connection with Railways, and having been appointed by the House a member of the Committee recently investigating this subject, he considered himself fully justified in seconding the Motion of the hon. Member for Nottingham. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade when he addressed the House on a former occasion had stated that he expected to meet with the entire concurrence of the Railway Companies, and, indeed, had gone far to pledge himself that he would introduce no measure on the subject which had not their approval. When the right hon. Gentleman laid the Bill in question upon the Table of the House he had further stated that he had reason to believe the concurrence of the Railway Companies in that measure would not be withheld. They were therefore surprised that he should persist in a measure to which they were unanimously opposed. The Railway Proprietors, felt that they had not been fairly heard before the Committee which had recently reported to the House.
470l.l.l.469468Mr. C. Russell
516 said, that he was prepared to support the Bill, although it was well known in that House that he did not always approve of the measures propounded by the Government. He felt it to be his duty, as an humble, but independent Member of that House, to give to the Ministry of the present day his general support. He had not, however, felt altogether partial to the measures of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, and it was well known that he had formerly designated the President of that Board of Trade as the President of a Board of Free Trade. But he should tender his most hearty thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for his introduction of the Bill then before the House. The only fault which he found with the measure was, that it did not apply to existing railways as well as to future railways. He was an advocate for fair play to all. The Railway Companies might, no doubt, say, that they were at all times anxious to consult the public interest; but it was his belief that they were more anxious to put 10 or 15 per cent. in their own pockets. He never travelled by railroad, he hated the very name of a railroad—he hated it as he hated the devil. There was at present a railway in contemplation between the City of London and the city which he had the honour to represent; and if he thought that such a Railway would benefit that City, or the county with which he was connected, or the line of country through which it was to pass, there was no Member of that House who would be more ready to contribute to aid in the undertaking by his labour or by his money. He had a brother who had embarked in the speculation, but who had
516Colonel Sibthorp
461 said, that the right hon. Baronet had mistaken the drift of the question of his hon. and gallant Friend. The question was, not whether it were the intention of Government to increase the naval force in the Mediterranean, but whether it were their intention to increase the naval force of this country. To that question, the right hon. Baronet had given no reply. He would not refer to what had passed upon this subject three or four years ago, to the pamphlets written, to the speeches made, attacking the Whig Government upon the score of their naval arrangements. It was a constant taunt against that Government that they neglected the naval force, and left our shores unprotected by an efficient fleet. He would not refer to the attacks then made, further than to cite the opinion of Lord Melville at the time, to the effect that the complaint did not refer so much to the amount as to the disposition of our naval force. That referred to the state of things in 1838. At that time, an emergency arose with respect to the transport of troops to Canada. At present, an emergency had arisen as to sending ships from the coasts of this country to Africa. What was the state of our naval forces at that time and now? In 1838, we had three guard ships, so there were at present—and one at Lisbon. At the former period we had two line-of-battle ships at Lisbon; only one line-of-battle ship was there now. We had altogether, in 1838, eight line-of-battle ships, while the utmost disposable force at present did not exceed three line-of-battle ships, of which one was under orders to be paid off, another was fitting out for a flagship in the Pacific, leaving only, as available, one line-of-battle ship, which had been sent out in company with one of the flagships. This was the condition to which they had been reduced. Never, since
461Mr. C. Wood
528d.527ultima ratioultima ratiototies quoties.526525 was desirous of stating to the House some of the reasons which influenced him in supporting the Bill and would do so as shortly and plainly as he could. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Sheil) had asked a single question, and he would give him two answers, either of which would be perfectly satisfactory. The right hon. Gentleman had asked, with a view of founding upon it an argument against the Bill, whether it would apply to the Dublin and Cashel
528d.527ultima ratioultima ratiototies quoties.526525Mr. Cardwell
520519518517 was happy to be able to inform the House that he should, on that occasion, detain them but a very short time. Indeed, he felt that the reasons which had induced the Committee which had sat upon that subject to recommend such a measure as that before the House had been so fully and so ably stated by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and had been so well expressed in the Report of the Committee itself, that under ordinary circumstances he should have contented himself with giving a silent vote in support of the Bill. He was, however, induced to offer a few observations to the House, in consequence of those indications which had lately appeared in the House as well as out of it, of a formidable opposition to a principle which he should have thought so fair and moderate that it would meet with general acquiescence. Now, if he supported that Bill, he should say that he did so with very
520519518517Mr. Labouchere
478"That the Committee have power to consider any regulations advantageous to the public with respect to existing Railway Companies
478477 took that opportunity of saying a word, as he differed from those with whom he generally acted. The question now before them was, not whether they approved the principle of the Bill (and he was bound to say he did), but whether the subject should be discussed at all. The question was, whether there was anything in the nature of the Bill, or in the circumstances under which it was brought forward, which rendered it unfit that the Bill should be discussed in the present Session. Now, he for one should deeply regret if the House were not to discuss the principle of the Bill fully, fairly, and dispassionately in the present Session. He was bound to say, in justice to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that it was at least as much the Bill of the Committee who had been appointed to investigate the subject, as it was the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman and the Government, though, of course, they had the responsibility of the Bill, having adopted and sanctioned the recommendations of the Committee. What took place in that Committee? The right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade came forward, in the first instance, with a scheme varying most materially from that which had been adopted by the Committee. The Committee fully discussed the scheme; they examined a great deal of the evidence, and came to the conclusion, in which he believed the right hon. Gentleman himself concurred, that it was not expedient to give their sanction to the scheme which the right hon. Gentleman had at first proposed. It was after having considered the whole question, listening attentively to the important evidence brought before them, that they had substituted for the scheme of the Government the scheme embodied in the Bill before the House. He was told that this Report having only been laid on the Table and before the public for three weeks, it was not fit that they should now take it into consideration. It was also said, that the Railway Companies themselves had not had time to consider it. Now, he held in his hand a paper emanating from the Railway Companies, and representing, he believed, twenty-nine of the principal of those bodies, and he found that the gentlemen connected with those Railway Companies had had time to consider the Bill quite sufficiently to pronounce the most unqualified condemnation of almost every
478"That the Committee have power to consider any regulations advantageous to the public with respect to existing Railway Companies
478477Mr. Labouchere
 moved the adjournment of the debate.Mr. Bright
l.474473 said, that it appeared the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had placed the question under discussion upon the footing of the great responsibility which the House would assume by refusing at that stage of the proceeding, to enter-
l.474473Mr. Colquhoun
523 objected to the rapidity with which this Bill was hurried forward. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Gladstone) had argued, in point of fact, that no transactions or purchases in railways could in future take place without, the consent of Government; but he contended that practically a bargain might be made before the Chancellor of the Exchequer came into the House, there would then be a Treasury whip, and the money would be voted. The right hon. Gentleman had described the Belgian railroads as much better, so far as fares were concerned, than those of this country. Every person, of course, knew that the fares by the railroads in Belgium were very low, for this simple reason, that the Belgian public paid for the roads. The state of things here were however very dissimilar, as they had no occasion to look to the public Exchequer for funds to carry on these great undertakings; there were always plenty of great capitalists ready to come forward with their money. The effect of this Bill
523Mr. Parker
 moved the adjournment of the debate.Mr. Brotherton
524Gladstone asked the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade whether it was intended that the Cashel Railway was to be included in this Bill, as it had already been passed through the House? [Mr. 524GladstoneMr. Sheil
exequaturMoniteur,un fait accompli,453Moniteur: I rise to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Treasury, of which I gave notice on a former evening, with reference to the occupation of the French possessions in Algiers. On the 7th of December, 1841, I find His Majesty, the King of the French, in his speech to the Chamber of Deputies, said that he had taken means to secure the possessions of France in Africa from what he called any external complication, and the solution of that phrase was given in a speech made by M. Guizot, the French Prime Minister, on the 20th of July, 1842, and reported in the exequaturMoniteur,un fait accompli,453MoniteurMr. Sheil
475in limine begged distinctly to state that he understood out of doors that the railway interest in that House had come down prepared to stop discussion on this Bill, and that if they could not carry it by votes they would by postponement. Six years ago this month, upon bringing up the Report of the Railway Committee, a similar scene took place to that which was about to be enacted. All who were in favour of railways or connected with them opposed the improvements then suggested, although the majority of the House went with the right hon. Gentleman; and the question now was, whether the interests of the public at large should be considered, and discussed in that House upon the merits of a Bill introduced after a long investigation, or choked 475in limineMr. Wallace
 denied that he was the organ of the Railway Companies in endeavouring to stifle discussion upon this Bill. The course he had pursued was solely of his own concocting. It occurred to himself as he came up in the railway train on the preceding evening, and he took it without any communication with any person whatever. The ground upon which he took it was this: first, that the right hon. Gentleman was precluded by the course he had taken in Committee from bringing in a Bill opposed to the wishes of the body of Railway Proprietors; and, secondly, that the bulk of the evidence was a sufficient reason against not only this, but any other Bill on railways being introduced in this Session.Mr. Gisborne
467"That if, at the end of a term of years to be fixed, the annual divisible profits upon the paid-up share capital of any such line of railway shall be equal to a per centage to be fixed, or so soon after the expiration of the said term as the said per centage shall have been reached, it shall be in the option of the Government either, first, to purchase the line at the rate of a number of years' purchase, to be fixed, of such divisible profits; or, secondly, to revise the fairs and charges on the line, in such manner as shall, in the judgment of the Government, be calculated to reduce the said divisible profits, assuming always the same quantity and kinds of annual traffic to continue, to the said per centage; but with a guarantee, on the part of the Government, to subsist while such scale of fares and charges shall be in force, to make up the divisible profits to the said per centage."466 rose to speak to the Order of the Day. Although he did not intend to enter into any discussion as to the principle of the measure, he wished to address a few considerations to the right hon. Gentleman opposite with respect to the Bill. The foundation of the measure was, that a certain hypothetical arrangement contained in the Railway Committee's report shouid be adopted between Government and Railway Companies, upon conditions which would induce the latter voluntarily to agree to it. He thought that the general feeling in that Committee was, that any arrangement, made without the consent of the general body of railway proprietors, was not likely to be successful. He wished to put it to the
467"That if, at the end of a term of years to be fixed, the annual divisible profits upon the paid-up share capital of any such line of railway shall be equal to a per centage to be fixed, or so soon after the expiration of the said term as the said per centage shall have been reached, it shall be in the option of the Government either, first, to purchase the line at the rate of a number of years' purchase, to be fixed, of such divisible profits; or, secondly, to revise the fairs and charges on the line, in such manner as shall, in the judgment of the Government, be calculated to reduce the said divisible profits, assuming always the same quantity and kinds of annual traffic to continue, to the said per centage; but with a guarantee, on the part of the Government, to subsist while such scale of fares and charges shall be in force, to make up the divisible profits to the said per centage."466Mr. Gisborne
 seeing that the majority of the House desired to have a discussion of the measure, and hear the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, he would not persist in his Motion.Mr. Gisborne
 had certainly written the note in question, but he had as certainly inquired of the right hon. Baronet his intentions as to the Navy in general. He saw no discrepancy in that. He might have been allowed to put the question which he had put—because, if they increased the fleet in the Mediterranean, they must increase the naval force.Sir C. Napier
459458457 said, notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet as to the inconvenience of raising discussions upon such subjects by asking questions in that House, he considered it his duty to put the question to the right hon. Baronet as to the proceedings now going on in Morocco, and of which he had given notice. If he felt the matter as to Morocco was a question simply between that country and Spain, he should not have thought it necessary to ask any question; but when he saw the question arising with Spain in combination with France as to the disputes now prevailing between France and Morocco, the case was different. The right hon. Baronet and the House would be aware that Spain possessed a large fort on the coast of Barbary opposite Gibraltar, which had all along been used by France as a depôt in her operations against Algiers. He, too, was also aware that a certain pamphlet had not long since been published by the Prince de Joinville, in which, with how much of truth he would not say the Prince showed the great danger to which his country would be exposed in the event of a war, and exaggerated to a considerable extent the naval force of England, while he greatly underrated that of France. Whether the publication of that pamphlet had anything to do with the proceedings against Morocco, or was merely intended to make the people of England believe that the naval force of France was not so strong as it actually was, he did not
459458457Sir C. Napier
 wished to put a question to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, which he had mentioned on a former occasion. It was, whether under the Treaties which had been entered into with Denmark, the sugar of the Danish Colonies was, under the New Sugar Duties Bill, to come in at the lower rate of duty? Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would also state whether he had communicated with the Queen's Advocate on the subject, and if so, whether the Government had come to any decision in consequence?Mr. F. Baring
530529 said, after the language used by right hon. Gentlemen on the other side relative to the postponement of the Bill till another Session, he felt bound to say that he had no connection with any railway, and he had not been canvassed by any one, therefore, the opinion he had formed was from the Bill itself. Although it had been called a shallow and miserable proposition, still he was of opinion that a measure of so much importance ought not to have been brought in so late, and ought not so to be pressed in the present Session, and might very fairly be postponed. It was a Bill of the utmost importance—it would regulate railway matters for years, and time had not been given for a full consideration of the immense mass of evidence which the Committee had reported. The right hon. Gentleman had said the Bill was founded upon
530529Mr. F. T. Baring
522 could not join the noble Viscount who had just sat down in supporting the second reading. He also was one of those who had put the construction on the 7th Clause, with respect to the proposed interference of Parliament, which had been adopted by so many out of doors. He did not see the propriety of anticipating what might be the course to be adopted by Parliament hereafter; and nothing could induce him to support a measure containing a Clause which created a power placing Parliament in a position to assume these railroads as public property. He could conceive no greater interference with commercial regulations which it had been the boast of this country, to avoid. He could conceive no more fruitful source of jobbing, nor anything more opposite to the spirit and principle by which commercial principle had hitherto been regulated in this country. He regretted that his sense of duty compelled him to oppose this Bill, which contained Clauses which he should be most happy to support; one in particular, a most valuable Clause, which he had taken the liberty of suggesting early in the Session. He must assert his independence of all undue in-
522Mr. M. Philips
 was exceedingly sorry that hon. Gentlemen had not deferred to the sense of the very large majority who had pronounced against the adjournment of the debate. The opinion of the House as to the propriety of closing the debate tonight had been expressed by a majority of 173 to 53. He knew it was in the power of hon. Gentlemen, if they chose to exercise that power, to prevent the House coming to a decision to-night; but, he thought it was a very bad practice, and a practice that was quite indefensible upon this occasion. There appeared to be no desire whatever at an early period of the evening to continue the debate, and the House by a large majority had shown an indisposition to adjourn it. However, if a minority were determined to persevere in Motions for adjournment, he knew perfectly well what must be the result. His earnest wish was, that the House should come to a decision to-night, but he could not undertake to sit here contesting Motions for adjournment.Sir R. Peel
460 would adhere to the course which he had pursued as to the questions put a little while ago by his right hon. Friend. He should answer those questions which consistently with his duty he could reply to, but he would not be provoked into a discussion upon the important subject to which they referred. In the first place, he must say that the hon. and gallant Member had done him no great service in giving him a previous written notice, because he had made a speech quite at variance with that notice. They were not then discussing the Naval Estimates, and he did not think it regular to bring on a discussion on the state and disposition of the Navy upon the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of a Railway Bill. He did not think that the naval strength of this country depended upon the number of ships in commission. They might have a great many half-manned ships in commission, but this he knew, that there never was a period when it was more in the power of Great Britain to make a great naval demonstration in a short period — not all at once, but in a short period—than at the present moment. Now, as to the three questions; the first was, whether there was any truth in the report that the Spanish Government had permitted the French to occupy Ceuta, or had allowed French troops to pass through it? He had never heard of such a report before. He believed that it was as much the wish of the French as it was of the British Government that there should be no breach of the amicable relations between Spain and Morocco. He repeated, he had not heard, until the gallant Commodore had put his question, any report of Spain having given the French Government any such permission as the gallant Officer had referred to. No account of any such step had been received at the War or the Foreign Office. He believed the report to be unfounded, and he trusted that no such permission had been given. The next question was, whether our mediation had been refused by Morocco? The only answer to that inquiry which he could give was, that he had reason to believe that Mr. Drummond Hay, the British Consul at Tangiers, was now with the Emperor of Morocco, acting under instructions which he had received from Her Majesty's Government, and that
460Sir R. Peel
456exequatur455"Now, I readily subscribe to the accuracy of this statement, with the exception of the last sentence, I never said that I had now no objection to make to the establishment of the French in Algiers, but that I had now no ob-
455un fait accompli,"I was Minister in 1830. If I were to go back to that time, I should have much to say; but I take affairs as they were in 1841, and in the state in which they have been left by preceding Cabinets. I therefore look upon your position as un fait accompli, said, I feel it my duty to confine my reply to the questions of the right hon. Gentleman to a mere statement of facts, because, as is well known, any conversation that takes place here becomes the subject of immediate discussion in the Chamber of Deputies in Paris; and although I am aware that I cannot prevent or control discussions or observations elsewhere as to the questions asked in this House, or the making of observations upon our proceedings, still I do not think it consistent with my duty to encourage discussions or observations which might give rise to great inconvenience, but that it is better in matters of this kind to leave them to the consideration of the two Executive Governments that are responsible, than to provoke discussions upon them. The first, question which the right hon. Gentleman has put to me is with regard to the despatch written in January, 1842, by lord Aberdeen, to the Ambassador of this country in Paris, on the subject of the statement, made by M. Guizot, in the Chamber of Deputies. I will refer to that despatch itself, in order to put the House in possession of the facts of the case. The Count St. Aulaire had reported in a despatch, addressed to M. Guizot, a conversation that had taken place between himself and Lord Aberdeen as to the possessions of France in Algiers, which M. Guizot quoted in the French Chamber of Deputies; and it appeared in the published report of M. Guizot's speech that the despatch of M. St. Aulaire contained this report of the conversation with Lord Aberdeen; M. St. Aulaire reports Lord Aberdeen to have said:—
456exequatur455"Now, I readily subscribe to the accuracy of this statement, with the exception of the last sentence, I never said that I had now no objection to make to the establishment of the French in Algiers, but that I had now no ob-
455un fait accompli,"I was Minister in 1830. If I were to go back to that time, I should have much to say; but I take affairs as they were in 1841, and in the state in which they have been left by preceding Cabinets. I therefore look upon your position as un fait accompli,Sir R. Peel
462: I am very sorry that the right hon. Gentleman retains so vivid a recollection of the attack once made upon the Government of which he formed a Member; but all such matters are quite beside the question now under discussion. The House now is not engaged in discussing the Navy Estimates. To the question of the right hon. Gentleman, then, I shall give no answer. Her Majesty's Government are responsible for the state of the Navy; and when circumstances shall make it necessary to apply to Parliament for an increase in the Navy, Her Majesty's Government will make that application, and give due notice of the day when they intend so to make it. But, Sir, I did not expect to have had to-night a protracted discussion on the State of the Navy. The right hon. Gentleman says that I mistook the question put by the hon. and gallant Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman's question was, whether Government intended to reinforce the fleet in the Mediterranean? That was my construction of the question. I take the private note which the hon. and gallant Member wrote to me. That note inquired whether Government did or did not intend to reinforce the fleet of the Mediterranean. That was the question of which the hon. and gallant Member gave
462Sir R. Peel
464: I think this whole proceeding is most unfair—as unfair, Sir, as the noble Lord imputing to me that I said the country was unprepared, and our Naval Force insufficient for any emergency which may arise. So far from having said this—what I did say was, that there never has been a period when, within a certain time, not in an instant, but within a certain time—we could have at sea a Naval Force in a state of greater efficiency than we can have at present. These were my words, and the noble Lord had no right to impute to me an expression the reverse of which I used. If I had had notice of the question, whether we intended to increase the Navy Estimates, I would not have answered that question. But the right hon. Gentleman
464Sir R. Peel
480"I have confidence that the Government are legislating for the benefit of the community; if I had a vote, I should give it in favour of the measure. I have not had an opportunity of talking with many Members of Parliament, but probably after this, the Directors would not much wish it.""The Directors of a Railway have addressed a circular to me, expressing a hope that I would see all the Members of Parliament that I could, and use every exertion in my power to defeat the Government measure."479 would answer the appeal made to him by his hon. Friend. There was an impression prevailing, that the railway interest was exceedingly strong—that the monopoly was a very powerful one—and that it was extremely difficult to propose any measure for controlling them. He was inclined to think that they were going too far, and that their monopoly might be very great, but he would advise them to husband their strength. It was most unreasonable to propose to prevent the Executive Government from stating its views to the House of Commons on the subject of railways, or to refuse to hear their sentiments on a matter of such high importance to the public interest. "Strike, but hear," was thought at one time to be a moderate request; but the proposal of the hon. Gentleman was not only to strike but refuse even to hear. It looked like an indication of apprehension and of a desire not to permit even a statement to be made. It seemed to say that they would not trust themselves to vote on the merits of the question, that they would not even hear a statement, that they would not permit a previous and erroneous impression to be removed by a speech from the President of the Board of Trade; but they would have resort to the course of moving the other Orders, that the President of the Board of Trade, on the part of the Executive Government, might not have an opportunity of explaining a public measure which had been brought in to protect public interests. What other motive could the Government have in offending a powerful interest but a desire to consult the public convenience, and provide for the public welfare. For what reason did his right hon. Friend propose to take any course with respect to railways? Did he come forward in the month of July on the part of Her Majesty's Government to propose some remedial measure? No, at the very earliest period of the Session he had
480"I have confidence that the Government are legislating for the benefit of the community; if I had a vote, I should give it in favour of the measure. I have not had an opportunity of talking with many Members of Parliament, but probably after this, the Directors would not much wish it.""The Directors of a Railway have addressed a circular to me, expressing a hope that I would see all the Members of Parliament that I could, and use every exertion in my power to defeat the Government measure."479Sir R. Peel
: I do not understand on what grounds the right hon. Baronet complains of unfair proceedings. He says that he has answered all the questions put to him except one, which, under any circumstances, he would have refused to answer. Then, what has the right hon. Baronet lost by want of notice? He is not taken by surprise, I presume, at any statement which my noble and hon. Friends have made, as to the unprotected state of our shores. In former times, when we used to sit upon the benches opposite, there was no such great punctilio as to the manner in which an important question might be raised. It is quite Parliamentary when the question before the House is, whether an Order of the Day is to be read, for an hon. Member, who thinks that the state of the country is critical, to make what remarks he pleases. In the exercise of that power, remarks, most justifiable remarks, have been made, and I cannot conceive on what grounds they are complained of.Viscount Howick
463: I rise to say a few words; but I cannot help expressing my opinion that the Prime Minister is not entitled, under the present circumstances of the country, to express his surprise that the questions which have been asked of him, as to the amount of the available naval force, have been asked without any previous notice, or that it is necessary that a previous notice should be given of the intention of hon. Members to make inquiries, in order that Government may be prepared to answer questions on a subject of such absorbing interest, and vital importance. It is notorious to all the world, that questions are pending between this country and the French Government with respect to matters of the utmost importance to our interests, of the utmost importance, by the admission of Government itself. This subject is not now to-day, for the first time, brought under the notice of the Government. In fact, within a few days, not in this House, but in another place, Her Majesty's Government were interrogated upon the subject, and therefore I do not admit that Government are entitled to elude such explanations as may they deem it inconsistent with their duty to give, on the grounds of want of previous notice, and having been taken by surprise. As little does it appear to me that Government are entitled to say that the opinions which they may have expressed on the necessity of having an adequate naval force for the protection of the shores of this country, and what they may have said upon the subject when out of office some years ago, and when attacking the Administration then in power upon the subject of the Navy, that these opinions and these attacks were irrelevant and foreign to the present discussion. It appears to me that nothing can be more relevant, nothing more appro-
463Viscount Palmerston
521 had come down to the House strongly disposed to coincide with the views of those who urged the postponement of the Bill. He certainly had been influenced in this feeling not a little by the short time which had elapsed since the Report had been in the hands of hon. Members, as well as by the provisions of the seventh Clause, which did certainly convey the same impression to his mind as it had to the minds of many others; and he could not help thinking those hon. Members deserving of a little more respect than had been shown them by the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, who, although he was perfectly able at any time to dispose of any argument in five minutes, had found it necessary to devote two hours to this, and ought, therefore, to have found some excuse for those who from simply reading the Bill had arrived at a different conclusion from the right hon. Gentleman. He knew it was asserted that the Bill only reserved a power to Parliament to take these speculations into their hands if they should at any time think fit. It was, in fact, merely entering an effectual caveat on the part of the Government to the parties about to construct railways. Without expressing any opinion as to the expediency of such a policy as taking railways under their control, he must say, that it was quite unexampled that a Government should propose a whole machinery of eighteen Clauses to carry out a plan on the principles of which the opinion of Parliament, it appeared, was not really asked. What it seemed the right hon. Gentlemen did intend, was, that nothing in any Bill, for authorizing the construction of any railroad should prevent Parliament from hereafter making
521Viscount Sandon
 moved the second reading of the Sudbury Disfranchisement Bill.The Solicitor General
l.541 said, that in his opinion, the learned counsel who had just addressed the House had failed to make out a case to justify the House in refusing the second reading of this Bill. He freely admitted that the extreme step of disfranchisement should not be taken except on very strong and just grounds. But it had been clearly and indisputably proved that a majority of the electors of the Borough of Sudbury, were tainted by corruption. He admitted, that if this strong fact had not been made clear and indisputable, he should not be entitled to claim the support of the House to the second reading of the Bill. He had at that time nothing whatever to do with other cases, however analogous. He had simply to do with Sudbury and its corruption, as those corruptions had been proved. And if the Bill passed, as he trusted it would—it would undoubtedly act as a warning and an example to other places; and this was one of the greatest advantages that might be expected to accrue from the Bill. It should be particularly impressed upon the recollection of the House that the Bill which he now proposed was the third Bill for the disfranchisement of this Borough that had been brought before that House. Two other Bills of disfranchisement had upon previous occasions passed that House, and been sent thence to the House of Lords, where, unfortunately, from one circumstance or another, they had been stopped in their course. And yet, after all these warnings, there had at the very last election been practices of the most gross and profligate character—thus showing the predetermination of the voters in this
l.541The Solicitor General
 expressed his satisfaction at this Bill having been introduced. He trusted that the Government would on every occasion, no matter what party was in power, do all they could to put down bribery and corruption. He sincerely hoped that the Bill would pass.Mr. Tuffnel
 thought there were other boroughs in the country, besides Sudbury, which ought to be disfranchised on account of bribery and corruption. When the franchise was taken from a corrupt borough, it ought to be given to some populous place, in order to maintain the just balance of representation.Mr. D. Browne
"To inquire into the allegations of the Petition, presented upon the 20th day of June, in the last Session of Parliament, praying for further protection against the depredations of Dog Stealers in the Metropolis, with a view to the correction of the evils complained of therein."556l. rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to a Petition presented last Session, praying for further protection against the depredations of Dog Stealers in this metropolis, and to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the allegations of the said Petition with a view to the correction of the evils complained of therein. He was aware that he must labour under some disadvantage in bringing under the notice of the House a subject which might be deemed beneath its consideration. But he would remind the House that the subject was not a new one, but had been frequently complained of, as a grievance that called loudly for some legislative remedy. The admitted existence of the grievance, then, was his justification for calling upon the House to interfere. A Petition had been presented to the House, in the last Session, signed by several Peers and many Members of that House complaining of the great loss of property they had sustained by the practice of Dog Stealing, and praying for a change in the existing law, which did not afford any adequate protection. It was not necessary that he should go into any details to show the extent and frequency of this offence for it was perfectly notorious to every Member of the House. In fact, no man's dog was safe a moment—and the more valuable it was the more certain was it to be stolen, and should detection take place, the only punishment was a fine. In many cases a compromise took place, and the owner, glad to get his dog back, paid a large sum to the thief for his restoration, and thus was another offence committed, the compromise of a theft. In the last and the present years the money paid in this metropolis for the restoration of stolen dogs under a compromise amounted to 970"To inquire into the allegations of the Petition, presented upon the 20th day of June, in the last Session of Parliament, praying for further protection against the depredations of Dog Stealers in the Metropolis, with a view to the correction of the evils complained of therein."556l.Mr. Liddell
557 said, he contemplated an alteration in the law, because the law as it now stood was inefficient. He was, therefore, prepared to introduce a Bill for the
557Mr. Liddell
 said, the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman against these Claims would have been equally applicable against the former Claims that were allowed. The circumstances of this case were peculiar. Nothing like it had ever before occurred in the history of this country, and nothing like it he hoped would ever occur again. According to the doctrines of the right hon. Gentleman it was impossible to ascertain when we were at war or when we were not. Were we at war with China two years ago when towns and ships were taken, and this country enforced a ransom of a million of money? We refused the expedition that gained that sum their prize-money because we said there was no war. Would the Treasury now pay the men the prize-money gained in China? Would the Chancellor of the Exchequer meet them on that ground? It was then convenient for the Treasury to say there was no war, but now it was convenient to say there was a war. In fact we were at war or not at war, just as either case was likely to protect the Exchequer. There was no just reason for refusing the claims of the shipowners, as they had nothing but their cargoes, and were more exposed to loss than anybody else. As he was satisfied that these were good equitable Claims he would most heartily support them.Mr. Hawes
 had always attended to give his vote in favour of the just Claims of these individuals, and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would persevere year after year in bringing them forward, and if he did, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be sure to knock under.Colonel Sibthorp
: The question seemed to him to be whether the merchants under the circumstances could take care of themselves, or if they were not placed in a false position by the assurances which were made to them by the Admiralty. He should say, that the merchants had a just claim on the Government; and he thought that upon a question between individuals and the Government, the former ought not to be sacrificed when such a small amount was at stake.Mr. Muntz
550"Copenhagen, August 16, 1807."(Signed) "PEYMANN."Hostilities having commenced on the part of the English, I hereby declare, in virtue of the highest authority, that all English property be laid under sequestration; which each and every one is accordingly enjoined to report the English property, of what kind or nature so-ever, to the police, who will make the further necessary arrangements. Any one who conceals or does not fulfil this order will be considered as a traitor to the country."Placed between danger and dishonour the Danish Government had no choice; the war commenced.""Notwithstanding the declaration of war on the part of the Danish Government, it still remains for Denmark to determine whether war shall continue between the two nations,"549"Whereas, by the English envoy Jackson it was declared to us on the 13th of this month that hostilities against Denmark would be commenced; and whereas, at the same time, he demanded passports for himself and suite, consequently the war between England and Denmark may be considered as actually broken out; therefore, we herewith call on all our faithful subjects to take up arms, whenever it shall be required, to frustrate the insidious designs of the enemy, and repel hostile attacks."l.548 held that to be one of those questions upon which the Government was called upon to exercise the power given to them by the constitution of controlling the disposition of a popular assembly to bestow the public
550"Copenhagen, August 16, 1807."(Signed) "PEYMANN."Hostilities having commenced on the part of the English, I hereby declare, in virtue of the highest authority, that all English property be laid under sequestration; which each and every one is accordingly enjoined to report the English property, of what kind or nature so-ever, to the police, who will make the further necessary arrangements. Any one who conceals or does not fulfil this order will be considered as a traitor to the country."Placed between danger and dishonour the Danish Government had no choice; the war commenced.""Notwithstanding the declaration of war on the part of the Danish Government, it still remains for Denmark to determine whether war shall continue between the two nations,"549"Whereas, by the English envoy Jackson it was declared to us on the 13th of this month that hostilities against Denmark would be commenced; and whereas, at the same time, he demanded passports for himself and suite, consequently the war between England and Denmark may be considered as actually broken out; therefore, we herewith call on all our faithful subjects to take up arms, whenever it shall be required, to frustrate the insidious designs of the enemy, and repel hostile attacks."l.548The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 seconded the Motion. These Claims were now thirty-seven years old, and most disgracefully twenty-six years were allowed to elapse before any justice whatever was obtained from that House. Now, however, the public faith was pledged to payment by majorities gained against the strenuous exertions of successive Ministers in no less than six divisions. No man in that House had been a greater advocate of public economy than he had; but he thought it was disgraceful, and it would attach discredit and odium to the country, that those Claims had been left so long unsettled. All party feeling should be thrown aside upon such a question; yet the conduct of hon. Members upon it was such as to throw discredit upon the House. When the hon. Member for Lambeth brought forward the question in 1842, he was defeated by fifty-seven to forty-two; yet in the majority who then supported the Minister there were fifteen Gentlemen who in previous years had registered their votes in favour of these identical Claims. He entreated the Government to remember that they were resisting a claim which was founded in justice, as declared by six majorities of that House.Mr. Hume
l."An humble Address to Her Majesty, That, as Patroness and Comptroller of the Royal Academy of Arts, She will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the Laws and Regulations of that Institution, with a view of rendering it more conducive to the advancement of the Fine Arts, better suited to the spirit and circumstances of the present age, and more consonant with the original intention of its Royal Founder, George the Third." then rose to move
l."An humble Address to Her Majesty, That, as Patroness and Comptroller of the Royal Academy of Arts, She will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the Laws and Regulations of that Institution, with a view of rendering it more conducive to the advancement of the Fine Arts, better suited to the spirit and circumstances of the present age, and more consonant with the original intention of its Royal Founder, George the Third."Mr. Hume
542 felt, that if he attempted to oppose this Bill, he should not be successful, as the Bill had been taken up by one of the Law Officers of the Crown, and
542Mr. Blackstone
"That this House will, to-morrow resolve itself into a Committee to consider of an Address to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to take into Her early and most favourable consideration the case of the Claimants for losses sustained by the seizure of British ships and cargoes by the Danish Government in 1807, and reported to have been established by the Commissioners, to whom it was referred, to examine and adjudicate on all such Claims, in their Report bearing date the 12th day of May, 1840."547546Chancellor of the Exchequer:Annual Register.Annual Register545"The question is (said the gallant Member) not as to the length of time which has elapsed, but whether the House will do justice. I shall vote for the Motion, because no length of time will bar a claim of justice."544l.,543 rose to bring forward his Motion with respect to these Claims. The question had been so often before the House, and the justice of the Claims had been so often affirmed, that he felt justified in bringing the subject forward in the briefest possible manner. The subject, however important to the individuals whose pecuniary interests were involved, was of a dry and unexciting character, and he could not but remember that
"That this House will, to-morrow resolve itself into a Committee to consider of an Address to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to take into Her early and most favourable consideration the case of the Claimants for losses sustained by the seizure of British ships and cargoes by the Danish Government in 1807, and reported to have been established by the Commissioners, to whom it was referred, to examine and adjudicate on all such Claims, in their Report bearing date the 12th day of May, 1840."547546Chancellor of the Exchequer:Annual Register.Annual Register545"The question is (said the gallant Member) not as to the length of time which has elapsed, but whether the House will do justice. I shall vote for the Motion, because no length of time will bar a claim of justice."544l.,543Mr. Christie
551 was glad to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer declare that the attack on Copenhagen was a sufficient declaration of war, for if so he could not see how it could be argued that the troops in China were not entitled to their prize-money; or that the whole of the operations which took place there, including the second capture of Canton, were not acts of war. The most extraordinary services were performed there by the Army and Navy. The operations
551Sir C. Napier
 did not mean to say that the troops would neglect their duty, but that men would not enter the service.Sir C. Napier
Member: said, if his hon. Friend was really of opinion that previous inquiry was necessary on this subject, he should be unwilling to resist the Motion. He assumed, however, from what fell from his hon. Friend, that he did not seek an alteration in the existing law, and that he was prepared to recommend certain remedies, and, therefore, he did not himself think that previous inquiry was absolutely necessary. Nevertheless, if his hon. Friend wished to satisfy himself by previous investigation, although it might be inconvenient at this period of the Session, in the month of July—[A Member:Sir J. Graham
553"The circumstances are these: that the property was taken in a state of peace, and that the proprietors are now become British subjects, and consequently that this property could not be considered as the property of an enemy either at the time of capture or adjudication. Now, with respect to the first of these pleas, it must be admitted that that alone would not protect them, because the Court has, without any exception, condemed all other property of Dutchmen taken before the war. And upon what ground? That the declaration had a retro-active effect applying to all property previously detained, and rendering it liable to be considered as the property of enemies taken in time of war. This property was seized provisionally — an act itself hostile enough in the mere execution, but equivocal as to the effect, and liable to be varied by subsequent events, and by the conduct of the
553"Whereas the King of Denmark has issued a declaration of war against His Majesty, and His Majesty's anxious and repeated endeavours to obtain the revocation of such declaration, and procure the restoration of peace, have proved ineffectual, &c."552 hoped the House would not be diverted from the real question at issue. The question before the House was, whether those parties had Claims on the House of Commons for a quarter of a million of money for alleged captures made thirty-seven years since. The attention of the House was not called so much to the origin of the Claims on the present occasion, but the votes of the House had been attempted to be gained by reference to the parts which individual Members of Parliament had taken on former occasions. The hon. Gentleman said that he (Sir R. Peel) on a former occasion, when this subject was debated, retired from the House. But he must say that when he was in opposition to the late Government he gave them his support in opposing these Claims; and in 1841, when Mr. Cresswell, who sat on the Bench behind him, brought them forward, he recorded his vote in favour of the course pursued by the Government, and which was dictated by a sense of public duty, against Claims which they believed to be unfounded, but which were supported by that sort of personal private canvass of which he had on so many occasions reason to complain. If they were now at liberty to discuss the justice and policy of the war with Denmark,
553"The circumstances are these: that the property was taken in a state of peace, and that the proprietors are now become British subjects, and consequently that this property could not be considered as the property of an enemy either at the time of capture or adjudication. Now, with respect to the first of these pleas, it must be admitted that that alone would not protect them, because the Court has, without any exception, condemed all other property of Dutchmen taken before the war. And upon what ground? That the declaration had a retro-active effect applying to all property previously detained, and rendering it liable to be considered as the property of enemies taken in time of war. This property was seized provisionally — an act itself hostile enough in the mere execution, but equivocal as to the effect, and liable to be varied by subsequent events, and by the conduct of the
553"Whereas the King of Denmark has issued a declaration of war against His Majesty, and His Majesty's anxious and repeated endeavours to obtain the revocation of such declaration, and procure the restoration of peace, have proved ineffectual, &c."552Sir R. Peel
 did not believe that the British Navy or those who constituted it, would act on the principle just stated by the hon. and gallant Member. He believed that they would do their duty to their Sovereign and country without reference to pecuniary consequences; and that, if their duty required them to take a certain part, they would not turn round and neglect their duty.Sir R. Peel
 (who spoke from his seat) thought the House ought to be consistent with itself, and proceed at once to pass this Bill. He thought the evidence which had been adduced with respect to this Bill was amply sufficient for the House to act upon in legislating on the subject. He looked upon this Bill, not merely as a penal, but a remedial measure. He thought that no borough had exhibited more systematic bribery and corruption than that which had been shown to exist in the borough of Sudbury.Mr. Williams Wynn
 said, with reference to the desire expressed by some hon. Members, that the provisions of this Bill should be extended to Scotland and Ireland, that on bringing up the Report it was his intention to propose a Clause extending the provisions of the Bill to Ireland. His right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate would explain why, in its present state, the Bill could not be applied to Scotland.Mr. Gladstone
 said, that if the Clause was agreed to now, he would take care that the objections made by the hon. Members opposite should be taken into consideration before the Report, and some amendment made to prevent its inconvenient operation.Mr. Gladstone
559 said, that he would now state to the Committee the course which he proposed to adopt with regard to railways. He would associate railways with those public works, which, by the Rules of the House, were called public works of the second class; that was generally companies for the construction of public works. He would propose that all such companies should have at first a provisional,
559Mr. Gladstone
, in reply to a question, said, that the main object of the Bill was to apply the law of Bankruptcy to Joint-Stock Companies.The Solicitor General
566ex officiol.l.565564l. moved the second reading of the Field Gardens Bill, the object of which, said the hon. Member, was to appropriate to poor persons plots of land for cultivation. If this measure were adopted, his conviction was, that it would tend to identify the owners of the soil with the occupiers of allotments; to increase the respect of the labouring classes for the rights of property; to turn their attention from politics to subjects the Study of which would benefit themselves and society at large; and to render them more happy and contented than they now were. Under the allotment system, so far as it was at present in operation, the occupiers had to pay a very moderate rent, and many of them were enabled to obtain a profit of 5566ex officiol.l.565564l.Mr. Cowper
 said, he felt bound to take the sense of the House against the Bill.Mr. R. Yorke
Christie:579 could not see that this was a Bill which peculiarly fell within the province of Government; on the contrary, if they had undertaken it, and had neglected any of the large measures which they had introduced, it might indeed have been fairly urged against them, that they had misapplied their time to class-legislation. All that Government had stated in the first instance was, that the Members of it did not care whether counsel were or were not heard at the Bar; but when they found that there was an objection to this course upon principle, upon principle they had resisted it. The objection was, that the plaintiff in the actions had no direct personal and pecuniary interest in the fate of the Bill, and that objection, in his opinion, ought to prevail. He appealed to the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Christie), whether he did not believe and know that the plaintiff was only a man of straw, put forward in order to keep the real party to the actions in the back
Christie:579Lord Stanley
qui tam admitted, that he had entered the House only while the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) was speaking and charging Ministers with shilly-shally conduct in respect to this measure. In that accusation he fully concurred. It was one question whether qui tamMr. Vernon Smith
581 said, that let the insinuations against him, in that House, or out of it, be what they might, he should not be deterred from doing what he considered his duty towards his constituents and his country. He feared no comparisons, and was confident that his character would stand any test to which it might be submitted. He had opposed the Bill originally, and when, because he had been connected with the turf, it had been sent down to him by, he believed, the secretary to the Jockey Club, he had replied that he would be no party to the relief of persons from penalties they had, under such circumstances, incurred. He had been one of the Members on the Committee, who would have saved the House from some difficulty by calling certain parties as witnesses; but he and others of the same opinion were over-ruled; consequently no information had been obtained as to the motives which had led to the commencement of the actions. He owned that he felt considerable reluctance that such heavy penalties should fall into such hands; but the noble Lord opposite had met the matter gallantly, and had said, "recover your penalties, and I will not screen myself by the Bill of Indemnity." Notwithstanding the dirty work connected with it and arising out of it, he believed horse-racing to be essential to our breed of horses, and thus a great national good; but the excess of gambling on the turf had brought it into disrepute, and been the cause of the villanous transactions recently brought to light. As long as this system continued, he would not
581Captain Berkeley
qui tarn begged to be allowed to say a few words on a personal matter. The hon. Members for Weymouth and Northampton had adverted to an expression made use of by the learned Judge on a recent trial, when he stated the regret he felt that Gentlemen would associate with such parties. He had never, in any sense of the word, associated with the plaintiff, and had never seen him until he had addressed him in court. He could no more prevent such persons from coming upon a race-course or into a betting stand, than he could prevent their walking into Westminster Hall. Because the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) had exerted himself with equal ability and success, he had brought down upon himself the consequences now threatened. As a Member of the Committee, he had objected to the calling of such persons, because the opposite parties were excluded by the indemnity, and could not be heard. The main object of the hon. Member for Manchester, in the Committee, seemed to be to obtain evidence to support the qui tarnColonel Peel
 moved that the House resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.The Solicitor General
590 said, the House had already affirmed the principle of this Bill by assenting to its second reading, after the explanation he had given yesterday. The question as to the disposal of the representation rendered vacant by the disfranchisement of Sudbury must be determined by the House hereafter. He had considered it advisable to disembarrass this measure which related solely to the disfranchisement of Sudbury, of any question as to the disposal of the representation. He thought that any hon. Gentleman who had read the evidence reported to the House must have been astonished at the courage of his hon. Friend the Member for Wallingford (Mr. Blackstone), who had stated that there was no proof that a majority of the constituency of Sudbury had been bribed at the last election. He would undertake to say that any hon. Member who went through the evidence — the collection of which had been most difficult, the Committee having been baffled by the refusal of witnesses to answer questions—must be satisfied there was most conclusive proof that at the last election a large majority of the constituency of Sudbury was bribed. The object of the Committee was to ascertain the real nature of the proceedings in that borough; and he would undertake to say that there was, in their report, an ample body of evidence to justify the present measure. He begged to call the attention of the House to the unreasonableness of his hon. and learned Friend's
590The Solicitor General
qui tamqui tam583l.l.l.l. said, it was most singularly unfortunate for the hon. Member for Manchester that he should have directed his attention and the evidence to one particular bet, if it had nothing to do with the object of the plaintiff in the action. The true state of the case was, that thirty-four writs had been issued, but declarations had only been delivered against two individuals. One of them was named Hill, and the declaration against him claimed penalties of 12,000qui tamqui tam583l.l.l.l.Lord George Bentinck
l.l. supported the Amendment. It had been stated, that at a recent contest at Nottingham the sum of 12,000l.l.Mr. B. Cochrane
560l. opposed the Clause, and alluded to the case of a Railway Company which had entered into a contract to the amount of 600,000560l.Mr. Hawes
 thanked the hon. Member for the introduction of this Bill. He felt convinced that the allotment system, if carried out under proper management, would be exceedingly beneficial to the poor; but at the same time he felt bound to say, that he should feel rather alarmed if it were a law, as was proposed by this Bill, to make letting land in allotments compulsory, which had hitherto been quite voluntary upon the part of the landowners. So far as the allotment system had worked beneficially up to the present time, it had done so without the intervention of Acts of Parliament. His opinion was that the allotment system had hitherto worked well, and that it was capable of great extension and improvement, and he for one should be glad to have an opportunity of seeing before passing the Bill whether much greater benefit might not arise from the voluntary extension of the allotment system, without the intervention of an Act of Parliament between landlord and tenant. He certainly could not sanction any legislative interference whatever with the relation of landlord and tenant.Mr. B. Escott
, as a Member of the Committee, who had watched the conduct of the hon. Member for Manchester, felt bound, from a strong sense of duty, to say that he thought his conduct had been marked with extreme fairness throughout the whole proceedings. In the questions which he put the hon. Member for Manchester seemed actuated only by a desire to elicit the truth, and as he (Mr. B. Escott) had desired only to know the truth, he would say that he would not have been so able to decide if it had not been for the questions asked by the hon. Gentleman.Mr. B. Escott
 wished to know whether the petitioner had any pecuniary interest in the matter. Did he look for penalties? According to his (Mr. Escott's) opinion, the petitioner could have no pecuniary interest, because it was proved before the Committee that the statute under which he brought the action did not apply to the case.Mr. Escott
 said, that the Amendment of the hon. Member (Mr. Christie) could not be withdrawn without the leave of the House. The usual mode of proceeding was to refer the petition of the party to a Committee, and then the Committee might inquire what interest the petitioner had, before the House allowed him to be heard by counsel.The Speaker
563 said, the hon. and learned Member was correct as to the practice, and he (the Speaker) had inquired of the
563The Speaker
 said, that in the present state of the law on this subject in Scotland, it would cause great confusion to extend the provisions of this Bill to that country. He thought it would be much better to have a separate Bill for that part of the United Kingdom.The Lord Advocate
 wished to know from the Speaker, whether it were not usual to ring the bell before counting the House, after the Motion for counting was made. He had certainly been under that impression, but he did not hear the bell on the previous evening. He was dining up stairs, when he was informed the House was about to be counted, and hurried down immediately with his napkin in his hand, in order to be present.Mr. Sergeant Murphy
572 said, he had received information that the petitioner was not himself the party interested,
572The Chancellor of the Exchequer
573 intended no disrespect to the hon. Member by his question. The House would require, he thought, not only that the petitioner should state he had an interest, but that the hon. Member should assure the House the petitioner had an interest. It had been intimated that the party, on failure of the action, would not pay the costs, and that he was a person put for ward by others, who were the real plaintiffs, in order to conceal their own names, and that the petitioner had no direct interest in the result. If that was the case, he would be out of Court. Even supposing, however, that he had a direct interest as stated by the hon. Member, there were sufficient reasons why, in the present stage of the proceedings, he should not be heard. In the Case referred to by the hon. Member, a Bill was brought in to suspend the proceedings in the actions that had been commenced. Mr. Wright petitioned the House, stating the injury that he should sustain, but the Bill being for suspension only, Mr. Wright was not heard. On a second occasion, he believed a Bill for further suspending the proceedings was brought in, and then Mr. Wright was not heard, the House having proceeded upon the principle that the suspension of the proceedings did not determine the question whether the party was injuriously affected or not. But on the third occasion, when a Bill was brought in for the discontinuance of the actions altogether, Mr. Wright petitioned again, and then the House allowed counsel to be heard. So Mr. Wright was not heard upon the Bill for the suspension, but he was heard upon the measure for the entire discontinuance of the proceedings. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought that the House
573The Chancellor of the Exchequer
577 said, it was certainly open to the hon. Gentleman to pursue what course he pleased; but he could not permit the hon. Gentleman to be under the delusion, or the House to be under the impression, that the course which he had pursued was in the least unfair, unkind, or inconsiderate towards the hon. Gentleman himself. The hon. Gentleman did not appear to be
577The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had inquired, and found that the bell had rung, at the counting of the House yesterday, as usual. When hon. Members were anxious for an adjournment it was impossible to prevent it.Mr. Brotherton
569 concurred with the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, that the system, if it were to be carried out, could only be so properly by the local proprietors. Though he greatly approved of the allotment system, which had been attended with the happiest effects in Germany and the Low Countries, yet he did very much doubt the propriety
569Mr. Hume
 said, that when he rose to bring on his Motion on the previous night there were fifty-five Members present, for he had counted them; but though that number could be found to listen to a debate about dogs, when he rose to bring forward a measure in connection with the arts and the improvement of man, forty Members could not remain to attend to it. He had no complaint to make of the activity of those hon. Gentlemen opposite, who made a practice of counting the House out whenever an opportunity offered, but he thought he had a right to complain of his own friends, those who sat around him—of whom there were plenty present to have kept a House when he rose to speak, had they so pleased—for leaving their places, and thus enabling the hon. Gentlemen on the other side to succeed in their object.Mr. Hume
584 thought it was the duty of his hon. Friend (Mr. Milner Gibson) to
584Mr. Hume
 must deny most distinctly that he had said anything, either in confidence or publicly, in reference to the counting out on the previous night, that could bear out the construction which the hon. Member who had just spoken had put upon his words.Mr. Borthwick
562 was anxious to call the attention of the House to the state of public business, more especially to the practice of counting out the House when, as in the case of the previous night, measures of importance were to be brought forward. He himself had had a question of great importance, which he was prevented from bringing forward by the House being counted out, while the hon. Member for Montrose was speaking. The practice of seizing every opportunity of counting the House when there were not forty Members present, was a most unfair and inconvenient one; and if every hon. Member were to avail himself of his right in that respect, on Government as well as other nights, there would scarcely be a single supply night during the Session in which the public business would not be
562Mr. Borthwick
 said, that he would withdraw his Amendment for the present, and wait until he saw how the Bill would come from the Committee.Mr. Hodgson
 proposed to add the words "Railway Companies" after "Banking Companies."Mr. R. Hodgson
 said, that upon a former occasion he had observed that great injustice would be done if Mr. Russell was not heard by counsel at the Bar, but that was upon the understanding that the petitioner had a direct right and interest, which now appeared questionable. His hon. Friend behind him had stated he believed the petitioner had a direct interest, but it seemed that interest was placed upon the question of costs. Now, if it were a question of costs created by bringing these actions, that would not form a sufficient ground for the petitioner being heard by counsel. The House ought to be satisfied before hearing counsel, that the person had a direct interest; and if he had not, the petition ought not to be entertained for one instant. The petitioner might be called up and examined to ascertain the truth.Mr. T. Duncombe
585, when the original
585Mr. T. S. Duncombe
582 wished to say a few words on the charge that in the Committee he had conducted himself in an
582Mr. M. Gibson
578 observed that Government
578Mr. Milner Gibson
 suggested that the solicitor who was in attendance should be called in to be examined.Mr. Milner Gibson
589 would act the part of Seconder on this occasion, not because he agreed with the Amendment, but in order to have an opportunity of defending a much aspersed body—he meant the electors of Harwich. The hon. Member for Wallingford had treated them with a new abridgement of the report of Mr. Roebuck's Committee. What it had to do with the present subject he did not know, but as far as it concerned Harwich, he must aver that Mr. Roebuck and his coadjutors had arrived at all their conclusions upon mere hearsay evidence, for the most part not worth a straw, and he was there boldly to assert that there did not exist in England a purer or more immaculate constituency than that which he had the honour to represent. He declared it to be so. He had never bribed himself; he knew of no one having been bribed, and he believed his constituents were and
589Captain Beresford
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.588l."That it be an instruction to the Committee on the Bill that they have power to extend the right of voting for the future Election of Members to serve in Parliament for the Borough of Sudbury to all persons residing within the hundred of Baberg, within the county of Suffolk, and the hamlet of Balingdon cum Brandon, in the county of Essex having the qualification required as electors for Cities and Boroughs under the Act of 2 Will. IV., c. 45; and to make provision that the following persons, viz., Peter Alston, James Berry, Thomas Brown, William Barnard, William Cross, Joseph Cook, George Dawson, Thomas Erith, James Johnson, Charles King, Thomas Making, George Parsonson, William Rolfe, Richard Steed, William Tolliday, and Joseph Wheeler, being guilty of receiving bribes at the last Election; and Joseph Barker, Samuel Berry, Willam Cook, Thomas Ginn, Thomas Goody, Golding Herbert, Samuel Hale, James Herbert, John Jones, and William Warner, being concerned in the distribution of money among the voters before or during the Election, be hereafter disqualified from voting at any Election for Members to serve in Parliament for the borough of Sudbury." rose to move—
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.588l."That it be an instruction to the Committee on the Bill that they have power to extend the right of voting for the future Election of Members to serve in Parliament for the Borough of Sudbury to all persons residing within the hundred of Baberg, within the county of Suffolk, and the hamlet of Balingdon cum Brandon, in the county of Essex having the qualification required as electors for Cities and Boroughs under the Act of 2 Will. IV., c. 45; and to make provision that the following persons, viz., Peter Alston, James Berry, Thomas Brown, William Barnard, William Cross, Joseph Cook, George Dawson, Thomas Erith, James Johnson, Charles King, Thomas Making, George Parsonson, William Rolfe, Richard Steed, William Tolliday, and Joseph Wheeler, being guilty of receiving bribes at the last Election; and Joseph Barker, Samuel Berry, Willam Cook, Thomas Ginn, Thomas Goody, Golding Herbert, Samuel Hale, James Herbert, John Jones, and William Warner, being concerned in the distribution of money among the voters before or during the Election, be hereafter disqualified from voting at any Election for Members to serve in Parliament for the borough of Sudbury."Mr. Blackstone
 said, notwithstanding the observations of his hon. and learned Friend, he could scarcely believe that there was not a pure voter in Sudbury.Mr. Blackstone
587 said, that he would avail himself of the opportunity which was then afforded him of entering into an explanation as to the statements made by the noble Lord opposite. He had made all the inquiries which he had been able to make on this subject, and he did not think that he was liable to the charge made by the noble Lord, that he had neglected to obtain the necessary information. The plaintiff (Russell) had not been called before the Committee of that House; but it might hereafter turn out that he had been called before a Committee in another place since the presentation of his petition, and had stated very extraordinary facts as to his intercourse with an hon. Member of that House. The evidence taken before the Committee elsewhere had not yet been published, and, therefore, he would not further allude to it; but he thought it would appear that the opinion he had already formed of the undue haste with which the Bill had been brought forward and carried on, was a correct one. It had been stated, and truly, that he did not object to the principle of the Bill, and he thought that the actions had been
587Mr. Christie
 explained that the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk) had told him that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government "did not care a fig" whether counsel were heard or not, and that the Government would make no opposition, if the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) made none; and the noble Lord had said he would make none, if the Government made none.Mr. Christie
576 moved that the House do in six months resolve itself into a Committee. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Government had acted not quite fairly in this matter. He was informed the day before yesterday, by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Lord Palmerston), that that noble Lord would not offer any opposition to his Motion if the Government did not. Now, he (Mr. Christie) had understood from the hon. Baronet the Secretary to the Treasury, that the Government would not offer any opposition, and therefore, Mr. Russell at his (Mr.
576Mr. Christie
 asked the Speaker whether it would be in order for him to withdraw his own proposition, to admit of the Motion suggested by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Gibson) being put.Mr. Christie
 moved, pursuant to notice, that Charles Henry Russell might be heard by counsel at the Bar of the House against the Bill. The petitioner had a direct interest in the rejection of the Bill. During the suspension of the actions which had already taken place, Mr. Crockford, one of the defendants, and a material witness against the other defendants, had died, and in the actions which had abated by Mr. Crockford's death, the costs fell upon the petitioner. As a precedent in point he would refer to the case of Mr. Wright, who had been heard by counsel in 1814, against a Bill. It might be said that Mr. Wright was heard against a Bill to discontinue actions altogether, and that this was only a Bill to suspend actions. But this was only a difference of degree, and not of kind. A suspending Bill might injure the petitioner more than a discontinuing Bill: by loss of evidence during a suspension, the plaintiff might afterwards be nonplussed, and have to pay the costs on both sides; while if the actions were now discontinued altogether, he could at worst only lose his own costs.Mr. Christie
 believed, that the petitioner was not the only party interested in the result. He was, however, the legal plaintiff, liable for the costs. The solicitor who brought the actions was in the lobby. He was the same person who had given the information that had come to the ears of the right hon. Gentleman, and might be examined with respect to the circumstances under which the actions were brought, and the interest of the plaintiff in them.Mr. Christie
 did not think the hon. Member for Evesham had any right to complain in the present instance at least for he believed the House had been counted out when it was on the previous evening, partly to oblige the hon. Member himself. He had certainly heard the hon. Gentleman say to those who were near him "If you are going to count out the House, I hope you will do so while the hon. Member for Montrose is speaking, and not wait until I bring on my Motion." For his own part he had not felt any great desire to hear the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose, and therefore he had walked out of the House. The hon. Member for Evesham did the same, but when he saw there were not more than some twenty-eight Members present, came back, he (Mr. Cripps) supposed, to save his credit. He must deny that there were many occasions (as the hon. Gentleman had asserted), when the House might be counted out on Supply nights.Mr. Cripps
 expressed his sincere thanks to the hon. Member for bringing forward this Bill, and also to express his thorough conviction that the working classes throughout the country owed him a deep debt of gratitude for the manner in which he had undertaken the subject. He (Mr. Ferrand) was extremely anxious that the Government should allow the Bill to become the law of the land. In his part of the country he had seen the allotment system carried out to some extent, and he knew that the working classes there were anxious to see it fully carried out.Mr. Ferrand
 had not seen anything unfair in any question which had been put. With regard to the particular question which had been put two or three times, it certainly appeared to have a direct bearing on the actions which were pending; but as soon as it was pointed out to the hon. Member that the question had this bearing, the hon. Member at once withdrew the question. The Statute Book was full of penalties, which were never enforced, and ought not to remain.Mr. W. G. Hayter
568l.567 rose to second the Motion. He said he gave his most cordial approval to the principle of this Bill. He was rejoiced that at last the attention of the House of Commons had been called to that most important Report made by a Committee of the House on the allotment system in 1839. That Report had been long a dead letter. What had they been doing since that Report was made? They had been passing Inclosure Bills, giving away that land which might have been made available for improving the condition of the poor; they had been giving away, he said, that land, without advancing the great objects which that Report recommended the House to adopt. The Report of that Committee recommended that no Allotment Bill should be passed which did not afford facilities for making small allotments of land to the poor. That recommendation was not attended to. The evidence adduced before that Committee proved that these small allotments were greatly conducive to the interest of the poor. But that did not depend upon the evidence alone, for many other authorities proved theoretically, as well as practically the advantage resulting from such a system of allotment. This system of allotment not only improved the condition of the poor, but reduced the amount of the rate to the poor. It also gave independent employment to the labouring men, when they could not otherwise obtain it. By it they were supplied with food, and the necessity of going into the poor-house was thereby removed. Independently of these
568l.567Mr. S. Crawford
 wished to know whether there was any probability of any report being made at an early period by the Commissioners of Land Inquiry in Ireland, and if so, whether the House might expect that some measure of legislation, founded upon that report, would be brought forward during the ensuing Session of Parliament?Mr. S. Crawford
 asked, was he then to understand, that for the future, instead of having seamen on board our ships, we were to make up the required number with marines?Sir C. Napier
St. VincentAlbion begged to ask the hon. and gallant admiral opposite two questions of which he had given notice. The first was, whether it were true that the St. VincentAlbionSir C. Napier
 said, in reference to the precedent in Wright's case, he had consulted the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, who had said that he should take no part in the question whether counsel should be heard. Subsequently it appeared that Wright's case did not justify the course contemplated by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and then it was determined to resist it on the ground that it would establish a bad precedent.Sir G. Clerk
St. Vincent,Albion, in reply to the first question, said, that the St. Vincent,AlbionSir G. Cockburn
561: Certainly not; but
561Sir G. Cockburn
 regretted that the noble Lord had been betrayed into expressions discourteous to the hon. Member for Manchester and the hon. Member for Weymouth, for he thought that, on cooler reflection, he would not allude to those associations, which, however proper on the turf, were not usual in that House. The noble Lord had alluded to the Act which he (Captain Pechell) had brought in in the year 1835, for relieving printers and publishers from certain penalties, but he considered this to be a widely different case. There the parties acting in ignorance of the law had had advantage taken of them for a trifling omission in not inserting their place of residence at the end of their papers, and it would have been injustice to have allowed informers on such a plea to levy thousands upon thousands in penalties. This case was very different. When he saw this observation so properly delivered by Mr. Baron Alderson at a late trial, that "if gentlemen will bet with blackguards they must expect to be cheated," he thought they would do a monstrous deal of good in the country—they would reform the turf. It was in consequence of such proceedings that the turf had brought down upon it general indignation; the whole thing wanted reforming, and he wished that the law should take its course.Captain Pechell
580sauce piquante admitted the talents of the hon. Member who had just taken his seat, as a debater, and regretted that he did not always do himself justice; for instance, having no doubt been more agreeably employed, and not having been present during the discussion, he had ventured to speak, and therefore adverted to topics already introduced by other Members. On this account he had noticed again the Judge's charge, a dish that had been previously served up with 580sauce piquanteSir J. Graham
570 trusted he should be pardoned if he did not occupy the attention of the House for any lengthened period—as it was not his intention to oppose the second reading of this Bill. He thought the House and the country were indebted to the hon. Member for the attention which he had bestowed upon this measure, and for the manner in which he had brought it forward, and he must add, that to the preamble of the Bill, which declared that small allotments of land were conducive to the comfort and well-being of the labouring classes in the rural districts, he was not disposed to suggest any doubt; but at the same time he did agree with the hon. Member for Winchester and the hon. Member for Montrose, that the success of the system must mainly depend upon the voluntary support and countenance given to it by the local proprietors. He doubted whether legislative interference might not be found to mar the success of the system. With all deference to the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion, and whose philanthropy was known to every one to be genuine, he must say that he was somewhat surprised at the expressions that fell from him. The hon. Gentleman's experience in this matter was chiefly confined to Ireland, and if he rightly understood the hon. Gentleman, he said that the occupation of a small portion of land, combined with spade industry, was certain to secure independence, happiness, and comfort to the peasantry, while in his (Sir J. Graham's) opinion the distress of Ireland was in a great measure to be attributed to the minute portions into which land was divided—those minute portions being for the most part cultivated by means of spade husbandry. His (Sir J. Graham's) comprehension of the value of small allotments of land was not that they should give full employment to the labourer, but that they should merely occupy his spare time; that they should be an assistance, supplying comforts, not constituting the sole means of subsistence of the labourers; that, as it appeared to him, was the real use of the allotment system, and he must say that he looked upon an acre of land as being too large a quantity. He did not wish to enter now into the details of the measure, but to them he should have several objections. The hon. Gentleman said there was a great unwillingness on the part of landlords to let their land, but it certainly appeared
570Sir J. Graham
 said, having already spoken, he was precluded from offering any observations.Sir J. Graham
 said, he believed the Commissioners had come to the conclusion, that it would not be advisable for them to make any partial report, consequently he did not expect that any report would be presented during the present Session. As to what legislation the Government might think it necessary to introduce, founded on the report of the Commission, he could not, of course, say, until the Government should have the report before them. At the same time he could assure the hon. Gentleman and the House, that the Government had appointed the Commission as the foundation for legislation, should it be necessary, and with a view to remove any defects which might be pointed out in the report.Sir R. Peel
 objected to the Clause, as he thought that in the case of large Companies it might be very unnecessary, and inconvenient to call upon them to give security for claims within a month.Sir W. Clay
574 said, that a communication had been made to him yesterday on the subject, with a view of ascertaining whether it were his intention to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member, and in reply he had stated that the case quoted did not appear analogous, and that his opinions were adverse, but he should not offer any opposition from himself. At the same time, however, if the matter was
574Viscount Palmerston
 regretted that a degree of warmth should have introduced itself into this debate on both sides, which did not seem naturally to belong to the subject itself. He hoped that that warmth might be allowed to evaporate, and that the House would be permitted to discuss the question on its own proper merits. His hon. Friend (Mr. Christie) had complained of the course which he had taken on this occasion; but really he must be allowed to defend himself against that complaint, for he did not think it was just. He stated to his hon. Friend the objections he felt against a Motion for counsel being heard, and he pointed out to his hon. Friend the distinction between the case on which he founded his Motion and the present case; but he then said that if these objections were not entertained by other parties, he would not himself press them. This was not a mere personal question, but one materially affecting precedents, and, in that view, of much importance; the House ought to be careful how it established a precedent respecting the hearing of counsel for or against a Bill. He hoped that his hon. and learned Friend would not see sufficient ground for adopting the extreme, not to call it factious, course to which he had referred in his Speech, especially as he understood that his hon. Friend did not in principle object to the Bill.Viscount Palmerston
637636 having been a member of the Railway Committee, was anxious to state the grounds on which he should give his vote for the second reading of the Bill. All the Committees that had been appointed to investigate the subject of railways had come to the unanimous opinion, that the interests of the Railway Companies were not so identical with the interests of the public, that the public were to be left entirely at the
637636Lord Seymour
640639638 said, this measure was so peculiarly important on many considerations, that he could not refrain from delivering his sentiments upon it. He would have passed by all those attempts at insinuation which had been thrown out, that every Gentleman who had felt it incumbent upon him to express dissatisfaction with the principle of the measure had an interest in some Railway Company; but he thought it a ridiculous principle, that where an hon. Member was disposed to object to any particular measure, his vote, or his speech, or his sentiments, should be challenged as proceeding from personal interest. He thought railway proprietors might well give the results of their experience and state the information they had acquired for the benefit of those Members who had not turned their attention to the subject. He therefore, felt it necessary to apologise, when he declared, that he did not possess, nor ever possessed any share or interest in any Railway Company whatever. This was one of those Bills the principles of which must be considered in its details. There were three principles contained in it: first, the power of revision over particular railways hereafter to be constructed; then, the power to be given to the Government of purchasing any particular line; and, lastly, that which proposed to make it a popular measure, the giving a facility to the poorer orders for travelling in third class railway carriages at a reduced fare. As far as he was acquainted with the sentiments of the House, there seemed to be no one adverse to this popular principle. Though he agreed that accommodation should be provided for the poorer classes of our fellow-subjects, that proper third class carriages should be provided for them, and that the scale of fares should be moderate, still he thought they ought not to declaim all at once against
640639638Mr. Bernal
661660 wished to guard himself, at the outset, from being supposed to acquiesce in the assumptions of hon. Gentlemen who opposed the Bill as to the likelihood of any injury to private enterprise of the value of which he was thoroughly sensible. They were not, however, called upon to decide whether these undertakings should be carried on by the Government or by private parties. All that was asked was that Parliament should reserve the option of dealing with such undertakings in future; and this seemed as just as it was prudent: but, then, it was said, if this were all, why have a whole machinery of Clauses? To this the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade had truly answered, that if any words could be devised by which the immediate operation of the measure should be excluded, and a mere reservation alone secured, he would adopt them. To affirm merely, that Parliament should have the power hereafter of dealing with the matter would be nugatory; as Parliamentary
661660Mr. S. Wortley
678 begged to state his entire adhesion to the views contained in the speech of his right hon Friend, which, in point of fact, was an exposition of the principle and spirit of the Bill. The hon. Gentleman opposite asked whether he were willing to make the Bill conform to that speech, and he could not hesitate answering the hon. Gentleman in the affirmative. He must, however, remind the hon. Gentleman that the Bill was founded on the recommendations contained in the Report, and that the Report had excited no alarm whatever. In consequence of this the provisions of the Bill had been framed without the least idea that any such alarm was likely to arise; and now that apprehensions had been raised, it was perfectly possible that there were particular enactments in the Bill which might be dispensed with without injury to the objects proposed by the Bill. He had no objection to the introduction of such words as would show that the principles declared by his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government with respect to the management of railways were to be adhered to, unless strong reasons could be shown to the contrary. In the Report of the Committee it was expressly declared, that there was no intention to prejudge any question, but to many the Bill when it came out, appeared to contradict the Report of the Committee, and to foreclose questions which the Committee had left open. But what had been the course pursued? There had been no
678Mr. Gladstone
 had not had the opportunity of consulting with the opponents of the Bill, and could not say what alterations he might propose. All he could say was, that he was perfectly ready to consider, and desirous to accede to any modification which should tend to bring it into strict conformity with the third Report of the Committee, and the speech of his right hon. Friend.Mr. Gladstone
 considered that the House were entitled to see the Bill modified, so far as the Government themselves proposed to modify it.Mr. H. Hinde
684bonâ fide said the Bill had been drawn with the 684bonâ fideMr. Gladstone
686No, no.685"I could never have had the assurance to meet either Mr. Gibson or yourself, had there been a syllable of truth in Lord Bentinck's statement, so far as I am personally concerned. I do not for a moment attempt any defence of my brother's conduct in an affair which occurred some years since, and through which I might have been ruined, had I not fortunately had the means of entirely exculpating myself to the perfect satisfaction of every person. I should grieve much if you or Mr. Gibson consider that, in having honoured me by several times seeing me, you consider any degradation attaches to you in consequence.
685cries of said, I am desirous to take this opportunity of giving an answer to an attack which was made in the course of the debate on the previous night on the character of an individual who cannot defend himself in this House. It will be remembered that the noble Lord (Lord George Bentinck) made an attack in the strongest terms—terms which I will not repeat—on two brothers of the name of Russell, one of whom is a solicitor, and the other the plaintiff in the actions which the pending Bill is intended to suspend. I have received to-day a letter from Mr. Russell, the solicitor, on the subject of this attack, and I will read extracts from it. There are parts not necessary to the vindication of his own character, and by no means complimentary to that of the noble Lord. (Lord George Bentinck). The noble Lord has the privilege of saying within these walls, with perfect immunity, whatever he may have heard against the character of any individual out of the House: and last night he had the generosity to use his privilege to a very great extent. I cannot say what I may have heard against the character of the noble Lord in the letter which I hold in my hand from the person he has libelled [686No, no.685"I could never have had the assurance to meet either Mr. Gibson or yourself, had there been a syllable of truth in Lord Bentinck's statement, so far as I am personally concerned. I do not for a moment attempt any defence of my brother's conduct in an affair which occurred some years since, and through which I might have been ruined, had I not fortunately had the means of entirely exculpating myself to the perfect satisfaction of every person. I should grieve much if you or Mr. Gibson consider that, in having honoured me by several times seeing me, you consider any degradation attaches to you in consequence.
685cries ofMr. Chrislie
 said, that information had reached him of an organised confederacy in the metropolis for stealing lap-dogs.Mr. Liddell
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he intended to modify or alter the Bill, or whether, when it was considered in Committee, it was to be considered in the state in which it then was?Mr. Hawes
 believed the third Report did not extend to existing Railways, but the very first Clause of the Bill would bring existing railways under the control of the Government, and within the operations of the Act, for by that Clause, every joint or branch line would be brought within the powers of the Bill, and to that extent, existing railways would be affected.Mr. Hawes
Gladstone:679 wished to offer only a few observations in reference to the aspersions which the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had cast upon professional Gentlemen interested in this Bill, and also in reference to the speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite. Though he was inclined to place the most unlimited confidence in the assurances of Government with respect to any Bill which they proposed, yet he was bound to look at the Bill itself, and not to trust merely to the professions of Government. If hon. Gentlemen were not inclined to allow him to proceed he would be under the necessity of moving the adjournment of the debate, but as it was only a few minutes past eleven he thought he had a right to be heard. If he looked to the Bill he found its provisions directly at variance with the speech of the right hon. Baronet. If the Bill was merely what the right hon. Gentleman said it was—namely, a Bill to give notice to Railway Companies that at certain periods their fares might be altered and their charters revised, modified, or revoked—then such an object was totally inconsistent with the provisions contained in it. The first Clause provided that any future branch of any railway would be placed within the operation of the Bill, so that if such a branch should be made to the terminus of a railway, the whole of it will come under the direction of the Board of Trade. He said this on authority. Take any case. There was a Bill in the House for constructing a railway from Chester to Holyhead. That was a most important line, as it would be the means of communication between Ireland and the metropolis; and yet that Bill must come under the operation of the Bill. The Manchester and Carlisle Railway Bill would also come under the operation of the Bill; so that, in fact, the Board of Trade would have the master key to all
Gladstone:679Mr. Hawes
659658657656655StanleyStanley,654"Shall be lawful for any Railway Company to enter into contracts or agreements on behalf of the Company with the Lords of the said Committee, binding the Company to such terms as may be agreed upon with the Lords of the said Committee, either in regard to subjecting the Company to all or any of the provisions of this Act, or to lowering fares, or affording additional accommodation, or to giving security for the completion of future undertakings, or to any other thing whatever agreed upon between the said Company, and the Lords of the said Committee."653652651 wished to state the grounds upon which he should give his decisive opposition to the Bill. Having formerly expressed sin opinion that railways might become subject to general management, and the altered state of circumstances
659658657656655StanleyStanley,654"Shall be lawful for any Railway Company to enter into contracts or agreements on behalf of the Company with the Lords of the said Committee, binding the Company to such terms as may be agreed upon with the Lords of the said Committee, either in regard to subjecting the Company to all or any of the provisions of this Act, or to lowering fares, or affording additional accommodation, or to giving security for the completion of future undertakings, or to any other thing whatever agreed upon between the said Company, and the Lords of the said Committee."653652651Mr. C. Buller
625 rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for the Home Department, of which he had given him notice, respecting the Incendiary Fires in the county of Norfolk. He would, in the first instance, call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the case of two men named Knowles, who were tried at the last Spring Assizes before Lord Abinger, in Norfolk, for incendiarism. They were found guilty and sentenced to fifteen years' transportation; but soon after they received a full pardon and returned home. Now, if he were to ask on what grounds that exercise of Her Majesty's Prerogative had been advised, and that the right hon. Baronet should decline stating those grounds he should bow and acquiesce in that determination; but he did not ask the question. Whatever were the grounds, he must say that prosecution for incendiarism was rendered almost useless in that county. The subject had been brought under notice in the other House, a few evenings back, and it was there stated, as was the fact, that the course pursued with respect to the two men he had named had placed the noble Lord, the Lord Lieutenant of that county in a position of great responsibility. It was the earnest desire of that noble Lord to treat the poor of the county with great kindness, and he was the more inclined to do so as such kindness would tend to mitigate the severity of the Poor Law. He would also state, that whether the outrages which took place in the county of Norfolk were on manufacturing or on agricultural property, it was the great object, as it was the bounden duty, of the Lord Lieutenant to keep the peace; but if he failed in that, or if his efforts did not give satisfaction to the Government, he was ready at once to place his high office in their hands without a murmur or without a sigh. He hoped the Government would bear the state of the county in mind. In a few days from the present he should be called to his county to act on the grand jury, and probably, when the calendar was examined and found very heavy, they (the jury) would have to hear a rebuke for not having performed their duty. The magistrates would do their duty — the
625Mr. Wodehouse
680 could not allow himself to vote without expressing his disapprobation of the Bill altogether. He had not the slightest interest, directly or indirectly, in railways, but he sometimes travelled by them, and he never did so without blessing the time when railroads were first constructed. He thought the Bill would have the effect of preventing the extension
680Mr. Muntz
687 thought the hon. Gentleman must have misunderstood what had fallen from him on the former evening. The hon. Gentleman stated that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had objected to hear this individual's petition on the ground of the objection which was raised. The hon. Gentleman was quite wrong. It was known to persons of the highest authority in that House that he had come down early to the House and had searched for precedents, and that, upon an examination into precedents to which he had referred yesterday evening, he had determined to resist the hearing of the petitioner by counsel at the Bar, on the ground that he was not entitled to be heard with reference to any such petition. But before entering into the question, and after he came into the House to take the course he had determined on, it was stated to him that there were other objections on the ground of the petitioner having no personal interest whatever in the matter. He, therefore, thought it right to the hon. Gentleman, before he pledged himself to the accuracy of the statements set forth in the petition, to state that he had heard the parties had no direct interest; and, before he entered
687The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 condemned the appointment of such a Committee to give protection to the poodles and lap-dogs of the metropolis.Mr. Labouchere
635in terrorem634633l.l.l.l.,l.632d.l.,631"There was an impression now prevailing, that the railway interest was exceedingly strong—that the monopoly was a very powerful one—and that it was extremely difficult to propose any measure for controlling them. He (Sir R. Peel) was inclined to think that they were going too far, and that their monopoly might be very great; but he would advise them to husband their strength."630629"Shall belong to and shall by virtue of this Act be absolutely vested in Her Majesty in right of her Crown, and shall be taken to be part of the possessions and land revenues of the Crown within the survey of the Exchequer in England."628"And be it enacted that in the event of the purchase of any Railway by the Lords of the said Committee, under the provisions in this Act in that behalf contained, the purchase-money, or so much thereof as shall be payable under the provisions herein contained, shall be paid to the Directors of
628"And be it enacted, that when any Railway, in respect of which the Lords of the said Committee shall exercise the said option of purchase, shall be under lease, the annual divisible profits of such Railway shall be estimated according to the provisions hereinbefore contained, in the same manner as if such Railway were not under lease.""And be it enacted that if the said option of purchase shall be exercised by the Lords of the said Committee in respect of any Railway, the Company from whom such Railway shall be purchased shall deliver up the same, with all its lands, tenements, hereditaments, works, and appurtenances, in a good and sufficient tenantable repair, with a good and sufficient stock of carriages, engines, horses, and other working stock, live and dead, for carrying on the ordinary traffic upon the said Railway, to the Lords of the said Committee, upon payment of the purchase-money thereof in manner hereinafter provided.""And the Lords of the said Committee shall exercise the option of purchase by this Act provided in regard to the Railway belonging to the said Company, within three years after the time when such revised scale shall have ceased to be in force, the amount of purchase money to be paid for the said Railway, in default of any agreement to the contrary between the Company and the Lords of the said Committee," &c."That whatever may be the rate of divisible profits in any such Railway, it shall be lawful for the Lords of the said Committee, if they shall think fit, at any time after the expiration of the said term of fifteen years, to purchase any such Railway, with all its hereditaments, stock, and appurtenances, in the name and on behalf of Her Majesty, upon giving to the said Company one calendar month's notice in writing of their intention."627 said, that having given the Report of the Committee on which the Bill was founded the fullest consideration, and having read the Bill, and listened to the debate of the other evening with his best attention, he had been forced to the conclusion that the measure which proposed to give to the Executive such extraordinary powers in respect to all future Railways, was not conducive to the public interest. He had listened with much attention to the speech of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, and in that speech, extending as it did over more than two full hours, he could perceive no other purpose than an intention to disguise the real objects of the Bill rather than to explain them to the House. If he (Mr. Bright) had understood the right hon. Gentleman correctly, he stated that it was not intended to give any powers of purchase to the Government, or to include the principle of Government purchase in the measure, and that the Clauses relating to purchase had been introduced rather with the view of leaving the question open and Parliament unfettered, than to subject them to any decision at present upon that point. But the right hon. Gentleman also stated (though that was somewhat inconsistent with the other parts of his speech) that he conceived the question of purchase, or the power of purchase, was one of the most important in the Bill, and that if the House could be induced to come to an agreement upon that point, the remaining Clauses of the Bill were but of minor consequence, so much so, indeed, that the Government had not decided whether or not they should postpone them, or some of them until another Session. He found, then, and the Report of the Committee bore him out in his opinion, that this power of purchase by the Government was, after all, the most important feature of the Bill, and every one who understood the English language, and took the trouble to read the Bill through, could not fail to arrive at the same conclusion. Out of the forty-eight Clauses which the Bill contained, no less than sixteen related to this power of purchase, and of those sixteen, eight distinctly mentioned that power in terms it was impossible
635in terrorem634633l.l.l.l.,l.632d.l.,631"There was an impression now prevailing, that the railway interest was exceedingly strong—that the monopoly was a very powerful one—and that it was extremely difficult to propose any measure for controlling them. He (Sir R. Peel) was inclined to think that they were going too far, and that their monopoly might be very great; but he would advise them to husband their strength."630629"Shall belong to and shall by virtue of this Act be absolutely vested in Her Majesty in right of her Crown, and shall be taken to be part of the possessions and land revenues of the Crown within the survey of the Exchequer in England."628"And be it enacted that in the event of the purchase of any Railway by the Lords of the said Committee, under the provisions in this Act in that behalf contained, the purchase-money, or so much thereof as shall be payable under the provisions herein contained, shall be paid to the Directors of
628"And be it enacted, that when any Railway, in respect of which the Lords of the said Committee shall exercise the said option of purchase, shall be under lease, the annual divisible profits of such Railway shall be estimated according to the provisions hereinbefore contained, in the same manner as if such Railway were not under lease.""And be it enacted that if the said option of purchase shall be exercised by the Lords of the said Committee in respect of any Railway, the Company from whom such Railway shall be purchased shall deliver up the same, with all its lands, tenements, hereditaments, works, and appurtenances, in a good and sufficient tenantable repair, with a good and sufficient stock of carriages, engines, horses, and other working stock, live and dead, for carrying on the ordinary traffic upon the said Railway, to the Lords of the said Committee, upon payment of the purchase-money thereof in manner hereinafter provided.""And the Lords of the said Committee shall exercise the option of purchase by this Act provided in regard to the Railway belonging to the said Company, within three years after the time when such revised scale shall have ceased to be in force, the amount of purchase money to be paid for the said Railway, in default of any agreement to the contrary between the Company and the Lords of the said Committee," &c."That whatever may be the rate of divisible profits in any such Railway, it shall be lawful for the Lords of the said Committee, if they shall think fit, at any time after the expiration of the said term of fifteen years, to purchase any such Railway, with all its hereditaments, stock, and appurtenances, in the name and on behalf of Her Majesty, upon giving to the said Company one calendar month's notice in writing of their intention."627Mr. J. Bright
l.647l.l.l.l.646645644Gladstone:643l.SpectatorMemberSpectator642Railway Chronicle641 said, that he was prepared to defend the vote which he had given on a previous occasion with respect to this Bill. He objected to the tone which had been assumed by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade. He did not complain of the allusion made to himself by his right hon. Friend, but he complained of the allusion which he had made to an independent set of Gentlemen in that House, whom he had described as being the unconscious instruments of crafty designing persons out of doors. Surely his right hon. Friend could not think that such men as the hon. Member for Reading and those hon. Members who acted with him—that such men as Mr. Saunders and Mr. Hudson, whom his right hon. Friend praised so much—surely he could not think that when such men as these—men of ability and capacity—met to express their strong opinions against this Bill that they were the unconscious instruments of crafty and designing agents out of doors. His right hon. Friend had said that after the course that had been pursued—after the manner in which the opposition to this Bill had been got up, he would not consent to postpone the Bill, and his right hon. Friend had turned to him (Mr. Colquhoun), and asked him if he had read the third Report of the Committee, and his right hon. Friend had said that the third Report was a short Report, and had been laid before the House months ago. Now, he had read the third Report so far back as April last, and if he were to show to his right hon. Friend the marginal notes which he had made on it, he was sure that his right hon. Friend would consider them to be rather plain than complimentary. There were parts of the third Report to which he had not the least objection, but there were two principles mentioned in that Report which called for that strong expression of opinion which they appear to have elicited. His right hon. Friend had asked him why, if there was anything in that Report to excite alarm—why had there been no stir—why had there been no move until now? The answer to that was plain, they all knew that there were many Reports—many of them very bold Reports indeed,—which slumbered in the Library, and lay there entombed in perfect
l.647l.l.l.l.646645644Gladstone:643l.SpectatorMemberSpectator642Railway Chronicle641Mr. Colquhoun
650d.s.d.,s.d.;s.s.s.;s.;649d.s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.d,;s.d.s.MemberLloyd's Weekly Newspaper,The Times648The TimesThe Times. said, that when he looked to the railway map and saw how England was networked over, and that the same thing was fast extending in Scotland, he thought the time was come when Parliament ought to interfere, and he gave the Government every praise for having boldly interfered by introducing this measure. He would refer to statements, which would show at what expense third class passengers were conveyed, and he believed the House would then see how necessary it was that some changes in the present system should be made in respect of that class of passengers. He found the following remarks on this subject, in that influential journal, 650d.s.d.,s.d.;s.s.s.;s.;649d.s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.d,;s.d.s.MemberLloyd's Weekly Newspaper,The Times648The TimesThe Times.Mr. Wallace
 repelled a charge that he had associated with improper persons, or persons who had been guilty of crimes. He asserted that that charge was false and scandalous; he defied the proof; the insinuation was unworthy of those who might make it; it had no foundation whatever in truth. The solicitor, to whose petition his hon. Friend had referred, called at his (Mr. Gibson's) house several times; he came to him on public business, and he felt it his duty to receive the party on public business. He felt that he was entitled to hear the communications which were made to him, and to use his discretion as to the use he would make of those communications. That he had done, and that he would do again—more than that he had not done. He protested in the face of the House against the charge that he had ever associated, in the popular sense of the word, with persons who had been guilty of crimes, or who were persons of improper character.Mr. M. Gibson
667d.d.d.d.d.d.d.666665Member:d.s.,l.664663662: The right hon. Gentlemen opposite must feel themselves thankful to those hon. Members who persisted in moving the adjournment of the debate, inasmuch as had the debate concluded on Tuesday night, the House would not have been favoured with the clear and satisfactory statement which the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme (Mr. Colquhoun) had favoured them with. He was only sorry that most of it had been delivered in the absence of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of
667d.d.d.d.d.d.d.666665Member:d.s.,l.664663662Mr. Gisborne
 expressed a similar belief, but thought the appointment of a Committee on the subject objectionable.Mr. Wakley
 rose to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to certain Civil Disabilities which affected Dissenters from the Established Church. One of these was, their exclusion from practice, as advocates in any of the Courts of Doctors' Commons. He wished to ask, whether in any future measure respecting Ecclesiastical Courts, the Government would take steps to remove this disability. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) when he returned to office in 1834 had, in an address to his constituents at Tamworth, declared that he was opposed to the policy of continuing any Civil Disabilities on Dissenters. Bearing that in mind, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether it was the intention of Government to take any steps for the removal of the Disabilities to which he had referred?Mr. Christie
 rose amid cries of "oh," and "divide." He would not detain the House two moments. He so very seldom supported the Government, that he could not give a silent vote on the present occasion. As he considered the Bill would give protection to the working classes against what might be called the most dangerous monopoly of the moneyed classes, he would vote in favour of the second reading of the Bill.Mr. S. Crawford
677 said, that the speech of the right hon. Baronet would go far to allay the alarm which had prevailed amongst, the parties interested in railways. If it was merely intended to ask for a dormant power of revision and purchase after the lapse of a certain number of years, and to give notice that such fresh conditions might be imposed as experience should show to be necessary for the public good, then those companies that were now applying for powers to Parliament could not but think this notice well-timed. He admitted that the Government had undoubtedly a right to demand from new Railway Companies such securities for the conveyance of troops and letters as were necessary for the public good. He thought the Clause with respect to third-class carriages unexceptionable. The only objection made to it was, that at first, it was feared that third-class carriages would be required with every train. The Bill was complained of because it was not what it professed to be. It asked for great and formidable powers; but, from the speech of the right hon. Baronet, it appeared that those powers were not to be enforced. Why, then, ask for them? The whole of the Clauses, from the 1st to the 17th, traced out a complete system of Government interference. It seemed however, that it was not the intention of the Government to take measures for buying the existing railways, but as the Bill comprised such a provision it had excited the greatest alarm. He found an universal feeling abroad against it, and though the Great Western shares had risen, it had been in consequence of the decision of the
677Mr. Ward
 said, the reasoning contained in the Report of the Committee appeared to him conclusive. He had not, as yet, consulted with his Colleagues, but speaking his individual opinion, as at present advised, he certainly concurred entirely in the Report, and would, therefore, support the Motion of the noble Lord. It was evident that legislation must take place next Session on the subject, and he trusted it would be in conformity with the Reports of the Committee.Sir J. Graham
626 said, that he was placed in a situation of some embarrassment by the course which his hon. Friend had adopted. His hon. Friend had given notice of a question, and he had waited patiently for it, but no question came, that he had heard. There was indeed some not very clearly defined charge against him (Sir J. Graham) as to the manner in which he had administered justice in the department over which he had the honour to preside. If his hon. Friend anticipated that, he would have declined stating the grounds on which he had advised the exercise of Her Majesty's prerogative in the pardon of the two men who had been tried before Lord Abinger at the last Spring Assizes in Norfolk, he had judged most correctly; but, without stating those grounds, he would say that that advice had not been tendered to Her Majesty without a full consideration of the case, and without a firm conviction that the ends of justice would have been defeated if they had not been pardoned. As to the request made by his hon. Friend respecting the administration of the law, he begged to assure him that he had the most anxious desire that it should be administered fairly and impartially, tempering justice with mercy. Mention had been made of the name of a noble Lord—the Lord Lieutenant of the county of Norfolk. Now, in justice to that noble Lord, he must say that he had received from him the most valuable assistance in his efforts to preserve the peace of his county—that the noble Lord and himself had worked in a most harmonious manner—and that up to the present moment he was not aware that any feeling of dissatisfaction existed in the mind of the noble
626Sir J. Graham
624l. said, that his attention had not been called to the subject to which the hon. Member referred, until he received the note apprising him of the hon. Member's intention to put his question. With respect to Gray's Inn and the Middle Temple, he was not aware that there were any regulations affecting Dissenters more than any other class of subjects. It was the practice that those who had not taken degrees, or spent a certain number of terms at one of the Universities, should be obliged to spend five years from the time of putting their names on the books of the Inn before they could be called to the bar; but this practice applied to all persons, without distinction. As to the deposit of 100624l.Sir R. Peel
676l.d.d.675"That every regular passenger train shall contain carriages of all the different classes. The second class carriages being covered and provided with glass window, and the third class covered and closed by curtains.""The Companies shall in no case make use of open carriages for the conveyance of passengers."d."We have more than once protested against the use of open carriages, which expose the health of the passengers. It appears to us that the interests of salubrity, and, we may add, those of humanity, enjoin us not to condemn the less opulent classes of society to the inconvenience and danger of such a mode of transport. In fact, in open carriages the passengers are not only exposed to the assaults of the weather and rapid current of air, but also to the risk of fire, from the particles of burning coke thrown out by the engine."674"It appears, therefore, to your Committee, that the present moment, while Parliament still retains in its own hands an entire and unimpaired discretion with regard both to the incorporation of new companies and to the enlargement of the powers of old ones, affords an opportunity more favourable than any that can be expected hereafter to recur, for attaching beforehand to the legislative sanction, which is sought by these parties on their own behalf, the conditions which may be deemed necessary for the public good, and which may realise and apply such conclusions as our experience of the railway system up to the present time may be deemed to have sufficiently established."673"I will reserve to Government, provided Parliament should then sanction it—I will reserve to Government and to Parliament the power of purchasing these establishments, taking as the amount of the purchase the divisible profits of twenty-five years, to be calculated in point of time on the average of the three years next preceding the purchase. But there is another alternative; if these terms should not be accepted, or should not be offered—if your profits shall exceed 10 per cent., we shall have a right to demand of you a reduction of your tolls."672d.671l.670Gisborne:Gisborne:669Hawes668"Ingenui vultus puer ingenuique pudoris,": Sir, I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman should have misunderstood the reflections which I made, not upon him, but upon the Motion of which he was the author the other night. I can assure the hon. Gentleman that when he disclaimed any improper intention in bringing forward that Motion, I gave him credit for all that innocence and simplicity to which he lays claim, and to which, in my opinion, he is so much entitled. But when I saw parties connected with railways ready to support the Motion, I thought they were going to take advantage of the ingenuousness of the hon. Gentleman, and were about to make him the unconscious instrument for preventing all discussion upon this subject. The hon. Gentleman is, no doubt,
676l.d.d.675"That every regular passenger train shall contain carriages of all the different classes. The second class carriages being covered and provided with glass window, and the third class covered and closed by curtains.""The Companies shall in no case make use of open carriages for the conveyance of passengers."d."We have more than once protested against the use of open carriages, which expose the health of the passengers. It appears to us that the interests of salubrity, and, we may add, those of humanity, enjoin us not to condemn the less opulent classes of society to the inconvenience and danger of such a mode of transport. In fact, in open carriages the passengers are not only exposed to the assaults of the weather and rapid current of air, but also to the risk of fire, from the particles of burning coke thrown out by the engine."674"It appears, therefore, to your Committee, that the present moment, while Parliament still retains in its own hands an entire and unimpaired discretion with regard both to the incorporation of new companies and to the enlargement of the powers of old ones, affords an opportunity more favourable than any that can be expected hereafter to recur, for attaching beforehand to the legislative sanction, which is sought by these parties on their own behalf, the conditions which may be deemed necessary for the public good, and which may realise and apply such conclusions as our experience of the railway system up to the present time may be deemed to have sufficiently established."673"I will reserve to Government, provided Parliament should then sanction it—I will reserve to Government and to Parliament the power of purchasing these establishments, taking as the amount of the purchase the divisible profits of twenty-five years, to be calculated in point of time on the average of the three years next preceding the purchase. But there is another alternative; if these terms should not be accepted, or should not be offered—if your profits shall exceed 10 per cent., we shall have a right to demand of you a reduction of your tolls."672d.671l.670Gisborne:Gisborne:669Hawes668"Ingenui vultus puer ingenuique pudoris,"Sir R. Peel
 had read with great attention the third Report of the Committee, and it was his intention to make alterations in strict accordance with it. In referring to what he had said, the hon. Gentleman had omitted the power of purchase. What he said upon that point was, that he thought the power on the part of the Government and the Parliament conjointly to purchase, should be reserved, not to be exercised indiscriminately, but as a check against abuse. If the measure was not found to be in accordance with the third Report of the Committee, it was the wish of the Government to make it so.Sir R. Peel
 would not divide on the Motion (which was accordingly negatived).Viscount Howick
689 rose to propose certain Amendments. The House would remember that to the original Bill he had taken this objection—that in the shape in which it stood it gave protection not only to those who had incurred penalties by making large bets in ignorance of the law, but it continued the practice of excessive bets on horse-racing. He then expressed an opinion that the House ought not to pass such a Bill before they had instituted a full inquiry into the subject, and were prepared to deal with the whole question of Gaming. He had stated that the House ought not to throw its shield over the practice of betting at horse-races; and he proposed that the Bill should be confined to the transactions which were the subject of the recent actions. A compromise was agreed to, and the Bill was confined to a protection against actions for bets alleged to have taken place before the 1st of June last. All bets subsequent to the 1st of June were to be left liable to any penalty under the law as it then stood. If his noble Friend had proposed a simple continuance of the Act he should have had
689Viscount Howick
qui lam690 objected to the
qui lam690Viscount Palmerston
bonâ fide688 said, with regard to the propriety of the conduct of the hon. Gentleman, he was bound to say, as Chairman of the Committee, that, in his opinion, his hon. Friend was justified in the course he had pursued with regard to holding communication with Mr. Russell. It appeared to him that a Member of Parliament who was appointed by the House to pursue an inquiry, and to investigate into any particular matter, performed his duty correctly when he received information tendered to him which, in his opinion, was likely to assist, him in pursuing the investigation, and in coming to a correct conclusion. The hon. Gentleman did not take any fact, or assume any statement of the parties in question, but, in receiving from them suggestions on
bonâ fide688Viscount Palmerston
ex officioex officio thought, it must be admitted that there was some awkward truth in what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. At the first view, it seemed that no person could be more properly selected as an ex officioex officioMr. R. Yorke
746 said, persons were very anxious throughout the Principality to provide lunatic asylums; but the counties were so small as not to permit each one to support such an expense individually, and
746Colonel Wood
750 hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury would not press the postponement of this Clause. He could only say, that in the union with which he was connected, the law as stated by the right hon. Baronet was not carried out. If a death took place within the union, the relieving officer, on application being made to him, furnished a coffin, and reported having done so at the next meeting of the board of guardians; and if they found it was a case in which it was reasonable that an interment should take place at the expense of the union, they allowed the charge. It was a most extraordinary thing that guardians should not have the power to defray the expense of interring poor persons who died out of the workhouses; but he did not think there was a single union in the kingdom in which the law was administered on that principle. He hoped the law would now be altered, and that it would be enacted that the expense
750(Brecon)Colonel Wood (Brecon)
 said, that in the conflict between the right hon. Baronet and the hon. Member for Halifax the interests of the parties more immediately concerned seemed to be totally neglected. He thought that those who were to be protected ought not to be considered.Mr. S. Wortley
 remarked upon the extraordinary change that had taken place since last year in the sentiments of hon. Members with respect to the Poor Law Commissioners. Then all was distrust, suspicion, and blame; the only cry was, "Get rid of them altogether." Now the universal desire seemed to be to give them additional power, and to trust them more than even the Government had ever proposed to do. He, for his part, believed the Government had done the best towards ameliorating the Poor Law by the present measure, and he should support the Clause as it originally stood.Sir T. D. Acland
 was not disappointed at the meagre reasons given by the right hon. Baronet for not agreeing to the proposed proviso. But the interference of the Poor Law Commissioners with parishes who manage their poor well under local acts, was not wanted, and would be productive of no good effects.Mr. Williams
745 observed, that the view taken by the hon. Member for Bridport had been more than confirmed by the Report of the Metropolitan Commissioners of Lunacy, who stated that in many workhouses there were confined a large number of absolutely dangerous lunatics. The Commissioners gave instances. In the Redruth Union workhouse there were forty-one insane persons, including six idiots, and several violent lunatics; in the workhouse of the Bath Union there were twenty-one insane persons, including a dangerous woman; in that of the Leicester Union there were thirty mad persons, including three males and nine females who were dangerous lunatics; and in the Birmingham Union workhouses there were seventy-one cases of insanity, many of which were described as of a very grave class. Now, the Poor Law Commissioners had expressed an opinion that the detention of any incurable lunatic was objectionable on the score both of humanity and economy; and the Act which the Home Secretary had quoted, no doubt provided that no dangerous lunatics or idiots should be detained for more than fourteen days in the workhouse. But this law was constantly evaded by a quibble about the force and application of the word "dangerous." It was obvious, however, that in a workhouse the insan person was subject to no supervision, and no
745Lord Ashley
 said, that if there was truth in the argument that those who administered the Poor Law were brought into conflicts and broils of all sorts with the people, and that, therefore, it was necessary to keep the clergy out of this confusion, this was an argument that the system itself could not be grounded in what was right. Those who had the euro of souls ought also to be the dispensers of charity. This was the case in Scotland and in France; and the French clergy had in an especial manner the confidence and respect of their flocks. He admitted that there were difficulties in the way of the proposition of the hon. Member for Evesham; but they arose out of the cast-iron machinery by which it was endeavoured to carry into effect the provisions of the Poor Law.Lord J. Manners
 observed, that if once the principle was admitted that insane persons were to be kept in workhouses, it might be carried to any conceivable extent.Mr. Bailie Cochrane
741 saw no danger in adopting the proposition; for it was the case in Scotland, that the money collected
741Mr. B. Cochrane
 thought he knew of cases, in which lunatics had been confined in workhouses for more than fourteen days. The law which the Home Secretary had adverted to, was very generally disregarded; in some counties necessarily so, because there was no lunatic asylum.Mr. Cochrane
in754 said, that whatever the local feeling referred to by the hon. Member for East Kent might be, the ratepayers at large would greatly approve of the Amendment, if it were carried. He cordially
in754Mr. B. Hawes
 did not doubt that the measure was a valuable one in a public point of view. He could, however, have wished that the right hon. Baronet had also looked to the Surrey side of the water, where there was an enormous gaol delivery. A similar provision for that portion of the county of Surrey would have been most valuable, and the whole jurisdiction of the Central Criminal Court would have been brought into something like uniformity. He could have wished also, when this Bill was under the consideration of the right hon. Gentleman, that he would have considered what were the claims of those who administered justice in the Central Criminal Court. He thought the learned Solicitor General would concur with him in thinking that the system of the Central Criminal Court might have been reviewed. He could not recognize the justice of providing for Middlesex the great advantage of a Judge to be appointed by the Crown, and to be paid by the Crown, without extending similar privileges to the county of Surrey; and if the Bill should be found to work well in Middlesex, he hoped the county of Surrey would be considered in a future Session.Mr. Hawes
 asked whether some provision could not be made to exempt from the operation of this Clause those places in which the present system of auditing accounts bad given general satisfaction, allowing it to have operation only in cases where abuses had existed?Mr. Escott
743 objected to the Clause, The orders of the Poor Law Commissioners provided that widows should not have relief out of the workhouse, and if the wives of lunatics, idiots, and men who had been transported were to receive similar relief.
743Mr. Hindley
 asked, if the House, after hearing the statements of the noble Lord, could permit poor creatures to remain in the state described. He begged the Home Secretary to assign a single reason for permitting such things to occur in a land overrun by Poor Law Commissioners and Sub-commissioners, who really seemed to interfere with everything but that which they ought to deal with.Colonel Sibthorp
 moved, that the Clause be struck out of the Bill. He had the same objections to it as had been already expressed.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, it was necessary that, the auditing body should be free from all local influence; and the mode of appointment proposed by the Bill was an improvement on the existing practice, according to which auditors were appointed by the boards of guardians. The appointment of officers by boards of guardians led to jobbing. The Committee of 1838 suggested that the appointment of auditors should be with the Commissioners, and this would certainly relieve the auditors from the influence of the guardians. It also not unfrequently happened that illegal expenditure was authorized by Boards of guardians, and when this happened the remedy against them was exceedingly cumbrous. He suggested whether it might not be possible to substitute some more simple and summary mode of proceeding.Mr. C. Wood
752 said, the Clause, as proposed
752Mr. C. Wood
 objected to the 24th Clause, which gave to overseers the power of levying off the estates of insane paupers the expenses incurred for their maintenance. He thought such a power ought not to be given to overseers. Some account should be taken of the amount of property that might be seized, and a return ought to be made to the justices' at a Quarter Sessions. He did not, as the Clause then stood, see any security for the proper application of the funds that might be raised.Mr. Darby
 assured the Government and the Committee that his constituents, of all classes and parties, were decidedly averse to this interference with guardians who had conducted their affairs well under their own Acts. He could speak of guardians after twenty years' knowledge of them, that they required no such interference. He hoped the Government would think seriously of this matter.Mr. Muntz
 said, that a new light seemed to have broken in upon the hon. Member for Finsbury. He did not wish to impute inconsistency to the hon. Member, but, if he mistook not, he had voted with that hon. Member for the establishment of the principle that all guardians should be elected. He concurred with the right hon. Baronet in resisting, for the sake of the harmony of the parish, the proposition now made. He should wish the clergyman to be looked up to as being the friend of the poor, but he thought there was no way less likely to effect this object than the making him a Poor Law guardian.Mr. Aglionby
 would vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Halifax, as it would go as far towards vesting the right of choosing their own auditors in the general body of ratepayers as could be done. The Clause as it now stood was most clumsily constructed, and he thought it extremely objectionable.Mr. Childers
740: The right hon. Gentleman will recollect that a deputation from Sheffield waited upon him some few weeks ago, in the course of which Dr. Holland, an eminent physician of that town, explained the very fatal effect that was produced upon the grinding population of that town by the unventilated state of the workshops. It was also shown to the right hon. Baronet, that by means of a fan, an easy and inexpensive mode of driving away the deleterious particles of steel and dust from the grinding wheel was practicable. The deputation having stated these things, and having pressed them upon the attention of the right hon. Baronet, he was good enough to say that he would take them into consideration, and give an answer when he had done so. In consequence, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he was disposed to take any step in the matter on the principle of compulsory legislation; but if, as was most probable at the present period of the Session, such legislation was impracticable, whether he would be willing to call the attention of the Commission over which the noble Earl the Member for South Notts presided, or that of some factory commission, with the view of enabling the Government hereafter, or some independent Member, to address themselves to the subject, with the advantage of having the Report of persons connected with mechanical affairs, and able to form a sound opinion on its necessity and objects before them. He believed it would be found quite practicable; and if so, would
740Mr. Parker
 should oppose the Amendment, as the Clause in its present form would give much satisfaction in a local point of view.Mr. Plumptre
 would vote for the Amendment rather than the Clause, though, if it were carried, he did not know whether he should even then vote for the Clause. He had heard of no practical grievance under the present system of auditing accounts, and he agreed in the opinion expressed by the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, that it would be better to let well alone, and to reject the Clause altogether. The guardians, who had the expenditure of the funds, were to have the power under the Clause of electing the auditors, who were to pass their own accounts. Now, in his opinion, those who paid the money ought to have the right of selecting the persons who audited the accounts of those who had received and expended it.Mr. Borthwick
ex officio proposed the addition of these words, "every clergyman of the Established Church holding cure of souls in such parish or union shall be ex officioMr. Borthwick
ex officioex officio said, that if there was any force in the argument, that clergymen should be excluded from the boards of guardians, it would equally prevail for the exclusion of clergymen from the Commission of the peace. From communications he had received, he believed that there existed a very strong feeling among the people in favour of clergymen being ex officioex officioMr. T. Duncombe
ex officio admitted, that he thought that all Poor Law guardians ought to be elected by the ratepayers; but if there were to be ex officioMr. T. Duncombe
756J. Graham:J. Graham: said, that this Clause was thought to be objectionable, not only by parishes in the country, but by all the large metropolitan parishes, Marylebone, St. James, and St. George. [Sir 756J. Graham:J. Graham:Mr. T. Duncombe
 begged to ask whether Her Majesty's Government bad received any communication from the Dutch Government relative to the importation of the sugar of Java into this country, and whether there would be any objection to lay copies of those communications on the Table?Mr. M. Gibson
 begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite a question upon a subject of very great importance. Intelligence had reached him from the Brazils to the effect that it was the intention of the Brazilian Government to adopt a new Tariff, to come into operation after the 10th of November next, and which imposed a higher rate of duties upon all the chief articles of British manufacture than were applied at present. Apprehensions were once entertained that such would be the result of the policy recently adopted by this country, and he wished to know whether Her Majesty's Government had received any intelligence to the effect he had stated?Mr. M. Gibson
749d.s.748 hoped the right hon. Baronet, would consent to the postponement of this Clause, for if it was postponed, he believed the right hon. Gentleman would see the necessity of reconstructing it. He wished the right hon. Gentleman was with him for a fortnight. The right hon. Baronet would then have an opportunity of seeing what miseries and inconvenience might be removed and prevented by the alteration of this Clause. It happened, not unfrequently, that a death took place
749d.s.748Mr. Wakley
747 was surprised that nothing had been done by the present measure to remedy the state of the lunatic poor in the workhouses; the Poor Law Commissioners must have long been cognizant of the horrible condition in which those unfortunate persons were. The existing law was daily violated with respect to pauper lunatics in the workhouses, and the Poor Law Commissioners knew it. The reason, no doubt was, that the cost of supporting a pauper lunatic was one third less in the workhouse than it would be if he were sent to the county asylum. The advantages which were derived from an early remedial treatment of lunacy were immense. They constituted all the difference between cure and confirmed insanity. The curative system now enforced in the Middlesex County Lunatic Asylum was such as to confer the highest credit, not only on the magistracy, but also on the whole community. There never was a system more humane, more generous, and, he might add, more successful. The only misfortune was, that there was not room enough to accommodate all those unfortunate lunatics who were chargeable to their parishes, and now consequently were confined in their respective workhouses. It often happened that when a lunatic recently attacked was brought to the county asylum, the room which he might have occupied with some chance of cure under the treatment there enforced was already in the occupation of a confirmed and incurable lunatic, and thus all the benefit available from curative means was lost to such for ever. This was a crying evil, and one which the right hon. Baronet ought to remedy. He hoped the next Session would not pass without some measure being proposed by the Government for this purpose. The delay of a single week was often fatal to the cure. It however, sometimes happened that the workhouse authorities would characterize a troublesome inmate as lunatic, merely in order to get rid of him. It occasionally happened that a pauper found fault with his diet or his treatment in the workhouse, and thus occasioned
747Mr. Wakley
753 agreed in the last observation of the hon. Member who had preceded him. The Clause was most clumsily framed. It was monstrous to propose to vest the election of auditors in the chairmen and vice-chairmen of boards of guardians. The office of auditor was a most important province of the Poor Law, and it ought to be most carefully provided that the persons elected to fill it were independent in all respects of those whose accounts were to pass under their inspection. The right hon. Baronet, however, seemed to him to be in favour himself of the Amendment. He had spoken in such coy terms of it, and had altogether adopted such a tone relative to it, that it was evident
753Mr. Wakley
742 thought that the observations just made against the hon. Member for Finsbury were very unfair. The hon. Member for Finsbury possessed the confidence of the working classes to a great extent; and he stated that he had been applied to by some of them to support such a proposition as that made by the hon. Member for Evesham. He was rejoiced that the poor had declared such confidence in the clergy. The clergy of the Church of England had been for years traduced; but he asserted that they were the best friends of the poor, and he believed that if the poor bad the power of selecting the Board to which they would
742Mr. Ferrand
 also protested against the Clause in its present form, and said, that his constituents at Rochdale felt as hostile to it as the inhabitants of other places.Mr. S. Crawford
755 rose, to move the addition of a proviso, to exempt parishes under local acts from the interference of the Poor Law Commissioners with respect to the auditing of the accounts. The whole discussion for the last two hours had turned upon the question whether the auditors should be appointed by the Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen of boards of guardians, or the whole power should be vested in the Commissioners; and he was sorry to find that some of his hon. Friends seemed disposed to give up the control of places under local acts to the Government in this respect. The Committee should hear in mind that this Clause as it stood would strike at the very root of out-door relief; and he called upon all those hon. Members who, when upon the hustings, declared that they would oppose or ameliorate all harsh measures, to assist him in his attempt to add this proviso. Would they allow the Government to place large
755Captain Pechell
 wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to a system adopted in some Poor Law unions, of preventing the relatives of paupers who died in workhouses from attending their funerals. A case of this natture had come before the magistrates at Marlborough Street, and had occasioned great annoyance and excitement. Surely it could not be maintained that the relatives of persons who died in workhouses should be prevented from following their remains to the grave. He wished to direct the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to this subject, and he hoped he would give it his consideration.Captain Pechell
751 thought the Clause was of a destructive nature. He trusted the right hon. Baronet would not allow a Clause of this grasping nature to remain in the Bill, which he termed an ameliorating measure. The principal objection which he (Captain Pechell) entertained was, to the appointment of the auditors,
751Captain Pechell
 said, he had no hesitation in saying that the Clause would operate generally, not only upon unions existing under the Poor Law Amendment Act, but upon unions which were governed by local acts. When he had considered this subject it had been proved that great abuses had occurred in the administration of the funds, whether the parishes were under general or local acts, and he knew of no restraint that would be more efficient and less objectionable than that which he proposed by this Clause. He admitted that the Report of the Committee which sat in 1838 recommended that the auditors should be independent of the ratepayers, and for that purpose that they should be appointed by the Commissioners. He had not gone the whole length suggested by the Committee, and approved of by the hon. Member for Halifax, but he had proposed that district auditors should be appointed by the Chairman and Vice-Chairmen of unions, instead of being elected by the guardians, as at the present time. He attatched great importance to the Clause they were then considering, and he believed that anything less than what he proposed would, judging from past experience, be inefficient; and if the Committee rejected the Clause, they would, in his opinion, leave a mass of public accounts unsubjected to any effectual check or control. Before he sat down he wished to inform the House that he had recently seen a decision of the Court of Queen's Bench as late as the 8th of June, by which the Judges had determined that the Commissioners, with reference to all local acts, had the power of compelling an audit, and of making it as searching, as general, and as effective as could be desired.Sir J. Graham
 said, he could not accede to the suggestion of the hon. Member, that this Clause should be postponed and he thought the Committee must feel that such a course would not be consistent with policy or propriety. The House must remember, that according to the existing law, and in conformity with the interpretation put upon that law by the supreme court of judicature, no parish union in England or Wales could defray the expense of burying any pauper unless such pauper died in the workhouse. In order to remedy this evil the present Clause was framed, enabling the guardians of parishes or unions to bury paupers who might not die in the workhouse. He was most anxious that under proper safeguards, facilities should be afforded for the interment of the bodies of destitute persons at the cost of the poor rate, although such persons might not die in the workhouse. It would be necessary to adopt some checks and restraints; but he invited a full discussion of the subject, and if the Clause was imperfectly framed, and any hon. Gentleman would suggest more perspicuous expressions, he should be glad to attend to such suggestions.Sir J. Graham
 said, he would make a proposal to the Committee which would go far towards obviating the objections that had been made to this Clause. He believed, that the objection which had been raised by his hon. Friend behind him, that the Clause gave the power to guardians only of ordering burial, would be met by the fact that the boards of guardians now had the power of delegating to the officers of the unions the authority to grant relief; and he presumed, therefore, that under the Clause as it now stood, they would be able to delegate to such officers the authority to order the interment of the bodies of destitute persons. He was ready also, to consent to the omission from this Clause, of the words—"if such poor person have died without effects of sufficient value for defraying the expenses of the burial."Sir J. Graham
 said, it had been decided by the supreme court of judicature in this country, that under the 43rd of Elizabeth, the parochial authorities had no power to defray from the poor rates the expense of interring the bodies of wayfaring persons who did not die in the workhouse. The first part of this Clause was intended to provide a remedy for that grievous evil, and he hoped it would receive the unanimous sanction of the House.Sir J. Graham
 replied, that he did not understand the noble Lord to say, that the abuses he adverted to, took place in workhouses. No doubt, however, the whole subject was well entitled to the careful and early attention of the House. In the course of next Session, indeed, he himself would be bound to bring it forward, for the Metropolitan Commission of Lunacy expired next year, and it would then be absolutely essential that the whole subject should come under immediate review. After the statement, too, of the noble Lord, that out of 17,000 pauper lunatics, there was a public provision made for only 4,500, the subject acquired additional importance.Sir J. Graham
 said, that this point had on more than one occasion been duly considered, and the result was a strong conviction that the Amendment was not desirable. It would have the effect of bringing the clergy of the parish or union into unpleasant broils and sometimes angry collision with many of their congregations, which would not tend to promote that good feeling which ought to subsist between a clergyman and the members of his flock. If the clergyman should be an advocate for administering relief to the poor with a sparing hand, he would become unpopular with that class. If, on the other hand, he was anxions to procure relief for the poor on a liberal scale, he might draw on himself the angry feelings of the rate-payers. On the whole, he thought that the duties of a guardian of the poor were not in every respect consistent with those of a clergyman having the cure of souls. He believed that it was not the wish of the clergy to have this duty imposed on them, and for all these reasons he felt it to be his duty to resist the proposition.Sir J. Graham
 said, that money left at the Church doors on Sundays in Scotland, as a religious offering, was wisely left to the disposal of the Clergy in the relief of the poor. But this fund was not analogous to the fund raised in England for poor relief.Sir J. Graham
, said, that women who had been deserted by their husbands, or whose husbands had been separated from them by the operation of law, were to be treated to all intents and purposes as widows. For six months they would be entitled to relief, and beyond that period it was open to the Board of Guardians to decide whether relief was to be given them. The object of the Clause was to make the mother of a family maintain her family as far as she was able, and in case of her deserting them she was rendered liable to the same penalties as was attached to a father deserting his family. That was the object of the Clause, and he considered it a just one. In cases where convicts behaved well, the Government had given facilities for defraying the expenses of sending their wives and children to the colonies; but the expense was great, and one of which it had been deemed fit to relieve the country.Sir J. Graham
 said, his belief was that the operation of the Clause would lead to that which was much to be desired—the relief of insane paupers, not by maintaining them in workhouses, but in lunatic asylums.Sir J. Graham
744: Not so: the existing law was sufficiently stringent with regard to the detention of lunatics in workhouses. No dangerous lunatic or idiot could be kept there more than fourteen days, and the Clause they were now debating only, in fact, aimed at carrying out the law by giving to the guardians of the poor such a power over the estates of lunatics
744Sir J. Graham
 said, that the short time which had elapsed since he had received a deputation from Sheffield on this subject, had not allowed him to devote very minute attention to it. He had not yet had any means of ascertaining the efficacy of the invention alluded to; but he should certainly not be prepared to enforce the adoption of anything of the kind by Act of Parliament. If the remedy were as cheap and effectual as had been stated, he thought the master manufacturers themselves would be disposed to adopt it.Sir J. Graham
 said, the Clause had already been so fully discussed, that it would be a waste of time to dwell upon it; still, he was unwilling to leave the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member altogether unnoticed. If this Clause was useful and necessary in respect to the unions which were under the control of the general law, he did not see why it should not be so with regard to places governed by local acts. He did not see any grounds for exempting them from the examination of an auditor, whose duty it would be to exercise a proper control over those who expended the public money.Sir J. Graham
 was understood to say, that if the hon. Member could point out any mode by which this could be accomplished, he was ready to take the suggestion into consideration.Sir J. Graham
760 said, the Bill which he begged leave to introduce, was for the better administration of Criminal Justice in Middlesex. The effect of this measure would be to give the Middlesex magistrates jurisdiction throughout Westminter, and a control over the Bridewell, as well as the Middlesex Prison. It proposed also, that the adjourned Quarter Sessions should be held at least twice every month in Middlesex, the effect of which would be that every fortnight there would be a gaol delivery in Middlesex. When the necessary arrangements should be made, and a prison provided, it would be the duty of the metropolitan magistrates to commit for trial to the Middlesex Prison generally, except for heinous offences. The effect of this delivery would be to relieve Newgate from its present crowded condition, to diminish the expenses of the city of London and the costs of the county of Middlesex, and to confer incalculable benefit by more frequent gaol deliveries. He should not have felt himself justified in recommending this change, unless he had made provision for a competent judge to preside at these Sessions. A measure similar to this had been contemplated by his predecessor, but a difficulty had arisen as to the appointment of a chairman, his
760Sir J. Graham
 said, that Her Majesty's Government were in correspondence with the Dutch Government on the subject of certificates of origin, and also in regard to the differential duties on British commerce; but he was not prepared to lay copies of that correspondence before the House.Sir R. Peel
739 said, that he had seen in the public papers a statement to the effect of that made by the hon. Gentleman. In consequence of the notice which the hon. Gentleman had been polite enough to give him of his question, he had made inquiry at the foreign Office whether any informal ion of the kind had reached Her
739Sir R. Peel
 was glad that facilties were about to be given to render the property of lunatics available for their support. In some instances he had observed a disinclination in Boards of Guardians, on account principally of the expense, to forward lunatics to asylums until they became too dangerous and incorrigible to be kept anywhere else. There was no economy more mistaken than that of delaying to send lunatics to places where they might be cured in the earlier stages of their affliction. A more enlightened view of their own interest in this respect would he hoped, induce Poor Law Guardians to act in future upon different principles.Lord Ebrington
759 was anxious to say a few words with respect to the use made, in reference to this Bill, of a knowledge of what had passed elsewhere. He did not think that blame attached to any one for this; but, if blame was due, he held himself entirely responsible. When the Committee met, it desired him to place himself in communication with the Chairman of the Committee of the House of Lords, in order that by private communication they might have a general knowledge each of what was doing in the other Committee, with a view to assist the inquiry. Those communications were accepted on the part of the noble Duke, the Chairman of the other Committee. They were frequent and repeated, and on one occasion especially, it would be remembered by the Members of the Commons' Committee, that a table of decisions was communicated to them, which was of great use to them in one part of the inquiry. The day before yesterday, in the morning, in pursuance and as a continuation of the same communications, he was put in possession of what had passed in the examination of a witness before the other Committee. He came down to the House with a record of that knowledge in his possession; it was not given to him under a pledge of secrecy,
759Viscount Palmerston
"Express their regret that they should have to remark on the increasing number of women and girls who are sentenced to short imprisonments, for irregularities and refractory conduct in the workhouses of some of the populous parishes in this county, some of whom have been sent to prison ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, and even fourteen times, who seem to be utterly destitute and untaught, and whose conduct in the prison is indecent, violent, insubordinate, and outrageous in an unparalleled degree; whilst their circumstances and prospects after their discharge are lamentably desperate. To their augmenting numbers and distressful culpability and situation the visiting Justices entreat the special attention of parochial officers."763 hoped that the right hon. Baronet would persevere in supporting the Clause, because he conceived that it was impossible to have good schools unless they were large ones. Upon that point the success of the experiment at Norwood had removed all doubt. The only defect in the Clause arose from the want of provision for adequate inspection, and he hoped that that defect would be removed. He would suggest that Government inspectors should visit the district schools
"Express their regret that they should have to remark on the increasing number of women and girls who are sentenced to short imprisonments, for irregularities and refractory conduct in the workhouses of some of the populous parishes in this county, some of whom have been sent to prison ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, and even fourteen times, who seem to be utterly destitute and untaught, and whose conduct in the prison is indecent, violent, insubordinate, and outrageous in an unparalleled degree; whilst their circumstances and prospects after their discharge are lamentably desperate. To their augmenting numbers and distressful culpability and situation the visiting Justices entreat the special attention of parochial officers."763Mr. Cowper
 said, that under the limitation which had been attached to the Clause by the explanations of the right hon. Baronet, he saw no objection to the powers invested thereby in the Commissioners. He agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury that no greater boon could be conferred upon the children of the poor than to facilitate the establishment of such district schools throughout the country. If the limitation explained by the right hon. Baronet had not been introduced he would have been very unwilling to have placed in the hands of the Poor Law Commissioners the power of marking out the extent of these district schools.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 was understood to say that the hon. Member having stated that he had not intended to make the imputation, the matter might be suffered to rest.The Chairman
 thought that in the rural districts such an education as was the object of this Clause was more needed than in the large towns. In the rural districts the education of the children was very much neglected. ["No, no."] He did not accuse any Gentleman of neglect in his own particular district; but he found the greatest difficulty in the parish in which he resided to promote education, and he met with every kind of obstruction. The interpretation which the right hon. Baronet put upon the Clause came upon him (Mr. V. Smith) by surprise. There was nothing in the Clause which could lead any one to think that the rural districts were to be excluded.Mr. V. Smith
 said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) had attributed the prevalence of incendiarism in Norfolk and Suffolk to the low state of education in those counties. There was, he maintained, no foundation for such a statement. Norfolk and Suffolk had been greatly improved of late years with respect to education, compared with what they formerly had been. As to incendiarism in those two counties, he must say that it had no more to do with the Poor Laws than it had with any hon. Member of that House.Lord Henniker
769 objected to placing the schools for the poor under the authority of the Poor Law Commissioners. The hon. Member for Finsbury said that as long as they retained the Commissioners they ought to make the best use of them. But there ought to be some limit to that proposition. His principal objection to placing these schools under the control of the Commissioners was, because they had in the clergy of the country a proper, constituted, and consistent authority to which the education of the people ought to be
769Lord J. Manners
 said, no one had received more courtesy from the right hon. Gentleman than himself, and he was glad that he had now removed from his mind a painful impression.Mr. Hawes
 said, that the right hon. Gentleman had somewhat altered his words. The right hon. Gentleman now said that if he had made any such statement he was not able to substantiate it; but it so happened that he had used no such words, and therefore the right hon. Gentleman was himself making a statement which had no foundation in truth.Mr. Hawes
 objected to the course pursued by Government in arranging the public business for that day. He thought that when there was a specific meeting appointed for the discussion of a specific subject, that discussion should be commenced at once.Mr. Hawes
 was astonished to hear that the Clause was not to apply to the rural districts. No one who had taken the trouble to read the reports made by Commissioners of enquiry on the subject, or any other works throwing light upon the general condition of the manufacturing districts, could doubt for a moment that there was nothing more necessary for these districts than a good and cheap education for the poor; but on the other hand, his reading led him also to the conclusion that the rural districts stood as much in need of the schoolmaster as any other. It seemed to him to be matter of reproach and shame to the Government, that when all were admitting the importance of education, as the best source of order and obedience, they should step in and say that the Bill was to apply only to the poor of the most populous and crowded localities, and that where there was no opposition from Members representing the large towns, it was not to be extended to the rural districts. For what purpose this was done he knew not, but to stint the education of the lower orders in the rural districts appeared to him to be a cause of shame to Her Majesty's Government.Mr. Hawes
 did not understand the right hon. Gentleman, who said, that he would not make a certain statement if he had any regard for truth. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that he was in the habit of making statements without knowing that they were founded in truth?Mr. Hawes
770 said, he fully concurred
770Colonel Sibthorp
 immediately rose and said—I rejoice, Sir, that I have afforded the hon. Gentleman an opportunity of giving a distinct explanation upon the matter he has alluded to—a subject which I think has already remained too long in doubt. I have no hesitation in saying that I did refer to the transaction upon which the hon. Gentleman has given this explanation. After that explanation I must say that I feel it to be my duty, as a gentleman, to tender him an apology on those grounds, and upon those grounds alone. I understand the hon. Gentleman to say, that there was no fact connected with this transaction which has not been brought to a satisfactory conclusion. Sir, I tender him my apology on those grounds, and those grounds alone; but I must now be permitted to say that the hon. Gentleman himself, and those with whom he acts, and those who take a similar course with him, are too lavish in accusing landlords of selfishness, and I take this opportunity of declaring that these accusations are such that we are not able to bear them any longer. I do not know whether I am called upon to make any further remark, or any further apology to the hon. Member, and I trust that the House is satisfied with what I have stated.Mr. Wodehouse
 hoped that the right hon. Baronet would adhere to the course which he had announced, but he rose at present to take notice of the allusion which had been made to the fires in Norfolk. As the hon. Member for Finsbury had referred to the crime of incendiarism in Norfolk and Suffolk, he begged leave to remind the hon. Member that there were other parts of the country in which incendiarism was more common than among the people of those counties. In order, however, to let this be known, he trusted that the hon. Member would himself come down among them and give his opinion as to the crime of incendiarism, for there was none more competent to give an opinion on that subject than the hon. Member for Finsbury himself.Mr. Wodehouse
 was not indisposed to see any practical system of education carried into effect, but he believed that that now proposed was not practical. The state of the poor in the rural districts was not quite so deplorable as the hon. Member for Finsbury had represented it; and he spoke from his own experience of the decrease in the number of juvenile offences in the county which he represented from the increased care with which their education was attended to.Mr. Bankes
 said, the sole question was whether the principle of this Clause was or was not applicable to the rural districts. He was certainly of opinion that it was not. He hoped that his hon. and gallant Friend would withdraw his opposition to the Clause. He could not admit that education was neglected in all unions. He knew several union schools in which the children were admirably well taught. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department was possibly right in the course which he had adopted; and if it were attempted to apply the Clause to the rural districts it would be a failure.Mr. Darby
 considered that the Church of England ought to be at the head of the national educational institutions of the country. This was the first time, he believed, that it had ever been sought to establish a national system with which the Church had nothing to do, and he would not give his sanction to the establishment of a principle which seemed to him to be so objectionable.Mr. Henley
 objected to the whole Clause as it now stood. Centralization had been found very offensive when applied to the relief of the poor; but it would be found much more so when applied to their education. The principle on which it was based would, if carried out, sap the foundations of the parochial system throughout the country, and in a short time be fatal to it. For these reasons he would move the rejection of the Clause. The real question which the Committee had to decide was, whether it was probable that the effect of this system would be such as they all earnestly desired it should be. He did not think it would. In his opinion there ought to be a schoolmaster in every parish. When they looked at the state of education in England, it was astonishing to reflect upon the moral condition of the people. We offered them nothing like the educational advantages afforded to those who lived under the sway of Continental governments. Our Church should take the matter in hand. Much would be done if her pastors were only to make it a rule to catechise the children every Sunday in their different churches. But this was a subject which he might pursue to too great a length, and he would, therefore, at once conclude by moving, as he had intimated his intention of doing, "that the Clause be expunged."Mr. Borthwick
 would not consent to such a system of education as the Bill would establish, neither would he leave the matter wholly in the hands of the clergy; for what had been the result of all the agitation, of all the zeal and all the energy which were evinced some time ago by the Church to promote education amongst the poor? Why the whole sum collected did not amount to half the salary paid to one out of any half dozen of the aristocracy of the country. If the Church did not do its duty by the poor with respect to education, it was the duty of the State to come in and supply the deficiency. The Legislature would not be justified in refusing to give all the education it could, because it had not the means of giving all that it would. He must, on these grounds, support the principle enunciated in the Bill.Mr. M. Milnes
 did not think by any means that the system of the school at Norwood was one which ought to be carried out through the country. He was not certain that the degree of learning therein attained was necessary for the education of the people of this country or would conduce to their happiness. In a well-regulated parochial school every thing which was essential ought to be taught by a parochial schoolmaster and under the superintendence of the parish clergyman.Mr. R. Palmer
766 said, that no county in England was better furnished with the means of education by national and parochial schools than that which he had the honour to represent, and, therefore, it was not just in the hon. Member for Fins-
766Colonel Rushbrooke
765 was glad to hear the determination of the right hon. Baronet. From some fatality; or from the clashing of different interests, it appeared impossible to settle in that House the question of education for the poor, and the consequence was, that the poor of this country were the most ignorant upon the face of the earth. They were a right feeling and a right thinking people, but they had not the materials for thought. If the people had been properly educated, would they have the incendiary fires which they now had in Norfolk and Suffolk? When he used the word "education" he did not mean that it should be taken in its usual sense, for it was a well-known fact that many of the most learned men were the most stupid men on the face of the earth. They ought not to judge meanly of education; however, because they found that learned men educated at the Universities were often the dullest men in existence. The House often heard the term "hon. and learned Gentleman," and nothing could be more ridiculous than to see the way in which that term was sometimes applied. What he meant by the term "education" was the practical and useful accomplishments which would make the children of the poor useful members of society. He was opposed to the principle of centralization, but as it was the opinion of the House that that system should be retained, the Government should render it as useful as possible to the country, and in no respect could that be more useful than in superintending the education of the children of the poor, who had no friends or relations to protect them. The House would be surprised to hear that in the county of Middlesex, the metropolitan county of England, half of the informants of deaths at the Registrar General's office could not write, and that in the rural districts of the same county, ten out of twelve among those qualified to act as jurymen could not sign their names. Only a very short time ago, he knew a case of the master of a workhouse not being able either to read or write. He hoped that the Go-
765Mr. Wakley
 had also to complain of the arrangements made by Government in the conducting the business of the public in that House. It was too bad that four hours of Saturday should be devoted to Government business after they had deprived the Members of the House of one of their Motion nights. He complained, that while every other measure was repeatedly discussed, a Bill the most important in its effects upon the whole kingdom, affecting as it did the interests of the largest class in it, had not been permitted the proper time for consideration. Such a mode of doing business could neither be satisfactory to the House nor to the public. He wished at present, if he could do so regularly, to direct the attention of the House to the 11th Clause in the Bill as affecting parish apprentices. Those who felt any interest in the condition of those apprentices were of opinion, that the power conferred by that Clause on the Poor Law Commissioners was not sufficient for their protection. Some of the children were bound at the age of nine, and were kept so till they were twenty-one years old, and he had heard, with a degree of astonishment which he could not express, that in some parishes the children were never visited by the parochial authorities, being left to the tender mercies of their masters and mistresses for a period of twelve years without inspection.Mr. Wakley
775774773 rose and spoke as follows: I have been a Member of this House for nine years, and during that time I do not recollect that any hon. Member has had occasion to complain of any personal remarks made by me upon him. My object has always been to confine myself to the question before the House, and never to utter a single word that should give any individual offence. I cannot say that the same conduct has always been extended
775774773Mr. Wakley
"That every district board acting for each such educational district, shall appoint, with the consent of the Bishop of the diocese, at least one chaplain, being a clergyman of the Established Church, as a salaried officer, to superintend the education of the children in such school." denied that this Clause propounded any new principle. He intended to suggest a deviation from the present wording of the 38th Clause, which would, he hoped, more forcibly carry out the intentions of the framers of the Bill. As the law at present stood the guardians of the different unions were at liberty to appoint chaplains to preside over the schools. He had always contemplated that that permission would have been very generally taken advantage of. There appeared, however, to have been some doubt upon the subject, and his object now was to introduce a provision into the 38th Clause which would render it imperative upon guardians to make such appointments. The words of his Amendment would run thus:—
"That every district board acting for each such educational district, shall appoint, with the consent of the Bishop of the diocese, at least one chaplain, being a clergyman of the Established Church, as a salaried officer, to superintend the education of the children in such school."Sir J. Graham
768 said, that he never designed to give personal offence to any Gentleman in that House, but the hon. Gentleman had unnecessarily used a taunt against the Government, which did not appear to him to be justified by anything which they had either said or done, and which was not founded in fact. If he had used the word "untruth," it was an
768Sir J. Graham
 moved an Amendment at line 25 of the Clause, which would enable rural parishes not in union to unite for the purpose of forming district schools.Sir J. Graham
 proposed the omission of certain words, and the introduction of an amendment in line 25, which would enable rural parishes to unite for the purpose of forming district schools.Sir J. Graham
762 was sure that the House and the hon. Member for Finsbury would do him the justice to believe that he always endeavoured to consult the convenience and wishes of hon. Gentlemen so far as he possibly could. The House would bear in mind that before Easter it was necessary to dispose of the Estimates in the Committee of Supply. Since then very important measures, such as the Bank Charter Bill, and others of primary consequence, had been very fully discussed both on the principle and on the details; and there was another measure connected with the interests of a branch
762Sir J. Graham
 moved the Order of the Day for a Committee on the Poor Law Amendment Bill.Sir J. Graham
 explained, that the principle of the Clause could be in practice applicable only to the metropolis, and other large cities where the people were gathered in masses, and that it could not be carried into effect in rural districts. He had endeavoured to word the Clause in such a way as to produce that result. If, however, it was thought not sufficiently precise or stringent, he would very willingly make any alteration that might be desirable in order to leave no doubt, as to the intention of Parliament.Sir J. Graham
764 said, a portion of the Clause, was a provision for the restriction of district schools to a diameter of fifteen miles. That limit he thought was sufficiently narrow to allow the parents and relations of children placed at these schools to visit them upon Sundays and other holidays. As to the question of postponement raised by the hon. Member
764Sir J. Graham
 intended to say, that if the hon. Gentleman meant to make a deliberate charge against himself or the Government, that they wished to restrict the education of the poor, he made a charge which he could not substantiate with regard either to truth or justice.Sir J. Graham
767 said, he was very anxious
767Sir J. Graham
822 said, that by a regulation
822Colonel Wood
830 was understood to say, that the Government had sent out instructions to the Governor General of India to remove the regulations which prohibited the emigration of Hill Coolies. With regard to the manner in which the local Governments of the West-India Colonies should provide for their introduction, he had thought it most desirable to submit that question to those authorities themselves, it of course being for the Legislature of this country to consider hereafter the conditions upon which they proposed to arrange the matter. As to whether Parliament should give its sanction to the proceeding in the shape of a guarantee of any sort, for money or otherwise, the question was one of altogether too much importance to submit to Parliament at this period of the Session, and upon the whole also he thought it would be most desirable that they should delay
830Lord Stanley
 said, that one of the regulations of the Russian Treaty was, that Russian vessels built less than three years should be exempted from certain dues in English ports. He apprehended that we could not ask for a like concession in respect of English-built ships without conceding other advantages.Mr. Gladstone
 said the Treaty itself would best answer the question; but he would mention as one advantage the privilege which we had secured for the admission of English ships into all Russian ports without any reference to the quarter whence they came.Mr. Gladstone
855R. Peel:R. Peel:Laughter.l.,854l.,853 said, that in rising to speak on this question, he laboured under some difficulty, because he felt that he could hardly prevent himself giving way to the feeling that if there had been any fraud or any collusion in this matter, he was intimately allied to the party who had been made the victim of that fraud and of that collusion. The present subject was one that occupied a great space in the public mind; and the noble Lord must not lay the flattering unction to his soul, that because they were in the middle of the month of July the question could silently pass over. It not only engaged the attention of men's minds in this country, but it interested the public mind of Europe, and would, he ventured to prophesy, be a matter of paramount interest to posterity. The question came to this. Had these trials been fairly conducted? The noble Lord had said:—"Don't come to the House of Commons; we cannot do anything for you: a Committee of the House of Commons cannot administer an oath." What, then, did the noble Lord tell them to do? Why, file a criminal information! Yes; file a criminal information, to be tried before Chief Justice Pennefather and a Dublin Jury. The noble Lord had asked whether they (himself—Mr. O'Connell and his friends) thought that a Committee of Inquiry would produce a satisfactory result? He would tell the noble Lord that if anything would continue a feeling of dissatisfaction it would be a refusal to appoint a Committee of Inquiry upon such grounds as the noble Lord had refused it. It had been admitted, both by the Recorder and by Mr. Magrath, that twenty-four names were omitted from the list. Now, connected with these omissions, there were some curious facts. The whole list of the parish of St. Audeon was said to be lost. This was extraordinary,
855R. Peel:R. Peel:Laughter.l.,854l.,853Mr. M. J. O'Connell
860Wyse:859858857856 said, the peculiar position of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had led him to do some injustice to the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland. He saw nothing like indifference or levity in the conduct of the noble Lord; nothing fell from him which justified the hon. Member in saying that the noble Lord was sneering. The noble Lord certainly had alluded to the fact that there had been a nine nights' debate on the affairs of Ireland in the early part of the Session, in which every fact and argument which had been addressed to the House that night had been reiterated over and over again; and the noble Lord was perfectly justified in doing so, because, when an hon. Member came forward at a period of the Session so late, the House had a right to expect to hear from him some new arguments or a different statement of facts in order to ground a Motion for inquiry. It was a most important question, and therefore it was that he regretted the course which the hon. Member had taken, because, although he would not attribute any improper motives to the right hon. Member, or any mischievous intention, still he must say that the effect of the discussion was calculated to cast suspicion upon the administration of justice. Look at what were the circumstances under which the Motion was made. A most dangerous and pernicious conspiracy was in existence in Ireland—a conspiracy which even threatened the dismemberment of the empire. Her Majesty's Government did not resort to extraordinary powers—they did not come down to the House and ask for a Coercion Bill. With no other weapon than the ordinary arm of the law they beat that conspiracy to the ground. The offenders were now prostrate at the foot of justice, and the hon. Member thought it a
860Wyse:859858857856The Solicitor General
864863"Have you observed in the administration of justice in the Superior Courts any disposition towards undue partiality?—In particular instances I have, but the apprehension of partiality is more occasioned by the kind of instruments that are used to bring jury questions to trial, than in the superior judges themselves; the city of Dublin is particularly constituted in that respect, especially in later times. There has been a great deal of party spirit, and no persons can now be Sheriffs of Dublin, that do not give a very unequivocal pledge before their election, of taking a particular part in politics, hostile to the Roman Catholics, Those gentlemen have the summoning of all juries, and the formation of all grand juries, and whatever may be the result in individual cases, it leaves a general impression upon the minds of the Roman Catholics that their property, or in cases of criminal offences, their lives and liberties, are not secure. I know that that prevails to a very great extent, so that a Roman Catholic, the most cool and rational amongst them, and dispassionate as to parties, would rather submit to great wrongs than attend a trial in Dublin; and that, as I said before, originating with the species of persons who are sheriffs, and of the persons who are at the head of the Special Jury Lists, for they place at the head of the Special Jury Lists the high corporators. An Act of Parliament that was proposed in the lower House last Session, would tend certainly, if carried into effect, to do away a great deal of that evil, in my judgment."862861 said, one or two of the hon. and learned Gentleman's observations had caused him no little surprise. With regard to his observations on the Chief Justice's charge, it was a pity that the hon. Gentleman had not been in the House during the discussion of this matter at the beginning of the Session, because it so happened that very strong observations were made on that charge,
864863"Have you observed in the administration of justice in the Superior Courts any disposition towards undue partiality?—In particular instances I have, but the apprehension of partiality is more occasioned by the kind of instruments that are used to bring jury questions to trial, than in the superior judges themselves; the city of Dublin is particularly constituted in that respect, especially in later times. There has been a great deal of party spirit, and no persons can now be Sheriffs of Dublin, that do not give a very unequivocal pledge before their election, of taking a particular part in politics, hostile to the Roman Catholics, Those gentlemen have the summoning of all juries, and the formation of all grand juries, and whatever may be the result in individual cases, it leaves a general impression upon the minds of the Roman Catholics that their property, or in cases of criminal offences, their lives and liberties, are not secure. I know that that prevails to a very great extent, so that a Roman Catholic, the most cool and rational amongst them, and dispassionate as to parties, would rather submit to great wrongs than attend a trial in Dublin; and that, as I said before, originating with the species of persons who are sheriffs, and of the persons who are at the head of the Special Jury Lists, for they place at the head of the Special Jury Lists the high corporators. An Act of Parliament that was proposed in the lower House last Session, would tend certainly, if carried into effect, to do away a great deal of that evil, in my judgment."862861Mr. Villiers Stuart
874 objected on account of the absence of many hon. Gentlemen, who were to take part in the discussion of
874Captain Plumridge
 hoped that his hon. and gallant Friend would not press his objection, which could be as well discussed in Committee.Mr. V. Smith
 could assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that all concerned in the Duchy of Cornwall had been fully informed of the particulars and details of the Bill. He trusted that the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not press his objections, as he hoped to be able to make such arrangements as would be satisfactory to him.The Earl of Lincoln
 was unwilling to go in opposition to the sense of the House, which as he perceived was against him and he would not press his Motion.Captain Plumridge
 had had strong protests forwarded to him against the further progress of this Bill. He had replied to those protests, that he knew nothing of the Bill, and when he assured the House that since the 31st of June, no less than forty Bills had been introduced, he was sure that he must stand acquitted of any neglect. He hoped as the Bill had been so lately introduced, that further time would be given for the consideration of it.Mr. Howes
 hoped the House would indulge him for one minute, to remark on what had just fallen from the hon. Member. He must say that what the hon. Member had stated did go to prove, very strongly, the great evil of Members making charges which they could not substanstiate; and he must add, that he thought it was incumbent on the hon. Member, on account of his position in the House, and on account of his position as a man of honour and a Gentleman to have taken an earlier opportunity of affording the explanation which he had just given.Lord A. Lennox
852sub judice.851"He was not to be supposed for a moment to mean that any of those twenty-four gentlemen were not properly qualified, and that no man should imagine but that they would administer justice in as pure and straightforward a manner as any that could be selected. He was not arguing against the men on the panel, but against the constitution of it, and if the opinion of the Court were against them, he would not say but that the traversers had no reason to complain, and that as far as the constitution of the tribunal was concerned with regard to the persons upon it, there was no ground for any imputation whatever."850849848847l.;846 said, that during a large portion of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down he had fancied that he was labouring under a delusion, and that he was listening to the tenth night's discussion of the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for London, so numerous were the topics of his speech. Had he believed it to bare been the right hon. Gentleman's intention to have entered upon so wide a field, he should rather have expected him to have given notice of his intention previously; but after the full
852sub judice.851"He was not to be supposed for a moment to mean that any of those twenty-four gentlemen were not properly qualified, and that no man should imagine but that they would administer justice in as pure and straightforward a manner as any that could be selected. He was not arguing against the men on the panel, but against the constitution of it, and if the opinion of the Court were against them, he would not say but that the traversers had no reason to complain, and that as far as the constitution of the tribunal was concerned with regard to the persons upon it, there was no ground for any imputation whatever."850849848847l.;846Lord Eliot
l.l.l., heartily concurred in the humane views of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), and deprecated the monstrous proposition of the hon. and gallant Member for Brecon with reference to the houseless poor. He thought the Government should take those asylums into their own hands, otherwise the expense of poor laws would amount to 8,000,000l.l.l.,Mr. B. Cochrane
 totally differed with the hon. Member for Brecon as to the propriety of sending poor persons, who had committed no crime, to the police station-house, like criminals. He hoped the police would have nothing to do with the administration of poor relief. He thought, however, they had no sufficient information to justify them in passing these Clauses. He, for one, must object to giving to the Commissioners a power which would occasion a material increase in the amount of poor-rates. Indeed, he gathered from the Reports of the Commissioners themselves, that they entertained great doubts as to the propriety of such a provision as was contained in this Clause. He apprehended that the Poor Law Commissioners and the Secretary of State had now full power to make general regulations for the relief of the casual poor. He warned hon. Members against allowing their sympathies to be enlisted only in favour of the pauper, without reference to that large part of the population who had to pay rates, though scarcely removed from pauperism themselves.Mr. Hawes
827 said, perhaps the House will allow me to say a few words upon a matter of personal interest to myself. It has been intimated to me that the explanation which I gave the hon. Member for Finsbury on Saturday was not so satisfactory as that hon. Gentleman had a right to demand. I have no hesitation in saying, that I then acted under an erroneous impression with respect to the trial to which I referred. The hon. Member for Fins-
827Mr. Wodehouse
871870869868867866865: It cannot be denied that the object of the present Motion is to inculpate Her Majesty's Government in connection with these late trials, which have so intensely occupied the public mind in Ireland. I hold those trials to have been an unconstitutional attempt to suppress public opinion in that country, and to substitute the infliction of penal law, for the redress of grievances long and deeply felt. It is idle to suppose that this was a prosecution directed only against individuals, public interests were committed in the conflict, and the distinguished leader of the national party, was sustained and impelled by the concurring sympathies of the country. The people
871870869868867866865Mr. J. O'Brien
 asked whether the Government intended to take any measures to place on a footing of reciprocity the traffic carried on between this country and Russia by vessels built less than three years?Mr. Wawn
 would support this Clause because its tendency would be to diminish vagrancy. At one period last year there were as many as 2,000 casual poor in London wholly unprovided for, and that number he believed to be made up largely of labourers who came from the agricultural districts in the hope of having their wants more readily relieved. He thought that there ought to be district asylums in every Poor Law union throughout the country, as the effect of such an arrangement would be to furnish an easy mode of removal from parish to parish, and to suppress sturdy beggars.Mr. Borthwick
 complained that the Clause was not sufficiently extensive. He did not mean to oppose it; but he wished to direct the attention of the House to the state of the houseless poor in the rural districts. On the introduction of the Poor Law, vagrant boards were appointed in some unions; but he contended that they ought to be established in all, and that the expense would be much less to send them to those temporary asylums than it would be to send them to the House of Correction.Mr. Christopher
: The more he heard the Clause discussed the more he regretted that the Bill was encumbered with it. It was, he conceived, quite unnecessary to introduce such a Clause into a Bill for the relief of the poor generally. The right hon. Baronet had stated it to be his belief that the effect of the Bill would be the addition of vagrant wards to the unions all over the country. What, however, would be the fact? There would be two boards of guardians administering relief in the same workhouse. If the arrangement proposed was good for the metropolitan districts, was it not also good generally? If the measure was to be applied to Liverpool, Leeds, Birmingham, Manchester, and Bristol, as well as to London, what were to become of such populous towns as Sheffield, Huddersfield, Newcastle, and such like? He had a petition to present from Leeds, praying to be exempt from the operation of the Bill. Last year there was a subscription got up for that portion of the poor for which the Clause now under discussion proposed to legislate. The right hon. Baronet expressed his confidence that vagrants would apply for relief to the asylums thus proposed to be prepared for them, but he believed not because it would become a part of the workhouse system. If anything was to be done with the casual poor, it ought in his opinion, to be by an Amendment of the Vagrant Act. Upon these grounds he would oppose the Clause.Mr. T. Duncombe
 contended that the present state of the law made casual relief a very great burthen in some parishes, while to others it did not involve a penny expense. He fully approved the object of the Clause, which, in combination with the 51st Clause, would have a most beneficial effect. He objected, however, to the mode in which it was sought to be carried out. He thought that the principle ought to be carried out in all parts of the country, for if there were only a few such asylums, the case of the casual poor would be made worse by having long distances to walk before they could get relief.Mr. Wakley
 then said, I cannot refrain from expressing my gratitude to the hon. Member for Norfolk for the kind explanation which he has given, and offering my grateful acknowledgments to the House, for the handsome manner in which they have treated me on this painful occasion. At the same time, I beg to say, that I receive the acknowledgment of the hon. Gentleman with that spirit of frankness with which it has been made; and I feel convinced that he cast an imputation on me, which he has not felt himself justified in doing under the circumstances which have since come to his knowledge. In saying this, I am bound to state, that I consider this acknowledgment will be most satisfactory to every member of my family, and I have a particular motive in making that declaration.Mr. Wakley
845"Odia in longum jaciens, quæ reconderet, auctaque promeret."primâ facie844843l.,l.,842"The names of Robert Molloy, Bryan Molloy, Robert Gatchell, John Gaynor, Christopher Gillespie, John Hussey Walsh, James White, William Torrens M'Cullagh, and Richard William Barrington, were also omitted; and by the affidavits of the Clerks of the Peace and said Magrath, it is now admitted that your petitioners' information was correct as to those names; and petitioners inform your honourable House this indisputably correct information was had from the clerks employed in said revisions by or on the part of these petitioners, although same, with the exception of the name of Richard William Barrington, who appeared on the compared list of St. Audeon's parish was not on any of the compared parochial lists, the other persons last above named not being
l.,l.,842"That the list of jurors, or names, or jurors' books so handed in by the Recorder is on all hands admitted to be defective, and does not contain the names of all persons adjudicated on by the Recorder as being entitled to be placed on such jurors' book; for your petitioners show that the Recorder himself admits that twenty-four names were omitted, and that, of these twenty-four, nineteen were Roman Catholics. That petitioners insist that a greater number of names than the Recorder has stated to have been omitted were in point of fact omitted, and that their omission was the result of design; and petitioners Pierce Mahony, William Ford, and John Macnamara Cantwell, have, on their solemn oaths of record in the Court of Queen's Bench, in Ireland, deposed, to the truth of their convictions, that the suppression of the names was effected with a fraudulent intent; the petitioners Thomas Reilly and Peter M'Evoy Gartlan not having joined in making said affidavits from the circumstance that they are for the most part resident out of Dublin, in the counties of Louth and Monaghan, and did not particularly attend to the investigation of the jury lists in reference to the defence of the traversers, but, from a review of the circumstances, inform your honourable House that they are fully convinced that such suppression of the names was effected with a fraudulent purpose."841840839l.,838837836"If the present Bill before the Grand Jury is found, we shall undertake to establish as wicked and as foul a conspiracy as ever disturbed the Empire.""I must trouble the Grand Jury to give its attendance in the morning. There is another Bill to go out against all the defendants. I do not think, Gentlemen, it will occupy much of your time; but I must request you will attend to-morrow morning."835834833832831 rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire, in accordance with the prayer of the petition presented on the 17th of June, into the facts connected with the formation of the special jury in the case of "The Queen, at the prosecution of the Attorney General, v. Daniel O'Connell and others." The hon. Member, after presenting various petitions on the subject, proceeded to say, that in submitting this Motion to the House, he came forward upon no insufficient ground, at no improper period, and upon a subject in which he believed every part of the empire felt an interest. He said he came forward on no insufficient ground, for he had presented to that House on the 21st of March petitions signed by 750,000 inhabitants of Ireland, praying for an immediate inquiry into the circumstances of this case; and when to that were added the petitions he had presented that evening, signed by not less than 26,000 persons, reciting the same prayer (and he understood that
845"Odia in longum jaciens, quæ reconderet, auctaque promeret."primâ facie844843l.,l.,842"The names of Robert Molloy, Bryan Molloy, Robert Gatchell, John Gaynor, Christopher Gillespie, John Hussey Walsh, James White, William Torrens M'Cullagh, and Richard William Barrington, were also omitted; and by the affidavits of the Clerks of the Peace and said Magrath, it is now admitted that your petitioners' information was correct as to those names; and petitioners inform your honourable House this indisputably correct information was had from the clerks employed in said revisions by or on the part of these petitioners, although same, with the exception of the name of Richard William Barrington, who appeared on the compared list of St. Audeon's parish was not on any of the compared parochial lists, the other persons last above named not being
l.,l.,842"That the list of jurors, or names, or jurors' books so handed in by the Recorder is on all hands admitted to be defective, and does not contain the names of all persons adjudicated on by the Recorder as being entitled to be placed on such jurors' book; for your petitioners show that the Recorder himself admits that twenty-four names were omitted, and that, of these twenty-four, nineteen were Roman Catholics. That petitioners insist that a greater number of names than the Recorder has stated to have been omitted were in point of fact omitted, and that their omission was the result of design; and petitioners Pierce Mahony, William Ford, and John Macnamara Cantwell, have, on their solemn oaths of record in the Court of Queen's Bench, in Ireland, deposed, to the truth of their convictions, that the suppression of the names was effected with a fraudulent intent; the petitioners Thomas Reilly and Peter M'Evoy Gartlan not having joined in making said affidavits from the circumstance that they are for the most part resident out of Dublin, in the counties of Louth and Monaghan, and did not particularly attend to the investigation of the jury lists in reference to the defence of the traversers, but, from a review of the circumstances, inform your honourable House that they are fully convinced that such suppression of the names was effected with a fraudulent purpose."841840839l.,838837836"If the present Bill before the Grand Jury is found, we shall undertake to establish as wicked and as foul a conspiracy as ever disturbed the Empire.""I must trouble the Grand Jury to give its attendance in the morning. There is another Bill to go out against all the defendants. I do not think, Gentlemen, it will occupy much of your time; but I must request you will attend to-morrow morning."835834833832831Mr. Wyse
829 said, the House would no doubt expect, after the remarks which had been made elsewhere, and which were now become public, that he should come forward and either substantiate, explain, or withdraw the charges which he had made against a noble Duke. It would be recollected that he had on a former evening refused to give an explanation. He would now state, that although he had had doubts at the time, he felt he had acted properly in postponing that explanation, and, having maturely considered all the circumstances, he now felt himself justified in going further in the way of explanation than he should have done if he had spoken at the time the noble Lord, the Member for Colchester, complained, and not unnaturally, he confessed. The noble Lord had complained of an assertion that he had made, to the effect that a noble Duke (the Duke of Richmond) had conspired to prejudice the claims of the plaintiffs in the late gaming transactions—that the noble Duke had abused his position as Chairman of a Committee in another place—and that his conduct could reflect no credit on the noble Duke, or those with whom he was associated. With regard to the first two points, it appeared from what had passed in the other House, that there was presumptive proof that the noble Duke had been guilty of an irregular proceeding; but with respect to the other imputation—namely, "that the noble Duke had abused the privilege of his position, and that the circumstance reflected no credit on himself, or on those who were associated with him," he felt bound to acknowledge that there was no presumptive evidence upon those points, and that even if there had been such presumptive evidence, he should scarcely have been justified in making such statements so broadly and unreservedly. He therefore felt it to be incumbent on him to withdraw those statements unequivocally and unreservedly. The noble Duke had accused him in another place of attributing to him motives on which he should have been ashamed to act himself, and under the suspicion of which no honourable man could hold up his head in this country. He (Mr. Christie) acknowledged, that he having used the words in question, the noble Duke was justified in so speaking, but as he had now withdrawn the charge he made against the
829Mr. Christie
 contended that no law had been infringed in the formation of the Jury List. He could see no use in granting the inquiry sought for by the Motion before the House. The Committee was moved for to obtain further evidence, but all the evidence which they could have upon the subject they already possessed in sworn affidavits. What more could be expected by going into Committee? The revision of the lists by the Recorder was a most arduous undertaking. He had some 5,000 names to go through, and was it extraordinary that some mistakes and omissions should occur? There was one circumstance, however, connected with this discussion which gave him great pain. Although they had not in direct terms charged a Protestant Jury with having committed injustice towards Catholics, yet hon. Gentlemen opposite all seemed to go upon the grounds that injustice had been done. He thought it would have been much better to have discussed the question upon its real merits, and not have thus indirectly charged a Protestant Jury with having committed injustice towards Catholic prisoners.Mr. Grogan
824Wood:823 regretted to find that the hon. Member for Lambeth joined with his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Brecon in resisting this Clause. His hon. and gallant Friend seemed to think
824Wood:823Sir J. Graham
 with reference to the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Member for Bridport, could only say that he had always regarded the question of expense as a secondary consideration in the administration of the New Poor Law. At the same time, however, he did not anticipate that the expense which had been alluded to would be so great as had been conjectured. Altogether, he maintained that the poor were better cared for, relief was more fully and freely administered to them, and every possibility of curing their miserable position more attended to under the new than under the old Poor Law.Sir J. Graham
 said, that the point which his hon. Friend was discussing had no relevancy to the Clause before the Committee. The fact was, the guardians had now a discretionary power to establish such vagrant asylums. By Clause 51, to which they would soon come, the expense of relief to casual poor would be defrayed by the whole union, instead of the particular parish to which they belonged, and instead of being sent about from post to pillar as heretofore. By that Clause to which he referred, parishes would not have an interest in passing the poor along without relief, until they got to their own parish; and he had no doubt that the practical effect of that would be the establishment of such asylums as the hon. Member for Lincolnshire referred to.Sir J. Graham
 said, with regard to what has fallen from the hon. Member for Norfolk with reference to an insinuation which he made against the hon. Member for Finsbury, I feel that the explicit declaration which has now been made must have convinced every one that the hon. Mem-Member for Finsbury is an honourable and an innocent man, and I think that hon. Gentlemen may retire from the House to-night with a full understanding that he has had complete reparation made to his injured feelings, and with as much right to hold himself perfectly erect in public estimation as any hon. Member. I must say, too, that this explanation is in unison with the unanimous feelings of the House.Sir R. Peel
l.l. said, he had to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend that part of the Church Endowment Act of last Session, which related to fees on the appointment of clergymen. It would be remembered that 600,000l.l.Sir R. Peel
: One of the reasons on account of which Government make no progress in Bills is, that continually their farther progress in them is delayed, because some hon. Gentleman interested in them is absent. The reason of Government bringing forward this Bill is, to prevent litigation, and to apply the principle of prescription to Duchy lands as well as Church lands. The Bill meets with the entire approval of the Duchy of Cornwall and its inhabitants, indeed, I have reason to believe that the Bill meets with universal approbation. The right hon. Baronet then read several of the Clauses of the Bill, and said there would be an opportunity of discussing them when in Committee. The Bill has met with the cordial concurrence of all concerned in it, and my only reason for pressing it is, I repeat, that we are anxious that the principles of prescription shall apply to Duchy lands as well as Church lands. I do hope, under these circumstances, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman will not prevent the House from dividing upon the measure at once.Sir R. Peel
: I beg to say, that this Bill was introduced before the 31st of June. The Government has been in communication with all parties affected by it, and as far as they are concerned, it is unopposed.Sir R. Peel
 hoped he might be permitted to ask what were the advantages now granted to us by Russia under this Treaty which afforded us a compensation for the disadvantage?Viscount Palmerston
 moved the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Metropolitan Buildings Bill.The Earl of Lincoln
919918917 never saw a more practical illustration of the phrase "extremes meet," than the opposition of the two hon. Gentlemen. The hon. Member for Lambeth made a sweeping attack upon the Bill, and said, it went too far; while his hon. Friend seemed to think that it did not go far enough. He begged to remind his hon. Friend that the recommendation of the Committee to which he had referred, formed the basis of the Bill introduced by the Marquess of Normanby in the other House. After being considered in two successive Sessions, these recommendations were found so objectionable that they were referred to a Select Committee. This Committee took the opinion of architects, practical builders, and other competent persons, and it was then found that scarcely a single Clause of Lord Normanby's Bill could be retained. He had endeavoured to make the Bill as little retrospective as possible. There was no prohibition to placing buildings back to back, and be believed these buildings might be so contrived as not to be injurious to the health of the inhabitants, neither did the Bill include many provisions with regard to drainage, as there was at present a Committee sitting on that subject, and the result of those labours would be a general Bill upon the subject in the next Session of Parliament. The hon. Member for Lambeth had called for the postponement of the Bill, but he (Lord
919918917The Earl of Lincoln
Lincoln: said, the measure was one of too great importance to be brought forward at that late period of the Session, and he thought the hon. Member for Lambeth was perfectly justified in opposing it. It affected every building in the metropolis, and was a most unwarrantable interference with the rights of property. No doubt the surveyors were in favour of the Bill, as it brought them a vast additional amount of business. He was somewhat suspicious as to the parties who were to be appointed official referees. There had been an alteration in the wording of the Clause relative to the qualification of these officers. [Lord Lincoln:Mr. Tuffnell
Exchequer of the ExchequerThe Chancellor
913 considered the objection taken by the hon. Member one of the most unfair he had ever heard in that House, and it was more particularly unfair as a preliminary objection; as, with the exception of five or six, the whole of the Amendments were merely verbal. These Amendments had been printed, and circulated among hon. Members in order that the business in Committee might be facilitated. It was said that he was acting unfairly in asking them to go into Committee on the Bill; and yet, late last night, or rather early that morning, the hon. Member himself had stated that he had an immense number of Amendments to propose in the Bill, not one of which had been printed. He appealed to hon. Members whether that was not a most un-
913The Earl of Lincoln
922 said, that on the 3rd of last month, according to accounts which he had received, disturbances broke out in the island of Dominica, in consequence of the very absurd misapprehension which prevailed amongst the negro population that the census about to be taken in that colony was an attempt towards restoring slavery. He believed the revolt was principally headed by some refugees from French and other colonies, and by some newly-arrived Africans. It was almost immediately put down. Parties continued to commit some disturbances and outrages for four or five days. It was thought proper by the local authorities, to proclaim martial law. By the last accounts which he had received it appeared that the disturbances were completely at an end, and he had no doubt that, on the following day, martial law would be removed. In acknowledging the receipt of these dispatches he had noticed, with one exception, the general good conduct of the militia. He alluded to the placing a head upon a pole, and had expressed his regret at such an occurrence having taken place. He did not believe there was any ground for the general charge of cruelty; on the contrary the women and children who were taken were immediately released, and the trial of the others would be proceeded with, not before an extraordinary tribunal, but in the ordinary course of the
922Lord Stanley
, in seconding the Motion, wished to ask the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, whether they might expect, before the rising of the House, any Report from the Commissioners on the Harbours of Refuge.Captain Plumridge
l.l.;l. said, that under the existing arrangement the surplus went to the Bishop after he had paid a certain sum to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He thought that there must be a mistake as to the sum that had been stated to be received by one Bishop in a single year; but supposing that he had received 30,000l.l.;l.Mr. V. Smith
983 said, that he did not rise to oppose the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Malton; but as some slight censures had been put on the conduct, or the intentions, of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, he begged leave to observe that it was the bounden duty of those Commissioners to make the most of the property entrusted to their care, in order to increase their means of promoting that most important of all objects, the further provision of spiritual instruction. Nor could it be pretended that the Commissioners had exceeded their powers. For himself he was not jealous of the Commission—he liked it all the better because it was of a mixed nature, composed of laymen as well as spiritual persons. He was not one of those who considered the Church to be nothing but the priest; he considered the Church equally to consist of priest and people, and the more the Laity and the Clergy were mixed and blended together, and the less they were kept distinct, the better it would be for both parties. He must repeat that the Commissioners had not exceeded their powers, because it could not be denied that the Church, like any other landlord, possesses, and has never ceased to exercise, the power of running out leases. On this point he spoke with the more confidence, because he was a Member of the Committee which was appointed by that House in 1838, to investigate the subject of Church Leases, and he would take leave to read to the House the opinion which that Committee had pronounced on this part of the subject:—"Largely, therefore, as your Committee must suppose this confidence of renewal to have extended, yet your Committee consider the tenant's right of renewal to be a claim upon custom, and the good will of the lessor, rather than any right capable of being enforced by law or equity." At the same time, looking to the general usage of renewal, the Committee were of opinion that, though the legal right could not be maintained, yet that the customary confidence of the lessees should not be entirely disregarded; and in the scheme for the Enfranchisement of Church Leasehold Property which that Committee had
983Mr. Gally Knight
985 said, that as Member for a county where an immense amount of property would shortly fall under the control of the Commissioners, he must say, that he was not without considerable apprehension for the interests of his constituents. The Dean and Chapter of Durham, as the House well knew, held a large amount of property in that county, and as it had been determined that one-half of the Chapter should be suppressed, and at the death of each Prebendary the property belonging to his prebend placed under the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, when he was told that they refused to renew leases—that the renewal of leases for three lives, which had been held for many hundred years to be as secure as any other tenure of property, would be refused on any terms, he could not but feel alarmed at this—he had almost called it—usurpation of property which had been so long held sacred. He could assure the
985Mr. Liddell
, in explanation, said, that neither he nor any member of his family were holders of ecclesiastical leases—they did not hold a single acre of Church-land.Mr. Liddell
 referred to a letter apparently written by one of these gentlemen, who stated that on his arrival in the island in 1839, he was informed that the teachers of the schools in question would be exempted from militia service. If there was any misunderstanding in the matter, he hoped that it would be cleared up.Mr. Hawes
l.l.l.l.914 maintained that many of the alterations proposed by Government were not merely verbal, but very substantial ones. He had general grounds of objection to state against the measure, and it was neither more nor less than a measure making war upon the whole trade of London; and the interference proposed was of so vexatious, minute, and intricate a nature, that, if its provisions were generally understood, the House would be inundated with petitions against it. To so much of it as proposed to improve the old Building Act, there could be no objection. But the Bill went much further than this. It even went to the oppressive extent of interfering with the poor man, in repairing and improving his little property. The House had a right to know the expences in the shape of fees and other official charges which the public would have to pay under its enactments. The amount of patronage would be extensive and mischievous. With respect to docks, warehouses, and large buildings in general, the public had already ample security for their strength, stability, and security against fire, as many of them were built under the regulations of Acts of Parliament, and nearly all under the superintendence of competent architects. If the Bill now before the House passed into law, every alteration made in any buildings, or institutions, including the British Museum, must be affected only under the direction of the Woods and Forests Surveyor. The progress of public works and improvements would be checked and impeded by such restrictions. If, for example, the Bill had been in force when the great railway works were in progress, they could not have been constructed without special permission from the Surveyor of Woods and Forests. It also interfered vexatiously with works of
l.l.l.l.914Mr. Hawes
921, seeing the noble Lord the Secretary of the Colonies in his place, wished to ask him whether he had received any accounts from the Island of Dominica? He had been informed that martial
921Mr. Hawes
 objected to the Bill. There were extensive alterations, as it appeared by a paper laid on the Table that morning, upwards of 100, which Government proposed to make in the Bill, and it was impossible during the present Session to consider them fully. The same improper course had been adopted with regard to other measures; and if it was intended to proceed with the Bill, affecting as it did important interests, he should move the previous question.Mr. Hawes
986 said, he wished to say a few words before they proceeded to divide on the Amendment. He had had a conversation with the right hon. Secretary, when he inquired of him whether there would be any objection to the Return for which he then moved. The right hon. Secretary
986Mr. E. Denison
980"4. Of the payments made in each year, particularlizing what Sees have been augmented, for what Episcopal Residences house rent has been paid, what Episcopal Residences has been provided, and the cost of each; what Reversions have been sold, and for what amount; and what Estates have been pur-
980"3. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to each agent or surveyor employed, with the name of each, and the amount paid to each:"2. Of the salary, fees, travelling expenses, and emoluments paid to each architect, with the name of each, and the amount of per centage (if any) allowed to each:"1. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to any counsel or solicitor, with the name of each counsel or solicitor so paid:
980"4. Of the payments made in each year, particularlizing what Sees have been augmented, for what Episcopal Residences house rent has been paid, what Episcopal Residences has been provided, and the cost of each; what Reversions have been sold, and for what amount; and what Estates have been pur-
980"3. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to each agent or surveyor employed, with the name of each, and the amount paid to each:"2. Of the salary, fees, travelling expenses, and emoluments paid to each architect, with the name of each, and the amount of per centage (if any) allowed to each:"1. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to any counsel or solicitor, with the name of each counsel or solicitor so paid:"That there be laid before this House, a Return of all Payments made by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for England in each of the last six years;—
980"4. Of the payments made in each year, particularlizing what Sees have been augmented, for what Episcopal Residences house rent has been paid, what Episcopal Residences has been provided, and the cost of each; what Reversions have been sold, and for what amount; and what Estates have been pur-
980"3. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to each agent or surveyor employed, with the name of each, and the amount paid to each:"2. Of the salary, fees, travelling expenses, and emoluments paid to each architect, with the name of each, and the amount of per centage (if any) allowed to each:"1. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to any counsel or solicitor, with the name of each counsel or solicitor so paid:
980"4. Of the payments made in each year, particularlizing what Sees have been augmented, for what Episcopal Residences house rent has been paid, what Episcopal Residences has been provided, and the cost of each; what Reversions have been sold, and for what amount; and what Estates have been pur-
980"3. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to each agent or surveyor employed, with the name of each, and the amount paid to each:"2. Of the salary, fees, travelling expenses, and emoluments paid to each architect, with the name of each, and the amount of per centage (if any) allowed to each:"1. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to any counsel or solicitor, with the name of each counsel or solicitor so paid:979 rose to move for an ac-
980"4. Of the payments made in each year, particularlizing what Sees have been augmented, for what Episcopal Residences house rent has been paid, what Episcopal Residences has been provided, and the cost of each; what Reversions have been sold, and for what amount; and what Estates have been pur-
980"3. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to each agent or surveyor employed, with the name of each, and the amount paid to each:"2. Of the salary, fees, travelling expenses, and emoluments paid to each architect, with the name of each, and the amount of per centage (if any) allowed to each:"1. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to any counsel or solicitor, with the name of each counsel or solicitor so paid:
980"4. Of the payments made in each year, particularlizing what Sees have been augmented, for what Episcopal Residences house rent has been paid, what Episcopal Residences has been provided, and the cost of each; what Reversions have been sold, and for what amount; and what Estates have been pur-
980"3. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to each agent or surveyor employed, with the name of each, and the amount paid to each:"2. Of the salary, fees, travelling expenses, and emoluments paid to each architect, with the name of each, and the amount of per centage (if any) allowed to each:"1. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to any counsel or solicitor, with the name of each counsel or solicitor so paid:"That there be laid before this House, a Return of all Payments made by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for England in each of the last six years;—
980"4. Of the payments made in each year, particularlizing what Sees have been augmented, for what Episcopal Residences house rent has been paid, what Episcopal Residences has been provided, and the cost of each; what Reversions have been sold, and for what amount; and what Estates have been pur-
980"3. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to each agent or surveyor employed, with the name of each, and the amount paid to each:"2. Of the salary, fees, travelling expenses, and emoluments paid to each architect, with the name of each, and the amount of per centage (if any) allowed to each:"1. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to any counsel or solicitor, with the name of each counsel or solicitor so paid:
980"4. Of the payments made in each year, particularlizing what Sees have been augmented, for what Episcopal Residences house rent has been paid, what Episcopal Residences has been provided, and the cost of each; what Reversions have been sold, and for what amount; and what Estates have been pur-
980"3. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to each agent or surveyor employed, with the name of each, and the amount paid to each:"2. Of the salary, fees, travelling expenses, and emoluments paid to each architect, with the name of each, and the amount of per centage (if any) allowed to each:"1. Of the salary, fees, and emoluments, paid to any counsel or solicitor, with the name of each counsel or solicitor so paid:979Mr. E. Denison
982 was
982The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he thought every object would be gained by leaving the Evidence on the Table, to be accessible to all the Members of this House. He thought that this would be a much better course than to run the risk, by printing the Evidence, of giving unnecessary pain to certain individuals, who would, no doubt, feel aggrieved by the imputations which were cast upon them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that Tyre and Sidon had lost their harbours for want of looking after them; probably they might have been preserved if due means had been taken. In days like these, and in a country like this, nothing ought to be omitted to deliver to future ages the advantages we had derived from the past. France had lost various excellent harbours from neglect, and we ought to exert every nerve to prevent the same result.Dr. Bowring
l., observed, that the present was merely a Motion for statistical returns, and he trusted that there would be no objection to the addition which his hon. Friend had proposed. There could be no doubt that the income of the Bishop of Durham had in one year amounted to 30,000l.,Dr. Bowring
 said, that some of the greatest spoliators belonged to the Church.Mr. Wawn
 had heard with great satisfaction the observations which fell from the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. It had been said that the Liberal Members of that House were intent upon the ruin of the Church; but he would tell them that the pretended friends of the Church were the great spoliators—it was the laity who held leases that had the deepest interest in the matter—the landed interest wanted to have the property of the Church. The principle of which he approved was that laid down by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government—namely, that it was for the public interest to make the most of the property of the Church.Mr. Brotherton
l.l. thought the right hon. Baronet could not resist if he recollected the Act of Parliament, which enacted, that after the deaths of the then Bishops no Bishop should receive more than the appointed incomes; yet the House had just heard that one Bishop who ought to receive only 8,000l.l.Mr. Hume
"An address to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission, to inquire into the past and present condition of the several Tidal Harbours, Ports, and Creeks of the United Kingdom, with the view of ascertaining the state of navigation, and the depth of water of these Harbours, &c.; whether the depth of water was greater formerly than at the present time, and whether any and what extent of land over which the tide flowed at any former period has been enclosed; under what authority the several enclosures were made, the effects of such inclosures of land, and of the erection of Piers, Jetties, &c. In decreasing the depth, or in improving or injuring the navigation of the several Harbours, Creeks, &c.; to call for and examine all general Reports of Civil Engineers and Public Commissioners, relative to the construction, improvement, or preservation of the several Ports, Harbours, Creeks, and Navigable Waters of the United Kingdom which have been regulated by Act of Parliament since 1800, the operations under such Acts, and whether the result has been beneficial or injurious to the navigation of the said Ports:—Also, to inquire into the nature of the powers intrusted to the Board of Admiralty, under any Acts of Parliament, for protecting the navigation of the Ports and Harbours of the United Kingdom, and in what manner they have exercised those powers, and whether more extensive and more defined powers may be requisite to enable them to protect and to improve the Harbours of this Kingdom."976975974, in bringing forward his Motion relative to the Harbours of the kingdom, said, he wished it had fallen into the hands of Government, who might have given it official importance. Many harbours, formerly capable of receiving ships of large dimensions, could now scarcely admit boats, and the evil was going on from day to
"An address to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission, to inquire into the past and present condition of the several Tidal Harbours, Ports, and Creeks of the United Kingdom, with the view of ascertaining the state of navigation, and the depth of water of these Harbours, &c.; whether the depth of water was greater formerly than at the present time, and whether any and what extent of land over which the tide flowed at any former period has been enclosed; under what authority the several enclosures were made, the effects of such inclosures of land, and of the erection of Piers, Jetties, &c. In decreasing the depth, or in improving or injuring the navigation of the several Harbours, Creeks, &c.; to call for and examine all general Reports of Civil Engineers and Public Commissioners, relative to the construction, improvement, or preservation of the several Ports, Harbours, Creeks, and Navigable Waters of the United Kingdom which have been regulated by Act of Parliament since 1800, the operations under such Acts, and whether the result has been beneficial or injurious to the navigation of the said Ports:—Also, to inquire into the nature of the powers intrusted to the Board of Admiralty, under any Acts of Parliament, for protecting the navigation of the Ports and Harbours of the United Kingdom, and in what manner they have exercised those powers, and whether more extensive and more defined powers may be requisite to enable them to protect and to improve the Harbours of this Kingdom."976975974Mr. Hume
 thought it was of the utmost importance that the plan of the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet, since they appeared agreed on the same plan, should be immediately adopted against Spain and Brazils, which were the only two outstanding powers who did not join to put an end to the odious traffic. He was glad to see that the speech of the right hon. Baronet displayed equal firmness and caution, for it appeared to him that the want of due caution had been mainly the cause of the evils and impediments which had occurred. It had been said that Spain was under peculiar obligations to join this country and other Powers in putting an end to the Slave Trade; but the noble Lord had for the first time made an admission that it was the influence of this country brought to bear on one of two conflicting parties in Spain, which had led to the triumph of the Queen and liberty. He did not think, however, that either the noble Lord or the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had any right to say that Don Carlos was more the representative of despotism than Queen Isabella. The one talked about the Inquisition: the other established it.Mr. Borthwick
 said, that he did not think it would be considered satisfactory unless the Evidence as well as the Report was printed. They could not judge of the character of the Report unless they had the Evidence also printed upon which that Report was founded. He would suggest that the whole should be printed, and that hon. Members should be made responsible for the circulation of it beyond the precincts of this House. He moved to add the words together with the Minutes of Evidence.Mr. T. Duncombe
916cul de sac,"915—Sir: having been a Member of the Committee on the Health of Towns, and taking great interest in the subject, and having given some attention to it, I beg to say a few words on the Bill now under the consideration of the House. As far as buildings in Towns were concerned, the attention of the Committee on
916cul de sac,"915Mr. Mackinnon
bonâ fide wished to ask what instructions had been given to British cruisers on the American coast, and whether if an English vessel saw a vessel hoisting the American flag, she would have any right to board her—not to search her, but to ascertain whether she was bonâ fideSir C. Napier
 merely rose to advise the right hon. Baronet not to treat with too much contempt the Prince de Joinville's pamphlet. The right hon. Baronet might depend upon it, that in the event of a war steam would be found to have given France such a power as it would not do to despise. Steam had given an attacking enemy such power that you never knew from what quarter you might expect an attack. A great many harbours would be wanted to save our merchantmen from attacks, which might be made from any quarter.Sir C. Napier
 said, this case had been so often before the House, that it would only be necessary for him to allude to it very briefly. The placing of patients at the Haslar Hospital was perfectly voluntary on the part of their friends, and they could be removed at pleasure. This being the case, it was not reasonable to ask for a return of any portion of the sum paid for their maintenance, because the charge had been subsequently reduced, and particularly since the original sum was not sufficient to defray all the expenses. He had the greatest sympathy for Mrs. Forbes, whom he believed to be a most respectable lady. But after a most searching investigation into the case he could not find any ground for believing that Mr. Forbes acquired his malady in the service, or that it was his duty to assent to the Motion. He was therefore reluctantly compelled to oppose it.—Motion withdrawn.Sir G. Cockburn
Vengeur,l.988 rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice respecting the claims of the Naval Officers in the Lunatic Asylum at Haslar. He said that no doubt it was well known to every hon. Member that an asylum had existed for a great number of years at Hoxton, in which Lunatic Naval Officers were afforded shelter, and maintained at the public expense, the Vote for which had always formed a part of the Navy Estimates. It appeared, however, that without any Order of the House the Officers placed in Hoxton Asylum had been removed to that of Haslar. He was not aware that any person complained of the change so far as treatment was concerned, because he believed the treatment at that asylum was of the first kind and worthy the institutions of this country. But the complaint which he had to make was, that none of the relatives of those Officers had been made aware of the change, and that they had only gained a knowledge of it when they found that one-half of the half-pay which they formerly received at the Navy Pay Office was withheld. To those who know the small income of half-pay Officers, the deprivation of that income would appear a tremendous sacrifice. The practice which existed for eight or nine years was to deduct half of the half-pay for the expense of maintaining the Officer in the Asylum, but when the right hon. Baronet opposite agreed to lower the charge to a fixed sum it was proposed that the Government should pay back the arrears. The Board of Admiralty of those days communicated to one of the parties that such was their intention; but in nine days afterwards, on the 20th of June, 1832, they intimated,
Vengeur,l.988Captain Pechell
 said, the right hon. Baronet had, with his usual caution, prevented the First Naval Lord of the Admiralty giving a reply to the question of his hon. and gallant Friend. He was most anxious to have an explanation of this part of the question, of how the officers on service were to conduct themselves on this difficult question? He concurred in the plan for increasing the force on the coast of Africa, and he approved of the determination not to leave the coasts of Brazil and Cuba unwatched. He was very glad to find American vessels co-operating with ours, and he hoped this good feeling would continue. With respect to the exertions of the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) to suppress slavery, he thought the thanks of the whole of civilised Europe were due to that noble Lord for putting down the detestable traffic.Captain Pechell
l.l.l.l. said, it would probably be in the recollection of the House, that in 1835 the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had proposed that the Bishops should have certain fixed incomes; the Archbishop of Canterbury was to have 15,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Elphinstone
981 said, the hon. Gentleman who made this Motion had referred in public to a private conversation he had with him (Sir J. Graham). For the public discussion of the subject of that conversation he (Sir J. Graham) was not prepared; the hon. Gentleman had done him the honour to speak with him on the subject; he stated to the hon. Gentleman the doubts he then felt as to acceding to the Motion, but he was not prepared to have this made public. He told the hon. Gentleman subsequently that the Government would not object to the returns; he found that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for Ireland had made returns of the character of those the hon. Gentleman desired to be made by the English Commissioners, and he then stated that, upon the whole, he should consent to the Motion. In doing so, however, he must declare that he could not consider the funds placed under the management of the Ecclesiasti-
981Sir J. Graham
978977 would answer the question of the gallant Captain first. He could
978977Sir R. Peel
984 hoped, that no debate in this
984Sir R. Peel
967966Palmerston:965964963962961960"If a greater force than there now is were placed there under a superintending control, no notice given of the particular station to which they were allotted, but to occupy various positions, and to watch the whole coast, he would undertake to say that in two years you would do more to suppress the Slave Trade than if five times the same force were sent out to the coasts of Brazil and Cuba."959958957"He was quite ready to admit that from 1831 to 1838 might have been notice sufficient to justify the concession then made; but he did not understand how, in 1841 and 1842, after the treaty of the 15th July, the enormous concessions contained in the treaty relative to the Right of Search would be justifiable."956"He was not the Minister, either in 1838 or 1839, when this arrangement was first in contemplation. He was however informed by their Ambassador at London that the protocol was signed and everything arranged for the
956bonâ fide955954953952951950949"That an humble Address to be presented to Her Majesty, representing that this House, sharing the deep abhorrence with which the people of this Country regard the Slave Trade, most earnestly beseech Her Majesty not to consent to any alteration or modification of any of the Treaties now in force between Her Majesty and Foreign States, for the suppression of the Slave Trade, which by weakening the means which those Treaties now afford for the prevention of that piratical offence, might tend to render more easy the perpetration of that detestable crime.": Sir, I could hardly have inferred from the modest terms in which the Notice of the noble Lord who has just sat down is worded, that it would have afforded him an opportunity for making the rhetorical display in which he has just indulged—a more harmless Motion than that which I read on the notices of this day I can hardly conceive. The noble Lord calls for, "A Return, &c." [The right hon. Baronet read the Motion.] Why, really, Sir, a more innocuous Motion never yet was made in this House, and it reminds me of the course pursued by the noble Lord in former Sessions, when, after a period of comparative inactivity, he was wont to come down to this House not for the purpose of stimulating or inviting Ministers to activity, but in order to deliver a factious speech in making a Motion to which the most captious Minister could not raise the slightest objection. I recollect that at the early part of the Session the noble Lord exhibited some inclination to deliver the speech which the House has just heard. I give him credit for the extent and fidelity of his memory. Having, so long ago as the 11th of March, entertained this intention, the noble Lord has, notwithstanding the multitude and variety of public business that has intervened been the present time and that period, not only retained the recollection of his Motion, but also the very words in which it was put forward. The noble Lord had, at the date I have referred to, a Motion on the Paper, which was of importance. On the 11th of March, I find a Notice of Motion—
967966Palmerston:965964963962961960"If a greater force than there now is were placed there under a superintending control, no notice given of the particular station to which they were allotted, but to occupy various positions, and to watch the whole coast, he would undertake to say that in two years you would do more to suppress the Slave Trade than if five times the same force were sent out to the coasts of Brazil and Cuba."959958957"He was quite ready to admit that from 1831 to 1838 might have been notice sufficient to justify the concession then made; but he did not understand how, in 1841 and 1842, after the treaty of the 15th July, the enormous concessions contained in the treaty relative to the Right of Search would be justifiable."956"He was not the Minister, either in 1838 or 1839, when this arrangement was first in contemplation. He was however informed by their Ambassador at London that the protocol was signed and everything arranged for the
956bonâ fide955954953952951950949"That an humble Address to be presented to Her Majesty, representing that this House, sharing the deep abhorrence with which the people of this Country regard the Slave Trade, most earnestly beseech Her Majesty not to consent to any alteration or modification of any of the Treaties now in force between Her Majesty and Foreign States, for the suppression of the Slave Trade, which by weakening the means which those Treaties now afford for the prevention of that piratical offence, might tend to render more easy the perpetration of that detestable crime."Sir R. Peel
968 trusted his right hon. Friend would not give the required explanation. We had received no particulars of the instructions furnished by the American Government to their cruisers, and he did not see the expediency of giving such an answer as was sought for by the hon. and gallant Member. The last accounts which had been received were of a satisfactory nature. Captain Foot's letter to the American commodore, offering his cordial co-operation to prevent slavery, had been met in a friendly spirit, and Her Majesty's Government had been assured that every hope existed of a continuance of the friendly understanding which at present existed with the cruisers of the United States. As he could not give the hon. and gallant Officer the particulars of the instructions, so he hoped his right hon.
968Sir R. Peel
948"Return, showing the total number of African Negroes landed for the purposes of Slavery on the Islands and on the Continent of America, from the year 1815 to the year 1843, both inclusive; distinguishing the number so landed in each of those years, and distinguishing also the number landed in each year on the territory of each separate State or Power, so far as the same
948947946945944943942941940939938937936935934933932931930929928927926925924923***:948"Return, showing the total number of African Negroes landed for the purposes of Slavery on the Islands and on the Continent of America, from the year 1815 to the year 1843, both inclusive; distinguishing the number so landed in each of those years, and distinguishing also the number landed in each year on the territory of each separate State or Power, so far as the same
948947946945944943942941940939938937936935934933932931930929928927926925924923***Viscount Palmerston
973972971970969 thought the right hon. Baronet at the beginning of his speech, did injustice to himself in complaining that the notice of the Motion did not afford him an opportunity of preparing himself for all the subjects adverted to in his speech; for every one who knew
973972971970969Viscount Palmerston
 moved an Amendment, pursuant to notice, that in line 12, after the words, "by virtue of this Act," these words be inserted, "provided always, and be it further enacted, that whenever it shall appear to the board of any district school that the space within such school is more than sufficient for the accommodation of poor children within the district for which such school shall have been built, it shall and may be lawful for such board to make order for the admission of so many other children residing in the said district as shall seem expedient; and the weekly provision for the maintenance and education of such children shall be fixed by the board at such rate as shall in their judgment be amply sufficient to cover every expense on account of such children."Mr. S. O'Brien
993pro formâ could not but feel much gratified at the manner in which this Bill had been received by the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) and the House, and concurred with the right hon. Baronet that it was not likely at so late a period of the Session he could engage the attention of the House to its clauses, so as to have them amended, and placed in that state he should desire to see them before they passed into law. He did not entertain any expectation of passing the Bill during the present year, nor was it his intention to attempt to pass it. He would adopt most willingly the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, and would now move that the House resolve itself into Committee 993pro formâMr. Cowper
 having moved the Order of the Day for the Committee on the Field Gardens Bill,Mr. Cowper
 said, he was astonished to find the Bill so far advanced at half-past six o'clock. He thought it would have been no great stretch of courtesy, under the circumstances, if the noble Lord had postponed the Bill. He had intended to propose several Amendments in some of the Clauses, which he had been deprived of the opportunity of doing; but he should feel it his duty to bring them forward on the Report, and to recommend them to the attention of the House. He felt that the Bill had been smuggled through the House without that fair and proper consideration which was due to a measure affecting so great a mass of property; but he hoped that in the other House of Parliament there were parties who had a better feeling of what was demanded by the magnitude of the interests at stake. Yes, thank God, there was a House of Lords, and he did not despair that the Bill would there receive more attention.Mr. Hawes
 moved to substitute the words "district surveyor," instead of "official referees."Mr. Hawes
 said, he would take the sense of the House against it.Mr. Hawes
992 referred to the education of the pauper children at Norwood, which, he said, was of a very superior kind. He did not think that the education afforded in the schools that would be discontinued, could be put in competition with that which would be given in these district schools. He was afraid that by the pro-
992Mr. Hawes
 suggested that the words "lawful minister" should be substituted for "licensed minister," which was a term of doubtful construction.Mr. Hawes
 did not see why, having given such extraordinary powers to the Commissioners in other things, they did not leave them some control in the matter of education. Give the children of the poor education, and he had no fears as to who had the control. He should move an Amendment in line six, after the word "board," to insert the words "subject to the approval of the Poor Law Commissioners."Mr. Wakley
 opposed the Amendment, on the ground that it would give the Commissioners control over the education of the whole poor of the country.Mr. Ferrand
 wished to know what was to become of the Dissenters and Catholics?Sir C. Napier
 said, the whole of this Clause would be governed by the proviso at the end, which enacted, that at all reasonable hours of the day "any licensed minister of the religious persuasion professed by any adult inmate, or if the religious persuasion in which any child has been brought up, or in which the parents, or surviving parent, or next of kin, as the case may be, shall desire such child to be instructed, to visit the school or ayslum at the request of such adult inmate, for the purpose of affording to him religious assistance, or to visit such child for the purpose of instructing such child in the principles of his religion."Sir J. Graham
 proposed an Amendment in page 18, line 13, after "Guardians," insert "and every such board for a school district shall appoint, with the consent of the Bishop of the diocese, at least one chaplain of the Established Church, as one of the paid officers aforesaid, who shall be empowered to superintend the religious instruction of all the infant poor being under the control of such District Board," was inserted.Sir J. Graham
primâ facie991 said, the suggestion of his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire was an important one, and the argument was rather in favour of its adoption. He was, however, inclined to allow the experiment to be tried, limiting it to pauper children, before they attempted to carry it a step further. It would be difficult to fix the precise charge for educating the children of the poor generally in
primâ facie991Sir J. Graham
990 said, he had taken the words from the Clause which regulated the admission of dissenting and Catholic
990Sir J. Graham
 had come down to the House full of anxiety as to the discussion on those Clauses relating to education and religious instruction. He was happy to say that the lone the discussion had taken had altogether removed that anxiety. The great object of all was to give to the poor the largest amount of education. Now, he would state what was his view of the matter. It was quite clear that these schools would be established only in populous districts, and to those districts alone in the main were they applicable, and though there were not so many schools in those districts as he could desire, still generally, there were schools already established. His fears were that the attractions of these district schools—the terms of which would be liberal—would bring them into direct competition with those other schools in the neighbourhood, many of which would cease to exist. And though you would improve the district schools by the extension proposed, still, as it would have the effect of shutting up other schools, he was of opinion that the Clause, limited, as it now was, would upon the whole, ensure the largest amount of education to the poor.Sir J. Graham
pro formâ, said, he thought there could be but little hope of this Bill passing into a law during the present Session. If that should also be the opinion of the hon. Gentleman, he would then suggest to him that the better course would be to go into Committee on the Bill pro formâ,Sir J. Graham
1007"Providing that the Commissioners shall, upon application in writing of two-thirds of the guardians of parishes containing more than 20,000 persons, declare such parish be separated from a union." then moved an addition to the Clause:—
1007"Providing that the Commissioners shall, upon application in writing of two-thirds of the guardians of parishes containing more than 20,000 persons, declare such parish be separated from a union."Colonel Wood
Sandon:: They had nothing to do with the constitution of the Committee of the House of Lords; but they had with that of the Commons. If the Government acted differently in the two Houses, they had a right to complain. But he begged the House to consider the view now taken by the Committee, as to the nature of the evidence to be adduced. They had not pressed the hon. Member for Finsbury to supply them with the information which he could adduce. [Lord Sandon:Mr. V. Smith
1021: It was not for him to say whether the hon. Member for Finsbury or any lawyers should have been originally placed on the Committee. The Committee offered to hear Mr. Duncombe, but he refused unless on certain conditions,
1021The O'Conor Don
 withdrew his Motion.Mr. V. Smith
 thought it of the greatest importance that the public should be satisfied as to this proceeding. The Committee was composed of the friends of the late and present Governments, and he thought it most unwise to exclude the Member for Finsbury, if they meant that the inquiry should be satisfactory to the public.Mr. Williams
Sheil:1044v.1043 said, the hon. Member for Louth had acted unfairly and unjustly in having brought under the consideration of the House a matter which had been discussed a few evenings ago, and also at an early period of the Session. He had not spoken the other evening on the question, because he expected the debate would have been continued by some legal person on the other side of the House, to whom he could have replied. He was prepared to speak on Monday, and would have spoken had any legal Gentleman on the other side addressed the House on the law of the case. He put it to the House whether it was fair or just to refer to the subject this evening. Now, with reference to the Bill under discussion. He thought the right hon. Gentleman had unfairly confounded the characters of the spy and the informer, which were widely distinct from each other. And although a Government could not hope to prosecute to conviction a member of a secret society without making use of an informer, he would for himself tell the House he was the last person who would advise the Government to make use of a spy. It was not his the (Attorney General's) wish to justify any improper proceeding on the part of the police or of informers; and he would now distinctly state that if, after a man had given information to the police, he was sent back among the people to entrap persons into the commission of crime, there was not a person in the House more ready than himself to denounce such conduct as most unwarrantable and most unjustifiable, and he would most distinctly say that the law officers of the Crown ought not to use any such information. But the case of an informer was altogether different. The hon. Member for Kildare had adverted to a case in the county of Monaghan, in which he stated that a spy was employed. He (the Attorney General) did not think that any spy was employed in that case. The Judges in Ireland had put a strict construction upon this act. They did not think that if passwords were found in the pockets of individuals, purporting to be
Sheil:1044v.1043Mr. T. B. C. Smith (Attorney General for Ireland)
1045 trusted, that in future the Irish Government would be disposed to repudiate information derived from such polluted sources as spies and informers. It generally happened that parties who had been informers were continued as spies, and employed themselves in circulating sedition among the people in order to make their occupation seem necessary. In the case of an informer of the name of Kane, in Sligo, he had sworn that he lived solely
1045The O'Connor Don
"And be it further Enacted, that the Commissioners shall not be empowered to enforce indiscriminate separation between man and wife, and that in no instance shall they sanction or allow separation when the application for relief shall be substantiated as arising from positive inability to obtain work, or from physical infirmity, and not from idleness, vice, or crime." said, that in the Act for Abolishing Slavery in the West Indies, it was provided that apprentice labourers should not be separated from their wives, their parents, their children, or from any persons reputed to stand towards them in that relation. That Act declared, that notwithstanding transfers to be made of negro apprentices, they were not to be separated from their wives or even from their concubines. Then he would ask, in this Christian civilized country, were Englishmen to be separated from their lawful wives. He did not bring forward, with any view to popularity, a plan which he believed to be impracticable; on the contrary, it was not only practicable, but, in its tendency, highly moral. The Parliament of this country professed to found their legislation upon Christian principles, and to take the Bible for their rule: with what consistency, then, could they refuse to agree to the Motion which he proposed, and which was,—
"And be it further Enacted, that the Commissioners shall not be empowered to enforce indiscriminate separation between man and wife, and that in no instance shall they sanction or allow separation when the application for relief shall be substantiated as arising from positive inability to obtain work, or from physical infirmity, and not from idleness, vice, or crime."Mr. Yorke
 would willingly give up to the matter of phraseology, provided the right hon. Baronet gave up the principle. That which he sought to effect was, to take from the Commissioners the power of separating man and wife. He wished to transfer that power to the guardians, and let them exercise the power of separation in all cases of paupers who had shown themselves to be reckless and dissolute members of society. It was well known that many paupers had been separated from their wives through no fault of their own. He should, therefore, take the sense of the House upon the Clause which he had proposed.Mr. Yorke
 could not avoid noticing the altered tone which now prevailed with respect to this Clause, as compared with the reception which it met with on a former occasion. He was sorry to give the House the trouble of dividing; but a sense of duty rendered it impossible for him to do otherwise.Mr. Yorke
1058 said, the question could not be one of departure from principle, since there were, as the right hon. Baronet had said, already seven cases in which the principle was departed from. The question was, whether they should add another to the number of exceptions; and he, for one, was prepared to say that he did not think such a new departure would open another flood-gate to the return of old abuses. He could not help wishing that the proposed exception should not be added to the others, for he certainly did not think that the case was comprised in those already existing. Stringency in this matter would have a great tendency to make paupers, not only of the widow, but of the children, they had no means of preserving themselves against the calamity
1058Sir T. D. Acland
 thought this discretion might safely be left to the Poor Law Commissioners. He believed the unions were made at first much too large, chiefly owing to the apprehensions of the rate-payers that great expences would be incurred in building union-houses; but the feeling in the country was now very different, and therefore the same reason could not apply.Lord Worsley
 had conscientiously opposed the Poor Law for many years, but he must say, that the Amendments which had now been made in that law by the right hon. Baronet removed most of his objections.Mr. Liddell
10371036Mr. M. O'Ferrall:1035"The noble Lord opposite had taken credit for the Committee as having caused the Government to propose this Bill; but, in fact, it had engaged the attention of the Attorney General for a long time before he left Ireland; and that when that, learned Gentleman was Solicitor General, he had stated to the House of Commons his intention to introduce such a Bill.""The subject had engaged the attention of the Government during the last year, and that they had proposed the Bill in consequence of information they had received respecting it. He then only alluded to that part of the Bill which related to the use of pass words, and he should be happy to meet the objection of the noble Lord opposite by inserting the words 'without lawful excuse.'"1034 said, he certainly did feel great surprise, at the charge which, at the outset of his speech, the right hon. Gentleman brought against the Government, and he had therefore evinced it by the cheer to which the hon. Gentleman had referred. It appeared, that though the Government were charged with acting disrespectfully to the House in not having stated the grounds on which they asked for the renewal of this Act, the original Act had been passed through the House by the Government of which the right hon. Gentleman was a Member, without the least explanation having been offered
10371036Mr. M. O'Ferrall:1035"The noble Lord opposite had taken credit for the Committee as having caused the Government to propose this Bill; but, in fact, it had engaged the attention of the Attorney General for a long time before he left Ireland; and that when that, learned Gentleman was Solicitor General, he had stated to the House of Commons his intention to introduce such a Bill.""The subject had engaged the attention of the Government during the last year, and that they had proposed the Bill in consequence of information they had received respecting it. He then only alluded to that part of the Bill which related to the use of pass words, and he should be happy to meet the objection of the noble Lord opposite by inserting the words 'without lawful excuse.'"1034Lord Eliot
 moved that the Unlawful Oaths (Ireland) Bill be read a third time.Lord Eliot
 explained that it was the most anxious wish of the Ministers so to modify the Bill as to make it as unobjecionable as possible.Lord Eliot
 thought it was not necessary to take the sense of the Committee upon the Motion, as he conceived that the case was already comprehended in some of the seven exceptions to which the right hon. Baronet had referred.Mr. Hawes
: The House having once come to a decision on a specific Motion, it cannot be renewed. When a proposition is made and negatived, the House cannot again entertain one to the same effect.The Speaker
 stated, that a Motion was made on the 2nd of July, "That Thomas Slingsby Duncombe, Esq., be one other Member of the said Committee;" that that question was put, and negatived upon a division; that he considered it was contrary to the usage and practice of the House, that a question which had passed in the negative should be again proposed in the same Session.The Speaker
 congratulated the Birmingham people on their return to their senses, evinced by the return of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner) for Birmingham. "Let the galled jade wince, his withers were unwrung." He doubted not, if there were another election in Birmingham, the electors there would return another Gentleman to keep company with his hon. Friend on that (the Ministerial) side of the House. He should also vote for the amendment.Colonel Sibthorp
1049 adverted to the successful efforts
1049Mr. Ross
: The Members of the Committee were in a peculiar situation, for their mouths were closed as to the evidence. The Members for Northampton and Montrose argued on the necessity of a complete inquiry, it being quite impossible for the Members of the Committee to admit or deny that the present deserved to be so described. They could only say what was the truth, that they had pursued the inquiry without regard to either party, and that the most ample evidence had been placed at their disposal. It would be a most inconvenient course to allow any hon. Gentleman to attend on the terms of the original Motion; and to add him to the Committee would be more unreasonable, inasmuch as a great part of the inquiry had already been proceeded with.Mr. Strutt
 supported the Clause. It was by no means one rendering anything compulsory upon the widow, but it merely legalized a something—giving a power to the guardians to act in a benevolent manner towards a very helpless and dependent class of the community.Mr. G. Bankes
1060 wished this Clause had been printed, and in the hands of Members for some time before they were called on to adopt it. Really this was a matter of very great importance. It was not only in the north of England and in the
1060Mr. Bankes
"That power be given to the Poor Law Commissioners, or to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, upon sufficient cause being shown, to detach any parish or parishes, township or townships, from one union, and attach them to another, or to create a new union by the severing of parishes or townships, from one or more unions, and uniting and forming them into an entire union." moved the following Clause:
"That power be given to the Poor Law Commissioners, or to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, upon sufficient cause being shown, to detach any parish or parishes, township or townships, from one union, and attach them to another, or to create a new union by the severing of parishes or townships, from one or more unions, and uniting and forming them into an entire union."Mr. Darby
 hoped that the hon. Member would not take the sense of the House on the question, and, if he should, it was to be hoped that the House would not agree to the proposition for this amongst other reasons—that it was by no means desirable to impose on the guardians the duty of deciding upon the characters of those who applied at the workhouses for relief, and that undoubtedly would be the effect of such an addition to the Bill as the hon. Gentleman now proposed. Why should guardians possess the power of punishing any class of paupers?Mr. Darby
 observed there was to be not only no jury, but no appeal as the Clause stood. He trusted the right hon. Baronet would reconsider the matter.Mr. Darby
"That it shall not be lawful for the said Commissioners to interfere with the management of the Poor in any parish containing more than 20,000 inhabitants, where relief has been hitherto administered to the Poor by Guardians under the provisions of a local Act without first obtaining the consent, in writing, of at least two-thirds of such Guardians, or a majority of Ratepayers assembled in public meeting, called especially for that purpose." moved, that the whole of the latter part of the Clause, relating to parishes with a population of more than 20,000, be omitted, for the purpose of inserting the words,
"That it shall not be lawful for the said Commissioners to interfere with the management of the Poor in any parish containing more than 20,000 inhabitants, where relief has been hitherto administered to the Poor by Guardians under the provisions of a local Act without first obtaining the consent, in writing, of at least two-thirds of such Guardians, or a majority of Ratepayers assembled in public meeting, called especially for that purpose."Mr. Muntz
1056"And be it Enacted, that, in the case of any person being a widow, who shall have
1056 proposed the following Clause:—
1056"And be it Enacted, that, in the case of any person being a widow, who shall have
1056Mr. Burroughes
 had no wish to conceal the evidence; his only objection to it being printed was, that it cast imputations on different individuals.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1019 said, it would be well for the House to recollect the principle they had adopted in the appointment of this Committee. They had departed from the usual precedents in forming Committees; for they had determined that they would have no lawyers on the Committee—that the accuser himself should not be present—and also that they would exclude from it all those who did hold or had held high office in Her Majesty's Council. He confessed, that at the time he thought this was a fair principle, but circumstances took place a short time afterwards which excited in his mind, and in the minds of many other Members, the greatest possible surprise. He found from the usual
1019Mr. Labouchere
 felt much gratified by the speech of the right hon. Baronet, who had given so benevolent an interpretation to the Bill. He trusted that in future both sides would agree that legislation for Ireland should be of a different character to that which had emanated from all parties when in power.Dr. Bowring
 had known very many cases of severe hardships imposed upon widows under the present system, which he thought the proposed Clause was calculated to remedy, and he should, therefore, give it his support.Mr. Brocklehurst
 opposed the Clause. He thought it was based upon a false view of the interests both of the rate-payers and of the class whom it sought to protect.Mr. Childers
: But, Sir, may not a Motion be renewed under new circumstances?Mr. Hume
1017 was sorry that this question had been managed as it had been. It had thrown a great deal of scandal on the British Government abroad, and the present proceeding was likely to add to it. He was sorry he was not in the House when the Committee was appointed, or he should have opposed the omission of his hon. Friend's name. He believed in the annals of Parliament no similar instance would be found of a person coming forward as his hon. Friend had done, and giving himself all the trouble he had done, for which the country owed him a great deal, and his being refused to be allowed to attend the Committee appointed to investigate the subject of which he was so completely master. The Committee had only official men before them, and could know nothing of the persons who had given the information to his hon. Friend. The noble Lord said, his hon. Friend wanted to be aware of all the secrets of the Committee; but his hon. Friend never wanted to be a Member of the Committee, and he only wanted to be present during the examination of those witnesses who were to support those charges which he made on his own responsibility. His hon. Friend did not want to vote. He only wished to be
1017Mr. Hume
 observed that those who now resisted the further progress of the Bill did so upon distinct evidence that its provisions had been abused; and if he thought the caution of Government would prevent it in future, he for one would not divide against the third reading. He trusted that the substance of what the right hon. Baronet had said would be conveyed to the police in positive instructions, for he feared that there were not a few Ogles among the constables. He would support any measure for putting an end to secret societies; and after the excellent speech of the right hon. Baronet, perhaps it would be better not to divide.Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell
1040Times10391038"He would give an instance of the way in which Gentlemen opposite had acted in the
1038 believed that if the Government which originally introduced the Bill of 1839 had the carrying of it into execution, they would have acted in the true spirit of the intention of the Legislature; and therefore what had been said by the noble Lord as to the late Government having brought in the measure had little weight with him. He thought the propriety of the Bill when first introduced mainly depended upon who were to be the parties by whom it was to be administered. The subject of the administration of the law in Ireland had been under the consideration of the House in two or three different shapes during the present Session. It had been before the House in the case of the Special Jury Lists on the late State Trials, and although it might be said that that related to the question of the formation of juries, and not to the administration of illegal oaths, yet it was nevertheless a case as to the administration of justice; and when arguing as to the conduct of the Government with respect to the formation of juries, they might very fairly go on and argue as to how the Government would act in the prosecution of the present law. Within this very fortnight, by a return which had been made to the House of a list of the persons competent to serve as jurors in his district, it appeared that not less than 647 Catholics were qualified to serve, while the number of names on the panel was in one year only thirty-seven, and in another year forty-three. The Attorney General for Ireland had said, that he would watch with jealousy how this Bill would be put into practice, but when he considered the statements made by the right hon. and learned Gentleman in the early part of the Session, during the protracted debate on the state of Ireland, it induced him to be very cautious how he received the assurances of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. The statement was this:—
1040Times10391038"He would give an instance of the way in which Gentlemen opposite had acted in the
1038Mr. R. M. Bellew
1033l.103210311030"We have experienced the greatest dfficulty in acting on the information we have obtained, nor have we succeeded in bringing the outrages of Ribbonism to conviction; but I can hardly go the length of saying that the law is inadequate to the suppression of those societies.""Do you consider the law in its present state adequate to the suppression of these societies?"1029l.,10281027Cheers. was sorry that a Bill of such great importance, and that touched so materially on the liberty of the subject, should have advanced to its third reading, after having been four months before the House, without any Member of Her Majesty's Government stating any reason for the continuance of this Bill. There was a discussion on the Bill in Committee, but there was none on the principle of the Bill. Since he had had the honour of a seat in this House it had always been usual, when a Bill was introduced relating to the preservation of the public peace, or called for by circumstances of pressing public necessity, that it should be introduced by a statement from a Minister of the Crown, or the recommendation of a Committee. [1033l.103210311030"We have experienced the greatest dfficulty in acting on the information we have obtained, nor have we succeeded in bringing the outrages of Ribbonism to conviction; but I can hardly go the length of saying that the law is inadequate to the suppression of those societies.""Do you consider the law in its present state adequate to the suppression of these societies?"1029l.,10281027Cheers.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 was quite satisfied with what had been said by the right hon. Baronet, and apprehended that his speech would be more effectual than any division. He suggested that the punishment should be changed from transportation to imprisonment, in order that if it turned out that a convicted party were really innocent, he might be discharged.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
1042Eliot:Attorney General for Ireland:1041"Malade Imaginaire,"Physician said, that he was sorry that his hon. Friend (Mr. Bellew) should have made reference to what had been said in a former debate respecting circumstances which had occurred fifteen years before. His (Mr. Sheil's) great objection to this Bill was, that it furnished to informers an opportunity to carry on their vocation, which, but for this Bill, they would have no means of doing. Up to the year 1839 this Bill was not found to be necessary; but in that year the late Attorney General for Ireland brought the measure forward, and it was passed into a law. The Tories select the Whigs as a pattern and as an example: if the Whigs have ever proposed an arbitrary measure, they are chosen as a model, while their liberal legislation, is pointed at only as an example to deter from imitation. The Bill introduced by the Whigs in 1839 was only enacted for a period of five years. Those five years had expired. The noble Lord had said that this Bill was either necessary in order to suppress illegal associations, if they existed, or to prevent such associations from again arising if they did not at present exist. This was re-enacting the part of the 1042Eliot:Attorney General for Ireland:1041"Malade Imaginaire,"PhysicianMr. Sheil
 supported the Amendment. He could not see the force of the right hon. Baronet's reasons for opposing it. The first ground was, that they would by agreeing to this Amendment undo that which had been done yesterday. That was one great reason why he (Mr. Spooner) intended to vote for the Amendment. The borough of Birmingham was governed by a system in which the opinions of the whole rate-paying population was represented; that system had worked well, and had given universal satisfaction; but if the guardians, who, under that system, administered the Poor Law, were to be interfered with as proposed by this law, he could assure the Committee they would not consent to act, as they then would be the mere servants to the Commissioners.Mr. Spooner
1057 had met constantly with cases of the most grievous hardship, occasioned by compelling widows to go back for subsistence to the parishes to which they originally belonged, when they probably had numerous friends, and were
1057Mr. Spooner
 hoped that the Poor Law Commissioners would be enabled by this Clause to revoke some of their former decisions made against most urgent representations respecting the formation of unions, some of the parishes of which were seventeen miles from the workhouse.Mr. Christopher
ex officio said, the Clause gave a most extraordinary power to the justices in Quarter Sessions—namely, to decide actions usually tried at Nisi Prius before the Judges and Jury, and involving it might be the most difficult questions of law, and damages to the amount of several hundreds of pounds, without any of the facilities afforded by the pleading used in Courts of Law. He looked on this as the first attempt to transfer to justices at Quarter Sessions the proper business of the Judges of Assize, and he hoped the House would not consent thus to supersede the best rights and privileges of the subject. It was monstrous to enable these Justices in Quarter Sessions, all of whom were ex officioMr. R. Scott
 replied, that in the part of the country with which he was connected there had occurred, within his own knowledge, as many as thirty or forty cases such as he had described. The Clause which he proposed was in conformty with the existing state of the law, and he conceived that there would be no great difficulty in remedying the evil without increasing or complicating legislation.Mr. R. Scott
1052"Provided always, and be it further enacted, that wherever overseers shall have for the first
1052v. said, there was a source of great injustice in many counties, which he was desirous of removing. At present, wherever there were parishes, consisting of many townships, it was in the power of any one township to separate from the rest, and provide within itself for the maintenance of its own poor. Under the present Bill it was proposed that this power should be taken away; but within a few years several townships had thus separated from the rest of the parishes to which they belonged, in order to relieve themselves from the payment of a heavier rate than they would have to pay if they provided for their own poor. By a recent decision of the Court of Queen's Bench the object these townships had in view of relieving themselves from the payment of rates had been carried still further, and it was now the law that whenever a township has separated, no pauper formerly settled in that township can be removed back to that township, unless he had again gained a settlement since the separation. The case of "The Queen 1052"Provided always, and be it further enacted, that wherever overseers shall have for the first
1052v.Mr. R. Scott
"That it be an Instruction to the Secret Committee on the Post Office, that they do allow Thomas Slingsby Duncombe, esquire, Member for the borough of Finsbury, to attend before the said Committee, and produce and examine witnesses in support of the petitions of Joseph Mazzini and others, and of Charles Stolzman, referred to the said Committee."1014101310121011: I wish, Sir, to make a statement of some importance with reference to a particular branch of the proceedings of this House, and to which I have called the attention of this House, by a Notice upon the Paper, in order that neither the Members of the Government, nor of the Secret Committee upon the Post Office, should say that they were taken by surprise. It is not the practice or rule of this House to refer to or interfere with any business under discussion in a Committee, but I think that there are special cases in which the proceedings of a Committee may be investigated, or attention drawn to them without trenching upon the usual and proper practice, because, in my judgment at least, it would be preposterous and absurd to lay down such a rule as that if a Committee of this House has committed any great injustice or any great error, that you shall not inquire into that injustice or that error until the report be made, when it will be too late to remedy the one or correct the other. Therefore, with the permission of the House—and without any intention of entering into the subject matter of the Committee—I beg to call attention to proceedings which I take to be of great public interest and importance. On Saturday last I was summoned before the Post Office Secret Committee; upon
"That it be an Instruction to the Secret Committee on the Post Office, that they do allow Thomas Slingsby Duncombe, esquire, Member for the borough of Finsbury, to attend before the said Committee, and produce and examine witnesses in support of the petitions of Joseph Mazzini and others, and of Charles Stolzman, referred to the said Committee."1014101310121011Mr. Thomas Duncombe
1023 replied. The noble Lord (Lord Sandon) said it would be a slur on the Committee if he were allowed to watch its proceedings. It would be, in his opinion, a greater slur on them to have his name added as a member of that Committee. But then it was said, if he were allowed to be present it would be tantamount to his being a member. It might just as well be said that the counsel proving the preamble of a private Bill was in the position of a member of the Committee. It was unnecessary to go over every single thing that had occurred in the Committee. All he knew was, that the witnesses he wanted to call had not been called; and there had recently been, at the instance of the Government, a very searching inquiry in the Post-office, and almost a prosecution, to prevent information being given. That being so, he (Mr. T. Duncombe) was bound to protect his witnesses, and he had no hesitation in saying what he said to the Committee, that this business must be examined through all its different ramifications, from the letter carrier to the person who opened and resealed the letters, and committed the forgeries. They must carry it through all the different steps to satisfy the public, and he knew the noble Lord and the Committee had not done so. He begged to ask the Secretary for the Home Department if his letters had been examined or not since the right hon. Gentleman came into office. He said that, as a Member of that House, he had a right to ask that question. If any letters had been opened it was a gross insult to the Members whose correspondence had been violated. The right hon. Baronet could have no hesitation in saying whether his letters had been opened or not. If they had not been opened by the right hon. Baronet's authority, he said they had been opened by some other persons, and therefore, he said, it was doubly incumbent that an inquiry and investigation should take place. As his right hon. Friend the Member for Northampton had observed, either the Committee were wrong in not allowing him to examine witnesses, or he was wrong in refusing the list of witnesses which he had tendered. Any other Committee having power to send for persons, papers, and records, if witnesses refused to give evidence before it, might commit them for contempt. Why should
1023Mr. Duncombe
 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he had any objection to the evidence given before the Commissioners of Revenue Inquiry being printed with their Report? The Report of the Commissioners had been ordered yesterday to be printed without the evidence, although he had given notice of his intention to move as an Amendment to the Motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the evidence be printed. He was sure if that evidence was not printed, the public would feel great dissatisfaction and disappointment, and justly so. He would, however, take good care to read in the House the evidence that was attached to that Report, so that it might be published and the public be made acquainted with it.Mr. T. Duncombe
: With regard to some of the evidence being offensive to certain individuals, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had told him, that it contained observations reflecting on a Mr. Rose, but he had Mr. Rose's authority for stating, that he wished that part of the evidence to be printed. He understood that in another part of the evidence a merchant in the city was called "an old screw," and he supposed that was a reason for inducing the right hon. Gentleman to suppress the evidence.Mr. T. Duncombe
 objected to the operation of this Clause being extended to those metropolitan parishes which were governed by local acts.Mr. T. Duncombe
 said, there had been some misunderstanding with regard to the hon. Member for Birmingham, who had just spoken. Somebody had made a mistake. They had been given to understand that the hon. Gentleman came to that House as a good old Tory, but what did they find? They found him supporting the Birmingham system of Poor Laws, because the guardians were elected triennially, because they were elected by ballot, and because the principle of universal suffrage in their election was recognised. If those were the principles of a Birmingham Tory, he hoped they should have many more of them in that House. He should support the Amendment.Mr. Wakley
 said, the great evil complained of by the minority in these parishes was, that the majority elected the vestry, and the vestry the auditors, and that they played into each other's hands.Mr. Wakley
"A case of an important nature was investigated at this office on yesterday. It appears that a young man named James Osberry, the driver of a back car, was taken up in the street by a lady, who told him to drive her to the Lower Castleyard. He proceeded to the place named, and when about to enter the gate the sentry held up his hand and called on him to stop. The young man did so, and then the soldier asked him, 'Have you a repeal button on your coat?' 'No,' replied Osberry, 'I have not.' The lady told the sentry that he had no right to stop the man; and added that she was the wife of a soldier, and ought not to be stopped. The sentry told the man to go on, when Sergeant R. Cassen, of the 24th Regiment, came up and said, 'Have you a repeal button on your coat?' 'No,' said Osberry, putting his hand to his breast 'don't you see I have not.' 'Have you one at all about you?' inquired the sergeant. 'I have one in my pocket,' replied the young man; 'I won't conceal that, as I don't want to tell you a lie.' 'Seize him, guard,' said the sergeant, and at once the young man was taken into custody by a file, and brought to Chancery lane station-house, where the following charge was entered against him:—'For forcing his way past the sentry, and for abusing the sergeant at the Lower Castlegate.' The charge having been entered, the prisoner was taken in custody of a policeman and a soldier, with a fixed bayonet, before the magistrates of Exchange-court police-court."Post,1009Dublin Evening, seeing the right hon. the Secretary for War opposite, begged to ask him the question, of which he had given him notice some days since. He (Mr. Wyse) had noticed in a late publication of the "A case of an important nature was investigated at this office on yesterday. It appears that a young man named James Osberry, the driver of a back car, was taken up in the street by a lady, who told him to drive her to the Lower Castleyard. He proceeded to the place named, and when about to enter the gate the sentry held up his hand and called on him to stop. The young man did so, and then the soldier asked him, 'Have you a repeal button on your coat?' 'No,' replied Osberry, 'I have not.' The lady told the sentry that he had no right to stop the man; and added that she was the wife of a soldier, and ought not to be stopped. The sentry told the man to go on, when Sergeant R. Cassen, of the 24th Regiment, came up and said, 'Have you a repeal button on your coat?' 'No,' said Osberry, putting his hand to his breast 'don't you see I have not.' 'Have you one at all about you?' inquired the sergeant. 'I have one in my pocket,' replied the young man; 'I won't conceal that, as I don't want to tell you a lie.' 'Seize him, guard,' said the sergeant, and at once the young man was taken into custody by a file, and brought to Chancery lane station-house, where the following charge was entered against him:—'For forcing his way past the sentry, and for abusing the sergeant at the Lower Castlegate.' The charge having been entered, the prisoner was taken in custody of a policeman and a soldier, with a fixed bayonet, before the magistrates of Exchange-court police-court."Post,1009Dublin EveningMr. Wyse
 said, that during the period he had had the honour of representing Marylebone (since 1837), and having attended closely to its parochial affairs, he could say that he had never before heard of the circumstance to which the right hon. Baronet had referred. He could not take on himself to assert that no such circumstance had taken place, but if it had he had never before heard of it. During the whole time he had been connected with the parish he had never heard of any complaint being made as to the manner in which the auditors performed their duty.Sir B. Hall
 withdrew his Motion to report progress, the Amendment proposed by Sir James Graham was agreed to, and the Clause ordered to stand part of the Bill.Sir C. Napier
1008 said, the right hon. Baronet had asked him a question. What answer did he expect? All he could say was, that since he had represented Marylebone he had never heard any rate-payer complain of the auditors. He believed they were satisfied with the auditors, and if they were not, they could get rid of them at the end of the year. The right hon. Baronet had asked him (Sir C. Napier) whether it were not true that certain remarks appended by the auditors, in
1008Sir C. Napier
 said, on a previous Clause he had ventured to submit to the right hon. Baronet the great inconvenience to which persons who were desirous of seeing their relatives in workhouses were subjected, in order to get admittance, and he had mentioned the case of a woman who was anxious to see a female relative in a workhouse who was near her confinement, but, upon application to the governor of the workhouse, had been refused. He wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet would consent to put an end to these complaints. He had also mentioned to the right hon. Baronet the objection that was felt by paupers generally to be employed in grinding bones in workhouses. The right hon. Baronet had stated his disapproval of such practices in union workhouses. He (Captain Pechell) had since understood that several hon. Members were not aware of this statement of the right hon. Baronet's, and he trusted, therefore, that he would now state what were his sentiments on the subject.Captain Pechell
1051, said, that with respect to the admission of the relatives of persons in workhouses, he could only say, that with every desire to superintend, so far as by law he was authorized, the working of the Poor Law, it was impossible for him, consistently with his other duties, to attend
1051Sir J. Graham
 said, that the point which the hon. Member stated was strictly technical, and one which presented considerable difficulties. He could not off-hand undertake to judge of the precise effect of the words which the hon. Member proposed to add to the Bill; he, therefore, was not quite clear that they would remedy the evil of which the hon. Member complained. But this, at all events, he must be allowed to say, that the cases for which it was now proposed to make provision were by no means of frequent occurrence, and he feared that the proposed change would give rise to more litigation than its author anticipated; he thought, it would, therefore, be much better to leave the Bill as it now stood. When parties lost their settlement and were in a destitute condition they must be relieved as casual poor; it was clear, then, that the Bill now before the House would not damnify them. The parishes must provide for such poor. The evil complained of was not wide spread, and he hoped that for the sake of providing a remedy the House would not agree to such a piece of complex legislation.Sir J. Graham
1053 observed, that it was often very difficult to ascertain an absolute right of settlement, but it would be doubly difficult to do so with regard to a hypothetical right, such as it was now proposed to create. If the hon. and learned Member would confer with him in private, they
1053Sir J. Graham
1054 assured the hon. Gentleman that he had no disposition to treat lightly the proposition which the hon. Member had just made, but it did appear to him that the phraseology adopted by the hon. Gentleman was by no means calculated to effect the object which he had in view, nor did he think that a Clause so framed ought to be added to the Bill, The proposed Clause went to prohibit indiscriminate separation. There might be indiscriminate connexion, but he objected to the introduction of such a phrase into the Bill as indiscriminate separation. The Clause, however, was altogether unnecessary. The practice of separating aged
1054Sir J. Graham
 said, it appeared to him, if the proposed Clause were agreed to, that it would be breaking down that great principle of residence which was the only check against abuse in the case of out-door relief, whilst it would tend to entourage that vicious system of the payment of wages out of the rate.Sir J. Graham
 gave credit to his hon. Friend for humane feelings, and if he could consent to the hon. Member's proposal his own feelings would induce him to do so. But this matter must be decided not on feeling, but on principle. From the earliest period of the Poor Laws permanent relief to non-residents had never been granted. It was not only liable to abuse, but from the very nature of the circumstances, metropolitan parishes, which were centres of the population of all parishes in England, would be called upon to support so many persons so situated, that such a principle would lead to great hardship upon such parishes. He must say that he thought the instructions already issued by the Poor Law Commissioners upon the subject of out-door relief were sufficient. There were no less than seven exceptions from the rule of not granting out-door relief, and he certainly thought that those exceptions were sufficiently comprehensive in their nature to include every case. If the system were carried to such a length as the proposition of the hon. Member would imply, he was afraid that a great principle of the Poor Law Amendment Act would be broken down, and that in such a manner as to entail upon the rate-payers boundless expense, whilst it would in no way tend to relieve the poor. Under these circumstances, he was sorry that he must resist the Motion of his hon. Friend.Sir J. Graham
 admitted the enactment was an unusual one, and because unusual therefore in some degree objectionable; but the fact was, that at the present moment the creditors of boards and guardians were exposed to undue and unjust inconvenience in recovering money due to them. The first question was, whom were they to sue, the guardians not being personally responsible. Then, if they obtained judgment, there was no property except the workhouse on which they could levy. There was no mode of attaching the persons of the guardians. It was to meet these inconveniences that this Clause had been framed. If ever local courts, with summary powers for the recovery of debts should be established, this would be a very proper class of cases to be put under their jurisdiction. On the whole, he was not prepared to press the Clause at present.Sir J. Graham
1024: I must say there is no Gentleman in this House who is less accustomed, if I may use the expression, to vapour than the hon. Member for Finsbury; but, on the present occasion, he has put to me a question to which he
1024Sir J. Graham
 said, foreseeing that much time would be taken up if he persevered with this Clause, and looking at the great inconvenience which would result from any such delay at this advanced period of the Session, he was not disposed to insist upon more than the first part of it, which was indispensable.Sir J. Graham
 said, to make an audit effectual, the auditor must be independent of the parties whose accounts he audited. The question was, whether an auditor elected under Sir J. Hobhouse's Act was in that position. Now, he understood that in 1835, in the parish of St. Marylebone, the auditor did append certain remarks which the vestry suppressed. If that could be done, the audit could not be said to be effectual. But if the two hon. Members representing Marylebone could contradict that report — if they could assure him that no such thing had taken place, and he found that the majority of the rate-payers objected to be included in the operation of this Clause, he should not have any ground for resisting their desire.Sir J. Graham
 said, that an hon. Friend of his had given notice of an Amendment, empowering the Commissioners to alter the limits of any existing union, and as that was the larger proposition, he submitted to his hon. and gallant Friend whether it would not be advisable to postpone his present Amendment until after the sense of the Committee should have been taken upon that other Amendment.Sir J. Graham
1005 opposed the Amendment. It would defeat the most important Clauses of the Bill which the Committee had already passed. As the law now stood, the Poor Law Commissioners had undoubted control over those parishes governed by local acts; by this Clause that power was in some degree limited. There was no doubt that the Commissioners might now, if they pleased, form St.
1005Sir J. Graham
 had great objection to give the Secretary of State a summary power apart from the Commissioners in this matter. His great apprehension in proposing this Clause was, lest it should excite throughout the country a desire to alter the boundaries of unions suddenly and to a great extent. There were imperfections, which arose from the practical workings of the measure at its first commencement; and these should gradually, cautiously, and safely be removed on the responsibility of the Commissioners, with reference to local circumstances and past experience.Sir J. Graham
sine qua non, explained, that the effect of this Clause would be to remove the restraint that now existed on the discretion of the Commissioners with reference to the dissolution of unions, which required, as a sine qua non,Sir J. Graham
 said, he had stated in the present and former Sessions that unions, at first formed, especially in the north of England, were too large. He, however objected altogether to the giving of a discretionary power to the Secretary of State. He thought it would be much better to vest that power in the Commissioners, and if the Committee agreed with him he would move a Clause which he held in his hand, instead of that just proposed, but carrying the same object into effect in what he considered the safest manner.Sir J. Graham
 said, there were very few of the metropolitan parishes to which the Clause would apply; but there were many country districts in which such a provision was necessary.Sir J. Graham
 moved that the parishes of St. George, St. James, St. Marylebone, and St. Pancras be excluded from the operation of this Clause.Mr. Hogg
bonâ fide1020gravamen thought it would have been much more consistent with the duty of the right hon. Gentleman, if he felt any objection to the constitution of the Committee, that he should have stated that objection when the Committee was appointed. If the hon. Gentleman thought that there ought to have been two Members of the present Government on it, and two of the past, or that there ought to have been lawyers, it would have been easy for him to have made a Motion to that effect. He merely wished to answer a question which had been put; and in doing so, he thought he should have extended to him the courtesy generally observed. The bonâ fide1020gravamenSir R. Peel
1018 was unwilling to throw any technical difficulty in the way of the Motion which the hon. Gentleman had made, although he thought he was justified, according to the rules of the House, in objecting to a Member of that House stating anything with respect to the proceedings of a Secret Committee. But he was unwilling to debar the hon. Gentleman the opportunity of making his statement. He was at a loss to understand the grounds upon which the hon. Gentleman had made the present Motion. The House would recollect the circumstances under which this Committee had been appointed. When the proposal first was made, almost unqualified satisfaction was expressed with respect to the formation of that Committee, He did not mean to say that it was universal, but the Committee was allowed to be appointed without previous notice. That Committee was composed of men well known for their impartiality and intelligence. In that Committee the majority of the Members were opposed to Her Majesty's Government. Four Members were in the habit of voting with Her Majesty's Government, and five with the opposition, and the whole of those five Members voted for the Motion of the hon. Gentleman for a Select Committee. That Committee had sat for several days, and he left it to every Member to judge whether Her Majesty's Government had withheld a single fact from the knowledge of the Committee bearing on the inquiry, and whether they had thrown the slightest obstacle in the way of the inquiry, or threw the slightest difficulty in the way of the examination of any person, whether under their control or not. Personally,
1018Sir R. Peel
 promised that no pains should be spared to sift every case, and urged that the punishment of transportation would afford an additional motive for caution.Sir R. Peel
104810471046l.l. would be very sorry if any misconstruction were to go forth as to the opinions and principles of Government on the subject of the employment of spies and informers. He believed that there was really no difference of opinion upon either side; but in this country, as well as in Ireland, to reject entirely the evidence of informers would sometimes defeat the ends of justice. During his long official connection with Ireland some aggravated cases of murder had occurred, in which the evidence had been chiefly derived from accomplices; he remembered one in particular, the murder of Mr. Baker, where a reward was offered to any party who would give information, but the man who actually fired the shot. An accomplice came forward, who had not indeed fired the shot, but concocted the whole scheme, and who gave evidence against five others, who were convicted. That witness was paid 2,000104810471046l.l.Sir R. Peel
 had to state that he was not aware that orders against wearing Repeal buttons had been issued, in reference to Dublin Castle; but orders had been issued precluding any civilian, wearing political or party badges, from being admitted into any of the barracks in Ireland. As to the circumstances of the case to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, he had not been able to obtain precise information. He had every reason to believe that the order with reference to the barracks was strictly legal; but if any persons acting under it exceeded their duty, they would be responsible for so doing; and he believed that there was every disposition on the part of the proper authorities to enforce this responsibility. The sergeant in the first case alluded to was, as he understood, threatened with an action for false imprisonment, and the officer was also summoned to appear before a competent tribunal.Sir T. Fremantle
10161015 was anxious, as Chairman
10161015Viscount Sandon
 wished to state that the Committee would be glad to receive any evidence which the hon. Member for Finsbury might offer; but the hon. Member would see that the Committee could not admit him without being authorised by the House. He believed the question was safe in the hands of the Committee.Viscount Sandon
 before they went to a division, must take the liberty of saying a few words regarding Education in Ireland. He hoped those measures to which the right hon. Baronet alluded would be as successful as he could wish, but there was a point in connection with them to which the right hon. Baronet had not adverted, and which really required some consideration; namely, whether some support should not be given to the Church Education Society in Ireland? Surely similar sympathy ought to be shown to that society, which was shown to other societies. It was supported by persons high in the State, several dignitaries had joined it; and, if no assistance was to be afforded to it, whilst other societies were to be aided with grants, it must of necessity be extinguished because of its inability to contend with the money granted elsewhere. If the Church in Ireland was fit to be the established church of that country, she was fit to be intrusted with the education of her own children; and therefore when the right hon. Baronet brought forward his scheme for the extension of education in Ireland—a scheme the success of which was much to be desired—he hoped that he would give some attention to the claims of the Established Church.Lord Clive
l. observed, that the education grant was intended equally to apply to Protestants and Roman Catholics. It should be recollected, too, that the Protestant Church in Ireland possessed a revenue of 800,000l.Mr. D. Browne
1142 thought it would be
1142Lord C. Hamilton
"Petition of Mr. Joseph Henry Rolls be referred to a Select Committee, to report their opinion thereupon, with the Evidence, to the House." called the attention of the House to the case of Mr. Rolls, who had been dismissed from his situation of landing waiter, because he did not divulge to his superior officer an offer which had been made to him, in 1840, to participate in the Custom frauds. It appeared he made a private memorandum of the fact, which was found in 1842, and on this discovery he was dismissed. The Commissioners of Inquiry had recommended his reinstatement, but though he was paid his salary, and had been offered another situation for a year, the Lords of the Treasury would not agree to re-appoint him. He begged to move that the
"Petition of Mr. Joseph Henry Rolls be referred to a Select Committee, to report their opinion thereupon, with the Evidence, to the House."Mr. Fitzmaurice
 thought, that the object which the hon. Gentleman had in view would have been answered by merely calling his attention to the circumstances of the case, without, as he had done, rather overstepping the limits usually observed in putting questions in Parliament. The hon. Gentleman thought that the coroner ought to be called to account for his conduct, but he would recollect that Government had no authority over this officer. With respect to the circumstances of the trial he would undertake to put himself immediately in communication with the Lords Justices in Ireland. He hoped this would be satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman.Lord Eliot
1084 said, however liable to suspicion some circumstances in Mr. Rolls' conduct might have been, and however his want of explicitness was to be regretted, he must declare that his conduct had been always that of an honest man. He regretted that the Commissioners of
1084Lord G. Somerset
1113, as Member for East Suffolk, and resident in a part of the county where conflagrations were most numerous, and where the greatest kindness had prevailed towards the labouring class, wished to offer a few words. He had felt it his duty to apply to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department on more than one occasion in reference to this subject, and he begged to bear testimony to the willingness and earnest desire the right hon. Baronet showed to promote an investigation into the causes of these unfortunate occurrences. He had not expected, after the speeches which he
1113Lord Henniker
 returned his most cordial thanks to the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government for the announcement which he had just made of his intentions upon the subject of academical education in Ireland. He hailed it as the earnest of a better, a more consistent, and a more conciliatory line of policy towards that unfortunate country. He hoped that it was a proof that the Government of England was at last awake to the necessity of governing Ireland on the only system on which a country so closely allied to us ought to be governed. He hoped that the system which the right hon. Baronet had just indicated would be speedily carried into full effect, and that it would be as prosperous and successful as the most sanguine supporters of it could wish. He thanked the right hon. Member for Waterford for the very conciliatory tone in which he had brought the question forward, and shared in the gratification which the right hon. Member must have felt on hearing of the line of policy which the right hon. Baronet had just indicated.Lord J. Manners
l.l. had heard with great satisfaction the tone and spirit with which the right hon. Member for Waterford introduced the subject; but at the same time he must express great regret at what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet—not that the right hon. Gentleman had expressed to-night opinions inconsistent with those he had formerly avowed, but that he had given expression to opinions certainly altogether inconsistent with the expectations many of his hon. Friends had been led to entertain. He would not, by remaining silent on the present occasion, appear to acquiesce in a Motion which he thought would be repugnant to the feeling of the great Protestant community. It became a man who had formed an opinion not to forget his principles for the sake of party; and, as he had to express an honest opposition to the Government on this subject, he felt the more called on by a sense of duty to do so. He did not deny that the national system of education in Ireland had been making great progress. How was it possible that the result should be otherwise, when that system had been supported by a grant of 50,000l.l.Mr. Lefroy
 said, as regarded the character of Mr. Rolls, there was no imputation upon it; even the Government admitted that. He acknowledged the difficulty of interfering, after the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he hoped that what had passed would not prejudice the expectations of Mr. Rolls.Mr. Hawes
 said, that as he had always opposed this grant, he should not hesitate to divide the House on it, without further discussion.Colonel Sibthorp
1118Times"We know that the statements which it contains are true, and that they apply to a very large district in a quarter from which the letter comes, and some thousands of parishes in England."Times"He does not understand much about law making, but that he has heard that a law has been passed to keep up the price of corn for the good of the farmers, and that surely it would be but just that another law should be passed to make those who employed the labourer to give him wages in proportion to the rise in the price of food."1117d."Thus, Sir, after having provided myself and family with a cottage to live in, and about one pound of bread for us to eat, I have 6d."Sir,—As I hear that you always put into the paper anything likely to do good to poor people, I make bold to write to you. I am told that the great people talk of nothing but the riches, the happiness, and the flourishing state of the country; but, Sir, I see nothing but famine misery, and distress; and I think that if our Parliament men knew the real situation of myself and thousands of my fellow-labourers, they would do something for our relief. I am an industrious labourer, about thirty years of age, with a wife and three young children. I have regular work, which is more than half my poor neighbours can say. How then, it may be asked, come you to be distressed? Why, Sir, because my wages are not enough to put bread into the mouths of myself and family. The wages have been for a long time 7s. a week; and, as it is impossible to live upon this, I am obliged to beg every week at the vestry."The Times11161115ChronicleThe Times1114 said, that he thought that if the right hon. Baronet had not before regretted the tone and manner in which he had met the Motion of his hon. Friend, when he charged him with calling for a needless and mischievous inquiry, he must feel that he had reason then for doing so, for the noble Lord who sat behind him, and who represented the county of Suffolk, had just disclosed to the House, that such was his apprehension of the state of his county, such was the necessity which he considered the extent of the crime in question had caused for instant inquiry, that he had himself, in the discharge of his duty as a proprietor and a Member of that county, gone to the right hon. Gentleman to request him to institute some inquiry into the causes of its present condition; and he had farther told them, that the only reason why he had not made the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester himself was, that he had implicit confidence in the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department. This was the calm, deliberate, Conservative feeling of the noble Lord who represented that county. Why then, he asked, was his hon. Friend (the Member for Manchester) who, in the absence of any investigation having been made, in the absence of any confidence in the right hon. Baronet, a proprietor in the county himself, sharing in the same feeling with the noble Lord, desirous of inquiry—to be precluded from making a Motion to that effect in the House by the fear of the charge or imputation of deliberately promoting
1118Times"We know that the statements which it contains are true, and that they apply to a very large district in a quarter from which the letter comes, and some thousands of parishes in England."Times"He does not understand much about law making, but that he has heard that a law has been passed to keep up the price of corn for the good of the farmers, and that surely it would be but just that another law should be passed to make those who employed the labourer to give him wages in proportion to the rise in the price of food."1117d."Thus, Sir, after having provided myself and family with a cottage to live in, and about one pound of bread for us to eat, I have 6d."Sir,—As I hear that you always put into the paper anything likely to do good to poor people, I make bold to write to you. I am told that the great people talk of nothing but the riches, the happiness, and the flourishing state of the country; but, Sir, I see nothing but famine misery, and distress; and I think that if our Parliament men knew the real situation of myself and thousands of my fellow-labourers, they would do something for our relief. I am an industrious labourer, about thirty years of age, with a wife and three young children. I have regular work, which is more than half my poor neighbours can say. How then, it may be asked, come you to be distressed? Why, Sir, because my wages are not enough to put bread into the mouths of myself and family. The wages have been for a long time 7s. a week; and, as it is impossible to live upon this, I am obliged to beg every week at the vestry."The Times11161115ChronicleThe Times1114Mr. Villiers
1141 heartily rejoiced in seeing the progress of education in Ireland, through the means of which a vast amount of young persons in Ireland were brought up in habits
1141Mr. Ross
1098 said, that other opportunities would be afforded of replying to by far the greater part of the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester; and he would therefore confine himself to noticing one or two points which, in his opinion, demanded immediate attention. The hon. Member had distinctly charged him with presuming to call in question the exercise of the Royal clemency. He distinctly denied any such intention. The case to which the hon. Member opposite had referred was one of a peculiar nature; it was that of two persons tried for incendiarism, who were found guilty, and sentenced to fifteen years' transportation each, but who a few weeks afterwards received a free pardon. The hon. Gentleman had charged him with being the advocate of vengeance and cruelty; but he was at a loss to know on what ground that charge rested. It was, in fact, the invention of a heated mind. He was convinced that if the hon. Member for Manchester inquired into this question he would find that the fires did not result from the ill-treatment of the labourers. Several charges of incendiarism were now pending in the county with which he was connected, and therefore to them he would not allude; but he might be allowed to mention one or two cases which were past. In one case, a boy eleven or
1098Mr. Wodehouse
1099 should not have risen if it had not been to reply to some imputations contained in the letter which the hon. Member opposite had in the course of his speech read to the House with reference to the conduct of the Duke of Richmond. The hon. Member had thought proper to make an attack upon hon. Gentlemen connected with the agricultural interest, by charging those gentlemen with having at agricultural meetings excited the prejudices of that portion of the population against those connected with the manufacturing districts. It was not his intention to say anything in the way of retort to the hon. Member; but he would ask the hon. Member what object he had in view when he and his friends visited the agricultural districts and told the farmers that Her Majesty's Government, contrary to their expressed declaration, intended to alter the Corn Laws? Did that not look like party excitement? The hon. Member had thrown out certain imputations against the conduct of the Duke of Richmond. Only this very Session the Duke of Richmond had attended a large meeting of labourers at Goodwood, with the view of promoting their interest. He felt assured, and he spoke the opinion of many hon. Members in this and the other
1099Mr. Darby
1083 defended the conduct of the Board of Customs. The Board of Customs made a Report, in which they discussed the circumstances of the case, and stated that they could not place in Mr. Rolls that confidence which should be reposed in every officer of the public service. In these circumstances that letter was written which had been read to the House by his right hon. Friend, in which the Treasury stated, that as he had been deprived of the confidence of his department, they did not consider it consistent with their duty to replace him in the situation he had filled. This communication was accompanied by the intimation that the salary should be paid up to the period when the decision was communicated to him. His hon. Friend stated that an offer of another situation had been made to Mr. Rolls, and this was perfectly correct. It was felt at the Treasury that though Mr. Rolls might not have been deficient in integrity, as was stated by the Commissioners of Revenue Inquiry, there were circumstances of want of judgment, which had entailed on the Customs serious consequences, and which might naturally prevent the Board from having him placed under them in a situation of trust; but still the Treasury did not consider that this ought to operate as an entire disqualification of Mr. Rolls for further employment.
1083The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1111dictum111011091108Times1107quod tuum tene110611051104l.ChronicleTimes,ChronicleTimes1103Times"We are anxious and desirous that Her Majesty's Government should immediately issue a Commission to inquire into the true condition of the poor in the agricultural districts, and into the causes of the alarming and increasing spirit of incendiarism which unhappily prevails."Times110211011100 said: I have observed ever since I have had a seat in this House, and also from what I had previously read of its proceedings, that there is always a very strong disinclination to inquire into
1111dictum111011091108Times1107quod tuum tene110611051104l.ChronicleTimes,ChronicleTimes1103Times"We are anxious and desirous that Her Majesty's Government should immediately issue a Commission to inquire into the true condition of the poor in the agricultural districts, and into the causes of the alarming and increasing spirit of incendiarism which unhappily prevails."Times110211011100Mr. Bright
 wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland (Lord Eliot) to the case of two women who were convicted at the late Roscommon assizes for murder, and were left for execution on the 31st of this month. The crime was committed so far back as June, 1843, and the coroner's inquest which had sat on the body of the man alleged to have been murdered, returned a verdict of suicide. Since then, a woman who said she slept in the room where the murder was committed, had come forward to prove that the man was murdered, and his throat afterwards cut to make it appear that he had committed suicide, which was the verdict of the coroner's jury. The jury before whom the case was tried at the assizes, however, had, after twenty-two hours' deliberation, returned a verdict of guilty of the crime of murder against the wife of the deceased and her sister. They had, however, recommended the prisoners to mercy, but the judge, as he understood, had refused to forward that recommendation to Dublin. The chief witness, it appeared, was a woman of very indifferent character, and a very low state of morality existed amongst the whole of the parties implicated. The case seemed to he one well worthy the attention of the Government. If the man had been murdered, an inquiry should be entered into with respect to the conduct of the coroner, before whom only one witness was examined, and who had called no surgeon. The inquest altogether was most unsatisfactory and insufficient, and he wished particularly to call to it the attention of the noble Lord.Mr. Bright
1139l.l. said, that it appeared that the present vote was to be increased from 50,0001139l.l.Mr. Plumptre
1135 said, that no man was more impressed than he was with the importance of this subject. It was unworthy of the country that the education of the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland, if undertaken by the State, should be anything but national. He pointed out the insufficiency of Maynooth to supply the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland with the means of education; and said that either the whole number of them or none should be educated under the auspices of Government. He looked upon the intimation which the right hon. Baronet had made that evening to be important, not only in its immediate, but also in its future results. It would be found useful in enabling the Government to carry on the Administration of the country without offending the feelings of the Roman Catholic clergy, or
1135Mr. Bellew
1138 could not help thinking that, if the Protestant Clergy of Ireland had considered it their duty to co-operate with the Government in the plan of national education, and if the Protestant Church of Ireland had fortunately received that plan in a good, kind, and cordial spirit, the evils to which the gallant Colonel had alluded, which have been very much abated, and the abuses which, no doubt, did exist, would have been prevented by the careful supervision and co-operation of the Protestant Clergy. If education in Ireland was practically left in the bands of the Romish Clergy, and if the Protestant Clergy thought it to be consistent with their duties as the pastors of the people to retire from that great charge, it could not but be expected that advantage would be taken of their retirement,
1138Mr. M. Milnes
"Papists might take degrees in, or be masters, or fellows, or scholars of any College in this kingdom, provided that it be a member of the University of Dublin, and that it be not instituted exclusively for the education of Papists."1134 said, that the House was deeply indebted to his right hon. Friend the Member for Waterford, not only for the able and excellent speech which he had just made—a speech which was characterised by great temper and moderation—but also for his being the means of drawing from the right hon. Baronet opposite intimations of the most signal importance; intimations which he most unaffectedly assured the right hon. Baronet he most highly appreciated. Among the other incidents of the right hon. Baronet's speech, he had paid a tribute to the labours of his right hon. Friend the Member for Waterford, which his hon. Friend most richly deserved. His right hon. Friend had been labouring in this cause for years, always useful but sometimes unavailing. He knew that the plan of national education adopted by the Whigs in Ireland was sketched out by his hon. Friend, and that when it was carried into execution, due praise was not awarded to his efforts. His right hon. Friend had referred to the Act of Charles II. in explanation of his views; but there was another Act—the first Act of Catholic Emancipation, passed in 1793—to which he had not referred, and which, in his opinion, was still more important. There was a very important Clause in that Act relating to the University of Dublin. In that Clause it was enacted that nothing contained in the Act should enable any Roman Catholic to hold any office of profit or emolument in Trinity College, Dublin; but there was
"Papists might take degrees in, or be masters, or fellows, or scholars of any College in this kingdom, provided that it be a member of the University of Dublin, and that it be not instituted exclusively for the education of Papists."1134Mr. Sheil
 said, that there were two charges made by the hon. Member against himself and his Colleagues the Members for Suffolk. One was that they had not come forward to suggest any mode for inquiring into or alleviating the distressing state of things at present prevailing in that county. Now, without making any display they had, in fact, had interviews with the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department as to the subject of Suffolk. The hon. Member then said that he wished for the penalty of death for this crime of arson. Certainly, he did echo the expressions of a petition which he had presented, that in consequence of the wholesale amount of these fires it would be better that capital punishment should be held over the heads of these parties, that it might be exercised in extreme cases. Speaking from his knowledge of his own neighbourhood, he should say there was no destitution; what might be the case on the eastern side of the county he did not know. It had been said that lowness of wages was the cause of the fires. That could not be the cause, for near him there had been a number of fires, all of them where the wages were the highest. Then it had been hinted that a deep-laid scheme existed, but no such thing appeared; several of the fires had been the work of mere boys who had no pretence of distress to urge. As there had been no reports for several days of any more incendiarism, he hoped it was over, and he hoped that no one in that House would do anything to fan the flames.Colonel Rushbrooke
Bright:1112, as Foreman of the Grand Jury of Essex, must protest against the
Bright:1112Mr. Bramston
 said, the situation offered to Mr. Rolls was that of registrar of births, deaths, and marriages, and it could not have been expected that a man of unimpeached integrity, who had filled an office so much higher, should have accepted of it, particularly as he had a right to insist that he should be reinstated. He was satisfied that the public did not yet know who were the real parties to the Custom-house frauds, and he must complain that the right hon. Gentleman refused to give the evidence on which it was founded.Mr. T. Duncombe
1094"An humble Address be presented to Her
1094"Notwithstanding any assurances that I have heard to the contrary, I feel convinced that it is want of employment among the labourers which must be considered as the proximate of those motive causes to the incendiarism which has lately prevailed. The labourers themselves refer the fires to this cause; and although the great majority of them hereabouts acknowledge the folly and wickedness of incendiarism, some of the worst disposed refer to them too significantly not to have it understood that they are rejoicing in these exhibitions of infatuation and cruelty.""At the occasion of the late calamitous fire at Tuddennam, while the populace did all they could to extinguish the flames, others of the Mildenhall people did all they could to promote the fire by casting fuel upon it. A certain magistrate who was present had said he had seen fuel placed on the fire, and could not prevent it."10931092TimesMember:1091"Neither law nor gospel can avail, when hopeless indigence has made a man hate the power that checks him in getting the food he needs, but cannot earn; when he sees, in a land of churches, the poor left to struggle how they may against circumstances that keep them down in the very lowest stage of civilised existence—a stage in which they find much in the condition of the brutes about them to envy."1090"At a meeting lately held in London, a deputation of landowners and tenant-farmers waited upon you, and of course did all in their power to apprize you of the dangers that threaten and the difficulties that now beset them; but I do not find that any one appeared at that meeting to represent the agricultural labourer. … And now I will only add, that if your Grace will kindly accept this assistance—if you and your Colleagues will only give to the labourers' condition one half the attention you have given to the condition of the landlord and tenant, and the improvement of the condition of your cattle—I have no doubt but that you will arrive at the conclusion at which I have arrived—that there is no one creature belonging to the farm, there is not an animal you rear, to use or to sell, that has been the subject of so much neglect, in everything that tends to his improvement, as the labourer. Compare the way he is housed, fed, clothed, and valued, with the way in which the animals he tends are treated in these particulars, and then answer to the public and to yourself—why in the present agitation is he overlooked?"1089108810871086l.1085 said, it was now his intention to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice relative to the incendiarism now prevalent in the counties of Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex, and Cambridge. He did so because he felt a question of this importance did not stand in that position in which it ought to do, inasmuch as the explanations given on the subject in that House had not produced the impression on the public mind that a full inquiry had made into the subject, or that there might not be on the part of the Government considerable misapprehension as to the causes of these atrocities. He was aware that during the last week or two, and at the present moment, these awful crimes had somewhat subsided, but so short an interval could scarcely be relied on, and he thought this ought to be an additional reason for inquiring into the condition of the peasantry, and endeavouring to trace, as far as they could, into the causes of discontent which had given rise to them. The extent of the crime of Incendiarism had been very great during the last six or eight months; so much so, that he believed he spoke within the mark
1094"An humble Address be presented to Her
1094"Notwithstanding any assurances that I have heard to the contrary, I feel convinced that it is want of employment among the labourers which must be considered as the proximate of those motive causes to the incendiarism which has lately prevailed. The labourers themselves refer the fires to this cause; and although the great majority of them hereabouts acknowledge the folly and wickedness of incendiarism, some of the worst disposed refer to them too significantly not to have it understood that they are rejoicing in these exhibitions of infatuation and cruelty.""At the occasion of the late calamitous fire at Tuddennam, while the populace did all they could to extinguish the flames, others of the Mildenhall people did all they could to promote the fire by casting fuel upon it. A certain magistrate who was present had said he had seen fuel placed on the fire, and could not prevent it."10931092TimesMember:1091"Neither law nor gospel can avail, when hopeless indigence has made a man hate the power that checks him in getting the food he needs, but cannot earn; when he sees, in a land of churches, the poor left to struggle how they may against circumstances that keep them down in the very lowest stage of civilised existence—a stage in which they find much in the condition of the brutes about them to envy."1090"At a meeting lately held in London, a deputation of landowners and tenant-farmers waited upon you, and of course did all in their power to apprize you of the dangers that threaten and the difficulties that now beset them; but I do not find that any one appeared at that meeting to represent the agricultural labourer. … And now I will only add, that if your Grace will kindly accept this assistance—if you and your Colleagues will only give to the labourers' condition one half the attention you have given to the condition of the landlord and tenant, and the improvement of the condition of your cattle—I have no doubt but that you will arrive at the conclusion at which I have arrived—that there is no one creature belonging to the farm, there is not an animal you rear, to use or to sell, that has been the subject of so much neglect, in everything that tends to his improvement, as the labourer. Compare the way he is housed, fed, clothed, and valued, with the way in which the animals he tends are treated in these particulars, and then answer to the public and to yourself—why in the present agitation is he overlooked?"1089108810871086l.1085Mr. M. Gibson
1129l."Provided also, and be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Lord-Lieutenant or other chief governor or governors of this kingdom for the time being, by and with the consent of the Privy Council, shall have full power and authority to erect another college, to be of the University, to be called by the name of the King's College; and out of all and every the lands, tenements, and hereditaments vested by this act in His Majesty, and which shall be settled or restored by virtue thereof, to raise a yearly allowance for ever not exceeding 2,000l.112810£4,658Total
10£4,658Total101,807(241 pensioners)
101,807(241 pensioners)0390Matriculation (26 fellow-commoners)
0390Matriculation (26 fellow-commoners)0486162 pensioners
0486162 pensioners0414arts (24 fellow commoners)
0414arts (24 fellow commoners)0141medicine (12)
0141medicine (12)15246Bachelors in Laws (21)
15246Bachelors in Laws (21)0648Master of arts (66)
0648Master of arts (66)541Bachelors in divinity (3)
541Bachelors in divinity (3)0154medicine (7)
0154medicine (7)0264law (12)
0264law (12)0£66Doctors in divinity (3), fees
0£66Doctors in divinity (3), fees
10£4,658Total
10£4,658Total101,807(241 pensioners)
101,807(241 pensioners)0390Matriculation (26 fellow-commoners)
0390Matriculation (26 fellow-commoners)0486162 pensioners
0486162 pensioners0414arts (24 fellow commoners)
0414arts (24 fellow commoners)0141medicine (12)
0141medicine (12)15246Bachelors in Laws (21)
15246Bachelors in Laws (21)0648Master of arts (66)
0648Master of arts (66)541Bachelors in divinity (3)
541Bachelors in divinity (3)0154medicine (7)
0154medicine (7)0264law (12)
0264law (12)0£66Doctors in divinity (3), fees
0£66Doctors in divinity (3), fees112711261125112411231122"Due provision being made for the University Education of Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in Ireland, especially of such as are intended for the priesthood, and the inadequacy of the means and system now existing for the attainment of such object, and that steps should be taken by an enlargement and improvements of existing arrangements, either by opening the emoluments and honours as studies of the University of Dublin to Roman Catholics as well as Protestants, and raising the College of Maynooth to the dignity of
1122 would avail himself of that opportunity of calling the attention of the House, in conformity with the notice he had given at the commencement of the Session, to the importance of—
1129l."Provided also, and be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Lord-Lieutenant or other chief governor or governors of this kingdom for the time being, by and with the consent of the Privy Council, shall have full power and authority to erect another college, to be of the University, to be called by the name of the King's College; and out of all and every the lands, tenements, and hereditaments vested by this act in His Majesty, and which shall be settled or restored by virtue thereof, to raise a yearly allowance for ever not exceeding 2,000l.112810£4,658Total
10£4,658Total101,807(241 pensioners)
101,807(241 pensioners)0390Matriculation (26 fellow-commoners)
0390Matriculation (26 fellow-commoners)0486162 pensioners
0486162 pensioners0414arts (24 fellow commoners)
0414arts (24 fellow commoners)0141medicine (12)
0141medicine (12)15246Bachelors in Laws (21)
15246Bachelors in Laws (21)0648Master of arts (66)
0648Master of arts (66)541Bachelors in divinity (3)
541Bachelors in divinity (3)0154medicine (7)
0154medicine (7)0264law (12)
0264law (12)0£66Doctors in divinity (3), fees
0£66Doctors in divinity (3), fees
10£4,658Total
10£4,658Total101,807(241 pensioners)
101,807(241 pensioners)0390Matriculation (26 fellow-commoners)
0390Matriculation (26 fellow-commoners)0486162 pensioners
0486162 pensioners0414arts (24 fellow commoners)
0414arts (24 fellow commoners)0141medicine (12)
0141medicine (12)15246Bachelors in Laws (21)
15246Bachelors in Laws (21)0648Master of arts (66)
0648Master of arts (66)541Bachelors in divinity (3)
541Bachelors in divinity (3)0154medicine (7)
0154medicine (7)0264law (12)
0264law (12)0£66Doctors in divinity (3), fees
0£66Doctors in divinity (3), fees112711261125112411231122"Due provision being made for the University Education of Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in Ireland, especially of such as are intended for the priesthood, and the inadequacy of the means and system now existing for the attainment of such object, and that steps should be taken by an enlargement and improvements of existing arrangements, either by opening the emoluments and honours as studies of the University of Dublin to Roman Catholics as well as Protestants, and raising the College of Maynooth to the dignity of
1122Mr. Wyse
: Not libraries open to all as in other countries.Mr. Ewart
1077l.1076 rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the expediency of a statement being made by the Government respecting the disposal and the results of the outlay of public money voted for the purposes of Education; and also to call the attention of the House to the expediency of promoting the formation of public libraries in the metropolis and provincial towns. It was customary, in voting money for the Navy or Army, for the Member of Government whose department was immediately connected with the destination of that money to make a statement as to how it was to be applied, and as to what were the prospects or exigencies of the department for the service of which it was voted. Now, he did think it would be highly advantageous if this practice were followed with respect to the education estimates. He thought they ought not only to have a statement as to the general application of the funds, but a statement of the prospects of each particular department. They had estimates proposed for various establishments; they had estimates for the schools of design, for the universities, for the National Gallery, and for other institutions of a similar nature. That was an additional reason why they should have a statement on the subject on the part of the Crown. Education had, of late years, been extended into the factory system, to the system of prison discipline, and it had formed portions, more or less, of bills for the amendment of the Poor Law. Now, the Government ought to give them an insight into the alterations which had taken place in the educational establishments during the past year, and into the prospect of their probable improvement. Among the votes for education, there was one for the School of Design. He rejoiced to observe that such schools were spreading through the manufacturing districts, and he hoped the time was not far distant, when the school in London would be a focus from which the other schools might radiate, so as to spread information through the country. The School of Design in London was gradually assuming a more central and normal character, and he trusted that all the schools in the manufacturing districts would become subordinate to it. These schools were of
1077l.1076Mr. Ewart
 asked whether the right hon. Gentleman had made any provision for public libraries?Mr. Ewart
1137 had reason to complain that certain Returns connected with the system of National Education in Ireland, for which he had moved last Session, had not been accurately furnished to the House; for these Returns did not give the whole of the schools which he wished to have mentioned. The hon. and gallant Member then proceeded to complain of the number of the so-called national schools which were connected with monastic institutions in Ireland; and which schools could not, under such circumstances, be regarded as national. On one occasion an inquest was holden in a school-room, under the direction of the National Board of Education, but when it became necessary to swear the witnesses, not a Bible or Testament was to be found in the building. It was perfectly well known that the system of education in Ireland was established for the purpose of inducing parents of all religious persuasions to allow their children to attend these schools. The letter of the noble Lord, which might be considered almost as the charter of the system, recommended that all idea of proselytism should be abandoned, and that religious instruction and the reading of the Testament should not be introduced during school hours. Now had these regulations been strictly acted upon, he had no doubt that good would have resulted; but, unfortunately, the Board did not obey the instructions, and, in consequence, at this moment the patrons of schools had the power of introducing the doctrines of the Established Church, or the Scotch Church, or even the Church of Rome; the only impediment to their doing so being the objections which might be made by the parents. If the Board really wished to do good, let them fall back upon the original instructions contained in the noble Lord's letter. Let them exclude from the schools, during school hours, every description of religious instruction, and also take care that the Scriptures were not read in those hours. He did not see that the Protestants would object to that; but he feared that, constituted as the Board was at present, there was no
1137Colonel Verner
1136 trusted that Her Majesty's Government would exercise due caution in commencing a work of this importance, on which the peace of Ireland would henceforward materially depend. Hopes had been entertained that the Government system of education would have been the harbinger of peace to Ireland; but that system had not been attended with that success which, after the lapse of eleven years, the country had a right to expect. In recent years it had been deemed expedient even in this country that greater facilities should be provided for academical education; two colleges had been founded in this metropolis—University College and King's College—which together formed the University of London. He did not wish to say anything invidious, but he thought that, even in the years which had elapsed since their institution, enough had transpired to show the comparative utility of those two colleges. Their bases differed widely, and the consequence, that one of them was thriving, and the other the reverse. Whenever this great experiment should be tried in Ireland, he hoped that the result to which he had just alluded would be borne in mind. Whatever principles this new
1136Mr. Grogan
 thought the noble Lord who had just sat down had spoken very fairly considering the position in which he was placed in conducting this inquiry. He regretted that allusions had been made to the system of promotions and appointments at the Customs. Those promotions and appointments were much better left to the Treasury than interfered with by votes of this House. Nevertheless he could not but think that Mr. Rolls had been hardly dealt with, and he concurred with his hon. Friend in hoping his case would not be prejudiced in consequence of this Motion.Mr. F. T. Baring
109710961095: Sir, after the speech which has been just delivered by the hon. Gentleman opposite, it seems to me that it becomes imperatively my duty to offer some observations upon the subject. During the delivery of the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester, I asked myself more than once, what is the object of the hon. Gentleman in delivering the sentiments he is now uttering. I could not fail to remember that the hon. Gentleman himself is a Suffolk country gentleman, and no doubt entertains suitable feelings of regard to the county with which he is connected, and thinking that it was hardly possible the hon. Member intended by his speech needlessly to fix public attention on those crimes which disgrace that district, I concluded the hon. Gentleman had been impelled to the ungrateful task of making the speech he had just delivered by a severe sense of public duty. The hon. Member stated at the early part of his speech what is quite true. I heard the statement with satisfaction, and if he had not made it I should have felt it to be my duty to communicate to the House the fact, that although a crime so disgraceful as incendiarism has a tendency to spread, and is of a contagious nature, it is rapidly diminishing in the counties where it is said to be prevalent; and this makes it the more extraordinary that the hon. Member, after making the admission, should have felt it to be his duty to address the speech we have just heard to the house. The hon. Member cautions me not to take a chief constable's view of the subject. I certainly shall not take any such view of it in the observations I am about to address to the House; but I think I am bound to observe to the House, that such a Motion as this must have a direct tendency to increase the number of incendiary fires. Discussions of this temper and kind relating to a crime which has become prevalent have generally had the effect of increasing the frequency
109710961095Sir J. Graham
11201119 said, that the speeches made that night on the other side of the House were marked by all the characteristics and requisites of incendiary speeches. He had no intention of imputing motives to any hon. Member. He did not state with what purpose those speeches were made. All he would say was, that they contained the characteristics and requisites of incendiary speeches. He himself belonged to that class who were said to be of very obtuse intellects, but yet he possessed sufficient
11201119Sir J. Tyrell
113311321131l.l.,l.;1130: I am sure I shall state what is in conformity with the general feelings of the House, when I say that no Member of this House is better entitled to take up this subject than the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. I know no Member of this House who has devoted more time and attention to the consideration of the subject and to devising means by which the advantages of education can be distributed throughout the country. I must also say, that the hon. Gentleman has another qualification besides that of experience on this subject—he has the high qualification of discussing with temper and with moderation, which ensures, amidst all the animosities which may divide us, an impartial and favourable consideration of anything he proposes. I rejoice that the hon. Gentleman has made his observations in a manner which precludes him from taking the sense of the House upon them. He has made those observations not even in reference to a vote for Irish education; for the vote, which we are discussing is one for English education. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman made those observations on this vote, that he might avoid the possibility of our coming to any hostile vote on the subject. I rejoice that the hon. Gentleman does not call for any expression of opinion on this subject. The hon. Gentleman adverted to the state of elementary education in Ireland. I think that he, and those who
113311321131l.l.,l.;1130Sir R. Peel
1143 was afraid that the vote to which the observations of the noble Lords referred had been passed. The proposal now before them was for the usual annual vote for the College of Maynooth; but as the opinions of no Members of the House were entitled to greater weight than the opinions of the noble Lords who had lately spoken, and as the vote had, perhaps, been passed somewhat too hastily, he would take the opportunity of making one or two observations upon the subject. Her Majesty's Government had not been inclined to propose a vote of money to the Established Church system in Ireland, because they found that by so doing they would be practically creating three different systems of education in one country—a Roman Catholic system, a system in connexion with the Established Church, and, no doubt, a Presbyterian system, which would also be demanded. The effect of this would be that the youth of Ireland would be brought up under different systems, and that that union which it was so desirable to promote among the subjects of Her Majesty in that country would not be promoted. It must be remembered, too, that the number of Protestants for whom a gratuitous education was required in Ireland was comparatively small. Generally speaking, the Protestant class in that country could afford to pay for the education of their children. The present system, moreover, was designed for the establishment of joint education, and it was sincerely hoped by the founders, that the children both of Protestants and Roman Catholics might receive the inestimable benefit of a common education. He did hope the hostility which was shown to the system at its earlier stages had much abated. Several
1143Sir R. Peel
: He thought the hon. Gentleman did the manufacturers injustice, for many of them had, he believed, provided, if not open libraries, at least libraries to which the price of admission was a very small sum. He should be sorry to see the Government interfering in a matter which had much better be left to private exertion.—Subject at an end.Sir R. Peel
 said, the Board of Customs and the Treasury could have followed no other course than that which, on due consideration of the case, they had adopted. The Treasury had not rested satisfied with a merely verbal objection from the Chairman of the Board of Customs; they had requested that the objections to the reappointment of Mr. Rolls should be placed on record, making it a matter of official reference. Accordingly an answer was received from the Customs, signed by six members of the Board, in which they stated in detail the reasons why they could not recommend Mr. Rolls. He meant no imputation on the integrity of Mr. Rolls; but the Treasury, with that distinct opinion, could not force him upon the department, seeing that there had been some unfavourable circumstances in the case.Sir R. Peel
: He could not consider any moral obligation stronger than that on great manufacturers to provide libraries for those employed by them. When they gained thousands and tens of thousands through the labouring classes, he could not conceive a more fitting return than to do all in their power to elevate the mental character of those whom they employed. He believed that many such libraries were established.Sir R. Peel
1081 thought there would be great difficulties in the way of appointing a separate minister for Education. To multiply the responsible Ministers of the Crown was not desirable. He thought the object of the hon. Gentleman might be effected by leaving the control over this question to the Secretary for the Home Department, whose duty it was to attend to our internal concerns of which none was more important than Education. But the hon. Gentleman seemed to forget that the Government had already appointed a Committee on the subject, which, by clubbing the information and local information of each, was likely to answer every purpose that could be effected by the Executive. He held in his hand the Report of that Committee. He was very much afraid that Gentlemen made motions in that House, and called for reports, whilst they neglected the information already supplied. If hon. Gentlemen would only read the minutes of the Council for Education during 1842 and 1843, they would find that they contained a vast amount of information. The Government had put this information in a form somewhat more inviting than the usual Blue Book. They had already increased the vote for Education, and he was sure, if the occasion required it, that the House would respond to an additional demand for such an object. On one point he certainly concurred with the noble Lord. He thought if the patronage of the Government could be applied to promote the cause of education by giving situations to persons who had distinguished themselves at the public examination of the Government schools, it would be a most wise application of public patronage. Any loss of patronage sustained by a political party would be amply compensated by the advantages that must result from such a system. It was the duty of every administration, irrespective of party interests, to strengthen the foundations of good Government, and they could not do so more effectually than by stimulating the efforts of those who were anxious to distinguish themselves in point of education. He was afraid, however, there were some practical difficulties on
1081Sir R. Peel
 was perfectly satisfied with the pledge of the right hon. Gentleman, that he would consider his suggestion, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not only consider the possibility of giving premiums, but of providing an impartial examination.Viscount Howick
108010791078 expressed his concurrence with much of what had fallen from his hon. Friend. Enough had not been done for education; and looking to the state of the country—looking to the rapidly increasing density of the population—increasing without any adequate increase in the means of providing instruction, and thus also giving increased facilities to their being led away by designing men—he could not help regarding the prospect with great anxiety. He agreed with his hon. Friend, that it was not desirable to make education completely governmental. The experiment made last year proved that there was not among the different religious sects of this country sufficient toleration (and in this respect he thought Dissenters were as much to blame as Churchmen, and Churchmen as Dissenters)—there was not sufficient toleration
108010791078Viscount Howick
1140 had great pleasure in supporting the present vote, and the greater because it was not accompanied by the exclusive grant which the hon. Member for Kent wished to be given as a counterpoise to it. He rose, however, chiefly to express the satisfaction he felt at what had passed on a former vote, although not immediately connected with it. Those who heard the speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for Waterford must have felt that the subject to which he so ably drew their attention was one of the greatest importance in every point of view. Nothing could evidently be more essential than that those whose duty it was to instruct so large a portion of the inhabitants of Ireland as the Catholic population should themselves receive an education such as would fit them for the performance of so very important a task; and it afforded him the greatest satisfaction to hear what fell from the right hon. Baronet opposite in reply to his hon. Friend. It was perfectly natural and proper that in treating a subject of this kind the right hon. Baronet should confine himself to a general indication of future intentions. It would have been impossible to expect that he should on the present occasion have gone more into detail. He was perfectly ready to wait till the right hon. Baronet and his Colleagues should have matured their views on this subject, and he trusted, from the very liberal tone in which the right hon. Baronet had spoken, that he would be able by next Session to settle and arrange some plan calculated to attain those very great objects pointed out by his hon. Friend. Of course, from what they had seen to-night
1140Viscount Palmerston
 seeing the noble Lord, the Member for South Staffordshire, in his place, begged to ask him if he had any objection to state what his opinion as a naval officer was with respect to the recent experiment tried by Captain Warner off the coast at Brighton?Captain Plumridge
bonâ fide118911881187 admitted that it was proper that a statement of the leading alterations made in the Bill should be laid before the House; and after he had made that statement, he would explain why if appeared to him reasonable that the measure should be at once allowed to proceed. The principal alteration which had been made he would describe as well and as shortly as he could, omitting those of minor importance. The great change in form of the Bill, which had reduced its bulk by one-half, was caused by the omission of twenty Clauses, which consisted of the executory provisions and provisions of detail, laying down the manner in which the option of revision and purchase should be exercised. He confessed that when these Clauses were inserted in the Bill, they had been inserted, as they thought, to give satisfaction to the railway proprietors. However, a body of Gentlemen connected with railways took a different view of the matter. They represented to Government that its profession was, that the question of the policy of this option was to be altogether reserved; if so, why specify the details at present? rather show by the omission of all details, except those essential and fundamental, that the policy question was to be really not
bonâ fide118911881187Mr. Gladstone
1190 said, that after the statements made by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade he had no objection to the Bill going through Committee. He supported the option of purchase, as the only mode by which railways could be kept in check and abuses prevented. He thought that the interests of the poorer classes had been
1190Mr. Vernon Smith
 stated that he would not be a party to compelling a company to run certain trains upon Sundays.Mr. Gladstone
 supported the Amendment. If the rich man could travel on a Sunday, why should not the poor man also?Mr. V. Smith
 said, that if the hon. Gentleman would persist in his Amendment, he would move that the Chairman report progress.Mr. Gladstone
 hoped his right hon. Friend would give way on this point. He knew that many working people travelled from one point of the country to another on Sundays, and if they were prevented from doing so, it would be depriving them of a great advantage.Mr. Denison
12201219R. Peel1218l.,121712161215 said: So far as my own views are concerned, it was not my intention to have made any Motion on this subject, after the statement of the right hon. Baronet in answer to a question I put to him at an early period of the Session. In the present state of affairs as to France and Morocco, I should have delayed asking for any further explanation as to the course the Governments of this country and of France have pursued. I think, however, that nothing could have been more temperate than the speech of my right hon. Friend who has judged it expedient to bring forward this subject,—that no language could have been more guarded; and I believe that the right hon. Baronet opposite, objecting as he does to that Motion, has misunderstood a great portion of the observations of my right hon. Friend. My right hon. Friend referred to what took place in 1830 with respect to the occupation of Algiers; and the right hon. Baronet says, "Is it to be supposed that we,
12201219R. Peel1218l.,121712161215Lord J. Russell
 said, that if a large sum was to be voted for the purposes of the Royal Academy he could have conceived that the hon. Member might fairly have made these remarks, and even then there could scarcely have been a better reply to them than that the management of the Royal Academy now afforded. As far as he could see, that Institution was conducted in no grudging or envious spirit towards artists; no talent was ever kept in the back ground, no proper advantage appeared to him to be in any way denied it. He thought there were no grounds for the Motion, and he strongly advised the hon. Member not to persist in it.Lord J. Russell
 said, that the course proposed by the noble Lord was very unusual. The noble Lord was required by the Order of the House to send in the names of persons duly qualified; objecting to the names of these clergymen he had omitted them; but the noble Lord's Colleague, who had an equal right to send in a list, had included them, and they ought to be returned. If not duly qualified they could not act. He saw no reason why the gentlemen nominated and the colleague of the noble Lord should not act as they were qualified to do, and he hoped that in the absence of that hon. Gentleman the House would not take so unusual a course as to exclude those names.Sir George Clerh
1254 said, that out of the seventeen names put in as Commissioners for Lincolnshire division of Horncastle and Hill, there were twelve clergymen, of whom only four were connected with the district by property, and he had given notice of a Motion to expunge the eight who were not connected by property with the division. He was one of those who thought it was not advisable that these sort of duties should be performed at all by clergymen, and at any rate he was of opinion that persons should not be put on the list merely because they had a living or a curacy in the district. It might be asked what the duties of the appointment were? They were very analogous to those of Justices of the Peace, and the consequence was, that they would have to perform duties of an unpleasant nature with respect to those amongst whom they laboured. He found amongst their duties that they were to appoint assessors for the tax upon mines and lands, and where payment was not made to levy it by warrants of distress. He asked, then, whether it were proper that clergymen who had no property in the district, and only connected with it by their livings, should perform these duties? He had sent to the Clerk of the Commissioners eight other names of persons connected with the district by property, and duly qualified to act as Commissioners, and had asked whether there were any objection to them? To which the only answer he received was, that the Commissioners saw no reason why the names should not be retained. The names he had sent in had been inserted, but the other eight had been left in, and he now moved that they be expunged. If he were opposed he could only come to the conclusion that the Government believed that the clergy were proper persons to discharge these
1254Lord Worsley
l.l.l.1239Collingwood,Collingwood. said, that as an accusation had been made by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, that the interests of the Navy had been much neglected by the present Administration, he thought he might be excused if he troubled the House with a few words in defence of the Department with which he was connected. As far as regarded the question brought forward practically by the gallant Officer, the Member for Marylebone, as to the inefficient state of our Navy afloat at present, as compared with what it was in 1839, and as the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last had referred to the speech made by his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Treasury on that occasion, he thought the House would recollect the circumstances to which he was about to advert. The argument urged by the right hon. Baronet was, that if there was a state of anticipated hostility which justified the then Government in having so large a fleet in the Mediterranean, they ought also to have a strong force at home. Such an argument, however, would not apply now. In 1839 there was a movement on the part of the naval force of a foreign power. Immediately after that there was the commencement of those difficulties which produced ultimately the Syrian war, and soon after that, there were the hostilities with China; there was also a difficult question pending between our Government and that of the United States. At that time our ships were deplorably under manned, they had not even their peace complement and the seamen having one-third more labour to perform than they ought to have had, were discontented and unwilling to enter. It was said that the same state of discontent which the circumstance he had alluded to caused at that time, existed now, and that in consequence of it they had not been able to man the l.l.l.1239Collingwood,Collingwood.Mr. Sidney Herbert
1252l.l. observed that he had seen it stated in one of the papers that the Emperor of Russia had bestowed 5001252l.l.Mr. B. Cochrane
 expressed his satisfaction with the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman. He believed that the measure would practically affect all railroads.Mr. Hawes
 supported the Amendment. Its principle was not condemned by all authority, as the right hon. Baronet had stated. He hoped that the question would be hereafter raised. He contended that the unlimited liability of the directors of a bank was a sufficient security, without subjecting the shareholders to the same principle.Mr. Hawes
 felt that insinuations had been thrown out that ought to be retracted. On more than one occasion he had been anxious to divide the Committee, but he had declined to do so because there was not a quorum. The whole conduct pursued in that Committee was so bad that he was compelled to complain of it. It was quite impossible that the result of the inquiry could be satisfactory to the public. However, on condition that this proposition was withdrawn, he should postpone his Motion till to-morrow, (this day.)Mr. Colvile
 interposed, and reminded the hon. and gallant Member, that the noble Lord, not holding any official position in Her Majesty's Government, was not called upon to answer any question of the nature put to him, unless it pleased him to do so.The Speaker
 thought the system of limited liability would not be tolerated in the country for a moment.Mr. Turner
 begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary whether there was any foundation for the reports contained in the public papers relative to the commutation of the sentence on Dalmas, and also whether he had any objection to lay upon the Table of the House, the certificates and reports of the medical men who had visited Dalmas in prison by order of the Government.Captain Polhill
1251 said, that before this vote was granted he must inquire whether it was intended that the granite steps and lions, which were to serve as a base to the column in Trafalgar Square, should be executed on the same scale on which they were originally designed? Because it was very well known that the column (in his opinion most unfortunately) had been made twenty feet shorter than was intended by the architect, and, consequently, if the base were now to be made on the same scale on which it was originally designed, it must of necessity be disproportional to the column as it was, and give it even a less satisfactory appearance than it had at present. He could not be supposed to wish to stand in the way of any mark of respect to the immortal Nelson. It was because he wished to see Nelson honoured as he ought to be, that he regretted to behold such a testimonial as the one now erected in Trafalgar Square — a truncated column with a statue at the top of it, which, instead of resembling a hero, resembled nothing but a figure of fun. Before that testimonial was commenced, he had done his utmost to prevent such a column from being placed in such a situation; and now that the work was finished he had the melancholy satisfaction of finding himself justified by the opinions of all those whose opinions were worth having—the opinions of all men who had eyes to see. The Nelson Testimonial, as it had been executed, was another architectural disgrace to this metropolis—not only a disgrace in itself, but it was most injurious to every thing in its vicinity, and did as much harm as possible to the finest situation in the world; that magnificent square which had been obtained at so vast a public expence. He had hoped that that square would have been made a sort of British forum, decorated with statues in
1251Mr. H. G. Knight
 said, that it was only contended that if first and second classes should be run on a Sunday, that third-class carriages ought to be run under the same restrictions.Mr. Warburton
 moved that three be the quorum of the Gilbert's Unions' Committee.Mr. Barneby
 hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion, but would allow him to make the Motion of which he had given notice.Mr. Barneby
: Oh yes, I know all about it. I shall persist.Mr. Brotherton
 moved the adjournment of the House.Mr. Brotherton
12231222 said, that the right hon. Baronet had taken up two questions in his speech; the first of which was, as to how far the House had a right to look to the disposal of the moneys voted by them; and, secondly, as to how far they might interfere with the negotiations carried on between two countries. With respect to the first question, he thought it nothing but right that the House should have full cognizance of the disposal of the Supplies voted; the better the application of the money was known, the better, he thought, it would be for the interests of the country. With regard to Motions of that kind, he must express his disapproval of them. When those who sat on his side of the House held the reins of Government they were constantly being told of the inefficient state of the Navy; those who now sat on the opposite side of the House were constantly attacking the Government by a depreciation of the fleet; he could not but regret that the late Ministry had yielded
12231222Mr. Hume
 replied: he said he might have adduced many other arguments had he pleased, and, he remarked, with regard to the free admission of the public to the Royal Academy, that up to the twelfth exhibition no money had been taken at the doors.Mr. Hume
"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, That, as Patroness and Comptroller of the Royal Academy of Arts, She will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the Laws and Regulations of that Institution, with a view of rendering it more conducive to the advancement of the Fine Arts, better suited to the spirit and circumstances of the present age, and more consonant with the original intention of its Royal Founder, George III."1247 said, he had been anxious to bring under the notice of the House the state of the Fine Arts in this country. In no country in the world had artists been treated as they had been in this country—in no country had rising genius received less protection than in England; and he attributed this entirely to the manner in which the Royal Academy had been pre-eminently favoured by Royal patronage. He wished to know what funds were at the disposal of this favoured society, as no other patronage
"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, That, as Patroness and Comptroller of the Royal Academy of Arts, She will be graciously pleased to take into consideration the Laws and Regulations of that Institution, with a view of rendering it more conducive to the advancement of the Fine Arts, better suited to the spirit and circumstances of the present age, and more consonant with the original intention of its Royal Founder, George III."1247Mr. Hume
 doubted if any gentleman connected with banking would be found to support the Amendment of the hon. Baronet. The proposition was a hobby of his hon. Friend, but he hoped that having delivered his speech he would withdraw it.Mr. P. Stewart
1221 said, that there was one admission in the able speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down, which he regarded with particular satisfaction, that he could not regard the relation of France and Morocco with any apprehension whatever. The noble Lord said that with respect to the state of affairs between France and Morocco, he had no anxiety, having full trust, which all the country had, in the Government and humanity of France; he did understand from those views that the noble Lord did not regard with apprehension the relations of France and Morocco. As regarded the strength and state of the Navy, it appeared to him that there was no culpability attached to Government in not having any additional force in the Mediterranean, for he had no apprehension of any hostility at present, and if such were to take place he had no doubt that there would be sufficient time to collect a sufficient force to meet any that might be brought against us. He did not suppose either that the noble Lord at the Head of Foreign Affairs was so far behind his noble predecessor in the act of protocolising as not to be able to delay such an event a sufficient time to enable us in some measure to prepare one. He could not suppose, from the known good feeling of the right hon. Gentleman who had brought forward that Motion, that it had been done with any hostile feeling, or that the words of the Motion had been framed with any such intention. Nevertheless, he saw with great pain that notice of Motion, from the confident belief that it would be misinterpreted and misunderstood. Knowing the existence of a war party in France, he thought that it behoved them to do all in their power not to increase those difficulties with which the Government of France had to contend. There was no practical good to be obtained if Government came forward and would not recognize the right of France to Algeria. For his own part he was not in a position to understand why the right of France to Algeria had not heretofore been recognised. At all events, as long as that recognition was withheld, we had no right to expect the concession of any particular favour to our commerce from France. In respect to Algeria, then, he could not see that any circumstances to
1221Mr. M. Milnes
1238E. CockburnPerseus,1237St. Vincent,1236Collingwood,RodneyRodney,Collingwood,1235St. Vincent1234 did not think it surprising, that a right hon. Gentleman, who had been connected with the Board of Trade, should ask such a question as had been now put, or that he should make an inquiry, when 15 or 20 per cent. duties were placed on our manufactures. As to the question of Algiers, he thought that by the manner in which his right hon. Friend had treated this subject, the French people would be satisfied that we could discuss our own affairs without acrimony or irritation. So far as that debate went, it would be extraordinary if they should be told that they could not discuss a question of foreign trade without giving offence to any Foreign Power. There was one point in the Motion of his right hon. Friend, asking for a Return of the present Destination of the Ships, to which objection might be made. That informa-
1238E. CockburnPerseus,1237St. Vincent,1236Collingwood,RodneyRodney,Collingwood,1235St. Vincent1234Mr. More O'Ferrall
"For Copies of the Ordinance of the 16th of December, imposing increased duties on our shipping and manufactures, and a Return of the amount of our Naval Force in the Mediterranean on the 1st of July, 1844."1202120118Total44Total
18Total44Total4Mail Packets4Mail Packets
4Mail Packets4Mail Packets6Armed Steamers9Armed Steamers
6Armed Steamers9Armed Steamers0Brigs3Brigs
0Brigs3Brigs3Sloops4Sloops
3Sloops4Sloops4Frigates7Frigates
4Frigates7Frigates1Ships of the Line17Ships of the Line
1Ships of the Line17Ships of the LineMediterranean, 1844.Mediterranean, 1841.
Mediterranean, 1844.Mediterranean, 1841.Distribution of Force.Distribution of Force.
Distribution of Force.Distribution of Force.
18Total44Total
18Total44Total4Mail Packets4Mail Packets
4Mail Packets4Mail Packets6Armed Steamers9Armed Steamers
6Armed Steamers9Armed Steamers0Brigs3Brigs
0Brigs3Brigs3Sloops4Sloops
3Sloops4Sloops4Frigates7Frigates
4Frigates7Frigates1Ships of the Line17Ships of the Line
1Ships of the Line17Ships of the LineMediterranean, 1844.Mediterranean, 1841.
Mediterranean, 1844.Mediterranean, 1841.Distribution of Force.Distribution of Force.
Distribution of Force.Distribution of Force.6Foreign Mail Brigs22Foreign Mail Brigs
6Foreign Mail Brigs22Foreign Mail Brigs4Foreign Mail Packets14Foreign Mail Steamers
4Foreign Mail Packets14Foreign Mail Steamers32Armed Steamers22Armed Steamers
32Armed Steamers22Armed Steamers24Brigs39Brigs
24Brigs39Brigs31Sloops40Sloops
31Sloops40Sloops32Frigates36Frigates
32Frigates36Frigates9Ships of Line26Ships of line
9Ships of Line26Ships of line1st July, 1844.1st July, 1841.
1st July, 1844.1st July, 1841.st July,andst July,Ships in Commission onst July,andst July,Ships in Commission on
st July,andst July,Ships in Commission onst July,andst July,Ships in Commission on
6Foreign Mail Brigs22Foreign Mail Brigs
6Foreign Mail Brigs22Foreign Mail Brigs4Foreign Mail Packets14Foreign Mail Steamers
4Foreign Mail Packets14Foreign Mail Steamers32Armed Steamers22Armed Steamers
32Armed Steamers22Armed Steamers24Brigs39Brigs
24Brigs39Brigs31Sloops40Sloops
31Sloops40Sloops32Frigates36Frigates
32Frigates36Frigates9Ships of Line26Ships of line
9Ships of Line26Ships of line1st July, 1844.1st July, 1841.
1st July, 1844.1st July, 1841.st July,andst July,Ships in Commission onst July,andst July,Ships in Commission on
st July,andst July,Ships in Commission onst July,andst July,Ships in Commission on12001199"The commercial system lately adopted here by the Government has completely shut out British commerce from this port. Formerly several British vessels came here, but no more now, except with coals, are expected. The port duties on all foreign vessels are four francs per ton. French vessels rarely pay anything. Sardinian vessels are favoured by Treaty, and pay only two francs per ton. English cotton manufactures, which paid last year only 15 per cent., now pay more than 30, which amounts to exclusion."Times1198Des Debats,1197"At Toulon he will be without doubt detained in quarantine, and if he intends coming to Paris he may possibly not reach Algiers till long after it shall be too late to take part in the negotiations which are likely to follow the capture of the place.""His Majesty from that moment, namely, the conquest of Algiers, ought to give an assurance to his allies, that he will present himself to those deliberations, ready to furnish all explanations which they might still desire, disposed to take into consideration all rights and all interests,"1196"Monsieur de Polignac expresses a hope that our expectations may not be so unreasonable, as to urge him to declarations which must prove injurious to the Government of His Most Christian Majesty. If the projects of the French cabinet be as pure and disinterested as is asserted by Monsieur de Polignac, he can have no real difficulty in giving us the most entire satisfaction. A concise and simple de-
1196"Is it unreasonable to expect from the French Government something more than a general assurance of disinterestedness, and an engagement to consult their allies, before the future fate of the regency shall be finally decided? A French army, the most numerous, it is believed, that has ever crossed the sea, is to undertake the conquest of a territory which, from its geographical position, has always been considered of the highest importance; no man can look without anxiety at the issue of an enterprise, the ultimate objects of which are so uncertain and so undefined. … If we could so far forget what is due to our Sovereign and to ourselves as to rest satisfied with vague explanations, in a matter so deeply affecting the interests of British commerce, as well as the political relations of the Mediterranean States, it is certain that the people of this country would not hesitate to pronounce the most unequivocal condemnation of our conduct."1195"Whatever may be the means which shall
1195"The King, whose views on this grave question are quite disinterested, will consult with his allies, in order to determine what should be the new order of things.""My Lord,—The extensive scale of the preparations for the expedition against Algiers, and the declaration in the speech of his most Christian Majesty upon this subject, have naturally engaged the attention of His Majesty's Government. Your Excellency is already aware of the sincere desire which His Majesty entertains that the injuries and affronts which have been endured by the King of France from the Regency of Algiers may be duly avenged, and that His Most Christian Majesty may exact the most signal reparation from this barbarous state; but the formidable force about to be embarked, and the intimation in the speech to which I have alluded, appear to indicate an intention of effecting the entire destruction of the Regency, rather than the infliction of chastisement. This probable change in the condition of a territory so important, from its geographical position, cannot be regarded by His Majesty's Government without much interest, and it renders some explanation of the intentions of the French Government still more desirable. I have communicated these sentiments to the Duke de Laval, and have received from his Excellency the most positive assurances of the entirely disinterested views of the Cabinet of the Tuileries in the future disposal of the state of Algiers. Notwithstanding his Excellency has promised to write to his Government in order to obtain the means of making an official communication, I have thought it right to instruct you to bring the subject under the notice of M. de Polignac. It is probable that the French Minister may be desirous of affording all the explanation we can desire. The intimate union and concert existing between the two countries give us reason to expect that we shall receive the full confidence of the French Government in a matter touching the interests of both, and which in its results may be productive of the most important effects upon the commercial and relations of the Mediterranean States."11941193: On Saturday, I informed the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, that instead of moving for a Committee to inquire how far our commercial interests were involved in the events which are passing in the Barbary States, I shall content myself with moving for papers, of which I have since given him notice. My first impression was, that the extent to which the trade of this country has been affected by the heavy imposts which have been recently laid upon the tonnage of British vessels, and the products of British industry in all the ports upon the coast of the Mediterranean, of which France has made herself the mistress, required a minute investigation; and that the effects of the ordinance, which issued on the 16th of December last, doubling the duties on English shipping, and of the augmentation of duties upon our cottons to 30 per cent., would best be proved by the evidence, oral and documentary, which could be produced before a Committee of this House; but I have heard objections raised to the form of the Motion, of which I had given an intimation, and in order that a debate on the mere form should be avoided, by which the attention of the House would be in all likelihood distracted from the consideration of more momentous matter, I have thought it more advisable to move that the copies of certain documents should be laid on the Table of the House, in which much of the information which I seek to obtain may be disclosed. There is another motive for the adoption of this course. It is that which is least calculated to give offence to a gallant, but exceedingly susceptible people. It is not my intention (and I shall prove that it is not by the tone with which I shall treat this important subject) to say anything by which a debate, at which France could legitimately take offence, will be produced. Nothing shall fall from me, by which a pretence shall be afforded for imputing to me the more
"For Copies of the Ordinance of the 16th of December, imposing increased duties on our shipping and manufactures, and a Return of the amount of our Naval Force in the Mediterranean on the 1st of July, 1844."1202120118Total44Total
18Total44Total4Mail Packets4Mail Packets
4Mail Packets4Mail Packets6Armed Steamers9Armed Steamers
6Armed Steamers9Armed Steamers0Brigs3Brigs
0Brigs3Brigs3Sloops4Sloops
3Sloops4Sloops4Frigates7Frigates
4Frigates7Frigates1Ships of the Line17Ships of the Line
1Ships of the Line17Ships of the LineMediterranean, 1844.Mediterranean, 1841.
Mediterranean, 1844.Mediterranean, 1841.Distribution of Force.Distribution of Force.
Distribution of Force.Distribution of Force.
18Total44Total
18Total44Total4Mail Packets4Mail Packets
4Mail Packets4Mail Packets6Armed Steamers9Armed Steamers
6Armed Steamers9Armed Steamers0Brigs3Brigs
0Brigs3Brigs3Sloops4Sloops
3Sloops4Sloops4Frigates7Frigates
4Frigates7Frigates1Ships of the Line17Ships of the Line
1Ships of the Line17Ships of the LineMediterranean, 1844.Mediterranean, 1841.
Mediterranean, 1844.Mediterranean, 1841.Distribution of Force.Distribution of Force.
Distribution of Force.Distribution of Force.6Foreign Mail Brigs22Foreign Mail Brigs
6Foreign Mail Brigs22Foreign Mail Brigs4Foreign Mail Packets14Foreign Mail Steamers
4Foreign Mail Packets14Foreign Mail Steamers32Armed Steamers22Armed Steamers
32Armed Steamers22Armed Steamers24Brigs39Brigs
24Brigs39Brigs31Sloops40Sloops
31Sloops40Sloops32Frigates36Frigates
32Frigates36Frigates9Ships of Line26Ships of line
9Ships of Line26Ships of line1st July, 1844.1st July, 1841.
1st July, 1844.1st July, 1841.st July,andst July,Ships in Commission onst July,andst July,Ships in Commission on
st July,andst July,Ships in Commission onst July,andst July,Ships in Commission on
6Foreign Mail Brigs22Foreign Mail Brigs
6Foreign Mail Brigs22Foreign Mail Brigs4Foreign Mail Packets14Foreign Mail Steamers
4Foreign Mail Packets14Foreign Mail Steamers32Armed Steamers22Armed Steamers
32Armed Steamers22Armed Steamers24Brigs39Brigs
24Brigs39Brigs31Sloops40Sloops
31Sloops40Sloops32Frigates36Frigates
32Frigates36Frigates9Ships of Line26Ships of line
9Ships of Line26Ships of line1st July, 1844.1st July, 1841.
1st July, 1844.1st July, 1841.st July,andst July,Ships in Commission onst July,andst July,Ships in Commission on
st July,andst July,Ships in Commission onst July,andst July,Ships in Commission on12001199"The commercial system lately adopted here by the Government has completely shut out British commerce from this port. Formerly several British vessels came here, but no more now, except with coals, are expected. The port duties on all foreign vessels are four francs per ton. French vessels rarely pay anything. Sardinian vessels are favoured by Treaty, and pay only two francs per ton. English cotton manufactures, which paid last year only 15 per cent., now pay more than 30, which amounts to exclusion."Times1198Des Debats,1197"At Toulon he will be without doubt detained in quarantine, and if he intends coming to Paris he may possibly not reach Algiers till long after it shall be too late to take part in the negotiations which are likely to follow the capture of the place.""His Majesty from that moment, namely, the conquest of Algiers, ought to give an assurance to his allies, that he will present himself to those deliberations, ready to furnish all explanations which they might still desire, disposed to take into consideration all rights and all interests,"1196"Monsieur de Polignac expresses a hope that our expectations may not be so unreasonable, as to urge him to declarations which must prove injurious to the Government of His Most Christian Majesty. If the projects of the French cabinet be as pure and disinterested as is asserted by Monsieur de Polignac, he can have no real difficulty in giving us the most entire satisfaction. A concise and simple de-
1196"Is it unreasonable to expect from the French Government something more than a general assurance of disinterestedness, and an engagement to consult their allies, before the future fate of the regency shall be finally decided? A French army, the most numerous, it is believed, that has ever crossed the sea, is to undertake the conquest of a territory which, from its geographical position, has always been considered of the highest importance; no man can look without anxiety at the issue of an enterprise, the ultimate objects of which are so uncertain and so undefined. … If we could so far forget what is due to our Sovereign and to ourselves as to rest satisfied with vague explanations, in a matter so deeply affecting the interests of British commerce, as well as the political relations of the Mediterranean States, it is certain that the people of this country would not hesitate to pronounce the most unequivocal condemnation of our conduct."1195"Whatever may be the means which shall
1195"The King, whose views on this grave question are quite disinterested, will consult with his allies, in order to determine what should be the new order of things.""My Lord,—The extensive scale of the preparations for the expedition against Algiers, and the declaration in the speech of his most Christian Majesty upon this subject, have naturally engaged the attention of His Majesty's Government. Your Excellency is already aware of the sincere desire which His Majesty entertains that the injuries and affronts which have been endured by the King of France from the Regency of Algiers may be duly avenged, and that His Most Christian Majesty may exact the most signal reparation from this barbarous state; but the formidable force about to be embarked, and the intimation in the speech to which I have alluded, appear to indicate an intention of effecting the entire destruction of the Regency, rather than the infliction of chastisement. This probable change in the condition of a territory so important, from its geographical position, cannot be regarded by His Majesty's Government without much interest, and it renders some explanation of the intentions of the French Government still more desirable. I have communicated these sentiments to the Duke de Laval, and have received from his Excellency the most positive assurances of the entirely disinterested views of the Cabinet of the Tuileries in the future disposal of the state of Algiers. Notwithstanding his Excellency has promised to write to his Government in order to obtain the means of making an official communication, I have thought it right to instruct you to bring the subject under the notice of M. de Polignac. It is probable that the French Minister may be desirous of affording all the explanation we can desire. The intimate union and concert existing between the two countries give us reason to expect that we shall receive the full confidence of the French Government in a matter touching the interests of both, and which in its results may be productive of the most important effects upon the commercial and relations of the Mediterranean States."11941193Mr. Sheil
 said, that he could not see why, if Dives was allowed to travel on a Sunday, Lazarus should be prevented.Mr. Sheil
 would then move an Amendment requiring that third-class trains should be run upon all days when first and second-class trains were run.Mr. Thornely
 suggested an alteration which would make the provisions of the Clause imperative on Sundays as well as week days.Mr. Thornely
 hoped if there was other formal business to be gone through, the hon. Member would withdraw this Motion. If the Resolution was carried, no report whatever could be made this Session.Mr. Wakley
 begged to say, he had never withdrawn from the Committee for the purpose of reducing the numbers, nor had he ever heard of any Member having done so; that it was impossible Members of that Committee could do their duty and also attend the early sittings of that House when the Poor Law Amendment Bill was to be discussed. The proper way would be to abandon the inquiry for the present, and resume it next Session.Mr. Wakley
 did not disapprove the conduct of the Government in this matter, but thought the present occasion was the fittest opportunity for bringing the offer that had been made to the notice of the House.Mr. Wyse
 begged to know whether the Government had not received an offer from an artist of the name of Park, to complete the monument at his own expense, if he were suffered to undertake and finish it in conformity with his own taste and judgment.Mr. Wyse
12251224 said, it cannot but be matter of surprize that the right. hon. Gentleman bringing forward this Motion, has stated that in his opinion the results of the present state of affairs in the Mediterranean may prove injurious to the commerce of this country. Sir, the right hon Gentleman has in his speech been so ably refuted by the First Lord of the Treasury, that there is no necessity for me to say one word in addition to what has fallen from my right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel). With regard to the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London, there was no substance in it, no argument, nothing to answer, it was in fact only a pillow for the Motion of his right hon. Friend to fall gently to the ground, which it is evident it will do, even without a division. As I take great interest on the subject of Algiers and the French occupation of that portion of Africa called Algeria, I will now say a few words, and a few words only on the subject. Now, as the right hon. Gentleman is a lawyer he cannot be unacquainted with either Vattell, or the other writers who have given us their sentiments, and laid down rules with regard to the Laws of Nations, and I believe he will find that every independant state has a right to make war or peace, or to defend itself when attacked without the intervention of any other State. I am not aware that in our late war with China, or when the immense territory of Scinde was added to our Eastern possessions that any motion was made in the French Chambers for a Committee to inquire into the subject. If any member of the French Chambers had done so, he would, I think, have been ridiculed in this country for his pains, and probably not much supported in the French Chambers in his motion. It does not appear to me that we have any right whatever to interfere in the war between France and Morocco. Now let us look at the position in which England
12251224Mr. Mackinnon
Queen1229commission de radeCalcutta1228RodneyVanguardCaledonia,Caledonia,1227"If it were necessary to have eleven sail of the line in the Mediterranean, and two at Lisbon, then all he could say was, that the remaining seven sail of the line in commission were very inadequate to the duty of protecting the coasts of this country, and meeting unforeseen dangers that might assail us without warning. If, on the other hand, so many ships were not wanted in the Mediterranean, why were not five or six sail recalled to the home station, to be kept as a reserve, ready to be called into action on unlooked-for contingencies?""That he could not refrain from expressing a hope, that they would not, merely for the sake of economy, rashly diminish the strength of the Navy.""It was impossible not to see that the exertions made by other Powers—it might be without any hostile design—by the United States—France and Russia were becoming great naval Powers, and were preparing to cope with Great Britain in the superiority which it had hitherto maintained over the seas; and it was impossible, therefore, to exclude the importance of those maritime Powers from the consideration of the House. There was one material point also—that the House must not only take the actual strength with which it was possible to appear, when it might be called upon to come in collision with other nations, into consideration, but also the degree of assistance which we might expect from our allies. Let the House look at the strength of the Russian fleet in the Baltic at this time. They must not, however, determine the amount of possible danger by its mere extent, but they must look at the other fleets there, and if they found that Russia had a complete preponderating power there, it was most material to consider, whether this arose as well from its own strength, as from the assistance which it might gain."1226 could not concur in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member who had last addressed the House, that any benefit was likely to arise from the French occupation of Algiers. Did the hon. Member believe that such an occupation would have the effect of allaying the French spirit of enterprise? He did not wish to say anything which might be considered as disparaging to the people of France. When this business first commenced, the Government of France said, that they had no wish to occupy Algiers, but that their only object was to punish the people of that country for certain acts of which they had been guilty. The Government of this country would have acted wisely if they had obtained from France a written declaration to that effect. They ought not to permit France to take possession of Morocco. Why, at that moment Prince de Joinville might be bombarding Tangier. It was their duty to protect British interests. The right hon. Baronet appeared very sensitive when the state of the Navy was brought under the consideration of the House. The Navy was in a worse state than it had been in for tea or fifteen years previously. In 1839 they had twenty-one sail of the line, and 34,165 seamen and marines. The French Government had eight sail of the line at the period when this subject was brought before the House of Lords. The Duke of Wellington said they were engaged in a war in Asia and in other parts of the world, and yet had a Naval force sufficient only for a time of peace. He did not blame the first naval Lord of the Admiralty; he was certain that he had not pointed out to the right hon. Baronet the necessity of reducing the naval strength of this country. The right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) in the debate on the Navy Estimates, said,
Queen1229commission de radeCalcutta1228RodneyVanguardCaledonia,Caledonia,1227"If it were necessary to have eleven sail of the line in the Mediterranean, and two at Lisbon, then all he could say was, that the remaining seven sail of the line in commission were very inadequate to the duty of protecting the coasts of this country, and meeting unforeseen dangers that might assail us without warning. If, on the other hand, so many ships were not wanted in the Mediterranean, why were not five or six sail recalled to the home station, to be kept as a reserve, ready to be called into action on unlooked-for contingencies?""That he could not refrain from expressing a hope, that they would not, merely for the sake of economy, rashly diminish the strength of the Navy.""It was impossible not to see that the exertions made by other Powers—it might be without any hostile design—by the United States—France and Russia were becoming great naval Powers, and were preparing to cope with Great Britain in the superiority which it had hitherto maintained over the seas; and it was impossible, therefore, to exclude the importance of those maritime Powers from the consideration of the House. There was one material point also—that the House must not only take the actual strength with which it was possible to appear, when it might be called upon to come in collision with other nations, into consideration, but also the degree of assistance which we might expect from our allies. Let the House look at the strength of the Russian fleet in the Baltic at this time. They must not, however, determine the amount of possible danger by its mere extent, but they must look at the other fleets there, and if they found that Russia had a complete preponderating power there, it was most material to consider, whether this arose as well from its own strength, as from the assistance which it might gain."1226Sir C. Napier
 seconded the Motion.Sir C. Napier
 hoped the hon. Member would not persist, as the Motion of his hon. Friend was only a matter of form.Sir G. Clerk
en rade,1233CaledoniaCaledonia12321231 said, that he would begin by noticing a remark which had been made by the noble Lord the Member for London; and he quite agreed with that noble Lord, that they ought to keep up a respectable force of seamen, for this reason, that they could not make seamen in a day. So he was sorry when they were compelled to diminish the number; but no doubt it had been the practice, in time of peace, to lower the amount of the naval armaments. Then it came to a question of degree, and it certainly was for the
en rade,1233CaledoniaCaledonia12321231Sir G. Cockburn
1240Caledonia said, that he agreed with the hon. Member for Kildare, that the present Board of Admiralty did not act on any principle—they filled their vessels without reference to the guns, and in some ships had a parcel of men they could not find room for. And then they took credit for sending out the 1240CaledoniaCaptain Pechell
1256 considered the Motion wholly unprecedented. The hon. Mover, who was Chairman of the Gilberts' Incorporation Committee, had stated no ground whatever for the proposal he had made; and the very proposition itself showed that the inquiry ought to be given up for the present Session. He had been most regular in his attendance, and was most desirous to afford every information in his power; but very important interests were at stake; strong accusations were made against the Poor Law Commissioners; and the inquiry had only finished with reference to the southern districts. Yorkshire and the midland counties, the most important of all, had yet to be inquired into, and now the chairman came down to the House with a proposal to reduce the quorum to
1256Captain Pechell
: Then Government has received no official report?Captain Pechell
1177, hearing that a very
1177Captain Pechell
 thought that the Bill had been much improved by the alterations made. It should have his support.Mr. Ward
 had no objection to the withdrawal of the Motion, provided the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton engaged not to withdraw from the Committee for the purpose of reducing the quorum of five. He understood there had been some threat of that sort held out for the purpose of impeding the progress of this Committee.Sir J. Graham
, at all events, hoped they would have the benefit of the evidence that had been taken.Sir J. Graham
 said, that he was not aware of the purport of the Reports to which the hon. and gallant Member alluded; he had no objection to say generally that he had advised Her Majesty to reprieve Dalmas, but he should most certainly object to lay upon the Table of that House any information by which he was guided in tendering that advice.Sir J. Graham
1214C. Napier1213l.l.,1212"I am convinced that it would be senseless, on our part, to cherish any views of aggrandizement or conquest; we disclaim anything of the sort; all we demand of the Emperor of Morocco is what we have a right to demand—to live in peace, and that our frontier shall have security;"1211Sheil1210nous avons ordonné,1209"That considering our ordinance of the 12th July, 1834, concerning the general administration of our French possessions on the north coast of Africa, and being desirous of regulating all that concerns the duties upon navigation, and the customs to be received in the same possessions, with report of our Ministers,—"SheilSheil1208exequatur"We do intend; I repeat that it is the intention of the Government to favour as much as possible the colonization of Algiers. Up to the present time it has never entered into our thoughts to evacuate Algiers—our whole conduct in that country, and on the whole coast of Africa, shows that we contemplate permanent occupation, and that we have nothing to fear against any one that meditates any disturbance there.""Do you intend to colonise Algiers? Do you intend to abandon Algiers? Or do you intend to yield Algiers?"120712061205"That although the King was resolved not to lay down his arms or recall his troops from Algiers until he had gained satisfaction, yet he announced to his Allies that he was desirous to take measures in concert with them in the event of the dissolution of the Government then existing in Algiers, in the struggle that was about to take place." (He said) "that the object of that concert would be to discuss the new order of things which it might be desirable to establish in that country for the great benefit of Christianity, and he assured his Allies that he would enter into those deliberations
120512041203: Sir, I cannot make any observations in reply to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman without in the first instance expressing my regret that he felt himself compelled by a sense of duty to bring forward a Motion calling upon the House of Commons to express an opinion on this subject. Sir, we are occupied in doing what we can to prevent any hostile collision between France and Morocco, that may be either injurious to the in-
1214C. Napier1213l.l.,1212"I am convinced that it would be senseless, on our part, to cherish any views of aggrandizement or conquest; we disclaim anything of the sort; all we demand of the Emperor of Morocco is what we have a right to demand—to live in peace, and that our frontier shall have security;"1211Sheil1210nous avons ordonné,1209"That considering our ordinance of the 12th July, 1834, concerning the general administration of our French possessions on the north coast of Africa, and being desirous of regulating all that concerns the duties upon navigation, and the customs to be received in the same possessions, with report of our Ministers,—"SheilSheil1208exequatur"We do intend; I repeat that it is the intention of the Government to favour as much as possible the colonization of Algiers. Up to the present time it has never entered into our thoughts to evacuate Algiers—our whole conduct in that country, and on the whole coast of Africa, shows that we contemplate permanent occupation, and that we have nothing to fear against any one that meditates any disturbance there.""Do you intend to colonise Algiers? Do you intend to abandon Algiers? Or do you intend to yield Algiers?"120712061205"That although the King was resolved not to lay down his arms or recall his troops from Algiers until he had gained satisfaction, yet he announced to his Allies that he was desirous to take measures in concert with them in the event of the dissolution of the Government then existing in Algiers, in the struggle that was about to take place." (He said) "that the object of that concert would be to discuss the new order of things which it might be desirable to establish in that country for the great benefit of Christianity, and he assured his Allies that he would enter into those deliberations
120512041203Sir R. Peel
1248 expressed his regret that the hon. Gentleman had not had an opportunity of pressing the question at an earlier period of the Session, in order that he (Sir R. Peel) might have seized the occasion of acknowledging the gratitude due to the Institution on account of the great benefit which it had conferred upon the arts. What was the presumed departure from the original intention of George III.? The exhibition was freely open to all artists—its funds were applied solely to the promotion and support of art; and he did say, that it was to the Royal Academy, and not to Parliament, that the merit was due of founding in this country a National School of Art. All that the Royal Academy received from the public favour was the use of the apartments in Trafalgar-square. The public gave nothing towards the payment of professors of painting, anatomy, and architecture. All this was provided for by the Royal Academicians. That body, too, supported, and liberally supported, from its funds, decayed members of the profession when in the decline of life, little or no public sympathy was shown, and in many cases it also made provision for their widows. When he considered the names which had adorned the Royal Academy,
1248Sir R. Peel
1250 said, it was true that the Government had received such an offer, but had not thought proper to accept it, as a monument like that erected to Nelson ought to be the subject of competition to
1250Sir R. Peel
l. said, he could explain that circumstance. Up to the twelfth exhibition of the Royal Academy the Academicians received from King George III., the liberal annual grant of 5,000l.Sir R. Peel
 begged to assure the hon. Member that the size of the lions should be an open question.Sir R. Peel
1253l.l.l. said, the House should beat in mind that this design of a monument to Lord Nelson was originally a private affair. It was proposed to erect a monument to Lord Nelson exactly in the way in which two memorials of the Duke of Wellington were about to be erected, one in the east and the other in the west part of the town, not by Government, but by private subscription. He could not help thinking that memorials in honour of a great general must be more acceptable to his feelings when erected by the spontaneous offerings of his fellow subjects, than if erected by a vote of Parliament. In like manner it was determined to erect a monument to Lord Nelson, and the design of the monument originated entirely with individuals. A sum of 20,0001253l.l.l.Sir R. Peel
1185 opposed the Motion, Limited responsibility would be apt to make persons of influence and property who became shareholders in banks comparatively careless about the management of the establishments, as their chance of loss in consequence of mismanagement would be limited to the probable trifling amount of shares held by them. He did not see why banks should be exempt from the general principles of the law as to co-partnery, which was, that when all equally shared the profit, all should share the loss. All authority was against the hon. Baronet. The evidence of practical bankers taken before Committees of the House went clearly against the principle proposed by the hon. Baronet. The new regulations to be established as security against abuse would diminish any fear upon the
1185Sir Robert Peel
: None whatever.Sir R. Peel
 had not seen any account of the matter except that given in the public journals. The experiment had not been made at the expense or in consequence of communication with Government. It was true that Government had been in communication with Captain Warner upon the subject, and had proposed to allot a certain sum for the purpose of making the experiment, under the direction of certain officers to be appointed by Government. Captain Warner declined this offer upon the grounds of the insufficiency of the sum proposed. The vessel upon which the experiment of Saturday had been tried was furnished, as he understood, by a private individual, and the experiment made at his expense.Sir R. Peel
11841183l.l.l.11821181à prioris.s.1180s.1179 said, that as an Amendment on the Motion that the Speaker should leave the Chair, he should move, that "it is expedient that facilities should be given for the formation of Joint Stock Banks, with limited liability of the shareholders." He was induced to take this course as a more convenient mode of accomplishing the object at which he had aimed, by the Motions in Committee on the Bill now before them, of which he had given notice, viz., the taking the opinion of the House on the question whether limited or unlimited liability of the partners were the best principle on which to constitute Banks. It had appeared to him on reflection that the Motion he proposed was a more intelligible form of raising that issue than a mere proposal to omit from the Bill the Clause imposing unlimited liability. That omission, moreover, would
11841183l.l.l.11821181à prioris.s.1180s.1179Sir William Clay
 supported the Government proposition. In America the banks, after having tried the system of limited, were establishing the system of unlimited liability. In this country it had not been found necessary to insist upon limited liability. He contended that it would be highly impolitic to introduce it. However, the banking system here was in many respects unsatisfactory, and must sooner or later be changed.Mr. Morison
1186 thought that it would have been better, both for the public and railway proprietors, had Government some years ago taken some such measures as that which they proposed now. Government, however, then appeared to be averse to any such interference; and now, if the present Bill passed, as no doubt it would, the only way in which the public could be benefitted would be by competition, which would be of serious injury to the old established lines. A general tariff of fares might have been early established, and would have been found extremely beneficial to the public. As to the proposed interference with third class passengers, he thought that if some change had not
1186Mr. Morison
"W. H. HENDERSON, Captain, R. N., C. B.""T. DICKENSON, Captain, R. N."INGESTRE, Captain, R. N., C. B."We further declare our belief that Captain Warner has never been on board the ship since she left Gravesend.William Wallace"We, the undersigned, hereby certify that the operations against the John O'Gaunt, of 300 tons, conducted by Captain Warner, off Brighton, on Saturday the 20th instant, were under our management and control. We further certify that the explosion did not take place from any combustible matter either on board or alongside the ship, but was caused by Captain Warner, who was on board the William Wallace1178 said, he had no manner of doubt that it was notorious to the hon. and gallant Member, as it was to the whole House, that an experiment had been tried, on Saturday last, upon a large ship, which had been shattered and sunk by the force of certain projectiles, the invention of Captain Warner. He was not at liberty to disclose either the materials by which the destruction was effected, nor the manner in which it was done; but perhaps it would afford some pleasure and satisfaction to the public if he read a document to the House which had been drawn up entirely with reference to the
"W. H. HENDERSON, Captain, R. N., C. B.""T. DICKENSON, Captain, R. N."INGESTRE, Captain, R. N., C. B."We further declare our belief that Captain Warner has never been on board the ship since she left Gravesend.William Wallace"We, the undersigned, hereby certify that the operations against the John O'Gaunt, of 300 tons, conducted by Captain Warner, off Brighton, on Saturday the 20th instant, were under our management and control. We further certify that the explosion did not take place from any combustible matter either on board or alongside the ship, but was caused by Captain Warner, who was on board the William Wallace1178Lord Ingestre
Caledonia1230 observed, that the hon. Member for Montrose advocated placing the Navy on the lowest footing, forgetting altogether the experience which was necessary for the officers and men. Allusion had been made to the allegations of Members on that (the Ministerial) side of the House against the state of the Navy some years ago, but there could be no comparison between that time and the present, owing to the different circumstances of Europe. At that time there was a very great apprehension of a war with France, on account of the Turkish business, which gave a very different complexion to the matter. He quite subscribed to the sentiments of the hon. Member for Montrose, that they ought now to allay the apprehensions of the war party in France, by reducing our establishment to a certain point. The only difference between them was where that point was to be. He said, that it was their business to keep a certain amount of men and officers, if it were only for the purpose of exercise. There was also altogether a difference between the state of
Caledonia1230Viscount Ingestre
1249 said, that as far as he could judge, there was no country in Europe in which was provided such a
1249Viscount Palmerston
124612451244124312421241: Whatever opinions hon. Gentlemen may entertain, one way or other, on the state of our Naval Service, I think we are all indebted to my right hon. Friend for bringing this matter under discussion. My noble Friend the Member for London has said, that the right hon. Baronet was exceedingly dexterous in fighting with shadows, but in the remarks made by the right hon. Gentleman to-night, he has proved his capability of grappling, not with a shadow, but a shadow of a shade. The right hon. Gentleman asks, are Motions to be made calling in question the right of France to the conquest of Algiers. There may as well be a motion in the French Chamber demanding our right to the conquest of Hong Kong. Now, as to the first case, the record of the negotiation has been laid before Parliament. And I hold it perfectly competent to any Member to inquire, not what the conduct of France but of England has been on the occasion which led to the conquest of Algiers. No such ground of inquiry exists as to Hong Kong. We went into war with China on grounds of our own, and with respect to which no negotiation took place with any other country. My right hon. Friend has been found fault with by some for starting some delicate questions in connection with this discussion; and it has been said, considering the state of things which exist in France, and that there is a party there, which as the hon. Member for Leamington has alleged, is anxious for war with England, and capable of overpowering the Government of France, it is very inexpedient to discuss our foreign interests in this House, or to inquire into the naval
124612451244124312421241Viscount Palmerston
1285128412831282 said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department had stated that he had issued an order to the Poor Law Commissioners that they should attend to the early admission of pauper lunatics into lunatic asylums. But the difficulty was this, that there was no means of compelling the relatives to disclose the state of the patient. Their wish was to conceal it. That was one point to which he hoped the attention of the right hon. Gentleman would be called, that he should show the manner in which that early discovery could be best achieved. The principal doubts expressed by the right hon. Gentleman on the statement of the noble Lord were first as to the prohibition of private asylums. Upon that point he was inclined to agree with the noble Lord that it was desirable to prohibit, if not to prevent, private asylums. He thought that, in this unfortunate condition of man, as in other evils to which he was subject, publicity was one of the means of cure, and he believed that that opinion was gaining ground among the public in general. He fully admitted that the subject was one of the greatest delicacy, and he quite understood the feelings of the right hon. Gentleman. It must to a certain extent be known if a person were confined in a public asylum; but he must say, that if any man maturely considered this with reference to the case of his relative, rather than to the concealment of the misfortune which had befallen his family, he would have no
1285128412831282Mr. V. Smith
 as a Member connected with Carmarthenshire, entered into an explanation of the circumstances connected with the lunatic asylum of that country. Previous to the issuing of any Commission, the three counties of Carmarthen, Pembroke, and Cardigan had done all in their power to carry the Act into operation, but had found great difficulties in their way. He referred to reports of the Commissioners to show that improvements had been made in the asylum. He did not make the statement in justification of the circumstances stated by the noble Lord; but he was sure the magistrates would be delighted to have sufficient power to administer the law for the benefit of these unfortunate persons.Mr. Sanders Davis
 said both sides of the House seemed fully agreed that some remedy should be provided for the evils to which their attention had been directed; but, why should there be a year's delay in the application of that remedy? It was evident from the statements which had been made as to the condition of the lunatic asylum in Dublin, that the case was most urgent.Mr. Stafford O'Brien
13101309 remarked that there was not sufficient difference between the hon. Member and himself to make it desirable that he should occupy the attention of the House at any length; he should confine himself to the Resolution proposed by the hon. Member, and to the actual question as it stood between us and foreign countries. The first part of the Resolution was, as he understood it, to express approbation at the relaxation of the Quarantine laws that had been made by this country; and the second part, that foreign governments should be urged to adopt similar relaxations: and that the Government of this and other countries should be requested to enter upon the consideration, whether further relaxations should not be made. The Resolution of the hon. Member was clearly in conformity with the spirit in which the Government had acted. When the Government came into office they found that the attention of the previous Government had been directed to this subject, and that it had endeavoured to induce foreign governments to relax their laws; but it had failed in its attempt. But this he imputed to the differences in other matters which had then arisen. Her Majesty's present
13101309Mr. Gladstone
1319 rose to second the Motion. He would ask the Government if the restoration of Mr. O'Driscoll to the magistracy was calculated to promote tranquillity in Ireland, or give satisfaction to the people? If Mr. O'Driscoll had not been restored, would the most violent supporters of the Government have blamed the Lord Chancellor? This gentleman, who was restored to the Commission of the Peace, had violated the laws of the country, and outraged the liberty of the subject, by a violent assault upon an unoffending individual. Mr. O'Driscoll had been guilty of a gross contempt of court. He said that justice had not been done him by the Bench. Certainly it had not, for the case ought to have been sent to the assizes. Because Mr. O'Driscoll was splenatic and irritable, that was no reason why he should be allowed to violate the law. The opinion of the public was that Mr. O'Driscoll was restored to the Bench either as a criminal or a madman; either a man who had committed grave crimes, or one who was subject to a malady that rendered the administration of justice in his hands a delusion and a mockery. And why was this gentleman restored? in consequence of a sanatory certificate, or bill of health, signed by 2,900 non-medical persons of his restoration to magisterial capacity. If he chose to say that in consequence of ill health he had attended repeal meetings last year, but that he was now restored to health, would the Government reinstate him in the Commission of the Peace. This was one of those farces in the administration of justice in Ireland; which, however, were attended with such melancholy consequences. He contended that it was not the part of a gentleman to strike any one; certainly not to strike his inferior; and if the person whom Mr. O'Driscoll assaulted had been a man, and had retaliated, he might have slain Mr. O'Driscoll and been hanged, or
1319Mr. Dillon Browne
1288"The superintendent at Lancaster hesitates in giving an opinion decidedly in favour of the non-restraint system; he thinks that although much may be done without mechanical restraint of any kind, there are occasionally cases in which it may not only be necessary, but beneficial. The superintendent of the Suffolk asylum considers that in certain cases and more especially in a crowded and imperfectly constructed asylum, like the one under his charge, mechanical restraint, judiciously applied, might be preferable to any other species of coercion, as being both less irritating and more effectual.""In the asylum for the county of Dorset, we found a patient whose suicidal propensities were so determined that he had once determined to drown himself, twice to hang himself, once to cut his throat, and also to choke himself by thrusting his sheets down his throat, and to strangle himself by twisting his handkerchief round his neck. The restraint of muffs was resorted to; and although previously restless and trying continually to get out of bed, this person began to sleep comfortably, and was, when we saw him, tranquil and apparently convalescent., in reply, said it was well known that moderate restraint was useful, and that the lunatics, finding an attack coming on, would often ask for restraint; but this was very different from harsh coercion.
1288"The superintendent at Lancaster hesitates in giving an opinion decidedly in favour of the non-restraint system; he thinks that although much may be done without mechanical restraint of any kind, there are occasionally cases in which it may not only be necessary, but beneficial. The superintendent of the Suffolk asylum considers that in certain cases and more especially in a crowded and imperfectly constructed asylum, like the one under his charge, mechanical restraint, judiciously applied, might be preferable to any other species of coercion, as being both less irritating and more effectual.""In the asylum for the county of Dorset, we found a patient whose suicidal propensities were so determined that he had once determined to drown himself, twice to hang himself, once to cut his throat, and also to choke himself by thrusting his sheets down his throat, and to strangle himself by twisting his handkerchief round his neck. The restraint of muffs was resorted to; and although previously restless and trying continually to get out of bed, this person began to sleep comfortably, and was, when we saw him, tranquil and apparently convalescent.Lord Ashley
"Majestic, though in ruin;"127112701269"We have met with one case which we think most atrocious. A. B. was sent to the Hereford Asylum from near Brecon, on Nov. 28, 1843. She died on January 30; she was in such a shocking state, that the proprietor wished not to admit her; she had been kept chained in the house of a married daughter. From being long chained in a crouching posture, her knees were forced up to her chin, and she sat wholly upon her heels and her hips, and considerable excoriation had taken place, where her knees pressed upon her stomach. She could move about, and was generally maniacal. When she died, it required very considerable dissection to get her pressed into her coffin! This might be taken as a sample of Welsh lunatics.""It has been represented to us, that many of the Welsh lunatics who have been in the English asylums, have been very violent, and have been sent to them in a wretched and most neglected condition."12681267s.s.1266"In the asylums of Lincoln, Leicester, Nottingham, and Northampton, the superintendents and visiting physicians have expressed their unanimous opinion that pauper lunatics are sent there at so late a period of their disease as to impede or prevent their ultimate recovery. Opinions to the same effect from almost every county lunatic asylum" Chester may be taken as a sample. "Paupers are
1266"All the cures mentioned in the Report, page 81, are permanent. Our rule is, that if any patient, who has been discharged from the hospital as cured, relapses within three months, he is re-admitted, not as a fresh but as a relapsed case; the period he has been at home is deducted, and he is kept in the hospital to the end of the twelve months, or till he is again cured; but all such relapsed cases are deducted from the list of cures; however, we very seldom have instances of relapses, three or four during the year is the average."1265l.s.l."The county asylum is nearly filled with incurable lunatics, and almost all the recent cases are practically excluded from it. When we visited it in March last, there were 984 patients, of whom only thirty were reported curable, and there were 429 patients belonging to the county out of the asylum, who, if they wait for the rota before they are admitted, will probably have become incurable, and will be lunatic annuitants upon the county or their parishes. Lancaster asylum contains 600 patients, of whom 546 are considered incurable; and there are more than 500 pauper lunatics in the county for whom it has no accommodation. Surrey Asylum opened in 1841, on 1st January, 1844, number in asylum, 382, of whom 362 are reported incurable; there are belonging to the county of Surrey 591 pauper lunatics. This was a most costly system. The superintending physician of Hanwell Asylum published a table in 1842, to show how long each patient had been confined there. There were 936 in the asylum; 696 had been there more than two years, and were pronounced incurable. The average duration of confinement of these 696 was upwards of six years and nine months. The yearly cost was about 22l.s.l.1264"In one of the cells in the upper court for the women, the dimensions of which were eight feet by four, and in which there was no table, and only two wooden seats fastened to the wall, we found three females confined, there was no glazing to the window, and the floor of this place was perfectly wet with urine. The two dark cells which adjoin the cell used for a day room, are the sleeping places for these three unfortunate beings, two of them sleep in two cribs in one cell. The floor in the cell with the two cribs was actually reeking wet with urine, and covered with straw and filth, and one crib had a piece of old carpet by way of bedding besides the straw, but the other appeared to have had nothing but straw, without any other bedding. In the other cell, the patient who had slept in it had broken her crib to pieces, and a part of it was remaining in the cell, but the straw was heaped up in one corner, and as far as we could rely upon what was said, she had slept upon the straw upon the ground, at least one night. The straw itself was most filthy, the floor was perfectly wet with urine, and part of the straw had been stuck to the wall in patches with excrement. It must be added that these two cells, and one other adjoining to it, have no window and no place for light or air, except a grate over the door, which opens into a passage. The persons of these three unfortunate women were extremely dirty, and the condition in which we found them and their cells was truly sickening and shocking. Adjoining to the two sleeping cells of these women, and opening into the same passage, was a third cell, which was occupied as a sleeping place by a male criminal of very dangerous habits and an idiotic boy. This cell was dirty and offensive, and the floor of it wet with urine, but it was not in so filthy a state as the other two. The criminal was fastened at night to his bed with a chain. We strongly objected to these men being confined in a cell closely adjoining to the females. The whole of these cells were as damp and dark as an underground cellar, and were in such a foul and disgusting state that it was scarcely possible to endure the offensive smell. We sent for a candle and lantern to enable us to examine them."12631262"West Auckland—Thirteen males, sixteen females; the violent and the quiet, the dirty and the clean, shut up together; only one small yard, and when the one sex was in it, the other shut up; in the day room of the males five restrained by leg locks, and two wearing, in addition, iron handcuffs and fetters from the wrist to the ancle, all tranquil, but they would otherwise escape; chains fastened to floor in many places, and to many of the bedsteads; the males throughout the house slept two in a bed. Wreckenton, near Gateshead—Chains attached to the floor in several places, and it was the practice to chain patients by the leg upon their first admission, in order, as it was said, to see what they would do; bedding filthy, cell offensive, also sleeping room; improved by visitation, but still unfit. Licensed house at Derby—Damp, unhealthy; bedding in a disgusting condition from running sores. At Lainston, in Hants—Even on third visit seven female paupers in chains; these seven and three others chained to their beds at night; the usual accompaniments of dirty, wet, and ill-clothed. Kingdown-house, at Box—the same details. House of Industry, Kingsland, near Shrewsbury — Containing from eighty to ninety insane persons. They were nearly all fastened to their beds by chains to the wrists. Union House, Redruth, in
12631262"Many asylums had formerly been private houses; the mansion was sometimes engrossed by the proprietor and a few private patients, while the paupers were consigned to buildings formerly used as offices and outhouses."1261"The asylum for Kent will contain 300, for Surrey 360, for West Riding 420, for Lancaster 600, and for Middlesex 1,000. From the best opinions that we have been able to collect, and from the result of our own observations and experience, we think it is highly desirable that no asylum for curable lunatics should contain more than 250 patients, and that 200 is perhaps as large a number as can be managed, with the most benefit to themselves and the public, in one establishment."l.l.l.,l.l.l.1260l.l.l.1259l.1258 in rising to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, for an Address to the Crown, praying Her Majesty to take into her consideration the Report of the Metropolitan Commissioners in Lunacy to the Lord Chancellor, presented to the House by command of Her Majesty, said it would be necessary for him shortly to explain the reasons which actuated him. First, the nature of the subject and the protraction of inquiry had inevitably delayed the production of the Report to this period of the Session. Secondly, the statute under which the Commissioners acted would expire in the next Session, and it would be necessary to call upon the House to consider in what form and to what extent power should be confided to any administrative body for the government of lunatics throughout the Kingdom. It was desirable, therefore, that the country should not be taken by surprise, but that these weighty matters should be maturely considered during the approaching recess. He had been unwilling to bring forward this subject at all, but his colleagues in the Commission had thought that the novelty of the subject, the great expenses incurred and the vast numbers who were subject to this jurisdiction, would justify him in calling
"Majestic, though in ruin;"127112701269"We have met with one case which we think most atrocious. A. B. was sent to the Hereford Asylum from near Brecon, on Nov. 28, 1843. She died on January 30; she was in such a shocking state, that the proprietor wished not to admit her; she had been kept chained in the house of a married daughter. From being long chained in a crouching posture, her knees were forced up to her chin, and she sat wholly upon her heels and her hips, and considerable excoriation had taken place, where her knees pressed upon her stomach. She could move about, and was generally maniacal. When she died, it required very considerable dissection to get her pressed into her coffin! This might be taken as a sample of Welsh lunatics.""It has been represented to us, that many of the Welsh lunatics who have been in the English asylums, have been very violent, and have been sent to them in a wretched and most neglected condition."12681267s.s.1266"In the asylums of Lincoln, Leicester, Nottingham, and Northampton, the superintendents and visiting physicians have expressed their unanimous opinion that pauper lunatics are sent there at so late a period of their disease as to impede or prevent their ultimate recovery. Opinions to the same effect from almost every county lunatic asylum" Chester may be taken as a sample. "Paupers are
1266"All the cures mentioned in the Report, page 81, are permanent. Our rule is, that if any patient, who has been discharged from the hospital as cured, relapses within three months, he is re-admitted, not as a fresh but as a relapsed case; the period he has been at home is deducted, and he is kept in the hospital to the end of the twelve months, or till he is again cured; but all such relapsed cases are deducted from the list of cures; however, we very seldom have instances of relapses, three or four during the year is the average."1265l.s.l."The county asylum is nearly filled with incurable lunatics, and almost all the recent cases are practically excluded from it. When we visited it in March last, there were 984 patients, of whom only thirty were reported curable, and there were 429 patients belonging to the county out of the asylum, who, if they wait for the rota before they are admitted, will probably have become incurable, and will be lunatic annuitants upon the county or their parishes. Lancaster asylum contains 600 patients, of whom 546 are considered incurable; and there are more than 500 pauper lunatics in the county for whom it has no accommodation. Surrey Asylum opened in 1841, on 1st January, 1844, number in asylum, 382, of whom 362 are reported incurable; there are belonging to the county of Surrey 591 pauper lunatics. This was a most costly system. The superintending physician of Hanwell Asylum published a table in 1842, to show how long each patient had been confined there. There were 936 in the asylum; 696 had been there more than two years, and were pronounced incurable. The average duration of confinement of these 696 was upwards of six years and nine months. The yearly cost was about 22l.s.l.1264"In one of the cells in the upper court for the women, the dimensions of which were eight feet by four, and in which there was no table, and only two wooden seats fastened to the wall, we found three females confined, there was no glazing to the window, and the floor of this place was perfectly wet with urine. The two dark cells which adjoin the cell used for a day room, are the sleeping places for these three unfortunate beings, two of them sleep in two cribs in one cell. The floor in the cell with the two cribs was actually reeking wet with urine, and covered with straw and filth, and one crib had a piece of old carpet by way of bedding besides the straw, but the other appeared to have had nothing but straw, without any other bedding. In the other cell, the patient who had slept in it had broken her crib to pieces, and a part of it was remaining in the cell, but the straw was heaped up in one corner, and as far as we could rely upon what was said, she had slept upon the straw upon the ground, at least one night. The straw itself was most filthy, the floor was perfectly wet with urine, and part of the straw had been stuck to the wall in patches with excrement. It must be added that these two cells, and one other adjoining to it, have no window and no place for light or air, except a grate over the door, which opens into a passage. The persons of these three unfortunate women were extremely dirty, and the condition in which we found them and their cells was truly sickening and shocking. Adjoining to the two sleeping cells of these women, and opening into the same passage, was a third cell, which was occupied as a sleeping place by a male criminal of very dangerous habits and an idiotic boy. This cell was dirty and offensive, and the floor of it wet with urine, but it was not in so filthy a state as the other two. The criminal was fastened at night to his bed with a chain. We strongly objected to these men being confined in a cell closely adjoining to the females. The whole of these cells were as damp and dark as an underground cellar, and were in such a foul and disgusting state that it was scarcely possible to endure the offensive smell. We sent for a candle and lantern to enable us to examine them."12631262"West Auckland—Thirteen males, sixteen females; the violent and the quiet, the dirty and the clean, shut up together; only one small yard, and when the one sex was in it, the other shut up; in the day room of the males five restrained by leg locks, and two wearing, in addition, iron handcuffs and fetters from the wrist to the ancle, all tranquil, but they would otherwise escape; chains fastened to floor in many places, and to many of the bedsteads; the males throughout the house slept two in a bed. Wreckenton, near Gateshead—Chains attached to the floor in several places, and it was the practice to chain patients by the leg upon their first admission, in order, as it was said, to see what they would do; bedding filthy, cell offensive, also sleeping room; improved by visitation, but still unfit. Licensed house at Derby—Damp, unhealthy; bedding in a disgusting condition from running sores. At Lainston, in Hants—Even on third visit seven female paupers in chains; these seven and three others chained to their beds at night; the usual accompaniments of dirty, wet, and ill-clothed. Kingdown-house, at Box—the same details. House of Industry, Kingsland, near Shrewsbury — Containing from eighty to ninety insane persons. They were nearly all fastened to their beds by chains to the wrists. Union House, Redruth, in
12631262"Many asylums had formerly been private houses; the mansion was sometimes engrossed by the proprietor and a few private patients, while the paupers were consigned to buildings formerly used as offices and outhouses."1261"The asylum for Kent will contain 300, for Surrey 360, for West Riding 420, for Lancaster 600, and for Middlesex 1,000. From the best opinions that we have been able to collect, and from the result of our own observations and experience, we think it is highly desirable that no asylum for curable lunatics should contain more than 250 patients, and that 200 is perhaps as large a number as can be managed, with the most benefit to themselves and the public, in one establishment."l.l.l.,l.l.l.1260l.l.l.1259l.1258Lord Ashley
 said, that after the observation which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Sheil) he was most anxious to assure the House that the subject of the pauper and criminal lunatics in Ireland had engaged the serious attention of the Government. As to criminal lunatics, it was proposed to grant a sum of public money towards the erection of a central asylum in Ireland.Lord Eliot
s.1320 was far from denying that there might be circumstances in which it would be the duty of that House to address Her Majesty to remove a Magistrate from the Commission of the Peace, but he thought that when a Member called upon the House thus to interfere with the Prerogative of the Crown, exercised by its highest Law Officer, the Keeper of the Great Seal, he ought to be prepared to show that the power had been exercised either corruptly or mischievously. The removal and the restoration of Mr. O'Driscoll were judicial acts which had not been done without mature deliberation by his right hon. Friend, the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, to whose talent, application, and attainments, he believed the whole Bar of Ireland did justice. He (Lord Eliot) did not stand up as the apologist of Mr. O'Driscoll. On the contrary, he frankly admitted, in the fullest sense of the term, that the acts for which that Gentleman had been removed by his right hon. Friend were highly blameable; but he said that the case had been too highly coloured on the other side; and although he did not assert that Dineen was less credible than Mr. O'Driscoll, yet he maintained that upon points on which the magistrates expressed no opinion, Mr. O'Driscoll's testimony was at least equally entitled to belief. And yet the hon. Gentleman opposite entirely overlooked it, although, in some particulars, it was confirmed by the Bench of Magistrates. It appeared that the boy Dempsey was not himself anxious
s.1320Lord Eliot
1287l.1286 had read the statements of Dr. Hutchison, to which the hon. Member for Northampton had referred, and he considered that they deserved the serious attention of the House. He would beg to
1287l.1286Mr. Hawes
"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying for the removal of Mr. Alexander O'Driscoll from the Commission of the Peace."13181317131613151314 rose to direct the attention of the House to the grounds of the Motion with which he intended to conclude. He could say without affectation that up to that moment he had not been able to divest himself of a sense of the deficiencies under which he laboured in speaking before men, many of whom were, or ought to be, the first men in the nation. He appeared before the House to night in a new character—in a character distasteful to his own feelings—as a public accuser, and to impugn on some points a man for whose conduct in other matters he entertained great respect. He had also to accuse a Gentleman of advanced years and infirm health, a gentleman subject to a malady, as he had heard from the hon. Member for Cork, which above all others was calculated to cloud the intellect and sour the temper. If, in those circumstances, he found a disqualification for the magistracy, and at the same time a palliation for the conduct which that gentleman had pursued, it was no wonder that he felt, on this occasion, in addressing the House more than ordinary embarrassment. He knew nothing of that gentleman, except so far as related to those circumstances which were unfortunately for himself and for the country in which he resided notorious, and he could assure the House that no consideration of a party character could have induced him to bring forward a charge against an innocent man, or one who might be presumed to be innocent, or whose offence was of a venial character. When, on a former occasion, he put a question on this subject, the noble Lord opposite (Lord Eliot) rebuked him, because he described the conduct of Mr. O'Driscoll as insulting towards the bench, and tyrannical towards the individuals who had complained against him. Was not the noble Lord aware that Mr. O'Driscoll had apologized to the bench and admitted that he had insulted them, and, if that were the case, had not he (Mr. Ross) a right to say, that Mr. O'Driscoll's conduct was insulting? He had a perfect right, and if he sat down without convincing every rational man who heard him that the conduct of Mr. O'Driscoll towards the individuals he referred to—Sullivan, Dempsey, and Dineen, was in every respect tyrannical, he deserved to be called a calumniator. In showing that such was the conduct of Mr. O'Driscoll, he should refer to documents which had been laid on the Table of the House of Lords, and to
"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying for the removal of Mr. Alexander O'Driscoll from the Commission of the Peace."13181317131613151314Mr. Ross
 felt in some difficulty as to this question. Up to the present moment he had not received any plan and estimate which would enable him to know what would be ultimately necessary to be taken, and he could not yet tell what vote he should take. Where a building was to be erected, it would be impossible to take a vote without an estimate, or he would not delay any longer to forward a subject on which he felt as deep an interest as any hon. Member who had spoken.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1308"In four years (he speaks of his residence in the East), I have been able only to hear of two pretended cases of contagion (his pages are crowded with evidence of the non-contagiousness of plague:) I have hunted in vain for any one fact demonstrating the communication of the plague as the consequence of mediate or immediate contact.""The contagionists are not only so wrong-headed that they will neither see nor hear but they hate and persecute all those who would wish them to see and hear;""I am not aware of having seen one case contagious—but on investigation, have found many so reported to be false. I feel confident, that contact will not produce the disease. Indeed those who saw most of it, cared the least. We dreaded the Quarantine more."13071306espionage"Quarantines upon merchandise are as vexatious as they are nugatory, and that upon living importation they may be modified without risk."1305"The disease is arrested by the hot weather—it always ceases in the month of June, and this is the month in which the garments of those who die of the plague are sold in enormous quantities in the Arabian bazaars—no cases of plague are known he says beyond the limits of Thebes."13041303"In February, 1835, in consequence of the existence of the plague in Alexandria, our fleet was ordered to sea. It was necessary that provisions, clothing, and stores of all sorts, blankets, tarbouches, shoes, and other woollen and leathern articles, all supposed to be highly susceptible should be embarked. The wives and families of the sailors also brought tarbouches, blankets, cloth dresses, &c., which were all received on board without precaution, in utter neglect of Quarantine—yet no plague was introduced."1302"That in the Esbekir Hospital at Cairo, the same beds, linens, drawers, shirts and sheets, which during six months had been employed for from 2000 to 3000 plague patients were used for general purposes, for those suffering from fever, wounds, ophthalmia, dysentery, syphilis, without other precautions than simple washing in water without alkali or soap. Aprons were lying about impregnated and
13021301"From all the information that we were able to collect, it would appear that no accurate method has been employed in determining the non-susceptibility of any one article in regard to contagion, much less so many and so different."13001299"I am convinced that the yellow fever is only contagious or communicated from those that are sick or affected by it, to those who are in good health in situations where the air is confined and rendered impure by exhalations, from putrifying vegetables or other putrifiable substances."1298"It is curious to observe the effect of steady resistance to the bigotry and superstition connected with this question of contagion and Quarantine. Many of the most sturdy and obstinate of its supporters here are now wavering, and disclaim opinions they maintained violently only four or five years ago."1297"The mortality within the walls is more than a tenth of the whole population in one year alone; four times the mortality of London, and double that of Calcutta and Bombay. Yet we have here a much finer climate than in any of these places. The causes of disease are local miasmata—dirt and filthy habits—want of clothing and wholesome food and want of drainage and ventilation. The climate has, in my opinion, nothing whatever to do with it. The crews employed on board the British fleet in the Mediterranean do not average a mortality of more than 1 per cent."129612951294l.l.l.1293 said, that he had again to request the attention of the House to an important subject which he had, on other occasions, called upon them to listen to; and it was not in the spirit of complaint of the Government, or of doubts as to the Government doing its duty, but because these discussions strengthened the hands of the Executive, and created that public opinion which alone would enable them to supersede a system which bad nothing but credulity and ignorance for its foundation. The Quarantine Laws must disappear when inquiry and investigation were directed towards them. True it was, that difficulties were in the way of their total and immediate removal. Inattention and prejudice, and what was far mightier, pecuniary interests, and other interests of place and power, were leagued together for the support of a state of things which was an opprobrium to an age of philosophical investigation, and which represented the grossest superstitions of the human race. But as already some concessions had been made, and the frights and the follies of men had been in some degree, controlled
1308"In four years (he speaks of his residence in the East), I have been able only to hear of two pretended cases of contagion (his pages are crowded with evidence of the non-contagiousness of plague:) I have hunted in vain for any one fact demonstrating the communication of the plague as the consequence of mediate or immediate contact.""The contagionists are not only so wrong-headed that they will neither see nor hear but they hate and persecute all those who would wish them to see and hear;""I am not aware of having seen one case contagious—but on investigation, have found many so reported to be false. I feel confident, that contact will not produce the disease. Indeed those who saw most of it, cared the least. We dreaded the Quarantine more."13071306espionage"Quarantines upon merchandise are as vexatious as they are nugatory, and that upon living importation they may be modified without risk."1305"The disease is arrested by the hot weather—it always ceases in the month of June, and this is the month in which the garments of those who die of the plague are sold in enormous quantities in the Arabian bazaars—no cases of plague are known he says beyond the limits of Thebes."13041303"In February, 1835, in consequence of the existence of the plague in Alexandria, our fleet was ordered to sea. It was necessary that provisions, clothing, and stores of all sorts, blankets, tarbouches, shoes, and other woollen and leathern articles, all supposed to be highly susceptible should be embarked. The wives and families of the sailors also brought tarbouches, blankets, cloth dresses, &c., which were all received on board without precaution, in utter neglect of Quarantine—yet no plague was introduced."1302"That in the Esbekir Hospital at Cairo, the same beds, linens, drawers, shirts and sheets, which during six months had been employed for from 2000 to 3000 plague patients were used for general purposes, for those suffering from fever, wounds, ophthalmia, dysentery, syphilis, without other precautions than simple washing in water without alkali or soap. Aprons were lying about impregnated and
13021301"From all the information that we were able to collect, it would appear that no accurate method has been employed in determining the non-susceptibility of any one article in regard to contagion, much less so many and so different."13001299"I am convinced that the yellow fever is only contagious or communicated from those that are sick or affected by it, to those who are in good health in situations where the air is confined and rendered impure by exhalations, from putrifying vegetables or other putrifiable substances."1298"It is curious to observe the effect of steady resistance to the bigotry and superstition connected with this question of contagion and Quarantine. Many of the most sturdy and obstinate of its supporters here are now wavering, and disclaim opinions they maintained violently only four or five years ago."1297"The mortality within the walls is more than a tenth of the whole population in one year alone; four times the mortality of London, and double that of Calcutta and Bombay. Yet we have here a much finer climate than in any of these places. The causes of disease are local miasmata—dirt and filthy habits—want of clothing and wholesome food and want of drainage and ventilation. The climate has, in my opinion, nothing whatever to do with it. The crews employed on board the British fleet in the Mediterranean do not average a mortality of more than 1 per cent."129612951294l.l.l.1293Dr. Bowring
"The exemption from Navigation Dues during the first three years, which is enjoyed by vessels built in Russia, and belonging to Russian subjects."1311 rose to move for a statement of the
"The exemption from Navigation Dues during the first three years, which is enjoyed by vessels built in Russia, and belonging to Russian subjects."1311Mr. Wawn
 had heard the observations of the right hon. Gentleman with great satisfaction. Nothing could be more beneficial to the commercial relations of this country than a great relaxation, or even the entire removal, of the Quarantine laws. He hoped that the adoption of the Resolution proposed by his hon. Friend would strengthen the hands of the Government in the course which they had been pursuing.Mr. Hume
 agreed with the right hon. Baronet opposite, that this Motion could not be properly supported unless it was intended to accuse the Lord Chancellor of corrupt or improper conduct. He distinctly charged the Lord Chancellor with improper conduct in this case; and Her Majesty's Government, if they lent their sanction and authority to such a course of proceeding as had recently been going on in Ireland, in regard to the magistracy, would be utterly disabling themselves from carrying on the administration of the affairs of that country,Mr. Bellew
132313221321 remarked, that the question before the House was, that an Address should be presented to Her Majesty for the dismissal of Mr. O'Driscoll from the Magistracy. He thought that the hon. Member for Belfast had had satisfactory grounds to show that Mr. O'Driscoll had been properly dismissed, and improperly restored. The noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland had risen for the purpose of replying, and he took it for granted that the
132313221321Mr. R. More O'Ferrall
1329l.l.13281327scintilla juris,1326: The reference made by the right hon. Baronet to Dryden's celebrated lines is unfortunate—for if Ashley Cooper was eminent for his merits as a judge, as ex-statesman, as the leader of the Cabal, he has incurred the censure of history, and may be quoted as a proof that judicial virtue may be associated with political imperfections of no ordinary kind. Sir Edward Sugden to whom the right hon. Baronet has thought it judicious to apply the passage from the great poet, is a sorry politician indeed. The judicial duties of the Lord Chancellor are so distinct from his political functions, and the qualifications for their discharge are so different, that it has been often and not unwisely suggested, that they ought not to be associated, and that to the same individual questions of law and of public policy ought no longer to be
1329l.l.13281327scintilla juris,1326Mr. Sheil
circum corda wished to mention a most important and painful fact—that in Ireland there were 300 lunatics scattered amongst the prisons—the evil was a most frightful one; murderers and maniacs were mixed up together. Some means must be taken to cure that state of things. It was sufficient to state the fact. He was delighted to find that the right hon. Gentleman was disposed to take this important subject up, and he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would take means to extend the beneficent provisions which he had in contemplation to the sister kingdom. He concurred entirely in what the right hon. Gentleman had said with respect the conduct of the noble Lord. It was a common phrase to say, "It does one good to see you," and in this instance it was impossible to deny that it did one good to see the noble Lord exerting himself in this benevolent work. There was a sort of "circum cordaMr. Sheil
1290post mortem1289"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions, that there be laid before this House, Copies of all Despatches and Correspondence that have passed between the Government and the Lieutenant Governor of Guernsey, from the 1st day of April last, to the present time." said, that in the modified form in which he was about to submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, he hoped there would be no objection on the part of the right hon. Baronet opposite to consent to the production of the Papers for which he asked. He begged to move,
1290post mortem1289"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions, that there be laid before this House, Copies of all Despatches and Correspondence that have passed between the Government and the Lieutenant Governor of Guernsey, from the 1st day of April last, to the present time."Mr. T. Duncombe
1292 said, that as the right hon. Baronet said that further proceedings would be instituted with reference to this subject, it would be most improper for him to press his Motion for the production of the Papers. But he must be allowed to say, at the same time, that he could not help thinking that the declaration made by the right hon. Baronet would cause great grief and disappointment in the island. He did not believe that there was a single individual in that island, notwithstanding what the right hon. Baronet had said, upon whom he could place his finger and say that he was a disloyal subject. It all turned upon this: did the right hon. Baronet and the Lieutenant Governor place the least credit on the statement made by the Rev. Mr. Dobree? Did they place confidence in the evidence of a man who at the Royal Court the other day, it was well known, perjured himself? The Rev. Mr. Dobree sometimes fancied, not only that persons were going to shoot the Lieutenant Governor, but that they were going to shoot himself. They had only his word, and
1292Mr. Duncombe
12811280Ashley:1279127812771276 hoped that, after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, the noble Lord would not press his Motion. A debt of gratitude was due to the Commissioners
12811280Ashley:1279127812771276Mr. Wakley
1312 would not go into a lengthened explanation on the subject, as he feared that he could not make it intelligible to the House without appearing tedious. The hon. Member had pointed out the advantages obtained by Russian ships entering our ports in being exempted from the payment of navigation dues for three years: and he had then asked what equivalent advantages was given to British ships in Russian ports. It was the practice of this country, when making Navigation Treaties with countries whose commerce was in a backward state, to allow certain relaxations of our Navigation Laws, without claiming corresponding concessions. For instance, in our Navigation Treaties with some of the South American states, it was provided that the strict provisions of our Navigation Laws, as regarded the owners and the manning, which were refused with regard to the ships of more important commercial states, should not be enforced. In many of those Treaties it was allowed that the ships of these countries might claim the benefit of the exemptions granted by these Treaties, although the ships were not
1312Mr. W. Gladstone
 said, the hon. Gentleman assumed that the charge rested on the statement of one Gentleman only, but it was not so, for it rested in the first instance, on the deliberate opinion of the Lieutenant Governor himself, and General Napier was a man of as sane and strong a mind as could exist. It rested on evidence first given to the Lieutenant Governor, which had since been sifted by Mr. Daniel, and he (Sir James Graham) would again repeat that he believed such a plot existed.Sir James Graham
1291 said, it was true that he had asked the hon. Gentleman to postpone his Motion; but on the part of the Crown it was necessary that he should exercise discretion with reference to the production of the Papers which the hon. Gentleman had moved for. No one could regret more deeply than he did the misunderstanding which had arisen in one of the Channel Islands between the Governor and a portion of the inhabitants. He had stated on more than one occasion, what he now would with great satisfaction repeat, namely, that with respect to the loyalty and attachment of the great body of the inhabitants of Guernsey, there could be no doubt—no suspicion whatever could be cast upon them. Nevertheless there was reason to believe, and he still did believe, that a plot was formed against the life of the Lieutenant Governor, and he believed that it was intended to carry that plot into execution on the birthday of Her Majesty, when the militia would be assembled. The House was aware of the general character of the Lieutenant Governor of that island; he was amongst the most distinguished military men in the service of Her Majesty—a man of strong nerve and firm mind, who was not likely on slight grounds to apprehend danger; and yet that gentleman had informed him, about ten days before the birth-day of Her Majesty was to have been celebrated, that the wicked intention to which allusion had been made was formed, and was to be carried into execution on that particular day. The militia were consequently prohibited from assembling, and an additional force sent to the island; and the Government also sent a confidential legal adviser to collect evidence.
1291Sir James Graham
1275127412731272 was certain that he was giving expression not only to his own sentiments and those of the House, but also to the sentiments of the whole country, when he declared that his noble Friend, so far from standing in need of an excuse for the statement which he had just made, was entitled to the grateful thanks of all his countrymen, for his indefatigable endeavours and the constancy he had displayed in pointing
1275127412731272Sir J. Graham
Swift of dispatch, and easy of access."Unbrib'd, unsought, the wretched to redress;With more discerning eyes, or hands more clean,"In Israel's courts ne'er sat an Abethdin,13251324 was anxious to address
Swift of dispatch, and easy of access."Unbrib'd, unsought, the wretched to redress;With more discerning eyes, or hands more clean,"In Israel's courts ne'er sat an Abethdin,13251324Sir James Graham
1332"That it be an Instruction to the Committee
1332 said, he quite agreed with the general principle of the Bill, but it appeared to him that this was a great experiment to be applied to South Wales for the benefit of the whole kingdom at large. The Government ought to give power, if this measure should not succeed to the extent they calculated upon, to go one step further. He thought the great benefit that was to be derived from this measure was in effecting a saving of about 25 per cent. on the amount of taxes to be levied upon the public. One great objection which was entertained against this proposition was, that a great outlay of money would be incurred in the outset for erecting new toll-houses and new toll-gates at the distances which were proposed—being seven miles. He was afraid that this was likely to give rise to great dissatisfaction, for many parties would then be liable to toll who were now free. He moved,
1332"That it be an Instruction to the Committee
1332Mr. J. H. Vivian
 said, if the hon. Gentleman had any fear upon the subject, he had better procure a legal opinion upon the subject—he was neither prepared nor competent to give him one (After repeating the manner in which the rule was laid down as given by Sir James Graham) he said, newspapers would undoubtedly be liable to a private action for publishing any matter that was libellous, even though spoken in the House, because they were not possessed of the privilege which hon. Members enjoyed; but that was not the case with the House, and any hon. Member might use the Report in such manner as he thought necessary for the due discharge of his duties as a Member of the House. But where the matter was libellous, or reflected upon the character or conduct of individuals, in the exercise of a wise discretion, the publication of such matter extended no further than to Members.Lord Stanley
 said, as the delay asked for would be tantamount to losing the Bill this Session, he would resist this Motion. The hon. Member for Finsbury was facetious about societies that meddled in other people's affairs. But suppose there should be parties in the country raising a subscription to purchase an estate for an hon. Member as a reward for his activity in that House, and they should ask him to subscribe, what, according to the hon. Gentleman's views, ought to be his answer? Nothing but this—"Why should I subscribe for an hon. Gentleman who does nothing but meddle in other people's affairs? He hoped the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his opposition.Mr. Cowper
 moved that the words referring to the informer he omitted, with a view to give the whole penalty to the poor.Mr. Estcott
 had been most desirous that the measure should pass into a law in the present Session, because he believed that it was imperatively called for by the present state of the administration of the Criminal Law, He was not, however, insensible to the considerations stated by the right hon. Baronet. He had no doubt that in the interval between the present and the next Session Government would devote to the subject the degree of attention it deserved, and he trusted that when the measure was again brought forward, the principle would at once meet general concurrence.Mr. Kelly
1354 said, it had appeared to him that, although these Clauses were not
1354Mr. S. Wortley
1356s.1355 so far differed with his hon. and learned Friend who had just spoken, that he was certain if these Amendments of the law were adopted by the House they would so far break in upon the principle of the present law that, in his opinion, they would entirely break in upon the labours of the present Session; and he would rather that these advantages, whatever they might be, should be deferred to another Session. His hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down had abandoned the third Clause, and had admitted that to confide to a single justice the power of overruling the directionary power of a Board of Guardians would be to reintroduce all the abuses of the old Poor Law, which had brought this country to the verge of ruin. He was quite satisfied of this, that whatever might be the humane intentions of the hon. Member for Evesham, and of his right hon. Friend, they could not introduce a more cruel Clause than the first, to make it compulsory on the Guardians to give out-door relief to old people. No discretion was given by this Clause to Boards of Guardians, who were presumed to be cognizant of the individual circumstances of those whom they were to represent — the rate-payers on the one hand, and the poor on the other. At present Boards of Guardians had the power
1356s.1355Lord Stanley
: I beg pardon; I did not say so.Lord Stanley
: What my right hon. Friend at the head of the Government said was this, that the Government was under no obligation but a sense of duty to introduce this Bill; that all the parts of the Bill were modifications of parts of the existing law, which pressed with much severity on the poor; and from neither the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, nor from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, did one word fall for the purpose of conciliating any party.Lord Stanley
 must oppose every one of the Resolutions proposed by the hon. Gentleman, because he thought that each of them was more or less impregnated with considerable danger to the whole working of the Poor Law Amendment Act. The 1st and 2nd Clauses he looked upon as being quite impracticable, and with regard to the 3rd Clause, which gave to the justice the power of granting relief, he would only observe, that he had had the honour of administering the old Poor Law, and from the experience which he then gained he did beg of the House, if they had any respect for the feelings of the Justices of the kingdom to confer upon them no such power as that contemplated by this Clause, he ventured to say on behalf of the Justices of England, that there was no power which they would so soon repudiate as that. The proposed provisions with respect to children contained in the 4th Clause he also looked upon as being most objectionable, and therefore he felt bound to oppose the whole of the Clauses.Mr. B. Denison
1364l.,l.,l.l.l.l.,l.1363mandamus1362ex officio"And be it Enacted, that the Commissioners do and shall take order for the due performance of religious services in each of such workhouses, and for that purpose do and shall appoint fit persons, being Clergymen of the Church of England to act as Chaplains in such workhouses, and fix the amount to be paid to such Chaplains respectively by way of salary or allowance for their services (which amount when so paid shall be paid out of the rates accordingly); Provided always, that no person who shall be so appointed to be a Chaplain for any workhouse shall act as such Chaplain unless he be approved for that purpose by the Bishop of the diocese within which such workhouse is situated." proposed the following Clause:—
1364l.,l.,l.l.l.l.,l.1363mandamus1362ex officio"And be it Enacted, that the Commissioners do and shall take order for the due performance of religious services in each of such workhouses, and for that purpose do and shall appoint fit persons, being Clergymen of the Church of England to act as Chaplains in such workhouses, and fix the amount to be paid to such Chaplains respectively by way of salary or allowance for their services (which amount when so paid shall be paid out of the rates accordingly); Provided always, that no person who shall be so appointed to be a Chaplain for any workhouse shall act as such Chaplain unless he be approved for that purpose by the Bishop of the diocese within which such workhouse is situated."Mr. S. O'Brien
 looked upon the question as one of some difficulty, but would rather leave the appointment of these chaplains to the discretion of the Commissioners. He should oppose the Clause.Mr. S. Wortley
1368 had heard with considerable regret the very strong language which had been used on this subject by his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire; and he had listened with great interest and equal satisfaction to the statement made by the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department. His hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire had referred particularly to the county of Durham; he entirely disagreed with him as to the supposed deficiency of spiritual consolation furnished to the poor in the workhouses of that district. It had not been found necessary in that part of the country to construct such large workhouses as in the south. For the large population of the towns some additional accommodation had undoubtedly been found necessary in the existing workhouses; but in the rural districts scarcely any addition had been found requisite. His own union, for instance, comprised seventy-two townships, and yet the workhouse never contained more than seven or eight able-bodied paupers, nor was it capable of holding more than fourteen. The fact was, relief to the able-bodied was scarcely ever required, and that to the old and infirm was almost universally given at their own homes. The condition of the workhouses, therefore, in that county was altogether different from that of the workhouses
1368Mr. Liddell
1351 observed, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State had told the House, that the feelings of humanity were so strongly in favour of the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Evesham, that nothing less than the most overwhelming reasons could induce the House to decide against his proposition. That admission was one which the public could not but feel to be of great importance. Next, the right hon. Baronet said, that it would be superfluous to render statutory these regulations which already had the force of law. But if they had, what objection was there to impart to them the defined character of an Act of Parliament? What objection was there to the House of Commons making those regulations the law of the land when they authorized the Poor Law Commissioners to make them so? The whole case had already been conceded, and there was now little to be gained by contending about mere matters of form. If fathers and mothers were allowed to visit their children as often as they pleased, why permit regulations to the contrary to remain a national disgrace? The right hon. Baronet told the House that he had looked through the statutes on the subject of relief for the poor during the last 300 years, and that he did not find them to contain any thing of the sort to which the Motion of his hon. Friend referred. But it might be asked where in the history of the country did the right hon. Baronet see anything like the system of centralisation which recent measures professing to be for the relief of the poor had introduced? He was sure that he gave expression to the feelings of the public when he said that the Legislature must look to the condition of the poor, and they would not be satisfied with being told that the proposition of his hon. Friend went to the re enactment of the old system. The question was, would they legislate according to humanity and on a generous view of the case, or on a system of centralizing and severity? The right hon. Baronet must know that the sense of the country was against, him; and
1351Lord J. Manners
1352 said, that those who knew the state of the poor antecedent to the year 1834—those who recollected the state of the workhouses antecedently to that period, and who compared them with the present state of things, must feel that there was no just reason to complain of the present Poor Law—a law which he would say was most humane in its operation. Of late years great consideration and great care had been bestowed upon the condition of the poor. Did hon. Members recollect what the state of the poor formerly was? To agree to the proposition of the hon. Member for Evesham was to say that the existing law must be repealed, and he would ask those who so broke it down to furnish the public with some equivalent security that there would continue to be in this country a right administration of relief for the poor. The noble Lord recommended the House to go back to the old system. If those Resolutions were agreed to, the existing Poor Law must be repealed, the Commission must be done away with, and let those who did all this try to form a Government, if they could. In the administration of the existing law by Boards of Guardians the public had a security that the law would be well administered, and that relief would be well supplied to the poor. As to the discussion which had taken place upon the subject of workhouses, he would only ask hon. Members to compare in their own minds the present and the former states of the poor, and the workhouses which they inhabited now and formerly. Let hon. Members only recollect the old workhouses—their filthy state—tbemal-administration—the total neglect that prevailed there, when no one was responsible for the management of them—when there was no one to bring cases of abuse and oppression before the House of Commons. Now there were responsible officers, whose conduct could be brought before the House of Commons. There had been something said about extending workhouses for the purpose of rendering them sufficiently commodious to meet the views of the hon.
1352Mr. Hawes
1353 said, the simple question was this,—did the proposition of the hon. Mover effect an improvement? Now, he really thought that the hon. Member for Lambeth had not touched the argument; neither had the right hon. Baronet. Of the Motion before the House the latter said that it was useless, because the Board of Guardians could already grant out-door relief to persons above the age of sixty years; but then, as had been often said, if that were in effect the law already, why not make it so by an express enactment. The right hon. Baronet told them that any old person might get out-door relief at the discretion of the Guardians. He hoped that this fact would be generally known, for he regretted to say that a great deal of ignorance prevailed on the subject of the Poor Laws. Besides this, any Justice of the Peace might order medical relief, but though that was the state of the law, it was not acted on. It was very important to know what the Poor Law was. Amongst other things, it was a part of the law that out-door relief might be granted in cases of extreme urgency. Such language as that, naturally gave rise to much uncertainty and misconception. Then came the exceptions
1353Mr. Escott
1337l.l.s. said, this Clause enacted penalties of not less than 401337l.l.s.Mr. Escott
 considered that the practice of connecting the Church with every measure was not calculated to promote its utility or increase of influence. He thought the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had adopted a wise and prudent course in this matter, as a friend of the Church. The Dissenters in many localities were numerous, and as in Cornwall, had become so in consequence of the neglect of the Church in times past. It was admitted by all parties, that where persons were taken away from their own parishes and placed in workhouses, religious instruction should be provided for them; and if it should so happen that the number congregated together in those workhouses was larger than the clergymen of the parish could attend to, other assistance should be provided. That was done in the least objectionable way by the right hon. Baronet in his Bill. The principle upon which chaplains of the Established Church were appointed to ships and gaols was not applicable to the present case. The appointment of chaplains to every workhouse as proposed by the hon. Gentleman, would occasion a tax upon the rate-payers, which, in many instances, would create irritation and ill-feeling, which would operate against the beneficial working of the law. Under all the circumstances, he thought the more prudent course was that proposed by the right hon. Baronet. He should therefore vote against the Clause.Mr. C. Buller
1369"Whatever objections might be made, on the part of certain persons, to the appointment of a chaplain to these schools, he was satisfied of the necessity of such an appointment.…. He entirely assented, therefore, to the proposition for the appointment of a chap lain.…. However liberal might be his opinions, with respect to those who differed from the Church of England, he had ever strenuously maintained the superintending power of the diocesan in all matters connected with the Church of England. He
1369 also regretted the tone in which his hon. Friend had introduced this Motion, but he equally regretted the tone in which the right hon. Baronet had dealt with the question. If the Church of England was what he believed it to be, he could not think it safe only so long as it was kept out of sight. It did appear to him the duty of the State to provide spiritual instruction for its subjects through the means of the Establishment; if not, the Church was only a political engine; and, when the appointment of chaplains was compulsory in men-of-war and convict ships, he did not see why it should not be so in workhouses. The authority of Dr. Lushington himself, who had always most strenuously upheld the rights of conscience in that House, might be quoted in favour of this view. Speaking in 1841, on the subject of district union Schools, Dr. Lushington said,—
1369"Whatever objections might be made, on the part of certain persons, to the appointment of a chaplain to these schools, he was satisfied of the necessity of such an appointment.…. He entirely assented, therefore, to the proposition for the appointment of a chap lain.…. However liberal might be his opinions, with respect to those who differed from the Church of England, he had ever strenuously maintained the superintending power of the diocesan in all matters connected with the Church of England. He
1369Mr. M'Geachy
 wished to know how the relief proposed by these Clauses could be carried out? One Board of Guardians would say that one kind of relief was "suitable" for old people and another Board another kind of relief; and he believed this Clause would be worked in an entirely different way by different Boards of Guardians. Did the hon. and gallant Member mean to say that in the agricultural districts persons of sixty years of age were unable to work? He had always advocated a certain well-defined labour test in conjunction with the workhouse test. He did not wish to grant a relief without any labour test at all. Such a plan made good men bad, and bad men worse than they were before. If there were any hardship in the Poor Law at all it was when an able-bodied man happened to be out of work for a short time, in compelling him to go into the workhouse for relief. But he was bound to say that he did not think the law was cruel in its operation towards old people. If these Clauses were carried in their present shape he defied any Board of Guardians to work the law well.Mr. Darby
1359 wished, in pursuance with a promise which he had made to a Board of Guardians in his neighbourhood, to refer to one case of a somewhat curious, and as it appeared to him oppressive nature. The Board of Guardians of the Battle Union had been for some time in the habit of allowing the paupers to go out for air and exercise, and he had frequently seen them on the road side enjoying themselves harmlessly and innocently. For some cause or other unknown to him, the Commissioners
1359Mr. Curteis
1358 said, if he were to consult his own feelings, he should vote for the propositions of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Evesham, but he certainly could not see how they were to be carried out. As he understood, the Guardians at present had the power of relieving persons over sixty years of age out of the workhouse, and he thought that if that fact were generally known, a good deal of opposition which had been raised against the present law would be withdrawn. His feelings, however, was in favour of the Motion, because he had always contended that it was cruel to separate old people when they were desirous of having relief out of the house. He recollected when he was an overseer, thirty years ago, that an old couple applied to him for relief out of the workhouse. The man said, "My old woman and I have lived together for forty years, and it would break our hearts to be separated.' He ordered them out-door relief; but he only mentioned that to show that under the old system married people were often separated. The fact was, that accommodation never could be given to them all in the workhouse, except upon principles which he was sure no one in that House would sanction, whilst the expense of separate rooms for each couple would be such, that no parish would consent to bear it. He thought that, generally speaking, if the Guardians had discretionary power, they would act with humanity; they were appointed by the
1358Mr. Brotherton
 doubted whether the parochial clergy could attend to the spiritual wants of the poor in the workhouses, together with their other duties. It was of great importance that religious instruction should be provided for the poor in the workhouses, and that that provision should be made by legislation, and not left to chance or to the discretion of the Poor Law Commissioners; and when they found, that during ten years, the Commissioners had not appointed more than four or five chaplains in all, he thought it high time the Legislature should interfere.Mr. Henley
 said, after he had left the House last night a resolution had been come to, of which he wished to have some explanation. He held in his hand a document containing the evidence taken by the Revenue Commissioners relative to the Customs frauds, which the House had ordered to be published for the use of Members only. He wished to know what was the meaning of such an order?Mr. Hume
: But what would be the effect of the order of the House limiting the publication to Members of the House? It was altogether a novel order.Mr. Hume
 gave the hon. Member who had proposed these Clauses every credit for good intentions and for humanity; but he was inclined to think with the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire (Lord Stanley), that they were more theoretical than practical, and that it would be found to be altogether impracticable to carry them into operation.Colonel Rolleston
1360 only wished to make one or two observations; and in the first place, he wished to remind the House that the question on which they were about to divide, comprehended the first Clause only and no more. In the second place, he found that objections had been taken by some hon. Gentlemen near him as to a certain ambiguity in the first Clause, more especially to the termination of it—"suitable and decent provision." He wished to observe that he had not trusted himself to draw up these Clauses, but that he had submitted them to a professional man who was accustomed to such labour, and he believed them to be properly drawn up so as to express what he had desired to convey. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had discussed these Clauses in a spirit of candour from which he had never deviated during the whole of the discussions upon this Bill; but he was surprised at what had fallen from the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies. The noble Lord had favoured them with a speech (as was usual with him) full of brilliance and sparkling with wit, and (as was not usual with him) full of everything except the subject before the House. Nevertheless, however brilliant the speech of the noble Lord might have been, the Government were more indebted to him for its length than for its argument, inasmuch as it had afforded an opportunity for Gentlemen to arrive and to call "Divide" who had not heard one word of the debate. If the present arrangements had all the force of law, he could see no reason for refusing to give them the form and the stability of the law, and upon that
1360Mr. P. Borthwick
1347"And be it Enacted, That when any two persons, being husband and wife, both of whom shall be above the age of sixty years, shall be received into any workhouse in pursuance of the provisions of the said recited Act, or of this Act, such two persons shall not be compelled to live separate and apart from each other in such workhouse; and that to this end suitable and decent accommodation
1347"That your petitioners having been accustomed to consider the honest and industrious labourer, when in distress from no fault of his own, as an object of compassion, and that to administer relief to such a person in the least irksome manner is a duty enjoined by the law of nature and Divine Revelation, cannot but view with feelings of much pain the operation of an order which militates against those unerring guides, and which treats poverty as a crime. Your petitioners, therefore, humbly implore your hon. House to insert such a Clause in the Poor Law Amendment Bill now passing through your hon. House as shall fully recognise the principle of out-door relief to able-bodied labourers, and invest the guardians of the poor with full discretionary power to carry such Clause into effect uncontrolled by the Poor Law Commissioners."1346"That the Board of Guardians petition the House of Commons, complaining of the oppressive manner in which the prohibitory order of the Commissioners relating to outdoor relief operates upon the industrious poor, and praying for power to administer such relief at the discretion of the guardians."Times134513441343"Te teneam, moriens, deficiente manu?""Te spectem suprema mihi cum venerit hora—nemo repentè fuit turpissimus,1342à multo fortiori,à fortiori,13411340 should best consult the wishes and convenience of the House, by not only reducing into the smallest space the speech he was about to make, but by saying at once all he had to say on the four propositions which he had given notice he should submit to the House. He regretted the thin state of the House, but he had no doubt it arose from hon. Members supposing that the very important measure of the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Kelly) would occupy a considerable time, and that the discussion on the Poor Laws would not consequently come on for some time, and therefore had gone to their dinners in order that they might come back in time for that discussion. He sincerely thanked the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) for the great ameliorations which were by this Bill effected in the Poor Law, though the propositions he meant to submit to the House were four, the principles involved in them were but two. These principles were so simple and so general that he believed that there was not one right-thinking man within the House of Commons, or out of it, who would not be ready to admit the great desirableness of their becoming the law of the land. They were founded on natural rights; they had been sanctioned by many laws heretofore passed in this kingdom; and they were hallowed by the obligations of religion. His first principle was, that under no circumstances should the separation of husband and wife, parent and child, be permitted. The other principle had given rise to more discussion; it was the obligation of giving out-door relief to persons who, not from idleness on their own part, but from circumstances over which they had no control, were suddenly cast into poverty. He begged respectfully and earnestly to press these two principles on the careful consideration of the right hon. Baronet. The first principle involved not merely the convenience and comfort of individuals, but, what was of unspeakably more importance, it involved the safeguard of all the best and most hallowed domestic virtues, the affections between husband and wife, and the affections between parent and child. With reference to that principle, the practical case which he wished to put to the right hon. Baronet and the House was this:—A man shall have laboured from his childhood industriously and honourably all his life, without, however,
1347"And be it Enacted, That when any two persons, being husband and wife, both of whom shall be above the age of sixty years, shall be received into any workhouse in pursuance of the provisions of the said recited Act, or of this Act, such two persons shall not be compelled to live separate and apart from each other in such workhouse; and that to this end suitable and decent accommodation
1347"That your petitioners having been accustomed to consider the honest and industrious labourer, when in distress from no fault of his own, as an object of compassion, and that to administer relief to such a person in the least irksome manner is a duty enjoined by the law of nature and Divine Revelation, cannot but view with feelings of much pain the operation of an order which militates against those unerring guides, and which treats poverty as a crime. Your petitioners, therefore, humbly implore your hon. House to insert such a Clause in the Poor Law Amendment Bill now passing through your hon. House as shall fully recognise the principle of out-door relief to able-bodied labourers, and invest the guardians of the poor with full discretionary power to carry such Clause into effect uncontrolled by the Poor Law Commissioners."1346"That the Board of Guardians petition the House of Commons, complaining of the oppressive manner in which the prohibitory order of the Commissioners relating to outdoor relief operates upon the industrious poor, and praying for power to administer such relief at the discretion of the guardians."Times134513441343"Te teneam, moriens, deficiente manu?""Te spectem suprema mihi cum venerit hora—nemo repentè fuit turpissimus,1342à multo fortiori,à fortiori,13411340Mr. Borthwick
 wished to offer his best thanks to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department for the great pains which he had taken to ameliorate the existing law. He should certainly oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Evesham, because it would put the inmates of workhouses in many cases in a better position than those who had served in the fleets and armies of the Sovereign. It would also tend altogether to change the character of workhouses, which were intended not for places of permanent residence, but of temporary shelter to the poor in case of illness or infirmity.Mr. P. Howard
 moved that the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again.Mr. Duncombe
 was anxious to know whether the Government approved of or supported the Bill? If not, he thought it ought not to be proceeded with, because it greatly increased the powers of both the magistracy and the police.Mr. T. Duncombe
Stanley:1334 said, most certainly at the request of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer and because he was afraid, if he had not acceded to that request, he might have, altogether, failed in getting the evidence printed at all, he had made the Motion limiting the publication to Members only; but at the same time he stated, that it was the most absurd thing he had ever heard of. Suppose the Report were lying on his table when a friend called, and while he was waiting took up the book, what was to be done then? Was he (Mr. Duncombe) to roar out "Lay down that Blue Book, Sir; it is for the use of Members only. You must not touch it, or I will be compelled to call in the aid of a policeman?" In fact what was the use of the order? Were all Members to keep the Report secretly and constantly locked up from every gaze but his own or that of a brother Member? Well, but when that House of Commons arrived at its latter end—when its functions ceased, what was to become of the Blue Book then? It was published only for the use of Members of that House, and when it were dissolved were they all to be burned? or what would be the penalty if one were unfortunately to be found in a gentleman's possession the day after the dissolution? Perhaps Her Majesty's Government, as they had done before, would reconsider and rescind the absurd Resolution which the House came to, on his Motion, last night. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had hitherto only gone step by step; first he would not agree to its being printed at all, but referred any one, wishing to see it, to the library; then he consented to allow it to be printed for the use of Members only. Probably he might be prepared now to take the final step, and let it be printed for the use of the public generally. Newspapers would be liable to actions if they published the Report; he was well aware of that, but would he or
Stanley:1334Mr. T. Duncombe
1335 said, that this Bill was admitted to proceed from the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. That alone he would consider a sufficient reason for opposing it, as no encouragement ought to be given to societies for meddling with everybody's business but their own. There were many most barracking and vexatious provisions in this Bill. For instance, one Clause enabled a policeman to go into any yard and ascertain whether the horses and cattle (the latter word, according to the interpretation Clause, including every species of animals
1335Mr. Duncombe
s. said, that the poor were more expensive to the unions in the workhouses than out of them. Out-door relief to the extent of 6s.Sir C. Napier
 said, the noble Lord had followed precisely in the wake of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, because he said if there were opposition to the Bill it would be the duty of the Government to abandon it, as they did not see any great necessity to bring it forward.Captain Pechell
 continued: The noble Lord had endeavoured to impress the House with the idea that the whole of the country was in a state of riot and disorder before the present Poor Law passed. But in what parts of the country had these abuses occurred? In many parts of the country the most humane provisions for the poor were carried out under Gilbert's Act, out-door relief was given, and the workhouse was only reserved as the last resort for aged people. The New Poor Law was undeniably most vicious in its effects, and he would be bound if they were to put all the local acts in the kingdom into a bushel, and were to take out the first of the pile, that that one, or any other of them, would be a great improvement upon the New Poor Law Amendment Act. He could tell the Government that the ground was giving way beneath them, and that this law must fall—the wedge had been inserted, and he and those who thought with him upon this subject, were determined to drive it home. He should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Evesham, and he trusted that it would not want for support. Surely the hon. Member for East Kent and all his troop who were so loud against the law before the present Government succeeded to power, would not fail now to vote with the hon. Gentleman.Captain Pechell
: But the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government did.Captain Pechell
1367l.l.1366O'Brien:1365 gave the utmost credit to the hon. Gentleman for the purity of his motives, but he must complain of the warmth of language which he had indulged in. He must emphatically deny that atheism had ever been established by Act of Parliament, or that any crime or robbery had been committed against the poor by the New Poor Law; and he was perfectly willing to take upon himself any responsibility which might attach to the rejection of the Clause, if the House chose to follow his advice and negative it, because he very much doubted whether the attempt to force that form of worship to which both the hon. Gentleman and himself were attached, by compulsion upon every workhouse—by means of quartering
1367l.l.1366O'Brien:1365Sir J. Graham
 repeated that guardians had now the power, without any exception, of allowing the inmates of workhouses to go out on Sunday.Sir J. Graham
1338 said, he felt it incumbent upon him to make an earnest appeal to the discretion and sound sense of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Cambridge (Mr. Kelly), with reference to his Bill, for conferring the right to an Appeal on persons convicted of criminal offences, and
1338Sir J. Graham
l.l.l.;135013491348 could assure the hon. Member he was not disposed to treat his remarks with disrespect. He had listened to the hon. Member with attention, and he felt that the hon. Member had the advantage of carrying with him the sympathies and kind feelings of the House, whilst he in resisting the hon. Member, would have to encounter feelings which did honour to human nature, and which every humane person would rejoice to see predominant, if there were not higher considerations to be attended to. He proposed, in one respect, to follow the hon. Member's example, and treat the four Clauses proposed by the hon. Member as one Clause for the purpose of this discussion. Now, though the hon. Member had gone through the subject with great ability, he had not brought forward anything that was new, and with all the hon. Member's ingenuity, he had found it impossible to invent a new argument or a new illustration on a subject, every branch of which had in former Sessions been fully discussed. He must therefore again state what he had stated before in answer to the same argument. The hon. Gentleman appeared to think that happier days were approaching for this country, when a Poor Law would be unnecessary; he confessed he could not take so sanguine a view of the state of society in which it was our lot to live; he feared the poor would be always in the land—they were increasing and multiplying every day, and a forced provision for the poor was becoming more and more necessary. But, passing by this fine speculation, it would be more profitable to consider the history of the last three centuries, during all which time they would find that some provision for the poor had been made by Act of Parliament, and looking back to those three centuries he could not find any traces of those Acts of Parliament which the hon. Gentleman said had embodied the substance of the Clauses, which he now recommended to the adoption of the Committee. Looking through the whole of the statutory regulations on the subject of the poor, he did not find any enactment
l.l.l.;135013491348Sir J. Graham
1339 moved
1339Sir J. Graham
 said, he had not given much attention to the Bill. He had referred it to the chief magistrate and the commissioners of police, but as yet he had received no report upon it.Sir J. Graham
: No, not novel; there had been several cases where the publication of petitions was limited to Members only. In this case the Motion was agreed to by the hon. Member for Finsbury.Sir J. Graham
1333 said, the House some years ago had got into very considerable trouble in consequence of an indiscriminate publication of the evidence taken before a Committee of that House. When a new law, giving power to the House to publish their proceedings with more facilities and without risk, was passed, an understanding was come to that when any of their proceedings
1333Sir J. Graham
 said, that no doubt this Bill, as it stood, was a tolerably large experiment, and he was not at present willing to extend its provisions or to go the whole length of saying that the stranger or the traveller should be exempted from contributing to the rates, still less was he disposed to embarrass this measure by extending it to highways. He hoped that this measure would be maturely considered in detail in Committee—it rested upon the Report of the Commission which was appointed to inquire into the subject, and many most useful and important suggestions which had been made on the subject had been considered and acted upon. He hoped that the House would consent to go into Committee, and then discuss the measure in detail, when every suggestion that could be made for the benefit of these counties would, if approved of, be introduced into the Bill. As far as he was concerned, he was anxious to give the details every consideration. Every argument that hon. Members thought necessary to bring forward could then be more properly made than at the present moment when he objected to enter upon this preliminary discussion.Sir J. Graham
l.l. hoped that the hon. and gallant Officer would not press his second Clause, which, if inserted in the Bill would lead to bad consequences. A man might claim relief, and say he had a cottage for which he paid less than 5l.l.Mr. B. Denison
1419 hoped that his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Lincoln would not press his Clauses. He fully agreed with him that in the commencement of the New Poor Law there had been many errors, and blame was to be attributed somewhere. One cause of some of the errors was, perhaps, the very didactic manner in which some of the Commissioners laid down the law on some points. Owing to this, some of their decisions as to the law were not, well understood, and she consequence was, that up to this time there were strange discrepancies as to the meaning of some clauses and sections of the Law. However, many of them would be removed by the effect of this
1419Mr. Bernal
1422 saw very clearly indeed the difficulties which must result from acceding to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln. He saw many functions which the Poor Law Commissioners might be beneficially called upon to discharge, and among them that of controlling the Boards of Guardians. He objected to the notion which had for some time past prevailed, that this Commission was to be permanent, and had he held a seat in Parliament when the New Poor Law Bill was passed he would not have given his vote for the formation of a body of that kind. The proposition, however, for abolishing this Commission, was, as matters stood, almost impracticable; and, therefore, though he felt very strongly the objections to the constitution of the Commission, he felt it his duty to
1422Mr. S. Wortley
"And be it enacted, that the Commissioners do and shall order Boards of Guardians to take measures for allowing all paupers, not being members of the Church of England, to attend their respective places of worship, when within reasonable distance, at all reasonable times." moved the insertion of the following Clause:—
"And be it enacted, that the Commissioners do and shall order Boards of Guardians to take measures for allowing all paupers, not being members of the Church of England, to attend their respective places of worship, when within reasonable distance, at all reasonable times."The Earl of Arundel
 contended, that without the most strenuous efforts on the part of the Poor Law Commissioners to restrain Board of Guardians, the existing evil would not be removed. He hoped that his noble Friend would press his Motion.Mr. T. Howard
 hoped that the noble Lord would not press his Motion after the explanation of the right hon. Baronet.Mr. V. Smith
 consented to withdraw his Motion.The Earl of Arundel
"Provided always, and be it further enacted, that whenever it shall appear to the Board of any district school that the space within such school is more than sufficient for the accommodation of poor children within the district for which such school shall have been built, it shall and may be lawful for such board, subject to the approval of the Poor Law Commissioners, to make order for the admission of so many other children residing in the same district as shall seem expedient to such Board; and the weekly provision for the maintenance and education of such children shall be fixed by the Board at such rate as shall in their judgment be amply sufficient to cover every expense on account of such children." moved the following Clause:—
"Provided always, and be it further enacted, that whenever it shall appear to the Board of any district school that the space within such school is more than sufficient for the accommodation of poor children within the district for which such school shall have been built, it shall and may be lawful for such board, subject to the approval of the Poor Law Commissioners, to make order for the admission of so many other children residing in the same district as shall seem expedient to such Board; and the weekly provision for the maintenance and education of such children shall be fixed by the Board at such rate as shall in their judgment be amply sufficient to cover every expense on account of such children."Mr. S. O'Brien
 would not tax the right hon. Baronet with inconsistency, but thought that hon. Members had a right to be convinced by his previous arguments; for at present he had adduced none. He thought the principle of the Clause was excellent, as it went to convince the pauper children that they were not outcasts from society, and to encourage a general and high spirit of concession towards them among the children of the lower classes generally.Mr. V. Smith
 was of opinion that, under the circumstances, it was not of any use to divide the House upon this Clause.Mr. O'Brien
 said, that some years ago he had considerable experience in proceedings before Election Committees, and he must say that there had undoubtedly been a great improvement in the constitution of such tribunals, which had now to a very great extent secured the confidence of the public. He was decidedly in favour of a reduction in the number of Members placed on these Committees, because he believed that such a course would entail increased responsibility on each individual Member. He thought, however, that it would be advisable first to try the experiment of a reduction from seven to five, instead of jumping at once from seven to three.The Solicitor General
1443 was ready to admit that the right hon. Baronet had gone a good way in concession to places under Local Acts, and that he had conducted the discussions on this measure with great propriety, and given what he no doubt considered
1443Mr. Williams
1441"And in other respects the existing amount of pauperism, as compared with the population, is highly satisfactory, and the progressive and striking diminution of the parochial expenditure observable in the accounts of the last three years speaks most favourably for the system of management that has been pursued. Finally, Gentlemen, your systematic mode of conducting parochial affairs, approaches in
1441onus probandi1440143914381437: I rise to second the Motion of my hon. and gallant Colleague; and I can assure the House that it is with great reluctance that I venture to trespass upon their attention even for a few minutes when I recollect the immense length to which our sitting has been extended, and bow dry and uninteresting the subject upon which I am about to address them must be to most hon. Members. Sir, I give my cordial support to the proviso which my gallant Friend has proposed, not because I entirely concur in every part of it, but because its general effect will be to prevent the provisions of the auditing Clause of this Bill from applying to large towns under Local Acts. I object to all interference on the part of the Poor Law Commissioners with large and populous parishes well governed under the provisions of Local Acts. I am aware that they possess this power to a certain extent by the existing law; and I do not now propose to deprive them of the power which they already have, partly because I am most unwilling to throw any useless or unnecessary impediment in the progress of a Measure which I consider to be of so important and beneficial a nature, and for which I think the country is deeply indebted to Her Majesty's Government, and partly because I hope that the Poor Law Commissioners will exercise that power with great discretion, as I feel bound to say I think they have hitherto done, and that they will recollect the purpose for which that power was given to them. That the authors of the New Poor Law Bill never intended that power to be applied for the purpose of interfering with the mode of administering relief to the poor in large parishes under the provisions of Local Acts where no ground of complaint existed, I have the authority of Lord Althorp himself and of Sir Frederic Pollock for saying. Lord Althorp, in introducing the Bill in 1834, said, "he hoped the Commissioners would not interfere with the parishes that were well regulated. The only mode in which he trusted they would deal with such parishes would be to follow their example." Sir Frederic Pollock some years later said, "when the
1441"And in other respects the existing amount of pauperism, as compared with the population, is highly satisfactory, and the progressive and striking diminution of the parochial expenditure observable in the accounts of the last three years speaks most favourably for the system of management that has been pursued. Finally, Gentlemen, your systematic mode of conducting parochial affairs, approaches in
1441onus probandi1440143914381437Lord Alfred Hervey
 said, that the Poor Law never had been, and probably never would be administered in the humane spirit with which the right hon. Baronet had referred to it. He (Lord Ashley) had come down to the House that morning to vote for the Clauses of his hon. and gallant Friend, but, after the statement of the right hon. Baronet, from which it appeared that what his hon. and gallant Friend proposed was already the law of the land, he would recommend him not to press his Resolutions to a division.Lord Ashley
 had expected the very best results from the operation of the New Poor Law Act, but those expectations had not been altogether realised. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J, Graham) had stated, that great mitigations had taken place, but it appeared that the real mitigations were not those which had taken place in the enactments of the law, but in the temper with which it was administered. The Poor Law Commissioners in interpreting the law in 1839 did so just in the same way as did the Secretary of State for the Home Department in 1844. The real question was, whether or not the care of the poor was an object of national concernment, and if so, whether or not it were to be intrusted to irresponsible bodies scattered over the country, or to one Board subjected to the control of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and responsible for the proper discharge of its duties. The law could not be unconstitutional, as it was the law of Parliament. The rules which had been framed under it were all published, and were therefore open to inspection and scrutiny if such be sought. The administration of the law was most popular, if even it was granted that the law itself was harsh and unconstitutional. There might have been a little less writing, a little less attention to details; but the law itself and its administration were, he thought, very well adapted to their purpose. He would oppose the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln.Mr. Hawes
 was astonished at hearing now the decided opinions of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) compared with what he had previously said upon the subject. The objection taken by the right hon. Baronet that the schools were to be boarding-schools, was not valid, as the Poor Law Commissioners had, by the Clause, the power of saying when day borders should be received, and when they should not. There was no compulsion under the Clause to receive children as boarders; though he was the last person who would say anything disrespectful of the Bishop of London, he felt bound to state it as his opinion that that right rev. Prelate saw in the Clause a more liberal system of education than he approved of. He (Mr. Hawes) would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Northampton.Mr. Hawes
1433 said, he thought the experiment of proposing that Election Com-
1433Mr. B. Escott
 said, that the present Clause was free from the objections which subsisted to a similar Clause moved on the preceding evening, and he hoped that the noble Lord would press it.Mr. Escott
 thought that House would desire, as far as they could, to amend a law which had done so much to redeem their character, and which had given substantial justice to them all. His opinion was, that the reduction in the number of Members of Election Committees to three would be most advisable, because in that case the general Committee of selection would be more deeply impressed with the importance of placing the most competent Members of that House upon such Committees. His own conviction was, that the best plan would be to follow the exact analogy of our Courts of Justice, and to constitute these tribunals of an equal number of Judges; at the same time, as he saw there was a strong feeling in favour of the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, he would not offer any objection to that proposal.Mr. C. Buller
 gave full weight to the objections that had been taken to the specific Motion of the gallant Member for Lincoln. No hon. Member felt more grateful to the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) than he did for the alterations which had been effected in the Poor Law; but he felt that these alterations were worthy of a better enactment than that to which they belonged, and which was a mere dedication of powers to this Commission. In announcing his intention to vote with the gallant Member for Lincoln, he felt himself bound to state his objection that the period within which the Poor Law Commission should be abolished, ought not to be so short as was proposed in his Motion.Mr. Newdegate
1415 begged to tender his thanks to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary for his explanation as to the interpretation of the Clause authorizing immediate relief to the destitute. The misinformation which existed as to the correct state of the law pressed very heavily in its consequences on large classes of the poor, and on none of them with greater severity than on the handloom weavers; for such was the general impression as to the conditions on which alone parochial relief could be obtained, that many of them parted with their little stock of furniture, their beds, and finally their
1415Mr. Newdegate
hocus pocus1417 addresed the House in support of a Clause which went to abolish the Poor Law Commission, giving to the several Boards of Guardians constituted and appointed for the management of each separate union or union workhouse the full power, management, and control, without any inter-
hocus pocus1417Colonel Sibthorp
1416 said, that if his hon. and gallant Friend divided on his second Clause, he would most certainly vote with him, if it were only to put an end to all doubt on the subject; but of this he thought there could be no fear after the explanation of his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary. He could state many instances of the general misapprehension of the law on the point. He had been applying to the Poor Law Commissioners at Somerset-house for three years on the part of the handloom weavers, but without effect. He begged to thank the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary for the explanation he had given, and for the spirit
1416Mr. Wodehouse
 bore testimony to the efficacy of the principle, which he had seen carried into practice with the greatest advantage though not without difficulties in doing so.Mr. Darby
 said, the proper mode, if the people of Brighton allowed their accounts to go wrong, was to let them be punished for it, but not to let the Government interfere. He feared a great deal from this interference, and he thought it would be far better that the Government should leave the appointment to the rate payers, who, as a natural principle, must take care of themselves.Mr. Muntz
 begged to know whether the gentlemen in question were merely private merchants resident at the different ports, or whether they would be invested with any civil functions?Mr. Labouchere
 begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade a question. It had been stated that difficulties had been created by the Dutch Government in the way of appointing Consuls in the ports of Java, to furnish certificates of origin to sugar-growers who shipped their produce to this country. He asked whether the fact were so, and whether any means had been devised for obviating the difficulty.Mr. Labouchere
 moved to leave out the words "out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain and Ireland," for the purpose of introducing the words "the county rate."Mr. Brotherton
 said he should be sorry to defeat the Bill, but he must persit in his Motion.Mr. Brotherton
1424C'est tout ce qu'ils ont de pareil."Il est commun, elle est commune;Comparer Iris au Soleil!"Quelle flatterie importune1423 would take leave to state, very briefly to the House the grounds upon which he had decided to support this Motion. Its effect would be
1424C'est tout ce qu'ils ont de pareil."Il est commun, elle est commune;Comparer Iris au Soleil!"Quelle flatterie importune1423Mr. Borthwick
 would ask whether there was not in the working of the Poor Law a tendency to discourage rather then encoursge voluntary charity, and to raise an opinion that it was on the whole more injurious than the principle of out-door relief? He felt very strongly that if it was contemplated that the wants of the poor were to be altogether left to the Poor Law, that law was totally unfit for supplying them. He was of opinion, and more so from the increase of population and its tendency to centralize itself, that a Poor Law could never be successful unless assisted by a large amount of private charily. So far as he had seen the operation of local acts in the borough which he represented, he approved of them; yet he could not shut his eyes to the enormous inconvenience that would arise from the abolition of the Poor Law Commission; and upon the whole, he thought that the Motion of the hon. Member for Lincoln ought not to be acceded to.Mr. M. Milnes
14211420 would support the Amendment of his hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Lincoln. The right hon. Baronet had stated, that the Poor Law Commissioners had the confidence of Parliament. He (Mr. Spooner) asked if they had the confidence of the people, undoubtedly not; and never would have while the law remained as it was, and while the administration of that law was left so completely to their discretion. The fact was, that too much power was given to the Commissioners; they had the power of making, altering, or repealing Acts of Parliament at their pleasure. Such power vested in three or four individuals was unconstitutional, and became more objectionable from the manner in which it was administered. He had the authority of the greatest statesman whom this country had produced—he meant that of William Pitt—for saying, that all the difficulties we experienced in administering relief to the poor arose from our departure from the pure spirit of the Act of Elizabeth. He would not stand there to palliate the many deviations which we had made from that Act, but he would, in the name of the poor of the country, conjure the House to come back again to the spirit of that law, by which every man who could work had work provided for him; but who, if unable to work, had his wants immediately attended to. How great was the contrast with our present system! Admission to our detested workhouses was the only way in which the honest pauper, willing and able to work—could obtain relief. His only crime being that he could find no one willing and able to employ him; he, to obtain relief, was obliged to sacrifice the company of his wife and children—must resign his cottage and leave his family to the care of strangers.
14211420Mr. Spooner
1414 expressed his readiness to divide in favour of the hon. and gallant Officer's second Clause. He had himself been an eye-witness to cases in which the test of the possession of a cottage had been made a ground for refusing relief. This was not done in any underhand or evasive manner. It was the bold assertion of a principle, believed to be recognized by the Legislature, and carried out by the Board of Guardians. The applicants were plainly and simply informed, "We have no power to relieve you—you are the owner of a cottage and some furniture; first sell your cottage and spend the money in your support, and then, if you should continue in want, we will relieve you, but the law will not allow us to relieve you while you possess this properly;" and there was no doubt that the construction thus put upon the Act was an honest one, though now, after
1414Mr. Spooner
1435 adhered to every declaration he had made in that House when this subject was before under discussion. In his opinion the Clause was dictated by a feeling of humanity, and was, he believed,
1435Mr. Wakley
1449s.l.s.s.s.s.,l.1448 said, no hon. Member of
1449s.l.s.s.s.s.,l.1448Mr. Wakley
 said, that the persons appointed to grant certificates of origin would not hold any consular appointment. Their duty would be confined to the mere inspection of sugar shipped for British ports. As to the question which related to their being engaged in mercantile affairs, his impression was, that Mr. Fraser was not in business, though he had been engaged in commerce, and that Mr. Bonhose and Mr. M'Neil were both merchants.Mr. Gladstone
l.1430l. said, that persons resident in Java, not bearing the title of Consuls, had been authorized by Her Majesty to grant certificates of origin of sugars shipped from the ports of that island for England, and the persons thus selected were such as the Government could fully depend upon. He would take that opportunity of stating that a gentleman had been appointed to fill the situation of Consul at Manilla, who had formerly been Consul at Damascus, and who would receive a salary of 1,000l.1430l.Mr. W. Gladstone
1446l.l.l.l.1445 said, that as a magistrate of Middlesex, he wished to say a few words on the Bill before the Speaker left the Chair. The principle of the Bill was not known in the administration of justice among the magistrates of England. It was to establish a court in which there was to be a chairman with a salary appointed by the Secretary of State for the Home Department. It was on account of the countenance which it gave to the principle of centralization that he felt an objection to the Bill. It enabled, he repeated, the Secretary of State for the Home Department not only to appoint a chairman, who had hitherto been appointed by the magistrates of Middlesex at large, but to award to that chairman a large pecuniary salary. The magistrates of Middlesex were about 200 in number. At a meeting of those magistrates the subject of this measure had been discussed; thirty-two had voted for it, and thirteen against it; but, how came those thirty-two magistrates to vote in favour of this measure? Because they were friends — boon companions of the chairman of the Middlesex Sessions It was not very likely that Gentlemen who were in constant communication with an individual, who sat with him at dinner every day, and had frequent intercourse with him, would oppose a measure which would give to that individual
1446l.l.l.l.1445Mr. Mackinnon
1447 said, this Bill, which was one of great importance, had been introduced at a late period of the Session, without a single word of explanation. It appeared to him that Bill was not required by any parties connected either with the county of Middlesex or the City of London. He objected to the measure, in the first place, because it entailed a serious charge upon the public. He wished to know why the Chairman of the Middlesex Quarter Sessions should have a salary paid out of the public taxes any more than the Chairman of any other Sessions. If it was necessary that functionary should have a salary at all, why not pay him out of the county rates, rather than out of taxes levied from the people generally? It was proposed by this Bill, without the least necessity for such a measure being shown, to abolish the Quarter Sessions for the City of Westminster. Those Sessions had hitherto been held in the centre of the City of Westminster, but it was now proposed to transfer the business to Clerkenwell, and that change would entail the utmost inconvenience upon the people of Westminster. But one great objection to this measure arose from the peculiar relations subsisting between the county of Middlesex and the City of London. By an ancient arrangement, the City of London, for certain considerations, had undertaken to pay the cost of all prisoners committed to the prison of Newgate before trial. Why, then, should the county of Middlesex have entailed upon it the additional expense of keeping such prisoners? Had there ever been any difficulty in conducting the proceedings at the Central Criminal Court? By the 4th and 5th William IV., that court might hold its Sessions at least twelve times a-year. Those Sessions might be held every fortnight, if it was so ordered by the Queen in Council, or they might be made perpetual;
1447Mr. W. Williams
 thought, that as the Poor Law Act was now in complete operation, the functions of the Poor Law Commissioners had been discharged and ought to cease. One Commissioner was sufficient for transacting all the business now before that board, and a reduction of that kind ought at least to be effected.Mr. W. Williams
 said, that if the interpretation put upon the law by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary was correct—and there could, he presumed, be no doubt on the subject—the whole principle on which the law had hitherto been administered was changed. So that, in effect, it would be equivalent to a change in the law itself. Under these circumstances he would withdraw his first Clause, but would divide on the second.Sir C. Napier
1412l."And be it enacted that in the event of a married couple or a single man or woman possessing a cottage under the value of 5l."And be it enacted that it shall be lawful for the Guardians of the Poor to give a higher rate of out-door relief than that now given, at their discretion, to aged people above sixty years of age, who have paid their poor-rates." proposed the following Clauses:—
1412l."And be it enacted that in the event of a married couple or a single man or woman possessing a cottage under the value of 5l."And be it enacted that it shall be lawful for the Guardians of the Poor to give a higher rate of out-door relief than that now given, at their discretion, to aged people above sixty years of age, who have paid their poor-rates."Sir C. Napier
 was surprised to hear from a Liberal Member on that side of the House that irresponsible Boards of Guardians were not to be trusted with the administration of the Poor Law. If abuses arose would not the rate-payers have power to remove them? The Poor Law Act never would have passed the House if it had been contemplated that the Board of Commissioners was to be perpetual; yet they were now from year to year allowing statutes to be passed for the purpose of giving a pretext to effect that perpetuity. Sir J. Scarlett had said, that the Parliament were delegating to a separate body an absolute power over the greater portion of their domestic economy. Sanctioned by that authority, and by that of Lord Lyndhurst, he was justified in supporting the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln.Captain Pechell
1436 proposed a Clause empowering Gilbert Unions and Parishes having Local Acts to elect their own Auditors. He would endeavour to put what observations he had to make in support of the Clause which he had prepared in as small a compass as possible. He thought it would only be consistent with what the right hon. Baronet had allowed the metropolitan parishes, who had adopted Hob-house's Act, to do, that he should accede to this Clause. They were allowed to appoint their own auditor. Why should not parishes under Gilbert's Act elect their auditors as they had done hitherto. No abuses nor mal-practices had been proved against the parish of Brighton, and he
1436Captain Pechell
 moved the omission of the 12th Clause, relating to the placing out of parish apprentices. He objected to the controlling power which the Clause gave to the Poor Law Commissioners in selecting the trade and term of service of those apprentices. He also considered that the Clause was inapplicable to the merchant sea service, which in fact was properly regulated by the Merchant Seamen's Act. It could not be maintained that it would be proper to give to the Commissioners control over the merchant shipping; as to their power of visitation to see how the apprentices were treated, it would not be very easy to carry that into effect.Captain Pechell
1444 felt indebted to the right hon. Baronet for the courtesy which
1444Captain Pechell
l.1442 could hardly regret the renewal of this discussion, since it had afforded him the pleasure of hearing the speech of his noble Friend; and there was no appeal to which, if it were consistent with his duty, he would yield with move pleasure than one which had been made so ably, and in a manner so persuasive, as the appeal of the noble Lord. He could not, however, yield the point. The House had, by a great majority, decided on the Commissioners having the power of interference generally with these unions, and, if that interference was justifiable in any case, it was so as it appeared to him, in the appointment of auditors. It was true that parishes which had adopted Hobhouse's Act, had been exempted from the power of the Commissioners to appoint auditors, but Hobhouse's Act was not a local but a general Act; and if Brighton and other parishes under Gilbert's Act had liked to adopt that Act, they might have been exempted too. There were only four parishes in the metropolis which had adopted Hobhouse's Act; and he must say, they
l.1442Sir J. Graham
1434 said, this subject had already been amply discussed. He certainly should think the Clause a very impolitic one, if it imposed any serious interference as regards binding apprentices to the merchant service, and he agreed with the hon. and gallant Officer that any visitorial power on the part of the Commissioners over the merchant service as to apprentices, would practically not be found a very easy duty to perform; but he could
1434Sir J. Graham
1428 said, that nothing beyond the proceedings of that debate were necessary to convince him, had he no other proof of it, how intimately the question of the Poor Law was interwoven with the greatest subjects of national policy. To the number of leading topics which had already been touched upon, the hon. Member for Northampton had now added that of education. That hon. Member had, however, omitted to consider that the district schools provided for in the Bill were pauper boarding-schools, inasmuch as they were the collection in these district schools of pauper children drawn from the surrounding workhouses. It would, therefore, not be right on the part of the Commissioners, or of the district Board of Guardians, to consent to any expense for the building of larger schools than were necessary for the ordinary number of children contained in the surrounding workhouses. It would not be just to the ratepayers to expose them to greater expense than was requisite for the pauper population of their unions. He (Sir J. Graham) objected to the Clause, not only on these grounds, but because it held out expectations which it could not fulfil. It was an attempt to introduce a general scheme under cover of a local and particular enactmeni; for, as the plan of district schools was, by the Bill, confined to the metropolis and four or five other places, and affected only one class of the poor, such a Clause as that proposed would create the greatest disappointment, by creating hopes for the education of the poor generally throughout the kingdom. He did not attach so much authority to the opinion of the right rev. Prelate the Bishop of London as the hon. Member for Northampton, for he was not prepared absolutely to be bound by it; but he had no hesitation in saying, that that right rev. Prelate was opposed to the proposition of the hon. Member. It was admitted, that as far as was possible, the Bill sought to increase the
1428Sir J. Graham
 said, that he was willing to give every attention to the subject. He thought that all facilities ought to be given to the inmates of workhouses not members of the Church of England, for attending their respective places of worship. Every instruction would be given to the Poor Law Commissioners for effecting that purpose, and he hoped that as such was the case the noble Lord would not insist upon pressing his Motion.Sir J. Graham
14511450 said, he considered this subject as so important that he should be very sorry if this Bill did not become law during the present Session. He thought he could show a good reason why the Chairman should be paid a salary out of the public purse, but that was matter of detail to be considered in Committee. The hon. Member for Lymington had alluded to something like a contract between the Government and the Middlesex Magistrates as to this Bill, and said that if the Bill passed, a particular individual would be appointed Chairman. He could only say that he had entirely kept aloof from any such contract. The necessity for this Bill had been long admitted, and the dispute for
14511450Sir J. Graham
 said, if the Motion of the hon. Gentleman were agreed to it would defeat the whole Bill.Sir James Graham
C. Napier1413 was disposed to pay the greatest attention to every suggestion of the hon. and gallant Officer, to whom it was in the highest degree creditable to be thus engaged in endeavouring to promote the welfare of his country in time of peace when the exercise of the bravery and skill which had so distinguished him in time of war was no longer required. The hon. and gallant Officer must excuse him for expressing his belief that the object he had in view would not be gained by the adoption of the Clauses which he proposed. With respect to the first Clause, he must say that it would be superfluous legislation, as the Guardians already possessed the discretionary power referred to in the first part of it. They were already empowered to relieve such parties as the Clause referred to to the extent which the peculiar circumstances might call for; and that power being already the law of the land, it was not necessary to enact it. With regard to that portion of the first Clause which empowered Guardians to give a somewhat higher allowance to those paupers who had at one time regularly paid the poor-rate, he must say that the recognition of such a principle would lead to results which he was sure the hon. and gallant Officer did not intend, for a sort of premium of this kind for the payment of the poor-rates would involve a penalty on those who had not paid them. The recognition of the principle would of course lead to inquiries as to the regularity of payment of rates, and that would tend to a career of injustice, the consequence of
C. Napier1413Sir J. Graham
l. hoped he might not be misunderstood as to the point of relief in cases of destitution. When he said that the Boards of Guardians would not be justified in withholding relief from the destitute applicants on the ground that they were in possession of a cottage, he was not of course to be understood to mean that if a party came permanently on the parish for relief, and remained in possession of a cottage from which he derived 5l.Sir J. Graham
1418l.l. said, that the principle of the hon. and gallant Member's Clauses had been already under discussion in that House, which had declined to adopt it. The hon. and gallant Member had complained of the increase of expense attendant on the appointment of Commissioners and Assistant-Commissioners. He (Sir J. Graham) was not disposed to try the efficiency of any plan by its cost; but if he were to try the New Poor Law system by that test, it would be found that by an expense of about 50,0001418l.l.Sir J. Graham
1427 in 1831, strongly recommended such an arrangement. The right hon. Member for Perth (Mr. F. Maule), and others, had concurred in the sentiments of the right hon. Baronet upon that occasion. He was prepared to defend his Motion upon two grounds first, because there was danger if it was not adopted that a premium would be given to poverty; and, secondly, because he believed that such an arrangement as was thereby proposed, would tend to prevent pauper children from feeling the stigma attached to their situation, by being educated as a separate class. The Bishop of London had in 1831 stated, that it was not desirable to make the education of the poor more different from that of the rich than their situation demanded. He (Mr. S. O'Brien) had no authority for saying so, but after what he had just quoted, he had no doubt that the Clause which he now proposed would meet with the approbation of that right rev. Prelate. The House would observe that the consent of the Poor Law Commissioners and of the
1427Sir R. Peel
 said, it was most inconvenient that tribunals of this nature should be broken up without arriving at a decision, especially as the proceedings involved great expense; and he would, therefore, propose at a future stage of this measure, that even if Election Committees should be reduced to one or two Members, they should still proceed with their investigation. He would propose that even if a Committee was by any circumstances reduced to one Member, he should still be enabled to prosecute the inquiry, with the consent of the parties interested.Sir R. Peel
14321431 rose to propose the Amendment of which he had given notice. Before he submitted his Amendment, he wished to congratulate the House upon the great improvement which had taken place in the practice of Election Committees. He thought that if the proceedings of Election Committees constituted according to the present law were contrasted with those of former Committees, a very great improvement would be seen, and he believed that greater confidence was now felt in the decisions of such Committees. The four eminent Counsel who had been examined befor the Committee which had investigated this subject, had borne very satisfactory testimony to the improvement in the proceedings of these Committees. Those learned gentlemen had stated their belief that the imputations which had been thrown out against the Members of Election Committees were unfounded. He believed that the great security for the due administration of justice was the conviction, which existed on both sides of the House, that judicial functions were com-
14321431Sir R. Peel
1429 said, that he intended to support the views of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham). On a previous occasion he had declared that he had a strong prepossession in favour of the Motion now before the House, as he thought it would give to parents generally the advantages of such an education, as they could not otherwise possess. If the question was one between ignorance and knowledge, between Christianity and infidelity, the Church could not he conceived, be much injured thereby. He found not only on the part of the Bishop of London, but of others also, an opinion that such an arrangement as that now proposed would rather check and impede voluntary efforts for the education of the people than encourage them, and that in-
1429Sir R. Peel
d.s.l.d.,s.l. suggested that the allowance ought to be 3d.s.l.d.,s.l.Sir T. Acland
1495l.14941493 congratulated the House and the country, that notwithstanding the late period of the Session at which the present Bill had been introduced, and, notwithstanding the too plainly evinced disinclination of the Go-
1495l.14941493Mr. B. Cochrane
"His noble and learned Friend misunderstood the Bill, and the nature of the evil which it was intended to correct. His noble Friend talked of the Magistrate's administration of the Poor Laws; now, the Magistrates did not administer the law—the overseers were intrusted with the administration. It was true the Magistrates had interfered with the overseers, and one of the objects of the Bill was to bring the law back from the hands of the Magistrates, and replace it in those of the overseers, according to the old system. There was nothing for it but a measure of this kind to bring the administration of the law back to the old system; and when that should be effected, no one would be more happy to see the plan abandoned than he should."15001499 believed it was difficult to say whether the law, taken as a whole, had done more harm than good. He knew Unions where it had been productive of the greatest benefit, had reclaimed the idle and dissolute, and made them com-
"His noble and learned Friend misunderstood the Bill, and the nature of the evil which it was intended to correct. His noble Friend talked of the Magistrate's administration of the Poor Laws; now, the Magistrates did not administer the law—the overseers were intrusted with the administration. It was true the Magistrates had interfered with the overseers, and one of the objects of the Bill was to bring the law back from the hands of the Magistrates, and replace it in those of the overseers, according to the old system. There was nothing for it but a measure of this kind to bring the administration of the law back to the old system; and when that should be effected, no one would be more happy to see the plan abandoned than he should."15001499Mr. Escott
 hoped the right hon. Baronet would take into consideration the observations of the hon. Member for Finsbury with reference to the 27th Clause, as to the power of Magistrates to grant relief. The right hon. Baronet had told him (Mr. Barnard), when he before called attention to this subject, that he might, if he pleased, bring up a Clause; but at the railway speed at which they had proceeded with this Bill that was quite impossible.Mr. Barnard
1502 fully agreed in the sentiments that had been expressed by the hon. Member for Finsbury on the subject of medical relief for the poor; and he feared that under the present system the medical relief extended to them was by no means adequate to their wants. In many cases, he believed, this deficiency was attributable to one of the evils of the existing system, to which the attention of
1502Mr. G. Bankes
 said, that he concurred in many of the observations of the hon. Gentleman, but there were many on which he differed from him. As to the question of expense, he thought, that under the system under which we were acting, it was impossible to avoid great inequalities of expense. He fully approved of the great caution with which the Chancellor of the Exchequer was acting in a measure of this kind.Mr. Darby
 said, that, the origin of Savings' Banks was not by the Government, They were established by benevolent individuals to encourage habits of economy and industry amongst the humbler classes in their neighbourhoods; and when the Government determined to legislate on the subject, it was with the view of giving greater encouragement to depositors by giving greater security for deposits. It was impossible to prevent some abuses, for many parties invested sums in those banks who were not intended to be brought within the provisions of the Bill. But the great remedy for that would be, not to allow interest much greater than the current rate of the market. As to the expense of these banks on the whole the public gained rather than lost by it, to the extent of many thousands a year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1492d.s. agreed with the hon. Member for Montorse, that 61492d.s.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.,l.1491 defended the propriety of limiting the rate
s.,l.1491The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. would give his cordial support to the principle of the Bill, and thought that the public, and particularly the depositors in these banks, were much indebted to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the introduction of this measure. The only point for consideration was, whether they should allow 3l.Mr. Labouchere
s. would support the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for North Devon, being convinced that no Savings' Banks establishment could be managed for so small a sum as 5s.Mr. Tufnell
 said, that his Anti-Malthusian notions had always led him to believe there was too great an anxiety on the part of those who administered the Poor Law to save the purse of the public at the expense of the humbler and poorer classes, and he was glad to find that the present measure was about to modify the operation of the New Poor Law, both with respect to bastardy and out-door relief. He was convinced that both these modifications in the principle of the former Bill would be received with great satisfaction, and he was likewise certain that if the right hon. Baronet should hereafter find that other parts of the Poor Law worked harshly, he would be disposed to alter it in that respect. He therefore begged, most sincerely, to render his thanks to the right hon. Baronet for the improvements he had made in the Bill, and to express his hope that they would afford universal satisfaction.Mr. Hardy
 begged to know who had rendered the poor dissatisfied with the operation of the present law, if it were not such persons as the hon. Member opposite? The hon. Member had asserted that improvements in agriculture injured the poor, and by such speeches the hon. Member fostered the ignorance and prejudices of the people. He had always sympathized with the poor, and with those who lived by their labour. The only fault that he had to find with respect to the New Poor Law was, that its provisions had never fully been carried out. When it was first introduced he had done his best to give the measure its full effect, so convinced was he of its necessity. At the same time he thought perfection was not to be looked for, and if abuses crept into the system it was the duty of Parliament to find them out, and correct them. But he would tell the hon. Member for Bridport that the constant attacks which he, and those who acted with him, had made upon the New Poor Law, and upon those who administered the law, were the principal causes of the dissatisfaction which that measure had excited.Mr. Hume
d.s.l.s.l. proposed to leave out 2d.s.l.s.l.Mr. Hume
1490d.s.s.,s.,d.,s.l.s.l.s.l.d.;s.l.s.l.l. complained that the present system of Savings' Banks was a departure from the original plan of making them available for the benefit of the poor exclusively. He also complained of a want of uniformity in the various banks as to the time of paying and the amount of dividends. According to the present system, should the Three per Cents, fall to 75 (a thing by no means improbable), the Government would lese 25 per cent. on every 1001490d.s.s.,s.,d.,s.l.s.l.s.l.d.;s.l.s.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that before the hon. Member for Montrose got up in that House to censure the expressions of his hon. Friend (Mr. B. Cochrane) he would do well to be quite certain that he understood the meaning of those expressions. His hon. Friend, in speaking of the effects of the improvements in agriculture, had not referred to the mode of cultivating the soil, but to the increased facilities afforded by improvements in machinery, by which labour was saved. He cordially concurred in what had been said on both sides of the House, that the conduct of the right hon. Home Secretary had been actuated by the purest motives. It only remained to make the Bill work in the most effectual way for the benefit of those for whose good it was intended. It was not, he thought, generally understood that under the present law the Guardians had the power of granting out-door relief in cases of necessity, and many persons, in consequence, had refused to become guardians; but now they would no longer do so. This Bill was an improvement, but it was only a partial cure of the evils of the former one. The effect of it was to make the entire mass of the Poor Law, as it now stood, a compound of chymical antipathies, one part of it destroying another, and which would make it absolutely necessary to return to a better—and the right hon. Gentleman must pardon him for saying, an elder system.Mr. Borthwick
l.l.;l.;14981497 hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not be discouraged by any opposition to this Bill from introducing another in the next Session, if it should be found that the public demanded it. There certainly had been some difficulties thrown in the way of the Government, but they had no right to complain of unfair opposition. The Government had delayed the measure until the latter part of the Session, and it was no fault of the independent Members of that House that they had not pushed it forward. He regretted that the hon. Member for Bridport had thrown out such remarks on machinery. It was the most erroneous opinion that ever entered the mind of man, for machinery had created a demand for labour to a most enormous extent; and if it was not for that, there could be no peace in England. The question of regulating machinery was a gigantic one that required to be dealt with by well experienced hands. If it was thoughtlessly or
l.l.;l.;14981497Mr. Wakley
1501 said, that in accordance with the promise he had given last night, he did not intend to offer any opposition to the third reading of this Bill; and in-
1501Captain Pechell
15041503 had frequently found it necessary in the discharge of his duty, to address the House during the progress of this Bill through its various stages; and on this occasion, therefore, as no division was to take place, he should not feel justi-
15041503Sir J. Graham
 moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Poor Law Amendment Bill.Sir J. Graham
 said, he did not feel such strong objections to the Bill as the hon. Gentleman opposite, but he must say he regretted, with him, that it was brought forward at so late a period.Mr. H. Hinde
 took that opportunity to thank Her Majesty's Government for introducing a Bill which appeared to him to be framed with the very best intentions, and with a real desire to conciliate and to promote the interests of the Roman Catholic population of Ireland. It was true that the priests of his persuasion did claim for themselves the exclusive privilege of deciding in matters relative to ecclesiastical discipline and interpretation, but it did not appear to him that the questions likely to be referred to this board were such as would at all entrench upon that claim. He thought, however, that Her Majesty's Government would do well to take into consideration one objection which had been made, and see whether they could not recognise the bishops and archbishops of the Romish Church. The machinery of the Church of Rome did exist in Ireland, whether for good or for evil, and it was by that machinery this Bill must be worked, and he thought it would tend greatly to promote good feeling, and conciliate the good will of the Roman Catholic population of Ireland, if the dignity of their reverend prelates were acknowledged and recognised in the Bill.The Earl of Arundel and Surrey
1537l.1536Sheil:15351534Sheil:"That his objections in such case would be much weakened.""If the Commission were composed of two or three Roman Catholics out of nine or ten?""If this objection would apply, if the Commission were composed partly of Roman Catholics and partly of Protestants?""Their tendency to litigation.""Would he state his objections?"—"The fact is (Mr. O'Connell replied) if Roman Catholics wished to leave their money for charitable or pious purposes, they were apprehensive that their intention would not be carried into effect.""There was a great want of confidence, and always would be as long as they remained in their then state.""Was there a want of confidence in the Board?"153315321531 sincerely rejoiced that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had considerably departed from the tone of the observations which had been addressed to the House previously, and had confined himself to commentaries upon, rather than to the making of any decided objections to, the principle of the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman had done no more than justice, as well as his noble Friend (the Earl of Arundel and Surrey), if the noble Lord would permit him to say so, to the views with which Government had been actuated in the proposal of that measure; it was a remedial measure as applied to the existing state of the law. Objections had been made to the measure as compared to the existing law, but amendments might be introduced during its discussion, and which, as far as they were consistent with the objects of the Bill, would be by Her Majesty's Government taken fairly into consideration. Her Majesty's Government, in introducing that Bill, had in view, not a polemical or religious controversy, but one object, and one only—that of rendering the existing law practicable, and placing all bequests for charitable purposes—of Protestants as well as Roman Catholics—on a footing of equality, under one Board, having no leaning this or that way, but a Board that would do justice to all. He assured the right hon. Gentleman that the Government had no unworthy views in proposing the measure. Let the House recollect that this was not a question of religion which the unhappy
1537l.1536Sheil:15351534Sheil:"That his objections in such case would be much weakened.""If the Commission were composed of two or three Roman Catholics out of nine or ten?""If this objection would apply, if the Commission were composed partly of Roman Catholics and partly of Protestants?""Their tendency to litigation.""Would he state his objections?"—"The fact is (Mr. O'Connell replied) if Roman Catholics wished to leave their money for charitable or pious purposes, they were apprehensive that their intention would not be carried into effect.""There was a great want of confidence, and always would be as long as they remained in their then state.""Was there a want of confidence in the Board?"153315321531Lord Stanley
1541 said, that after all the suggestions that were offered, and the complaints that were made, with reference to the Bill before the House, he was surprised
1541Mr. M. J. O'Connell
 said, he had had many communications with shipowners in reference to this Bill; and out of three alterations, which were all that had been suggested, two had been adopted. He believed the measure was a most useful one, and would confer great benefit both on masters and seamen. Most of the provisions had been suggested by his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham) at a former period: but they were not proposed because at that time the greatest prejudice existed against any interference. The Government felt it their duty to proceed with the Bill this Session.Mr. S. Herbert
1519 defended the Bill, which, he said, was one that had received the approval of a nobleman in whom the Irish Roman Catholic people had a just confidence—the Marquess of Normanby. He could not see the force of the objections urged against it, and for this reason, that the Bill was of an enabling and permissive, and not of a compulsory character; and if any Roman Catholic founder did not feel confidence in the board, it was still open to him, as at present, to invest the funds in the names of other trustees. But he admitted that it was expedient to engraft on the principle of this Bill a provision to remove the just complaints made against the constitution of the board hitherto, which was not only exclusively Protestant, but chiefly consisted of clerical members of the Established Church. This had now been done, and it was hoped, that it would tend to facilitate voluntary endowments for the Roman Catholic Clergy. The hon. Gentleman opposite had objected to the Judge of the Prerogative Court being a member of the board, but that very appointment was suggested to him by the hon. Member for Waterford, and though it might be an individual suggestion, still he thought that hon. Member spoke the sense of the Roman Catholic Members of that House. With the exception of that Judge, the other Members might be Roman Catholics, and it was not, therefore, just or fair to say that the board were to be Protestants. The hon. Gentlemen had dwelt on the impossibility of Roman Catholic prelates permitting the reference of matters relating to the
1519Lord Eliot
 observed, across the Table, that the Judge of the Prerogative Court had been substituted for the Lord Chancellor.Lord Eliot
 wished to know, as the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies had used the terms "exclusively Catholic" and "exclusively Protestant" with regard to the Commission, whether the Presbyterian interest was also to be regarded? He thought the measure had been brought forward in a good spirit. He would, however, suggest to the Government, that if this Bill was likely to be opposed by the Roman Catholics (some of whom had spoken against it that night), they might constitute two Boards, one for Roman Catholic, and the other for Protestant purposes. The present measure had, however, been brought forward in a good and kind spirit, and he should, therefore, give it his support.Colonel Rawdon
l. said, that he thought the tribunal proposed by the Bill was a very fair one, and that no objection could be made to it. He thought the Bill had been brought forward in the spirit of peace, and therefore he should support it. In the present state of feeling in Ireland he gave the Government the greatest credit for coming forward and doing what they had done. He hoped this was only a prelude to all the other changes which the people of Ireland wanted. He hoped, however, the same Government would look to the charities of England; 250,000l.Mr. Hume
 said, the Government had no doubt full power to pass any measure they pleased, but the question was, whether it was prudent to interfere in this manner at the present time? In his opinion it was not.Mr. Hume
 objected to the Motion. The Bill was, in his opinion, improperly pressed forward at that period of the Session. It was an attempt to navigate ships by Act of Parliament—and an improper interference between masters and men. He hoped the Bill would not be persevered in during the present Session.Mr. Forster
1520 thought this Bill was really intended to give as much satisfaction to the Catholics as was consistent with the ascendancy of the Protestant Church; but it would have been far better if the Government had more fully consulted the wishes and views of the Roman Catholic body. The Government had not consulted that body, and could not, therefore, be surprised that the Roman Catholic body in Ireland had no confidence in them. What, he should like to know, prevented the Government from giving the Roman Catholic bishops their titles? Were they bishops or not? Her Majesty might appoint them to-morrow to the Archbishopric of Canterbury, and they would require no new consecration. The hon. Member protested against the interference of laymen with any matters relating to the discipline of the Catholic Church. If the object of the Bill was to satisfy the Catholics, why not have made the Catholic bishops a corporation for the management of their funds. The noble Lord had said, that in other countries the State exercised an interference over the Roman Catholic Church, but in those other countries that
1520Mr. Bellew
15181517 concurred with the right hon. Baronet that the present law was defective, and required alteration and amendment. He believed that the right hon. Home Secretary, in the course of a debate on Ireland in February last, stated that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill of this nature; but from that period up to the middle of July, no step was taken to bring the measure under the consideration of that House. He had done the right hon. Gentleman the credit of believing that, feeling the difficulties which encompassed this question, he had deferred introducing the Bill with a view to the removal of those difficulties; but, judging from the terms in which some of these Clauses were framed, he took it for granted that the Bishops of the Catholic Church in Ireland, had not been consulted on the subject. Indeed, very great pains seemed to have been taken to exclude the mention of the word "bishop," as referring to those dignitaries of the Catholic Church. That appeared to him most extraordinary; and it could not fail to be regarded as a most offensive proceeding by the Roman Catholics of this kingdom. If there had not been Bishops in the Catholic Church, there would have been no Bishops in the Protestant Church; and he thought they ought not to withhold from the Clergy of the Catholic Church the acknowledgment of those dignities which were recognised by those who were under their spiritual rule. He could state, on behalf of the Catholic hierarchy of Ireland, that they had no desire to refuse any legislation which could be beneficial to that communion, of which they were the pastors. But he wished to contrast the mode of proceeding which had been adopted with regard to this Bill and to another. When a Bill was introduced into the House of Lords to repeal thirty Penal Statutes affecting Roman Catholics, it was referred by the Lord Chancellor of England to the Law Commissioners. Certain alterations were made in the Bill, and it was then referred to the Bishop of London, that he might ascertain whether those Statutes could be repealed without endangering the safety of the Church of England. The Bill passed through Committee, and then the Bishop of London stated that the Archbishops of the Protestant Church, were absent attending to their sacred duties, and he hoped that at that period of the Session such an important
15181517Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 supported the Bill. He described the beneficial effects of the sailors' homes, and recommended their establishment in all seaport towns, and threw it out for the consideration of the Government whether they could not establish a system between the masters of vessels and sailors' homes for the supply of the sailors with good clothing, in order to prevent their being robbed and defrauded by the persons called crimps.Sir M. O'Ferrall
 began by requesting the right hon. Baronet to give his comments upon the Bill as much attention as they deserved, and perhaps the more because Ministers had not taken the opportunity of consulting others as deeply interested, and much better informed. He had waited with anxiety to hear what reason the right hon. Baronet could suggest for not having asked the opinion of a single Roman Catholic ecclesiastic. Upon that point he had not thought it judicious, or perhaps necessary to reply. Reference had been made to his (Mr. Sheil's) hon. Friend, Sir Henry Winston Barron, as the person at whose instance the Judge of the Prerogative Court had been inserted in the Bill.Mr. Sheil
1530l."Before I had written thus far, I heard of a scheme of giving to the Castle the patronage of the presiding members of the Catholic Clergy. At first I could scarcely credit it, for I believe it is the first time that the presentation to other people's alms has been desired in any country. If the State provides a suitable maintenance and temporality for the governing members of the Irish Roman Catholic Church, and for the Clergy under them, I should think the project, however improper in other respects, to be by no means unjust. But to deprive a poor people, who maintain a second set of clergy, out of the miserable remains of what is left after taxing and tithing—to deprive them of the disposition of their own charities among their own communion, would, in my opinion, be an intolerable hardship. Never were the members of one religious sect fit to appoint the pastors to another."1529R. Peel;1528 did not mean, either directly or by insinuation, to say anything condemnatory of the Member for Waterford; but he might observe that he was not a lawyer, and did not advert to the fact that the Judge of the Prerogative Court must be a Protestant. It was true that the Chief Baron and Master of the Rolls might be Roman Catholics, and Roman Catholics had occupied those offices. Whether a similar event was likely to happen again under the Government of the right hon. Baronet was a question he was not prepared to answer. As the Bill was framed, it gave a majority of Protestants
1530l."Before I had written thus far, I heard of a scheme of giving to the Castle the patronage of the presiding members of the Catholic Clergy. At first I could scarcely credit it, for I believe it is the first time that the presentation to other people's alms has been desired in any country. If the State provides a suitable maintenance and temporality for the governing members of the Irish Roman Catholic Church, and for the Clergy under them, I should think the project, however improper in other respects, to be by no means unjust. But to deprive a poor people, who maintain a second set of clergy, out of the miserable remains of what is left after taxing and tithing—to deprive them of the disposition of their own charities among their own communion, would, in my opinion, be an intolerable hardship. Never were the members of one religious sect fit to appoint the pastors to another."1529R. Peel;1528Mr. Sheil
l.l.1540Patriot and Freeman's Journal, thought that this measure ought not to be passed at this very late period of the Session. An opportunity should be given to the Catholic hierarchy to discuss it. Is was a measure which would not be satisfactory to the people of Ireland; it would not be received as a boon, as they had been told by the right hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House. Were not the Catholic priesthood and hierarchy the best judges whether it was a boon or not? The newspaper press in Ireland found fault with the measure, as did the Roman Catholic Bishops and Clergy. The hon. Gentleman then read extracts from the l.l.1540Patriot and Freeman's Journal,Mr. R. Dillon Browne
1539in limine,l.l.1538 could assure the noble Lord who had just sat down, and the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), that any remarks which he made should be characterised by the same moderation of tone as had marked their remarks. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) in introducing that Bill, had professed to be guided by a desire to mete out equal justice to Roman Catholics as well as Protestants. It was most important for the encouragement of bequests and endowments that they should be untainted even with the suspicion of their not being fairly adapted to the uses and intents of the testators. The old Board was founded at a time when prejudice was most abroad, and with a view, in a great measure, to carry out in its own way the general policy of the Government, viz., the gradual undermining of the Catholic faith, by taking away from them not only those endowments which they had inherited from their ancestors, but preventing also the possibility of any future endowment that might be made for posterity. The question before the House was simply this—whether the measure under consideration provided the remedy which was desired. He admitted to the same extent as the noble Lord, that the question of endowment was a question of temporalities and of property; but it frequently became a question of a spiritual and religious nature also. No man could be more anxious than he was to prevent ecclesiastical power and despotism in any shape from interfering with the property of a nation, but it was for the security of the State and of the Church, that the State should not go beyond its legitimate sphere. Many of the donations and bequests which were made from time to time were not Catholic or Protestant, were not necessarily connected with religion, for they might be left to schools, colleges, and for other secular purposes, and such bequests legitimately came under a mixed Commission; but those that did not come under that denomination ought not to be conducted by a mixed Commission, but by those who ought to be recognised as the spiritual and religious teachers of the
1539in limine,l.l.1538Mr. Wyse
 said, that the Bill was a most important measure, both for masters and seamen, and he thought the country at large was greatly indebted to the Government for bringing it forward. He believed this Bill would do much to put an end to the impositions which were practised by crimps upon sailors.Sir C. Napier
1515in extremis,1514ex officio1513"In case it be inexpedient, unlawful, or impracticable, to apply the same strictly, they may then apply it to such practicable and pious purpose as they shall judge most conformable to the directions of the donor."ci pris1512 rose to move the second reading of the Charitable Donations and Bequests (Ireland) Bill, and he could state with sincerity that he had never proposed any measure to the House with greater personal satisfaction, or with a deeper confidence and persuasion that it was entitled to the adoption of Parliament. Perhaps he might be excused if he stated shortly the circumstances under which the Bill had come under consideration. Some time previously the hon. Member for Cheltenham had asked a question respecting a Bill which had been introduced into the other House of Parliament by the Lord Chancellor, and which had been much pressed on the Government during that and the previous Session of Parliament. That Bill had for its object the establishment of some Board or Commission, which should exercise jurisdiction over Charitable Bequests and Donations; and which should ensure to testators and donors the faithful execution of their charitable or pious intentions. He and his Colleagues had always admitted the necessity for some legislative measure of the kind in England; but the House was possibly aware, that with reference to Ireland, such a measure was not now for the first time proposed. At an early period in the reign of George III., the Irish Parliament did make provision with reference to this subject, and at the time of the Union the 40th George III. c. 70, was passed, continuing in force the useful provision of this Act. The preamble of that Act stated, that its object was to prevent concealment or misapplication of Charitable Bequests, and the Act itself authorised the appointment of a Commission with power to
1515in extremis,1514ex officio1513"In case it be inexpedient, unlawful, or impracticable, to apply the same strictly, they may then apply it to such practicable and pious purpose as they shall judge most conformable to the directions of the donor."ci pris1512Sir J. Graham
1511 said, there was nothing new in the provisions of this Bill. All its
1511Sir J. Graham
152715261525"An Act to assist in Providing Places of Worship for Persons of the Roman Catholic Persuasion, and Houses and Glebes for the Roman Catholic Priests."1524Member:1523"And be it enacted, that the Master of the Rolls in the High Court of Chancery of Ireland, the Chief Baron of the Court of Exchequer in Ireland, and the Judge of Her Majesty's Court of Prerogative for Causes Ecclesiastical and Court of Faculties in and throughout Ireland, together with ten other proper and discreet persons, to be appointed by Her Majesty in Council, by warrant under the Sign Manual, of which ten persons, five, and not more than five, shall at all times be persons professing the Roman Catholic religion, shall be one body politic and corporate, by the name of 'The Commissioners of Charitable Donations and Bequests for Ireland,' and by that name shall have perpetual succession and a common seal, and by that name may sue and be sued."15221521 had heard with very great satisfaction the speech of the noble Lord, a speech in every way creditable to him, and certainly most just towards Her Majesty's Government. Her Majesty's Government had been influenced by no desire whatever, in bringing forward this measure, except that of wishing to correct what had been made a matter of complaint by the Roman Catholics of Ireland as a great defect in the law of endowments. Not wishing to be provoked into a controversial
152715261525"An Act to assist in Providing Places of Worship for Persons of the Roman Catholic Persuasion, and Houses and Glebes for the Roman Catholic Priests."1524Member:1523"And be it enacted, that the Master of the Rolls in the High Court of Chancery of Ireland, the Chief Baron of the Court of Exchequer in Ireland, and the Judge of Her Majesty's Court of Prerogative for Causes Ecclesiastical and Court of Faculties in and throughout Ireland, together with ten other proper and discreet persons, to be appointed by Her Majesty in Council, by warrant under the Sign Manual, of which ten persons, five, and not more than five, shall at all times be persons professing the Roman Catholic religion, shall be one body politic and corporate, by the name of 'The Commissioners of Charitable Donations and Bequests for Ireland,' and by that name shall have perpetual succession and a common seal, and by that name may sue and be sued."15221521Sir R. Peel
 certainly wished that the Bill had been brought forward at an earlier period of the Session, but he would rather it was proceeded with this Session than postponed until the next.Mr. Hutt
"My Consideration shall be given to the subject to which your Address refers.""I have received your Address relating to the several Tidal Harbours, Ports, and Creeks of the United Kingdom. appeared at the Bar with a Message from Her Most Gracious Majesty, which was brought up and read as follows:—
"My Consideration shall be given to the subject to which your Address refers.""I have received your Address relating to the several Tidal Harbours, Ports, and Creeks of the United Kingdom.Colonel D. Damer
1562 thought the class of persons whose case the hon. Gentleman advocated charged their distress upon causes to which it was not fairly attributable. They appeared to entertain the impression that their misfortunes were to be traced to the alterations in the Tariff effected in 1842. He (Mr. Gladstone) was prepared to contend, on the contrary, that that change in the law had materially improved their condition. He certainly inferred, at the time that change was proposed, that the parties interested in this branch of trade were perfectly satisfied with the contemplated alteration, for they made no remonstrance against it. The hon. Member for Montrose seemed to suppose that a prohibitive duty had been imposed on the importation of American staves into the West Indies previously to 1842; but, so far from that being the case, the duty imposed on the importation of American staves into those colonies before 1842 was very moderate—not more than 10 or 12 per cent. on the value of the staves. He believed that the depression which had taken place in this branch of trade was attributable, in a great degree, to the falling-off in the exports from this country to the West Indies. There had also, he might observe, been a material reduction in the exports from the United States to our West-India Colonies. This trade, he might remind the House, so far as those colonies were concerned, depended in a great measure upon the whale fishery,
1562Mr. Gladstone
, having been in Spain, felt an interest in the question, and wished to say that, in his opinion, the proposition of a marriage between the two parties who had been named seemed to afford the best chance of settling the disputes in that country; and he should regret that any papers which might conduce to that desirable object should be refused by the Government.The Marquess of Granby
 observed, that the Motion was one of great public interest, but it was one which he could not expect the House to pronounce an opinion on at that period of the Session or in the present state of the Benches. He thought that the House had some right to com plain, that when they expected nothing but the presentation of a petition, the hon. Gentleman should take them by surprise and make a Motion for an Address of which he had not given notice.Sir T. Freemantle
1563 rose, to move for leave
1563The Earl or Lincoln
 wished to know whether the decision of the Commission which had been appointed by the Crown to consider the best means of promoting the interest of the Fine Arts, in decorating the New Palace at Westminster, was a decision which must be considered final as regarded the merits of the competing artists whose works were at this time before the public in the exhibition at Westminster Hall.Mr. Escott
: The hon. Member must make no allusion to the other House of Parliament.The Speaker
: The hon. Member is out of order.The Speaker
1571 considered the Motion rather calculated to express his hon. Friend (Mr. Borthwick's) own opinions than made with any view of obtaining the papers. After the allusions which had been made to what fell from his right hon. Friend at the head of the Government on a former night, and from the noble Earl in another place, in reference to this subject, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could explain nothing to his hon. Friend but what had been already slated as to the course the Government meant to take. His right hon. Friend
1571The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 bore testimony to the unwearied efforts of his right hon. Friend in promoting the cause of the fine Arts, and observed that there was no man in the country to whom the artists could more properly entrust their cause.Dr. Bowring
 warmly supported the Motion, and observed that the exhibition of works of fine art tended much to humanise and improve the minds of the people.Colonel Rawdon
l.l.: If the noble Lord had 3,000,000l.l.Mr. Hume
1561 in calling the attention of the House to the present distressed state of the Coopers' Trade throughout Great Britain, begged to be permitted to say a few words respecting the causes in which that depression of so useful and important a branch of artisanship had originated. Before the alteration of the Tariff, the trade was comparatively prosperous; but the changes introduced into the imports of West-India produce by that measure, had thrown the trade in casks and cooperage into the United States, where no duties were laid upon staves, and where, in consequence, the coopers worked at an advantage of 33 per cent. above those who
1561Mr. Hume
"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, Copies of all Correspondence which has passed between Don Carlos (or on behalf of his Royal Highness) and Her Majesty's Government, relating to certain propositions which have been made by that Prince, having for their object the tranquillization of Spain: as also, Copies of all Correspondence which has passed between Her Majesty's Government and the Governments of France and Spain respectively relative to the same propositions." rose to move
"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, Copies of all Correspondence which has passed between Don Carlos (or on behalf of his Royal Highness) and Her Majesty's Government, relating to certain propositions which have been made by that Prince, having for their object the tranquillization of Spain: as also, Copies of all Correspondence which has passed between Her Majesty's Government and the Governments of France and Spain respectively relative to the same propositions."Mr. Borthwick
 briefly replied.Mr. Borthwick
15701569: Well, he saw by the public journals that a noble Lord had asserted that this question was only taken up by a party in the House of Commons—by a party which had very strange notions of regenerating society at home, and
15701569Mr. Borthwick
 did not allude to the other House of Parliament, but to some "other place," to which the forms of the House would not allow him more particularly to refer. He maintained that he was perfectly in order. In another place, in a speech made by Lord Clarendon,—Mr. Borthwick
 rose to present petitions from artists and friends to art, in London and Dublin, praying the establishment of galleries for the reception of casts, or the best works in sculpture, from the earliest period to the present, and to draw the attention of the House to the same. He was induced to espouse their cause from a strong conviction that a compliance with the prayer of the petitioners would be highly serviceable to the arts and to artists, as well as conduce to the improvement of society in general. It was proposed that exhibitions of art should be opened to the public in the different great towns by day, and confined to the use of students alone in the evening, the expense of the casts to be furnished by or through the means of the Government School of Design. He was happy to say that a most laudable desire to secure to the Irish people the benefits of these highly intellectual associations prevailed in all the well-informed circles of society there. Whatever might be their disputes upon subjects connected with religion and politics, the Government might depend upon it the germ of social improvement was comprised within this anxiety to promote the progress of the arts, and it would become the right hon. Baronet at the Head of the Government to lend these parties his powerful assistance to carry out their praiseworthy object.Mr. Wyse
 replied, that, the Commission had not bound themselves respecting the works of any artist whatever. They were now as free as they had ever been, and they had not committed themselves or the Government respecting any artist.Mr. Wyse
Pére la Chaise,156715661565"The practice of burial in the Church or Chapel, appears to us in many respects injurious, in some instances by weakening or deteriorating the fabric of the Church, and in others by its tendency to affect the lives or health of the inhabitants; we are of opinion that this practice should in future be discontinued.""That the practice of interment within the precincts of large towns, is injurious to the health of the Inhabitants thereof, and frequently offensive to public decency." rose to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee on the Improvement in the Health of Towns in 1842, which states:
Pére la Chaise,156715661565"The practice of burial in the Church or Chapel, appears to us in many respects injurious, in some instances by weakening or deteriorating the fabric of the Church, and in others by its tendency to affect the lives or health of the inhabitants; we are of opinion that this practice should in future be discontinued.""That the practice of interment within the precincts of large towns, is injurious to the health of the Inhabitants thereof, and frequently offensive to public decency."Mr. Mackinnon
 advocated the erection of a new bridge on the other side of the House of Parliament, and proposed that old Westminster-bridge should be continued until the new Houses of Parliament were completed. Instead of putting a tax on coals, he would suggest, that the Government should erect a railroad on the site of the embankment. This railroad would not only pay its own expense, but the expense of the embankment, and would at the same time greatly add to the embellishment of the river.Sir F. Trench
1568 would readily answer the question which the hon. Member had put to him. He must, however, in the first place complain, that the hon. Member had brought forward this question without giving proper notice of his Motion. He (Sir J. Graham) did not consider it expedient to discuss such a subject, without having before them something like a substantive Motion. He, therefore, should confine himself to simply replying to the question which the hon. Member had put to him. The subject had not escaped the attention of Her Majesty's Government. A more difficult and important question could not be brought under the notice of the Legislature. It was not his intention to bring forth any measure on the subject, unless his own judgment convinced
1568Sir J. Graham
1564 thought it right to say that, if any tax upon coals were proposed, he, and those hon. Members whose duty it
1564Mr. Hutt
 believed that the coopers, one of the most industrious classes in this country, were in a state of great distress; but he did not consider this a proper time to enter into a discussion of this subject, and he was, therefore, content to leave the matter for the present in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman. But unless this [question was fairly taken up in the next Session of Parliament, he would co-operate with any one, either in that House or out of it, to force upon the Government the importance of placing this matter on a more satisfactory footing.Mr. Hutt
 said, he wished to call public attention to the fact that the Bills which were now passing were not sanctioned by the House of Commons, as that assembly was merely nominal, and the few Members who assembled merely voted as a sort of registry court for Government purposes. What was the case last night? The hon. Member for Cirencester, though there was a tacit agreement at this period of the Session that. Members of neither side should resort to the practice of counting out, took the opportunity of availing himself of that expedient. He had no fault to find with the hon. Member, as he was probably only labouring in his vocation; but it was a pity that a Gentleman, who was noted for his powers of calculation, should accept so humble an office as a Government counter. Were he disposed to follow such an example, it would be in his power to prolong the Session for some days, and, should he adopt, this course, he must remind the House the hon. Member for Cirencester would be the party to blame.Captain Bernal
1610l., thought it had been shown that the present Government had done all that lay in its power to have the experiment fairly tried, and he did not think that the previous Government had been guilty of any neglect, because when the proposition was first made to Lord Melbourne's Government, it was felt not to be a matter on which a civilian was capable of giving an opinion, and Lord Melbourne therefore referred Mr. Warner to one of the Lords of the Admiralty. Sir Wm. Parker undertook to examine the invention; and having obtained permission that another Lord of the Admiralty should be associated with him, it was referred to them, and not to the Board of Admiralty. They never did fully examine it, for it appeared that Mr. Warner upon that occasion demanded a large sum, he believed 16,0001610l.,Mr. W. Cowper
 moved that this Bill be read a third time.Mr. Cowper
, in moving the second reading of this Bill, stated that he was then quite prepared, if the House thought it necessary, to enter into an explanation of the details of the Bill; but as it had been long under the consideration of a Committee in another place, and as he knew that it had attracted the attention of several hon. Members, perhaps it would be unnecessary for him, in the then state of the House, to go at any length into any explanation; he should therefore propose that they should take the second reading now, and go into Committee on the Bill at twelve o'clock on Friday.The Solicitor General
 replied that it was undoubtedly the intention of the Government to do so.The Solicitor General
 asked whether it were the intention of the Government to introduce any measure during the next Session of Parliament, founded on the Report of the Commissioners of Poor Laws for Scotland?Mr. Bouverie
1639 was disposed to think that Mr. Heathcote was not the writer of the anonymous letter. The Home Office assumed that he was, because his real letters agreed with it. Mr. Gilbert's real letters,
1639Mr. Hawes
J. Graham:J. Graham:1637 said, it would be difficult
J. Graham:J. Graham:1637Mr. B. Escott
ex parte1619: The gallant Commodore had only proved that a number of years ago a destructive machine was employed, which turned out to be an entire failure; but that did not show that Captain Warner might not be more successful; and what he complained of was, that this debate was going on in the absence of information. However able the Commissioners might have been to whom the right hon. Gentleman had referred the matter, their examination was not of the most satisfactory description, and the conclusions to which they had come from some of Captain Warner's answers to their
ex parte1619Mr. Aglionby
J. Graham:l.,1636James Graham: remarked, that it was not to be wondered that Mr. Gilbert and Mr. Heathcote should have used the same sort of paper, considering the connexion that had existed between them. As to the phrase, "starting the mills," it was one universally used in his part of the country, and Mr. Gilbert must have been intimately acquainted with that and other terms. The writing of the letter itself was not a grave offence, and what motive, he asked, could Mr. Heathcote have had for denying it. [Sir J. Graham:l.,1636James Graham:Mr. Bright
1638 did not wish to say one word more of Mr. Heathcote in con-
1638Mr. Manners Sutton
1635 was so convinced of the truth of the statement of Mr. Heathcote, that he brought the matter before the Secretary of State. He had not desired that the subject should come before the House, but he wished to get sight of the documents on which Mr. Heathcote had been condemned. Now he must say this, that Mr. Heathcote had satisfied him that the anonymous letter of the 25th of March did not come from him, for he had then been from home for a considerable time, and did not return until a late hour on Saturday night, whilst the anonymous letter was written by Mr. Gilbert on the afternoon of that day. In the next place, it was to be considered, that Mr. Heathcote, who denied writing this letter had always borne a respectable character, and never had been impeached in any way. He did not wish to say a word against Mr. Horner, and yet he conscientiously believed, from an inspection of the documents, that Mr. Heathcote was not the writer of the letter. The right hon. Baronet said, that there was internal evidence in the style of the letter, that it was dictated by a sub-inspector. Why, Mr. Wood, the third party had been a sub-inspector, and therefore was likely to dictate a letter in the style of a sub-inspector. Mr. Gilbert, too, was in the habit of writing out the returns for his uncle, and therefore used the same paper. There were then three things to be taken into consideration to show that Mr. Heathcote was not the writer of the letter. The first was, that Mr. Heathcote was from home when the letter was written; secondly, there was the dismissal of Mr. Heathcote; thirdly, there was the avowal of Mr. Gilbert, that he was the writer; and lastly, there was the avowal of Mr. Wood, that he was the instigator of the letter being written. He could imagine a prejudice being created in the minds of Mr. Horner and Mr. Saunders, from one circumstance—there was the sentence in the
1635Mr. Brotherton
1620l.; said, that if the invention did answer all the objects that Captain Warner said it would effect, he very much doubted the policy of the Government encouraging by premiums the invention of such destructive machines. There would always be persons bringing forward something new; and if all the schemes were to be tried which might be offered to the Government there would be no end of the expense. He thought, therefore, that the Government had exercised a wise discretion as to the invention of Captain Warner. It was said that he had sold the invention to Don Pedro for 500,0001620l.;Mr. Brotherton
l. said, the Bill had undergone considerable alterations in Committee. He had made various inquiries of several parties connected with the business of Slaughtering Horses, and the House would be glad to hear that the statements of the cruelties which they had heard on the last discussion were unfounded. Those statements had been quoted from a pamphlet published by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; but, there was a rival society in existence, called the "National Animals' Friend Society," and it was owing to the rivalry of these societies that these exaggerated statements had gone forth to the public. He objected to the 4th Clause, because it gave power to the police to call upon the inspector to accompany them to these knackers' yards whenever they pleased; and he equally objected to the 6th Clause, which imposed a penalty on the inspector of 40l.Mr. T. Duncombe
163016291628"The Jury returned a verdict of guilty. Mr. Justice Alderson proceeded to pass sentence: The Jury have found you guilty, on evidence which must satisfy every reasonable man, that—Prisoner: My Lord, I am innocent. I never touched the paper. I never wrote a line of it. My Lord, I am innocent.—Mr. Justice Alderson: You have been found guilty of a crime, which is certainly not mitigated by your denial after such evidence—a crime which strikes at the very root of society, by tending to obstruct the due administration of justice.—The prisoner here again interrupted his Lordship, and said: My Lord, I declare I am innocent; I never wrote the paper; I never put my hand to it. The desk in which the piece of blank paper was found, was open to five or six persons in the house,
1628Annual Register1627"It was at my suggestion that the anonymous letter was written by you to Mr. Ferrand, and I did not suppose that it could have been attributed to your relative. You did right to refer to me, and if it is thought desirable I am ready to come forward, as I do not wish to shrink from any responsibility that I may have incurred."162616251624 wished to call the attention of the House to a petition which he presented a short time ago from Mr. John Heathcote, who was a superintendent of factories up to last year, and who up to that time was admitted to have discharged the duties of his office with zeal, ability, and integrity, and he believed with perfect satisfaction to the various inspectors of factories under whom he had been employed. Mr. John Heathcote had been dismissed from his office in April, 1843, upon a charge of having written a certain anonymous letter, addressed to the hon. Member for Knaresborough, and having denied that he had done so. The complaint, as he understood the case, was not so much the writing the letter, for he believed that there was nothing in it which would be objectionable for any man to acknowledge; as it merely suggested
163016291628"The Jury returned a verdict of guilty. Mr. Justice Alderson proceeded to pass sentence: The Jury have found you guilty, on evidence which must satisfy every reasonable man, that—Prisoner: My Lord, I am innocent. I never touched the paper. I never wrote a line of it. My Lord, I am innocent.—Mr. Justice Alderson: You have been found guilty of a crime, which is certainly not mitigated by your denial after such evidence—a crime which strikes at the very root of society, by tending to obstruct the due administration of justice.—The prisoner here again interrupted his Lordship, and said: My Lord, I declare I am innocent; I never wrote the paper; I never put my hand to it. The desk in which the piece of blank paper was found, was open to five or six persons in the house,
1628Annual Register1627"It was at my suggestion that the anonymous letter was written by you to Mr. Ferrand, and I did not suppose that it could have been attributed to your relative. You did right to refer to me, and if it is thought desirable I am ready to come forward, as I do not wish to shrink from any responsibility that I may have incurred."162616251624Mr. M. Gibson
1640, in reply, observed, that it very often happened that persons in copying wrote very similarly to the manuscript before them; which would account for the resemblance between the handwriting of Mr. Gilbert and Mr. Heathcote. He was told that the handwriting of the Under Secretary of State frequently resembled that of the right hon. Baronet. Such being
1640Mr. Gibson
 thought there was no subject upon which they ought to be more reluctant to give a decided opinion than that of individual handwriting. Nothing could be more difficult than to say whose handwriting you were reading if there were no signature to it. He knew frequent instances of men being unable to recognise their own handwriting. One was that of a distinguished author in London, who had to complain of inaccuracies in the print, and, on being handed his own manuscript, had so much difficulty in deciphering it, that it was a long time before he could be convinced it was his own. After the courteous manner in which the House had treated the request of the right hon. Baronet in reconsidering the Factory Question, he hoped the right hon. Baronet would treat the request of the House now made in a similar manner, and consent to reconsider this question, in which the character of an individual was at stake.Mr. Wakley
 remarked, that this Bill had excited great attention out of doors; and he wished to know whether it was the determination of the Government to pass this Bill during the present Session.Mr. Wakley
1621 said, they must think of the present, and not of a future generation, when neither himself nor his hon. Friend would be able to give an opinion on the subject. The hon. Member for Cockermouth (who had just left the House) had said that he hoped the matter would not end here. He (Mr. Wakley) thought he understood the right hon. Baronet to say that he was prepared to make an offer to Captain Warner with reference to the trial of the experiment, which must be satisfactory to every person of impartial mind in the country, and that was especially as to the Long Range. He supposed there would be no objection to try the Invisible Shell if the other proved successful. There was a good deal of feeling out of doors upon this subject, the people being apprehensive that such a power as that claimed by Captain Warner might be possessed by a foreign power. If they had a countryman of their own who had made an extraordinary discovery, although it might apply to warfare, he thought he ought to have the greatest facility for bringing it into operation and proving its value. He did not, however, think that the Government had acted unfairly on this subject It was now offered to Captain Warner that he should try his experiment at the expense of the Government, He wished
1621Mr. Wakley
 denied that he was a Government counter. He wished to absolve the Government from all share of responsibility; but with a House of thirty-three Members he bought it would not be right to raise an Irish debate, which would probably be of an angry character.Mr. Cripps
 said, I wish to take the present opportunity of asking a question of the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, on a matter of some importance to the character and reputation of this country, and though I have not given the right hon. Baronet notice of the question, it relates to circumstances of such public notoriety, that I trust he will be able to give me an answer without its embarrassing Her Majesty's Government. The question I have to put is, whether it is true that the British Consul at Tahiti has been arrested, under the name of the man Pritchard, by the French authorities; also whether an order has been given that the lights of the English residents there are to be put out at eight o'clock at night; whether the French have erected strong fortifications there, and whether the Queen has been obliged to leave Papeete to take refuge on board a British ship? I wish also to ask the right hon. Baronet whether, when these transactions were in progress, we had any naval force at the island, and what was its extent.Sir C. Napier
 said, there was one part of his question which the right hon. Baronet had not answered—whether we had a proper naval force at Tahiti at the time this took place, and whether the French had erected fortifications.Sir C. Napier
l.R. Peel:1618l.l.Cancer,Gemini,1617"An experiment of a new invented machine for destroying ships at anchor, was tried in the Downs, and succeeded in the most complete manner. A large brig was anchored abreast of Walmer Castle, about three quarters of a mile from the shore. Two or three gallies then rowed off, and placed the machine across the cable of the brig, which, by the running of the tide, was soon forced under her bottom, about the centre of the keel, where it attaches itself. In a few minutes the clockwork of the machinery having performed its operations, a small cloud of smoke was seen to rise from the vessel, which in a moment after was blown to atoms, without any noise or appearance of fire. In about twenty-seven or twenty-eight seconds, not a vestige of the brig was to be seen, as the fragments were then level with the water's edge. General Don, with a number of military and naval officers, went with Sir Sidney Smith to Mr. Pitt's, at Walmer Castle, to witness the experiment, and expressed the utmost astonishment at the destructive powers of the invention."1616: I thought, Sir, when I heard the first part of the speech of the noble Lord, that I had reason to differ from the late Sir Hussey Vivian, who doubted his sanity, but when towards the conclusion of his speech the noble Lord told us that one vessel could keep a whole navy in port, I confess that I almost came over to the opinion of Sir Hussey Vivian. It is really astonishing that any naval officer, possessing the talent of the noble Lord, should set his head, I may say, wool-gathering, and fancy such things possible: I look upon them as wild schemes. The noble Lord has given us the statement of how Captain Warner has been treated by the late Government; and if that statement be correct, as of course it is, Captain Warner does appear to have been knocked about from post to pillar. The case at first fell into the hands of Sir Thomas Hardy and Sir R. Keats. There is no Member in this House who does not know the merits of those officers. It is singular that they should die, and that no report should be found: it is notorious that they were men of business, and were not very likely to have lost their papers. Captain Warner then goes to Portugal. I have just some notion that I heard of Captain Warner in Portugal; but if he had inquired, he would most likely have been able to have found me out. I certainly would have tried his experiment, it would just have answered my, purpose. The noble Lord says that Mr. Warner was desired by the King not to use his power against Don Miguel. Where is that authority of the King. I should very much like to see his wish not to use this power on behalf of a constitutional Queen against a usurper. But, in the next place, Mr. Warner certainly does appear to have been ill used. His case comes to Sir Robert Stopford; and he cannot enter upon it, because the number of the Commissioners was too large. It would have been very easy to reduce the number. However, this was not done, and Mr. Warner was thrown over. This was extraordinary; but it is still more extraordinary that he should be upset by the Reform Bill. What the Reform Bill had to do with Mr. Warner's invention I am really unable to guess. Then Lord Melbourne was teased by the gallant Officer,
l.R. Peel:1618l.l.Cancer,Gemini,1617"An experiment of a new invented machine for destroying ships at anchor, was tried in the Downs, and succeeded in the most complete manner. A large brig was anchored abreast of Walmer Castle, about three quarters of a mile from the shore. Two or three gallies then rowed off, and placed the machine across the cable of the brig, which, by the running of the tide, was soon forced under her bottom, about the centre of the keel, where it attaches itself. In a few minutes the clockwork of the machinery having performed its operations, a small cloud of smoke was seen to rise from the vessel, which in a moment after was blown to atoms, without any noise or appearance of fire. In about twenty-seven or twenty-eight seconds, not a vestige of the brig was to be seen, as the fragments were then level with the water's edge. General Don, with a number of military and naval officers, went with Sir Sidney Smith to Mr. Pitt's, at Walmer Castle, to witness the experiment, and expressed the utmost astonishment at the destructive powers of the invention."1616Sir C. Napier
1622 would not prolong the debate; but he merely wished to explain how the experiment at Brighton had taken place. He had an officer of artillery in a boat close to the vessels, who saw a shell thrown over the starboard side of the steam-boat that had the vessel in tow, and she had a boat which helped her to adjust the rope; two buoys were attached together by the rope, which was thrown in the way of the vessel, which was moving at the rate of three miles an hour; the rope then took the cutwater of the vessel be-
1622Sir G. Cockburn
16151614161316121611Times Newspaper, said, his right hon. Friend, at the head of Her Majesty's Government had so fully stated the case, that, he had left him, (Sir Howard), little to say. He was delighted to hear it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to produce the whole of the correspondence and proceedings of the Commission, attacked as it had been; because he was satisfied the House and the country would see, that every opportunity and facility had been afforded to Mr. Warner, to demonstrate, by actual experiment, the powers of his alleged inventions, and that he (Sir H. Douglas) and his gallant colleagues had acted throughout, in a spirit of the utmost fairness, liberality, and kindness towards Mr. Warner, He (Sir H. Douglas) would take this occasion to contradict a statement made in a Report of the Brighton experiment which appeared in the 16151614161316121611Times Newspaper,Sir Howard Douglas
1577 said, he must decline giving any answer at present to the question, for, he frankly confessed, he had not yet had time to read the very voluminous evidence contained in the Report. That evidence and Report consisted of three large volumes, the perusal of which was in itself difficult enough, but to weigh the evidence was a still more serious matter. It would be his duty to give his best considerations to the subject, but he must decline to pledge himself to any course. He would avail himself of that opportunity to offer to the House an explanation on a subject which had been adverted to during the discussion on the Motion of his noble Friend the Member for Dorsetshire, on the subject of pauper lunatics. The hon. Member for Lambeth had, during that debate, quoted a passage from the Report which had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, describing, in most feeling terms, the melancholy state of some pauper lunatics in the Isle of Arran. He had immediately called the attention of the Lord Advocate to the subject, and he had great satisfaction in stating to the House that nine months ago active measures had been taken to redress some of these evils. The pauper luna-
1577Sir J. Graham
 extremely regretted that the hon. Member should have taken offence at the circumstance which he referred to. So far as he was concerned, it was always his wish to do all in his power to give, hon. Members every opportunity of bringing forward Motions which they had on the paper; but it was extremely difficult to keep a House at that period of the Session.Sir J. Graham
1634163316321631 observed, that he had no reason to complain of the manner in which the hon. Gentleman had brought the case before the House, and nothing could be more fair than the statement which he had made. In the first place he wished the House to be assured that in the execution of his official duties, nothing was so painful as to discharge them in matters of this kind, and he could state with satisfaction that he had, since he had been in office, only dismissed two persons from their offices. There was nothing of a political or personal nature in the course he had felt himself called upon to take with regard to the present question. He had never seen or heard of Mr. Heathcote, except in his official capacity, and he knew that many persons of the highest respectability in his neighbourhood had felt a deep interest in his case, and amongst others he might mention his noble Friend, the Member for South Lancashire, who had taken the greatest interest in Mr. Heathcote's favour. He had exercised a deliberate judgment, and he had applied his mind to this case, and nothing he had heard before or on that night, had shaken the conviction he had at first formed. He was anxious to announce his decision on this matter in the way calculated to give as little pain as possible. Mr. Heathcote held an office under the Factories Act during pleasure.
1634163316321631Sir J. Graham
: Whether Mr. Heathcote has been guilty of falsehood or not is a question which has been raised not by me, but deliberately by Mr. Heathcote himself.Sir J. Graham
: I have already given the hon. and gallant Officer an answer to the extent I thought necessary.Sir R. Peel
1576: Though the hon. and gallant Officer did not give me notice of his question, yet two hon. Members, the noble Lord the Member for Dorsetshire, and the hon. Member for Evesham, did notify to me their intention to ask similar questions; and since the hon. and gallant Officer has asked the question, I am sure they will excuse me if I take this opportunity of answering their questions in reply to that which has been put by the hon. and gallant Gentleman. I shall limit myself to a statement of facts, with respect to that which I conceive to be of most importance, the removal of the British Consul at Tahiti. We have received accounts from Tahiti, and presuming on the accuracy of these accounts, which I have no reason whatever to call in question, I do not hesitate to say that a gross outrage, accompanied with gross indignity, has been committed upon that functionary. Her Majesty's Government received information of that on Monday last, and the first opportunity was taken of making those communications to the French Government which Her Majesty's Government considered the circumstances of the case to call for. That outrage was com-
1576Sir R. Peel
l.1609l.l.l.,l.l.,1608l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.16071606Forester,1605NautilusNautilus,"How long is it since you satisfied yourself of the powers of your Long Range and Invisible Shell?" Captain Warner answered: "Twelve years as to the Long Range, and twenty-seven years as to the Invisible Shell. I sunk two French privateers at the end of the war, one off Folkstone and the other off St. Valery's Bay." When asked what vessel he was in at the time, his reply was, that it was called the sloop NautilusNautilus,l.l.1604l.l.;"In conclusion, I submit the terms on which I am willing to dispose of my discoveries; first, for my 'Invisible Shell,' 200,000l.l.;l.1603"I have carefully considered the letter with which you have honoured me, requesting to know the probable expense of a series of experiments illustrative of the nature and effects of my discoveries; also the number of artillerymen, cannon, and ordnance stores which I may require to have placed at my disposal. With respect to all these, I do not require either artillerymen nor cannon for the demonstration of my powers, which are quite distinct from the ordinary weapons of warfare, as I have explained at some length in the communication explanatory of the effects I undertake to produce by my inventions, which I had the honour to submit, through Lord Hardwicke, to Her Majesty's present Government, and to which I beg leave to refer you, and request your careful perusal thereof. You express a desire to see an exhibition of the powers of my 'Long Range' first, and then, some practical illustration of the efficacy of my 'Invisible Shells.' With regard to the reversal of the order in which the investigation was commenced, I do not think it advisable. As I have already commenced my explanations, with reference to the 'Invisible Shells' to Admiral Sir Owen and to Sir Howard Douglas, I think it better to complete that investigation first, and then proceed to the 'Long Range.' If an experiment is insisted upon, I am quite prepared to make one, and enclose, according to your request an estimate of the probable expense as well as I can, in the absence of any specification of what you require to be done. I however submit to your consideration whether this expense might not be avoided, when I can refer, as eye-witnesses, to the following gentlemen now holding high offices of State:—the First Lord of the Treasury, the Master General of the Ordnance, the Senior Naval Lord of the Admiralty, the Secretary at War, Lord Hardwicke, Lord Ingestre, R.N., adding, that the two last-named Lords, together with Sir George Murray, have not only witnessed experiments, but have entered into the question of the practicability of my plans. I might subjoin to the above list the name of Lieutenant Webster of the Navy,
16031602For the greater security of the secrets you desire, we shall be very willing to have the experiments made in an unfrequented part of the country, as may be practicable; and the place and time known only to ourselves, and to such persons as you may require to be present. We leave it with you to fix upon any locality in England provided the place affords space and convenience for the purpose.""In the first case, it is necessary we should know the number of men you will require; in the last, the charge you will make for your own men."You will be pleased to state if any, and what assistance of cannon or otherwise you may require from the Ordnance Department, or any other branch of Her Majesty's service; also, if it is your wish to be assisted by men belonging to the Royal Artillery, or if it is your intention to be assisted only by people of your own."With this view, we think it right to inform you, that it is our intention, first, to have your "Long Range" exhibited, and afterwards a practical illustration of the effect of the "Invisible Shells;" in both cases, the materials to be prepared on such a scale as you may deem to be necessary for real service. For your further guidance, in estimating the expense of preparing our materials, it may be proper to say, that we think the "Long Range" may be required to be shown six times, and the "Invisible Shells" three times; but in stating the proofs which we think might be sufficiently frequent, it is by no means our intention to put limits to the operations you may consider necessary and satisfactory."We are required, in the first instance, to ascertain the expense which may attend a series of experiments, in order that such a statement may be submitted to the Treasury previously to any expense being incurred on the public account.1601l.1600"I can project, he said, 100 shells of most destructive power, and I can repeat the operation with rapidity. If I threw them into Gibraltar, in a few hours not a man would be left alive in the place. This I can accomplish at almost any distance. By means of my Long Range I could bombard a fortress, and, with a single vessel, could cut out a fleet in defiance of the garrison. I could have demolished Algiers, instead of merely damaging it, as was done by Lord Exmouth with his splendid fleet. After that, I could, with a comparatively small refit, undertake to destroy Toulon."15991598 said, I beg to second the Motion of my noble Friend, for I am determined that the public shall at length be in possession of the correspondence respecting the invention of Captain Warner, and thus be enabled to judge why, after the correspondence I hold in my hand, inviting Captain Warner to exhibit his invention before professional men, the experiment has not been made. My noble Friend has spoken as if Captain Warner were placed much in the situation of the inventor of gunpowder—that he has been treated with ridicule, and deprived of the opportunity of bringing his invention to a
l.1609l.l.l.,l.l.,1608l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.16071606Forester,1605NautilusNautilus,"How long is it since you satisfied yourself of the powers of your Long Range and Invisible Shell?" Captain Warner answered: "Twelve years as to the Long Range, and twenty-seven years as to the Invisible Shell. I sunk two French privateers at the end of the war, one off Folkstone and the other off St. Valery's Bay." When asked what vessel he was in at the time, his reply was, that it was called the sloop NautilusNautilus,l.l.1604l.l.;"In conclusion, I submit the terms on which I am willing to dispose of my discoveries; first, for my 'Invisible Shell,' 200,000l.l.;l.1603"I have carefully considered the letter with which you have honoured me, requesting to know the probable expense of a series of experiments illustrative of the nature and effects of my discoveries; also the number of artillerymen, cannon, and ordnance stores which I may require to have placed at my disposal. With respect to all these, I do not require either artillerymen nor cannon for the demonstration of my powers, which are quite distinct from the ordinary weapons of warfare, as I have explained at some length in the communication explanatory of the effects I undertake to produce by my inventions, which I had the honour to submit, through Lord Hardwicke, to Her Majesty's present Government, and to which I beg leave to refer you, and request your careful perusal thereof. You express a desire to see an exhibition of the powers of my 'Long Range' first, and then, some practical illustration of the efficacy of my 'Invisible Shells.' With regard to the reversal of the order in which the investigation was commenced, I do not think it advisable. As I have already commenced my explanations, with reference to the 'Invisible Shells' to Admiral Sir Owen and to Sir Howard Douglas, I think it better to complete that investigation first, and then proceed to the 'Long Range.' If an experiment is insisted upon, I am quite prepared to make one, and enclose, according to your request an estimate of the probable expense as well as I can, in the absence of any specification of what you require to be done. I however submit to your consideration whether this expense might not be avoided, when I can refer, as eye-witnesses, to the following gentlemen now holding high offices of State:—the First Lord of the Treasury, the Master General of the Ordnance, the Senior Naval Lord of the Admiralty, the Secretary at War, Lord Hardwicke, Lord Ingestre, R.N., adding, that the two last-named Lords, together with Sir George Murray, have not only witnessed experiments, but have entered into the question of the practicability of my plans. I might subjoin to the above list the name of Lieutenant Webster of the Navy,
16031602For the greater security of the secrets you desire, we shall be very willing to have the experiments made in an unfrequented part of the country, as may be practicable; and the place and time known only to ourselves, and to such persons as you may require to be present. We leave it with you to fix upon any locality in England provided the place affords space and convenience for the purpose.""In the first case, it is necessary we should know the number of men you will require; in the last, the charge you will make for your own men."You will be pleased to state if any, and what assistance of cannon or otherwise you may require from the Ordnance Department, or any other branch of Her Majesty's service; also, if it is your wish to be assisted by men belonging to the Royal Artillery, or if it is your intention to be assisted only by people of your own."With this view, we think it right to inform you, that it is our intention, first, to have your "Long Range" exhibited, and afterwards a practical illustration of the effect of the "Invisible Shells;" in both cases, the materials to be prepared on such a scale as you may deem to be necessary for real service. For your further guidance, in estimating the expense of preparing our materials, it may be proper to say, that we think the "Long Range" may be required to be shown six times, and the "Invisible Shells" three times; but in stating the proofs which we think might be sufficiently frequent, it is by no means our intention to put limits to the operations you may consider necessary and satisfactory."We are required, in the first instance, to ascertain the expense which may attend a series of experiments, in order that such a statement may be submitted to the Treasury previously to any expense being incurred on the public account.1601l.1600"I can project, he said, 100 shells of most destructive power, and I can repeat the operation with rapidity. If I threw them into Gibraltar, in a few hours not a man would be left alive in the place. This I can accomplish at almost any distance. By means of my Long Range I could bombard a fortress, and, with a single vessel, could cut out a fleet in defiance of the garrison. I could have demolished Algiers, instead of merely damaging it, as was done by Lord Exmouth with his splendid fleet. After that, I could, with a comparatively small refit, undertake to destroy Toulon."15991598Sir R. Peel
1597159615951594l.1593"In the last letter I had the honour to receive from you, dated July 4th, you requested me to point out any mode I could suggest capable of testing any inventions with satisfaction to Her Majesty's Government, and at the same time with safety to the preservation of my secret. To this I immediately replied by suggesting what I humbly conceived would be the most advisable course to take with regard to the investigation of my inventions. I have not been honoured with any answer to my letter; but I presume to address you once more in compliance with an intimation to that
15951594l.1593l.l."I wish you had told me this six months before, because I should have told you that, as an honest man, I could not do it. But if there is any difficulty to entrust me with the necessary amount, entrust it to some other persons, who may see it well applied."l.l.,l.1592"I am called upon in making this experiment to perform what you, not knowing anything about the mode of operation, ask me to do. I think when I go a little way in the
1592l.1591"The Commissioners (he said) call upon me to adopt a series of experiments, which, from their want of knowledge of the thing they had to deal with, would incur an unnecessary expense, and also lead to a disclosure of my discovery. I am perfectly willing to comply with the request of the Commissioners if the Government, will undertake the risk of incurring the expense necessary to carry out the experiment."15901589R. Peel:l."I wish success to be the test of what I am to receive. If I succeed in what I undertake to perform, let me be rewarded; but if I do not succeed, give me nothing."modus operandi,1588"I am not to be expected to disclose more to those two hon. and gallant Commissioners than the general nature of my project, without some guarantee being given as to the remuneration I am to receive if my plan is approved of."15871586"There are three points to be attended to in considering Mr. Warner's discovery;—1.
158715861585158415831582Pechell:158115801579 assured the House he rose with the utmost reluctance to make the Motion of which he had given notice; first, because no one was more fully aware of the importance of the subject than himself; and secondly, because, in regard to inventions of this character, he had always felt that that House was the last place in which they ought to be discussed. The question of these inventions had been more or less before the country for a period of nearly or quite ten years, and for about half that time he had been in a great measure acquainted with the history of them. During that period he had tried, to the best of his abilities, both with the late and present Governments, and without any reference to party feeling, to have these inventions properly investigated by the Government, and, if approved, to secure them for the country without bringing them before the House of Commons. In his opinion these
1597159615951594l.1593"In the last letter I had the honour to receive from you, dated July 4th, you requested me to point out any mode I could suggest capable of testing any inventions with satisfaction to Her Majesty's Government, and at the same time with safety to the preservation of my secret. To this I immediately replied by suggesting what I humbly conceived would be the most advisable course to take with regard to the investigation of my inventions. I have not been honoured with any answer to my letter; but I presume to address you once more in compliance with an intimation to that
15951594l.1593l.l."I wish you had told me this six months before, because I should have told you that, as an honest man, I could not do it. But if there is any difficulty to entrust me with the necessary amount, entrust it to some other persons, who may see it well applied."l.l.,l.1592"I am called upon in making this experiment to perform what you, not knowing anything about the mode of operation, ask me to do. I think when I go a little way in the
1592l.1591"The Commissioners (he said) call upon me to adopt a series of experiments, which, from their want of knowledge of the thing they had to deal with, would incur an unnecessary expense, and also lead to a disclosure of my discovery. I am perfectly willing to comply with the request of the Commissioners if the Government, will undertake the risk of incurring the expense necessary to carry out the experiment."15901589R. Peel:l."I wish success to be the test of what I am to receive. If I succeed in what I undertake to perform, let me be rewarded; but if I do not succeed, give me nothing."modus operandi,1588"I am not to be expected to disclose more to those two hon. and gallant Commissioners than the general nature of my project, without some guarantee being given as to the remuneration I am to receive if my plan is approved of."15871586"There are three points to be attended to in considering Mr. Warner's discovery;—1.
158715861585158415831582Pechell:158115801579Viscount Ingestre
1623 would assent to the offer of the right hon. Baronet, whose misapprehension he had no doubt would be cleared away by the result. The invention was easily applicable, and was also portable, With regard to the experiment at Brighton, everything was done in a fair and straightforward way; and Captain Warner would have been equally sure of success, if he had tried the experiment on a ship that had just come off Brighton, The Government declined to be a party to the experiment, so Captain Warner had been compelled himself to bring the ship to Brighton; but he was prepared to assert that the ship contained, at the time of the experiment, no explosive materials whatever. Captain Warner had not been on board her after she was taken in tow; and the statement of anything being thrown overboard from the steamer he believed to be untrue. Although he had an array of officers, telling him that the invisible shells were worth nothing, he had no hesitation in telling the House and the country that they were worth all they had been stated by Captain Warner to be; and if a ship could be destroyed by the Invisible Shell, why should they adopt the other method? If they accomplished everything they wanted without a projectile, why use it? He was obliged to the gallant Commodore for his offer to place some gunpowder under a certain part of his person and blow him up—but he only hoped that he might sit along side of him when he tried to perform the experiment. He was pre-
1623Lord Ingestre
1654 complained of the late period of the Session at which this Bill was brought in, and said, that no gratitude was due to the Government for the manner of its introduction. At the same
1654Colonel Rarvdon
 thought, that full time should be given to the House of Commons to consider with due attention the enactments of such an important measure, and he did not see why the Bill should not have been introduced at a much earlier period of the Session, nor why the House should at length be driven to the alternative of either rejecting important and useful measures, in which class he would admit this Bill must be included, or of passing them without having time to deliberate on their details. This remark would apply also to other important measures which had come before the House towards the close of its Sessional labours. Such a practice, if continued, would tend to render one branch of the Legislature, a mere register of the edicts of the other. In fact, it would be tantamount to allowing the Ministers of the Crown to embody their wishes on particular questions in Bills to which the House of Commons would be compelled to give its formal sanction.Lord J. Russell
 explained, that he had said by the practice of allowing the early part of the Session to pass away without the introduction of important measures, the Parliament was, at the end of the Session, driven to the alternative of either rejecting useful measures or of passing them without due consideration. To that opinion he still adhered.Lord J. Russell
1661 said, when he read this Bill he considered that it was a very useful measure, intended to secure a very desirable object; though some words were introduced which he regretted, and there were some omissions which, in his opinion, rendered the Bill imperfect. At the same time he must say, that it did not appear to him that the words to which he alluded were introduced with any offensive intention. They seemed to him rather to be mistakes which had occurred in the drawing of the Bill; and he was glad that the right hon. Baronet intended to propose the alterations he had mentioned. With regard to the
1661Lord J. Russell
 had felt it his duty to vote against the second reading of the Bill, though he did so with great reluctance, being convinced the Government had brought it forward solely with a view to promote the interests and consult the feelings and wishes of the people of Ireland. He now entirely approved of it, and he accepted the alterations that had been proposed in the same conciliatory spirit in which the right hon. Baronet had offered them. There was still one objection, however, which he entertained, and which was insurmountable as far as it went, and that was, to the interference of laymen in matters which they were by the very first principles of the Roman Catholic Church prohibited from touching—namely, questions affecting the doctrine, discipline, and tenets of that Church. He most earnestly wished to hear it announced by the Government, that some members of the Roman Catholic hierarchy of Ireland would be nominated by Her Majesty to act as Commissioners, and introduced as such amongst the laymen who were to be selected from amongst the Roman Catholic body, as by this means the only remaining source of jealousy and disaffection towards the Bill would be removed.The O'Connor Don
 had been informed by his own diocesan, that the Bill did interfere with the doctrine and discipline of the Roman Catholic Church. As a member of that Church, he could not do otherwise than believe this statement, and consequently he must oppose the 6th Clause, whereby a power was granted to certain persons to declare who were the Archbishops, Bishops, Deans, Archdeacons, and Priests of the Irish Roman Catholic Church, a power to which no person but one had hitherto ever laid claim, and which that person would never consent to see exercised by any one but himself. He hoped, therefore, the Government would not force a measure upon Ireland which the people there not only disavowed as a boon, but positively regarded in the light of an injury.Mr. D. Browne
 was determined to take the sense of the House on it.Mr. D. Browne
 moved, that it be omitted.Mr. D. Browne
 (Attorney General for Ireland) defended the Clause. The distinction referred to by the right hon. and learned Gentleman had been recognized in this country for a lengthened period.Mr. T. B. C. Smith
 thought the Bill rather late, but still he considered it important, and likely to be beneficial. He should like to see it connected with some general system of registration in Ireland.Mr. Bouverie
 said, the effect of the Clause would be, to place the Roman Catholics upon a better footing than any other class of Her Majesty's subjects. It did not affect personal property, and was only a relaxation of the Statute of Mortmain.Lord Eliot
l. considered that the persons whose deposits amounted to 150l.Mr. Divett
1664 said, that objections to the Bill after the proposed Amendments had been made, might, in his opinion, have been looked for from a very opposite quarter to that in which they appeared likely to arise; he, however, accepted the measure in the spirit in which it was offered, and should make no remarks hostile to that spirit, or calculated to discompose the feeling of harmony which had been exhibited on the other side of the House. He thought that there was an objection which still remained to the measure, and he made that observation with distinct reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet below him, as to the expediency and propriety of leaving the Crown unfettered in its power of appointing the Members of the Commission to act under the Bill. He objected on this ground to the second Clause of the Bill, by which five Roman Catholic and five Protestant Commissioners were to be preremptorily nominated as members. He considered that this enactment would fetter the operation of the Bill, and create difficulties by keeping up distinctions which, it was professed, ought to be abolished, and which might occasion some one person in the Commission to take a different religious view of questions coming under its consideration from that adopted
1664Mr. Shaw
 expressed his gratification, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) was prepared to make the concessions he had now announced. In his opinion, the Protestant Church of this country could have no objection to recognize the Bishops of the Roman Catholic Church, so far as their spiritual functions were concerned.Mr. G. Vernon
 concurred in the view taken of the Clauses by the hon. Member for Montrose, and contended that the original Savings Banks were intended to benefit mechanics and others of the humbler classes by encouraging the deposit of small sums.Mr. Aglionby
l.,l.l., considered the Clauses altogether inexpedient, and defended the policy of allowing deposits of sums larger than 20l.,l.l.,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1655 was surprised at the observations of the noble Lord, and the more so as coming from one who had conducted the public business in that House. Did the noble Lord mean to say, that when measures went up from that
1655The Chancellor of the Exchequer
"Provided always, that if any question shall arise as to who is the Roman Catholic priest, or other Roman Catholic clergyman entitled to the benefit of any such Grantor Bequest as aforesaid, the same shall be determined by a certificate or other evidence from the Roman Catholic Bishop who is the ecclesiastical superior of the person who may be so entitled." moved to insert the following words:—
"Provided always, that if any question shall arise as to who is the Roman Catholic priest, or other Roman Catholic clergyman entitled to the benefit of any such Grantor Bequest as aforesaid, the same shall be determined by a certificate or other evidence from the Roman Catholic Bishop who is the ecclesiastical superior of the person who may be so entitled."Colonel Rawdon
 said, he was on the Standing Orders Committee, and upon inquiring how far the Bishop of London was interested in the measure, was informed that he had only the interest of a peppercorn rent. The Bill, he understood, had no connection with the Church.Mr. Brotherton
"Clause (after 20th November 1844, Trustees not to receive, from any present or future depositor, any sum or sums, exceeding twenty pounds in any one year.)"1653"That whenever the sum standing in the name of any depositor shall amount to one hundred and fifty pounds, principal and interest included, that henceforth no interest shall be payable on such deposit." proposed two Clauses, to the following effect:—
"Clause (after 20th November 1844, Trustees not to receive, from any present or future depositor, any sum or sums, exceeding twenty pounds in any one year.)"1653"That whenever the sum standing in the name of any depositor shall amount to one hundred and fifty pounds, principal and interest included, that henceforth no interest shall be payable on such deposit."Mr. Hume
 had heard the remarks of the right hon. Baronet in proposing the Amendments to the Bill with great satisfaction. The concession that had been made was valuable in point of feeling, but to render it so in point of practice the Government ought to nominate on the Commission one or more of the Roman Catholic Archbishops or Bishops, by which means efficiency would be given to the whole measure. Or, if he might suggest an alteration in the Bill, he would propose that the words "other dignitaries" be introduced in the Clause relating to that subject, by which means Archdeacons, Deans, &c, might become members of the Board of Commissioners.Mr. P. Howard
1662, as one of those who had objected to the Bill in its original state, begged to tender his acknowledgments for the concessions that had been made by the Government, which he accepted most cheerfully, and which he valued more on account of the spirit in which they were offered than on account of the alterations in the Bill itself—though they possessed some importance. It was, he trusted, an unfounded fear that any captiousness would be shown towards the measure after the speech of the right hon. Baronet; but at the same time he hoped the House would believe that in a matter so deeply interesting to the religious feelings of a people as
1662Mr. M. O'Ferrall
 said, that Her Majesty's Government had plainly intimated that three Bishops should be appointed, and he hoped that the Amendment would not be pressed.Mr. M. O'Ferrall
1658 wished to ask, seeing that the Penitentiary system, as practised in the Pentonville prison, had been so successful, whether it was the intention of the Government, during the recess, to consider the
1658Mr. M. O'Ferrall
l. opposed the Clause. It seemed to be very absurd that a man could leave 10,000l.Mr. Sheil
 moved as an Amendment, that of the five Commissioners being Roman Catholics, to whom questions of doctrine or discipline concerning that Church shall be referred, three shall be Archbishops or Bishops of the Roman Catholic Church. He thought this an important principle, and he wished to obtain for it a legislative sanction.Mr. Sheil
1665 said, that the sentiments expressed by the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last, were such as to do him credit. He would not break in upon the general feeling of harmony which prevailed on all sides with respect to this measure, but he lamented that he could not coincide in the suggestion thrown out by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw), seeing that Ireland was in such a state as to render it expedient for her to secure her Jury, if it were within her power to do so. With reference to the adoption of the titles of Archbishop and Bishop into the Act, it was a mistake to suppose there was no precedent for the acknowledgments of those dignities in the Roman Catholic Church in the Parliamentary Records. In recent estimates, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Quebec was distinctly provided for under that title, and if it were objected that Canada was a Roman Catholic country, then he would point to Newfoundland, which was a Protestant settlement, the Roman Catholic Bishop of which place was likewise named, for a small sum to be sure, in the estimates; so that in two instances precedents for the Parliamentary acknowledgment of the title existed. The Roman Catholics of Ireland hoped that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) would grant them a majority of ecclesiastics as their representatives at the Board of Commissioners. He had intimated that some ecclesiastics of that creed should form part of the Commission, but the Roman Catholics would greatly prefer a majority of them there. They had it in the case of Maynooth, and why not the present case? There existed on this subject a very strong feeling both amongst Roman Catholic laymen and the
1665Mr. Sheil
 said, though the Bill was called a private one, it applied to the property of the Church. He thought that they ought to have had this measure much sooner before the House. He must complain that no breviate had been delivered before the second reading, and he thought the Bill ought to be printed, and some days allowed that Members might be acquainted with the contents. It was because this property would be more valuable if built upon that the Bill was introduced; certainly a Church, and perhaps an hospital, was a sop to the public. It should be made imperative to build an hospital.Mr. T. Duncombe
, as Chairman of the Committees, had carefully examined the Bill, and could see no objection to it. It was intended to regulate the property which was leased out in the last century by the then Bishop of London, at Paddington. Part of the ground was occupied by the reservoirs of the Water Company, and it was now wished to apply the space to the original purpose of building.Mr. Greene
1656 objected to passing the Bill when it had been before the House only five days. The title of the Bill gave no idea of the nature of its contents, and the public knew nothing whatever about it. Who could suppose for a moment that this Bill was one for regulating the property of Paddington? Even the persons on this property knew nothing about the Bill; at the Great Western Railway nothing was known of it. This Bill would give the Grand Junction Water Company the entire monopoly of the supply of water to all the houses which were to be built on the property. He asked the right hon. Baronet to allow the adjournment of the debate to Wednesday or Thursday next, so that inquiry might be made into the real nature of its provisions. Who would suppose, from the title, that it was a Bill for regulating water-works? Again, there were great complaints made as to the situation of the terminus of the Great Western Railway. At the time of its being built it was stated that it was intended to be only temporary,
1656Mr. Wakley
1666, for one, was of opinion that it was impossible for any civilized country to leave its charities and its charitable institutions without any control. It was, therefore, wise and a provident proceeding of the Government to adopt and to enforce some general form of proceeding under which the charities of the nation were administered. But there was likewise a species of charity distinct from, and totally unconnected with, that class to which he had referred, and which fell under the denomination of religious endowments, which consequently could not fall within the cognizance of the General Board of Charities established by the Government. He had no objection to the first portion of the Bill, but at the same time he carefully guarded himself against expressing any approval of parties individually put upon the Committee. He thought it would be advisable to make exceptions in favour of
1666Mr. Wyse
 said, that an arrangement had been made in Ireland, as well as in England, on this subject, to which he attached great importance. All persons sentenced to transportation were brought to a central prison before the sentence of transportation was carried into effect, so that an opportunity was afforded to the authorities of investigating the previous habits and characters of such persons, so as to enable them to decide to what settlement it would be most proper they should be sent. Arrangements of that nature had been completed in Dublin, and in this country the arrangement had been effected by abolishing the penitentiary character of the prison at Millbank, and converting it into a prison for persons under sentence of transportation. His confidence in the success of the experiment now carrying on at Pentonville was so great, that as far as he was individually concerned he would be glad to see it extended to Ireland; but it would be premature in him to state what might be the intentions of the Government on that subject. It would be the duty of himself and his Colleagues to watch the experiment, and if it turned out as he hoped, and was anxious it should, he thought it would be extended to Ireland.Sir J. Graham
"Or for any Archbishop or Bishop, or other person in Holy Orders of the Church of Rome, officiating in any district, or having pastoral superintendence of any congregation of persons professing the Roman Catholic religion; and for those who shall, from time to time, so officiate, or succeed to the said pastoral superintendence; or for building residences for such persons.""In trust for any Priest in Holy Orders of the Church of Rome, or for building a residence for his use, so long as he shall have the pastoral superintendence of any district, or of any congregation of persons professing the; Roman Catholic religion, or in trust for any person of the said Church, of any higher rank or order."16601659 was anxious to explain two or three Amendments which it was his intention to propose during the progress of the measure through Committee. Considering the vast amount of Roman Catholic charities which would come under the control of the Board to be constituted under this Bill—and considering also that five of the ten Commissioners to be nominated by the Crown would be Roman Catholics—it had been felt expedient that a gentleman of the Roman Catholic religion should be appointed to act us joint secretary for the Roman Catholic members of the Board. It might be erroneously presumed, considering the large powers given to this Commission, that judicial powers, independently of the Supreme Courts, were conferred upon them; and in order to remove all doubts on this subject, he intended to move that a proviso be added to one of the Clauses, enacting that nothing
"Or for any Archbishop or Bishop, or other person in Holy Orders of the Church of Rome, officiating in any district, or having pastoral superintendence of any congregation of persons professing the Roman Catholic religion; and for those who shall, from time to time, so officiate, or succeed to the said pastoral superintendence; or for building residences for such persons.""In trust for any Priest in Holy Orders of the Church of Rome, or for building a residence for his use, so long as he shall have the pastoral superintendence of any district, or of any congregation of persons professing the; Roman Catholic religion, or in trust for any person of the said Church, of any higher rank or order."16601659Sir James Graham
 admitted and regretted the delay which intervened between the first introduction of the measure elsewhere and its being brought into that House; but that delay was unavoidable in consequence of the communications which it was necessary to hold with the Presbyterians of the north of Ireland. As to the Government not having the gratitude of the Presbyterians for this Bill, he presumed that the same thing might be said of any Government with respect to any measure. Government did not want the gratitude of the Presbyterians or any other class of the community. It was its duty to attend to the reasonable wants and wishes of all classes of the community without reference to their gratitude, and in the present Bill every thing had been done which could satisfy their wishes on this important subject.Sir J. Graham
 was against fettering the discretion of the Crown. He assured the Committee that the subject should receive from Her Majesty's Government the fullest and the fairest consideration, but he thought that the decision and the selection on the subject should be left in the hands of the Crown, as a matter of grace and favour.Sir R. Peel
 said, that whether they decided against the Government or not could be to them a matter of no importance; for if they had no confidence in the advisers of the Crown the insertion of such an Amendment could afford them no protection, seeing that Ministers might, if they should feel so disposed, appoint three Prelates the least acceptable to the great body of the Irish people.Sir R. Peel
1663 observed, that it would be more in consonance with the feelings of the House and with the manner in which its acceptance of the proposed alterations in the Bill had already been signified, if it were to be left in the state in which those amendments would leave it, and if
1663Sir R. Peel
1657 said, this was solely an Estate Bill; there was not a Clause or a syllable in it that could in the remotest way affect the public. It had gone through all the usual forms to which Private Bills are submitted, and had been carefully examined by a Committee of the House of Lords. Its only object was to give the owners of land in the vicinity of Paddington a valid title in selling their own property. With respect to its alleged bearing on public interests, his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury was under an entire misapprehension. It was not true that it would give an exclusive right of supply to any Water Company every Water Company had an equal right by law, nor did this Bill alter in the smallest degree the existing law. As to the advantage of removing the terminus of the Great Western Railway to a more convenient spot, this Bill would place no obstacle in the way of the purchase of land by the Company for that purpose. The fact was, he believed, that the Railway Company had had the means of obtaining that land for three or four years past, and that they had declined to purchase it. He appealed to the House whether it was a justifiable ground for postponing the Bill, that a third party should be allowed the opportunity of purchasing the ground at some future period. He could assure hon. Members
1657Sir W. Clay
bonâ fide1707l.;cessio bonorum; proceeded to explain its principal provisions. The provisions branched into three different heads, each of which required a separate and distinct consideration. The first part of the Bill related to the amendment of the law of bonâ fide1707l.;cessio bonorum;The Solicitor General
1708, while he concurred in much of what had been urged by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, agreed with the hon. Member for Manchester that sufficient time had not been given for the due consideration of this
1708Mr. S. Wortley
 regretted that a measure like the present should have been deferred to the last week of the Session. He had no wish to continue a severely coercive mode of recovering small debts, but he concurred with his hon. Friends near him in thinking that time had not been given for considering this Bill. There were many wise and humane provisions in it, and he did not feel justified in opposing its progress, though he would endeavour to correct some very objectionable parts of it in the Committee.Mr. Aglionby
 said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor General, had made a powerful appeal to the feelings of the House on this subject; but hon. Members must bear in mind that they were bound to legislate upon facts, and not from mere feeling. He knew nothing of law, but he did know, and had much practical experience in trade, and in the system of credit in extensive trading communities; and he had no doubt that such a measure as the present would be injurious to credit in those districts. But if this Bill were good in principle, why not apply it to debts generally. Why deprive the poor creditor of his remedy for recovering a small debt, and continue it to the creditor to whom a large sum was due? He could not acquiesce in the distinction which the Bill sought to establish in both these respects.Mr. Spooner
 said, that all he had heard did not satisfy his mind, that he should be called on in so hasty a manner completely to change the Law of Debtor and Creditor and he thought that such an act as would fully correct the evils of the existing system required time for further consideration. It would, in his opinion, have been much better if the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had immediately met the evils which he had stated to the House in the month of January by a Local Act, instead of deferring his remedy to the month of August.Mr. Spooner
 said, that the alterations would give great satisfaction to the people of Ireland.Mr. Wyse
 was unwilling to stand up there as an advocate for imprisonment of poor persons for small sums; but, as the representative of a large trading community, he must express his wish that time should be afforded for maturely considering a measure which was calculated to have so great an effect on the trading portion of the community. He did hope, therefore, that the Bill would be delayed until hon. Members for large trading and manufacturing districts had time to communicate with their constituents on the subject.Mr. M. Philips
 explained, that his attention was first drawn to the subject by riots at Birmingham, but the state of things there was not singular, and the four Reports to which he had adverted were the only cases which he had been able to examine.Sir J. Graham
 moved, that the House resolve itself into Committee of the whole House on the Charitable Donations and Bequests (Ireland) Bill.Sir J. Graham
 then enumerated certain Clauses which it was his intention to introduce into the Bill, relating to the doctrines and discipline of the Church.Sir J. Graham
17131712"At the time (said Mr. Perry) when I visited the gaol, there were six male debtors confined under executions from the Court of Requests. They occupied a single room paved
1712d.s.1711"The prison (the Report stated), consists of the kitchen, cellars, and attics of a house situate in a court near the High-street. The remainder of the building is occupied by the keeper of the Court of Requests. The kitchen forms the day room of the Insolvent Debtors who are waiting their discharge; and the women are, from want of a day room, compelled to sit in that in which they slept. The day-room for the male prisoners has a scullery adjoining, and is eighteen feet in length by fourteen in breadth, and sixteen feet in height. There are besides two cellars, in one of which the prisoners wash themselves. At the time of my visit there were eighteen prisoners in the gaol, and the number has often been much larger. The number of the visitors who may be received is in reality unlimited, as the keeper told me that he had no power to exclude any one, except in case of a riot; and that thep rohibition of spirits was only nominal, and had not been actually enforced. The keeper further stated, that when riots occurred he had called in the assistance of the police, from the persuasion that his life would be in danger unless he did so. The general dormitory of the debtors is a room in the attics, eleven feet in length by sixteen in breadth. On each of the
d.s.171117101709 said, that the argument of the absence of so many hon. Members of the legal profession was not well founded. He had great respect for Gentlemen of the long robe, and was always glad of their presence in the discussions of the House; but he could not take their absence as an argument for delaying any important measure before the House. Let hon. Members consider how far hon. Members of the legal profession took a part in the general business of the House. The House generally met in the first or second week of February, and at about the end of that month the Spring Circuits commenced, and the Gentlemen of the long robe generally left the House to attend them. Now, it was well known that the great struggles—he might almost
17131712"At the time (said Mr. Perry) when I visited the gaol, there were six male debtors confined under executions from the Court of Requests. They occupied a single room paved
1712d.s.1711"The prison (the Report stated), consists of the kitchen, cellars, and attics of a house situate in a court near the High-street. The remainder of the building is occupied by the keeper of the Court of Requests. The kitchen forms the day room of the Insolvent Debtors who are waiting their discharge; and the women are, from want of a day room, compelled to sit in that in which they slept. The day-room for the male prisoners has a scullery adjoining, and is eighteen feet in length by fourteen in breadth, and sixteen feet in height. There are besides two cellars, in one of which the prisoners wash themselves. At the time of my visit there were eighteen prisoners in the gaol, and the number has often been much larger. The number of the visitors who may be received is in reality unlimited, as the keeper told me that he had no power to exclude any one, except in case of a riot; and that thep rohibition of spirits was only nominal, and had not been actually enforced. The keeper further stated, that when riots occurred he had called in the assistance of the police, from the persuasion that his life would be in danger unless he did so. The general dormitory of the debtors is a room in the attics, eleven feet in length by sixteen in breadth. On each of the
d.s.171117101709Sir J. Graham
 thought that Government should postpone the Bill to the next Session of Parliament. He had presented a petition from six Roman Catholic Prelates against it, which showed the feelings with which they viewed the measure, and he was fortified by the authority of the man who enjoyed the confidence of the people of Ireland in thinking that the measure would not be beneficial to the Roman Catholics of that country. Though they were glad to be relieved from the surveillance of the Court of Chancery in regard to charitable trusts, they objected to the appointment of an irresponsible and non-judicial Commission to manage them, involving, as they did, considerations connected with the doctrine and discipline of the Roman Catholic Church. The people of Ireland were afraid that no Roman Catholics would be appointed Commissioners, excepting such as would be subservient to the Ministry of the day. The Irish Members had neither given this Bill a manly support nor a manly opposition, and would have to account to their constituents for not having opposed it in a more determined manner. It was the first step towards making the Roman Catholic Church an appendage to the State. He must, therefore, move that the Bill be read a third time on that day three months.Mr. Dillon Browne
1781 said, he had hesitated to join in the opposition to this Bill, because he felt that if imperfect, it would be amended hereafter. He was bound to express his conviction that when the present heats had subsided, the Bill would be
1781Mr. M. J. O'Connell
1784l.,17831782 rose to move for leave to bring in three Bills, notice of which he had given, for the consolidation of the provisions usually introduced into Acts for incorporating Companies for carrying on undertakings of a public nature. The proceeding, was founded generally upon the recommendation of the Select Committee upon Railways, but, at the same time, it went beyond that recommendation, because their functions being confined to Railways, the recommendation they had made that the great mass of the provisions now comprised in Railway Bills should be comprehended within one general and single enactment, had reference to Railroad Bills
1784l.,17831782Mr. Gladstone
 rose to move a resolution that the Chairman be directed to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to the Relief and Support, in certain cases, of Merchant Seamen, their Widows and Children. The Bill which he wished to bring in, affected the interests and prospects of a class of men which that House, as well as the whole country, regarded with feelings of great interest—he meant the Merchant Seamen of this country, a class who were the least disposed to complain. They were, it was true, dissatisfied with the state of the Seamen's Fund, but his only surprise was, that they were not a hundred times more dissatisfied. They did not object to the compulsory payment of a tax out of their wages, but they wished to see the fund raised by that means placed on a more satisfactory footing. Although the Report of the Committee on this subject had not yet been laid on the Table of the House, he hoped the House would give him so much of their confidence as to allow him to introduce a Bill which should embrace those alterations in the law that were deemed necessary, in order that they might be taken into consideration, both by hon. Members of the House, and by the parties interested during the space of time that would elapse between this and the ensuing Session. The right hon. Gentleman stated the provisions of the Bill, and concluded by moving his Resolution.Mr. Gladstone
 stated, that it was perfectly true that this officer had been brought to a Court-Martial for boarding, and subsequently for searching a French vessel, he not being at the time in possession of a warrant from the French Government. The charges had been drawn up by the Admiralty in the usual course of business, and no foreign Government had anything to do with the matter. The principal charge was for disobedience of orders, and the result of the Court-Martial was now before the public.Mr. S. Herbert
 wished to know, should other obsolete statutes of a similar kind be found on the Statute Book, applicable to the same or to other denominations of Christians, and he had reason to believe that there were such, whether Government would, during the ensuing recess, prepare a measure for their repeal?Mr. Hawes
1786 had heard the statement with satisfaction, and hoped that in the next Session the important question would be finally settled. He earnestly recommended the right hon. Gentleman during the recess to turn his attention to another question connected with the marine requiring legislation: he alluded to pilotage dues. He admitted that the question was involved in difficulties, not merely from its complication, but from the adverse interests concerned; but he trusted that the sagacity of the right hon. Gentleman would overcome the first, and that his power and influence would reconcile the last. If this object were accomplished an important benefit would be conferred
1786Mr. Labouchere
 remarked, that if the Government had been allowed to carry their Ecclesiastical Courts Bill, the greater part of those abuses would have been remedied by this time, but the Clause repealing them had never come under the consideration of the House.Mr. Monckton Milnes
1780 said, the grounds on which the petitioners deprecated the Bill applied to the manner of its introduction, and the want of prudence by which it was marked. Had they heard the exceedingly clear statement of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, they would have come to the same conclusion as that to
1780Mr. Spooner
Bonetta, had seen a Report that a Court-Martial had been held upon Lieutenant Gray for having, while in command of the Brig Bonetta,Captain Pechell
 moved that the Charitable Donations and Bequests (Ireland) Bill be read a third time.Sir J. Graham
 was in some doubt whether it would not have been better to adopt the suggestion of a noble Friend of his, and postpone the measure for the purpose of making it more extensive. He believed there were other enactments of a similar nature; but as this Bill had been sent down from the House of Lords, and as it was an indication of the spirit in which the Parliament was prepared to proceed, he hoped the measure would be passed. He very much doubted whether Dissenters were not subject to those Acts which required attendance on Divine Service according to the Church of England, and very possibly to other Acts of the same description. He would not give any pledge on the subject; but if there were any statute which now compelled a conscientious Dissenter from the Church of England, upon a heavy penalty, to attend Divine Service in that Church, he might say that he could see no object whatever in retaining it on the Statute Book.Sir R. Peel
1779l.,1778præmunire;1777"Whereas, by various Acts of Parliament, certain incapacities and disabilities are imposed on the Roman Catholic subjects of Her Majesty which others are not liable to, and whereas it is expedient that such incapacities and disabilities should be henceforth discontinued," &c.1776"That they had heard with sorrow and alarm that a Bill had been brought into the House of Lords for the repeal of certain penal enactments affecting the Roman Catholics; that they apprehended the most serious consequences were likely to result from the repeal of those enactments; that it seemed perfectly monstrous that the Legislature should, only fifteen years after the Roman Catholic Relief Bill had been agreed to, pass an Act repealing all the protective Clauses in virtue of which that Bill had been allowed to become law; and this, too, at a time when circumstances would seem rather to demand the imposition of additional restrictions than the repeal of the few which yet remain." had to move, that the Bill which had been sent down from the House of Lords for the repeal of the Penal Enactments against the Roman Catholics be now read a second time. He hoped that the House would throw no impediment in the way of passing the Bill, however late the period of the Session at which it was brought under their notice. Since he came into the House he perceived that a Petition had been presented by the hon. Member for Birmingham which he thought it right to notice, because it was founded on an entire misconception of the object and intention of this Bill. The Petitioners stated,—
1779l.,1778præmunire;1777"Whereas, by various Acts of Parliament, certain incapacities and disabilities are imposed on the Roman Catholic subjects of Her Majesty which others are not liable to, and whereas it is expedient that such incapacities and disabilities should be henceforth discontinued," &c.1776"That they had heard with sorrow and alarm that a Bill had been brought into the House of Lords for the repeal of certain penal enactments affecting the Roman Catholics; that they apprehended the most serious consequences were likely to result from the repeal of those enactments; that it seemed perfectly monstrous that the Legislature should, only fifteen years after the Roman Catholic Relief Bill had been agreed to, pass an Act repealing all the protective Clauses in virtue of which that Bill had been allowed to become law; and this, too, at a time when circumstances would seem rather to demand the imposition of additional restrictions than the repeal of the few which yet remain."Sir R. Peel
 thought the case of these individuals particular cases of hardship. They could not separate these individual cases from the Art Unions themselves. It would be considered out of the House a hard measure towards these persons—individuals who had not, like other parties, the power themselves of bringing their grievances before either House of Parliament. Although he did not agree with the hon. Member (Mr. Wyse) with regard to the great utility of these Art Unions, he still protested against an act of injustice being done to particular individuals.Mr. Bernal
l.1852Life of Swift,1851Christian Examiner,1850***"Let it be understood, that in respect to the Church preferments you will act upon your own sense of duty, and on the result of your own inquiries, and if that sense of duty prompts you to prefer the claims of professional merit, let your inquiries be directed to the ascertainment of those claims. 1850***l.l. rose to move for Copies of any Letters or Instructions which may have been written to Lord Heytesbury, relative to the future disposal of Church Patronage in Ireland with reference to the Education Board. An hon. Member, who was not now present, had on a former occasion charged him with an attempt to revive what was called an Irish debate. But he was not open to that charge. It would be in the recollection of the House that the Irish Estimates were delayed to a very late period of the Session; so late, indeed, that the Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) was wanting in his supervisal duty in allowing 25,000l.1852Life of Swift,1851Christian Examiner,1850***"Let it be understood, that in respect to the Church preferments you will act upon your own sense of duty, and on the result of your own inquiries, and if that sense of duty prompts you to prefer the claims of professional merit, let your inquiries be directed to the ascertainment of those claims. 1850***l.l.Captain Bernal
1868 did not wish the right hon. Gentleman opposite to lay down any fixed rule, but he did wish him to appoint Clergymen to clerical offices who were
1868Captain Bernal
Christian Examiner1867 asked whether the Government thought they promoted the interests of religion or of the Church in a great district, and in two extensive counties, in which there were many Catholics, by placing at the head of the Church there a man who had used such language as had been quoted by his hon. Friend? He was indebted to the noble Lord for a statement of Dr. Daly's qualifications, for all he had heard of his work as a parish priest at Powerscourt was, that during the
Christian Examiner1867Mr. M. J. O'Connell
"He could assure the House that there was no dislike on the part of the Protestants to send their children to the national schools, and although the Protestant Clergy were opposed to the system, he did not doubt that they were influenced by conscientious motives."Parliamentary Debates wished to say one word in explanation. Since he addressed the House an hon. Friend of his had brought him the "He could assure the House that there was no dislike on the part of the Protestants to send their children to the national schools, and although the Protestant Clergy were opposed to the system, he did not doubt that they were influenced by conscientious motives."Parliamentary DebatesLord Eliot
Sheil:1866 said, that as reference had been made to some expression of his two years ago, he wished to make one or two observations. This was the first time he was aware that the expression alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman had ever been attributed to him as applied to the Clergy of the Established Church in Ireland. What he said on the occasion referred to by the right hon. Gentleman was that in the communications he had received the failure of the system was attributed to the hostility of the Clergy of the Established Church, but that he was sure that hostility was governed by the most conscientious motives. He believed that if he had on that occasion made use of the expression alluded to, there were several of his hon. Friends behind him who would at the time have called upon him for an explanation of it. It was now some time ago, and he could not pretend to recollect every word he spoke on the occasion, but he was sure that he spoke with respect of Clergy of the Established Church, and declared his belief that their opposition was based upon conscientious motives. He differed altogether from the right hon. Gentleman if he thought that no Clergyman ought to be promoted unless he sacrificed his conscientious opinions, and as to the appointments of Lord De Grey, they were guided solely by a view of the zeal and ability and character of the individual,
Sheil:1866Lord Eliot
 seconded the Motion.Lord M. Hill
1863 had the pleasure of knowing Mr. Woodward, who had been, at one time, unfavourable to the system, but had now sanctioned it: and if the rule suggested by the hon. Gentleman opposite had been adopted, they would have excluded from appointments such a man as
1863Mr. Darby
 asked whether it would be politic to insist upon their Amendments?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1865Evening Mail.Eliot:1864 did not complain of the right hon. Gentleman for not laying down a rule of exclusion, but what they did complain of was the practice. The modes in which the Government had exercised control, had effectually counteracted their own intentions. The right hon. Gentleman looked upon the system as fraught with benefits to the community, and declared that he would give to it his warm and cordial support. But how, and in what manner, did he give it? If the patronage of the Crown were applied in conformity with the system under the protection of the right hon. Gentleman, he would select those who were attached to the policy he supported. Let not the Government imagine that he charged them with any want of sincerity, they had given proofs of it sufficient, which some might argue upon, but none could controvert. But they had not carried out their support in an effectual way. He did not wish them to exclude every one who had opposed the system, but in practice, they had excluded every one who supported it. He had heard the list of the appointments read by his hon. Friend. The Government were charged with not having appointed one who supported the system. There were O'Brien, and Stopford, and Daly, and Newman, not one of whom was a supporter of the National Board. Their hostility was open, avowed, and undisguised; and he said that such appointments counteracted the intentions of the Government. They were not serving the Church by them—they were placing the Church in hostile array to the people—they were making it odious to the people. They saw this phalanx opposed to one of
1865Evening Mail.Eliot:1864Mr. Sheil
 said, if the Government would seriously take up the Amendments made by the House of Commons, he was quite sure that both the Bill and its Amendments would be carried, provided the Amendments were insisted upon. A great injustice would be done to three or four individuals if these Amendments were not agreed to by the House of Lords. Had not the House, with reference to certain gambling transactions, protected particular individuals? and it would be a gross act of inconsistency, cruelty, and injustice, if the House did not give those parties interested in the Bill its protection.Mr. T. Duncombe
d.1846 said, that the effect of the Lords' Amendments would be, that Railway Companies should not be compelled to run railway trains on Sunday, but if they did so they should be obliged to attach during that day carriages for third
d.1846Mr. Thornely
18611860 was glad that public apprehension would, in a great degree, be removed upon this subject by what had passed on the present occasion. Stronger evidence of the gradual removal of prejudices could not be adduced than the increase in the number of schools and in the number of children sent to them; and it ought to be added, since it was an important addition, that the increase had been much larger in the north than in the south and west of Ireland. Any grant
18611860Mr. Wyse
1848qui tam appeared at the Bar, and brought up their Lordships' reasons for not agreeing with the Commons' Amendments in the Arts Union Bill. Their Lordships objected to any legislation with reference to particular cases. It was stated by the dissentients that these individuals had sufficient cognizance of the illegality of their proceedings. They had the same knowledge, it was said, as those officially engaged in these Art Unions. He (Mr. Wyse) thought it was necessary to strike out the second Clause, in order to avoid forming a precedent. The House had, with reference to the 1848qui tamMr. Wyse
 expressed his entire concurrence in what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, and he would move the postponement of the subject until tomorrow.Mr. Wyse
18451844 moved that the Lords' Amendments to the Railways Bill be agreed to. As the Amendments proposed had been fully discussed, he hoped that the House would at once accede to them. The view of the Select Committee on Railways was, that the best course to take (as expressed in their Report) would be to have no legislation whatever upon Sunday travelling, but to leave the matter to the discretion of the Railway Companies. A strong impression prevailed, not only in this, but in the other House, that if Railway Companies were allowed in the exercise of their discretion, to run trains on Sundays, the principle of competition should be disclaimed. At the same time it was thought, that if such companies
18451844Mr. W. E. Gladstone
1847Morning Herald wished to know from the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government, whether the statements contained in the 1847Morning HeraldMr. Christie
 said, that among other advantages which the Members of Government derived from their constant attendance in that House was the hearing of interesting reports of which they would otherwise have had no cognizance. As to the report which had appeared in the paper which the hon. Member was good enough to call the organ of Her Majesty's Government, he had never heard of it until mentioned by the hon. Member—he meant the report that Government was about to enrich the county of Middlesex with the spoils of Sudbury. It appeared also to be quite a novelty to other hon. Members. Now, in the first place, supposing that Government had formed any intention on the subject; nothing could be more unwise than to disclose it now, and thus afford food for local agitation during the whole of the recess; and, therefore, if he had come to such a conclusion, he should most cautiously abstain from mentioning it. He did not mean to say whether or not Government had come to a conclusion, and begged that no inference, one way or the other, might be drawn from his observations.Sir R. Peel
 said, Sir, I am about to introduce a Motion of which I have not given notice, but I am convinced I shall be acting in accordance with the unanimous feeling of this House if I avail myself of the earliest opportunity of proposing that we should offer to Her Majesty our cordial congratulations on the happy event which has taken place this day. I am sure that there will be one feeling of universal satisfaction throughout this country that an addition has taken place to Her Majesty's family, and thus there is an increased guarantee that the Throne of these realms will long continue to be enjoyed by the direct descendants of Her Majesty. Every increase of domestic happiness to Her Majesty, will, I am sure, be a cause of grateful satisfaction to Her faithful Commons. And I, therefore, beg to move at once, that this House do present an Address to Her Majesty, expressing the sentiments which I have uttered.Sir R. Peel
1849 knew nothing whatever of the circumstances under which the alterations in the Bill were made. It certainly would be unfortunate if as the result of this interference the Bill was lost altogether, because they could not place the parties in the same position they were in prior to the introduction of this Bill. He hoped that the House would not insist upon its Amendments. He only suggested this course in order to avoid what he conceived to be a greater evil,—viz., the loss of the Bill, and an exposure of those parties to the penalties of the law. It was a great mistake to imagine that the Government had any hostility to the existence of Art Unions. Counsels' opinions had been taken with regard to their legality, and then it was that the Government thought it necessary to give notice to those parties that they were committing a violation of the law. It was under these circumstances that Parliament con-
1849Sir R. Peel
"My first impression when I heard of the plan of National Education was, I will confess, that in the discipline of the schools an unholy attempt was ventured on, so to amalgamate discordant creeds as to form a kind of neutral compound for the scholars. Whether anything of this kind entered into the original intention of the Board I know not, for I have very little acquaintance with the subject; but assuredly in the present conduct of the plan, they are wholly cleared of such a charge. On the contrary, one of the grand objections of the Committee of the Church Education Society to the National Board is, that they will not sanction the very amalgamation I so much deprecate.""For my part," says he, "in making these observations, I have no purpose to serve but the discharge of my own conscience, I seek the favour of no party. I expect no larger benefice than the one I hold; nor have I the slightest wish for advancement."18591858"Now," said this rev. Gentleman, "What, I would ask, would a patron desire more than this? What could he want beyond being enabled to read and explain the Scriptures for an hour each day to his own children, and to as many others as are willing to avail themselves of the opportunity; and, besides that, to convey what religious instruction he may thick fit?"1857"That the reading of the Scriptures either in the Protestant authorised or Douay version, as well as the teaching of catechisms, comes within the rule as to religious instruction.""The patrons of the several schools have the right of appointing such religious instruction as they may think proper to be given therein, provided that each school be open to children of all communions—that due regard be had to parental right and authority—that, accordingly, no child be compelled to receive, or be present at, any religious instruction to which his parents or guardians object—and that the time for giving it be so fixed that no child shall be thereby in effect excluded, directly or indirectly, from the other advantages which the school affords. Subject to this, religious instruction may be given either during the fixed school hours or otherwise."1856355,32029121843
355,32029121843319,37227211842
319,37227211842281,84923371841
281,84923371841232,56019781840
232,56019781840192,97115811839
192,97115811839No. of Children.No. of Schools.Date.
No. of Children.No. of Schools.Date.
355,32029121843
355,32029121843319,37227211842
319,37227211842281,84923371841
281,84923371841232,56019781840
232,56019781840192,97115811839
192,97115811839No. of Children.No. of Schools.Date.
No. of Children.No. of Schools.Date.1855"So fully bent is the Government which now sways the destines of the country upon carrying out this favourite project, that the Prime Minister is reported to have declared his intention of patronising and promoting those ecclesiastics only who will co-operate with him in the design. This report, however, seems to rest on but slender grounds; and it is well that it does so. For surely it were much to be deplored that an Administration who have hitherto dispensed their Church patronage with such clean hands, should, by a rash determination, tie up those hands from the further prosecution of so good a work."1854"We have the gratification of observing that the unfounded impressions upon the subject of the national system, which we have had
1854Bernal:1853: Sir, it is perfectly true that I stated to the House, in the course of the late discussion on Irish affairs, that I had written a letter in September, 1841, to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, to the Effect of that letter quoted by the hon. Member opposite. Whether the words
"My first impression when I heard of the plan of National Education was, I will confess, that in the discipline of the schools an unholy attempt was ventured on, so to amalgamate discordant creeds as to form a kind of neutral compound for the scholars. Whether anything of this kind entered into the original intention of the Board I know not, for I have very little acquaintance with the subject; but assuredly in the present conduct of the plan, they are wholly cleared of such a charge. On the contrary, one of the grand objections of the Committee of the Church Education Society to the National Board is, that they will not sanction the very amalgamation I so much deprecate.""For my part," says he, "in making these observations, I have no purpose to serve but the discharge of my own conscience, I seek the favour of no party. I expect no larger benefice than the one I hold; nor have I the slightest wish for advancement."18591858"Now," said this rev. Gentleman, "What, I would ask, would a patron desire more than this? What could he want beyond being enabled to read and explain the Scriptures for an hour each day to his own children, and to as many others as are willing to avail themselves of the opportunity; and, besides that, to convey what religious instruction he may thick fit?"1857"That the reading of the Scriptures either in the Protestant authorised or Douay version, as well as the teaching of catechisms, comes within the rule as to religious instruction.""The patrons of the several schools have the right of appointing such religious instruction as they may think proper to be given therein, provided that each school be open to children of all communions—that due regard be had to parental right and authority—that, accordingly, no child be compelled to receive, or be present at, any religious instruction to which his parents or guardians object—and that the time for giving it be so fixed that no child shall be thereby in effect excluded, directly or indirectly, from the other advantages which the school affords. Subject to this, religious instruction may be given either during the fixed school hours or otherwise."1856355,32029121843
355,32029121843319,37227211842
319,37227211842281,84923371841
281,84923371841232,56019781840
232,56019781840192,97115811839
192,97115811839No. of Children.No. of Schools.Date.
No. of Children.No. of Schools.Date.
355,32029121843
355,32029121843319,37227211842
319,37227211842281,84923371841
281,84923371841232,56019781840
232,56019781840192,97115811839
192,97115811839No. of Children.No. of Schools.Date.
No. of Children.No. of Schools.Date.1855"So fully bent is the Government which now sways the destines of the country upon carrying out this favourite project, that the Prime Minister is reported to have declared his intention of patronising and promoting those ecclesiastics only who will co-operate with him in the design. This report, however, seems to rest on but slender grounds; and it is well that it does so. For surely it were much to be deplored that an Administration who have hitherto dispensed their Church patronage with such clean hands, should, by a rash determination, tie up those hands from the further prosecution of so good a work."1854"We have the gratification of observing that the unfounded impressions upon the subject of the national system, which we have had
1854Bernal:1853Sir R. Peel
1862 could have wished that the speech of the right hon. Baronet had been delivered upon some former occasion, when the question of Irish Education had been attacked, and had not reserved it for the period when he had the weight of Government upon his shoulders. Had he before stated his views the weight of his opinion might have mitigated the bitter and incessant hostility of the party by which he was surrounded and supported. He thought that it might have had influence with the hon. Member for Oxford, and might have dispelled what the right hon. Baronet himself admitted to be the utterly unfounded delusion as to the principle of the system which had pervaded not only this country but Ireland. It was now too late in the day so claim the character of a candid and warm supporter of those schools. Whether the right hon. Baronet, might upon some occasion, have given a silent vote in their favour he knew not; but when the system was threatened, and when it with difficulty bore up against the attacks, any expression of support from him would have come with a different force, and would have produced different results. There would have been no reason then to doubt the zeal which he now professed to feel, or to suspect that political motives were blended with his conscientious desire to extend the National System of Education in Ireland. Among the recommendations of the persons whom he had promoted to dignitaries in the Church was not that of accurately looking at a subject before they pronounced an adverse opinion as to what did not exist, for he believed that there was no one of the divines alluded to who had not sanctioned with his high authority, and had not disseminated the very delu-
1862Viscount Ebrington
 considered Mr. Warburton had taken up this office as a speculation, without proper authority, and he should certainly take the sense of the House against the Clause.Mr. R. Yorke
 admitted that his first impression had been adverse to the claim of Mr. Warburton, but when he considered the case, he thought it probable that Mr. Warburton might have been induced to believe that the Lord Chancellor had power to award him compensation, and he really thought that Mr. Warburton was fairly entitled to compensation.The Solicitor General
 had presented a petition against the Bill which had been agreed to at a most respectable meeting of tradesmen in Bristol; but after the statement of the Solictor General and the right hon. Baronet, he was convinced that legislation was necessary, and that he could not hope for delay. He had stated as much at the time, although he had stated his objections to certain Clauses. He thought it would be advisable that some little delay should be interposed before the Bill came into operation; but if the Government were determined that the Bill should come into immediate operation he would advise the hon. Member for Birmingham to withdraw his Motion. If he perservered in the Motion, he (Mr. H. Berkeley), although he wished for delay, would be compelled to vote against him for he believed it would be a greater evil to lose the Bill than to have it come into immediate operation.Mr. H. Berkeley
 took the liberty of asking his right hon. Friend whether he intended that the Apothecary's Company should continue to possess the privilege of granting licences?Mr. G. Knight
1906J. Graham said, he was glad to hear it, as he always had considered that the possession of such a privilege by a trading Company was a degrading anomaly. He would ask another question—which was whether any penalty was to be introduced into the Bill to deter the vendor of drugs from prescribing? [Sir 1906J. GrahamMr. G. Knight
1911 thought, that the hon. Mem-
1911Mr. Hawes
 said, the arrangement was one which had conduced to the public benefit, and he, therefore considered Mr. Warburton was fully entitled to compensation.Mr. Hawes
 said, the hon. Member for Surrey had given some, accounts respecting the Courts of Requests in Surrey, and the number of cases brought under the consideration of that court. The hon. Member, however, said nothing about the costs which were incurred in court, and which were, he understood, enormous. He contended that the present system of imprisonment was not beneficial to the creditor, on the contrary, it was greatly to his disadvantage. That system was only calculated to feed revenge in relentless creditors, without producing any beneficial result. Under these circumstances he could not support the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham.Mr. Hawes
 hoped, that the Government would, in the next Session, proceed still further in this course. He observed that the 1st Elizabeth, one of the Acts to which the statement of the right hon. Baronet applied, extended to the English Protestants, requiring their attendance at Church, and if they refused, making them liable to the penalties of recusants.Mr. Hawes
 expressed his approval of the kind and considerate way in which both the right hon. Gentleman and the Lord Chancellor had acted in the case of Mr. Lee. With regard to the case of Mr. Warburton, it could hardly be called a speculation. It was clear that the duties must be performed, and Mr. Warburton had undertaken them under the express sanction of the Lord Chancellor. Parliament had sanctioned the experiment, and having so sanctioned it, was it fair to take Mr. Warburton's services for a year and a half without remuneration? If they could arrange so as to give Mr. Warburton the promise of an office it would be the best arrangement, but they had no right to put such conditions on the Lord Chancellor, and therefore he should support the Motion.Mr. C. Buller
 thought it would not operate favourably on the morals of the poorer classes that they should be permitted to evade the guarantee of their liberty which they had given to enable them to procure the means of subsistence. He should vote with the hon. Member for Birmingham.Mr. Newdegate
ex post facto seconded the Motion. This was an ex post factoMr. Kemble
l.l.l. could not see why imprisonment for debts under 20l.l.l.Mr. Hardy
imperium in imperio trusted his Protestant feelings were as strong as those of any hon. Member of that House, but he did most sincerely rejoice to see the introduction of this Bill. All that he objected to was, that there should be any imperium in imperioMr. Hardy
1894 could not bring his mind to the conclusion that it would be wise to adopt the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham. The arguments of the hon. Member were against the principle of the measure, and not in favour of delay, and the House was almost
1894Mr. Brotherton
 thought the Lord Chancellor had just as much power to give Mr. Warburton a berth now as he ever had. It struck him as a speculation, and if he had any claim it ought to have been brought forward by the Government on their own responsibility.Mr. Henley
1883 would only trouble the House for a short time, nor would he have troubled it at all, but for the very unsatisfactory reply given by the right hon. Baronet to his noble Friend's question, relative to the proceedings of the French at Gaboon River. The right hon. Baronet appeared quite to misunderstand the nature of the complaint. He held in his hand a copy of the complaint and protest of the natives against these proceedings of the French, which he had every reason to believe was perfectly authentic and correct, and he did not find in that paper a single word about the territory being English, or any allegation that the English flag had ever been hoisted there, or that the produce of the place was entitled, of strict right, to enter here as British produce. There is no complaint of this kind; the complaint is this—that from time immemorial British subjects have had a right of free-trade at the Gaboon in common with other countries, but that in consequence of these proceedings it is likely to be lost in favour of France. That France is seeking by fraud and violence to gain possession of it, contrary to the wish of the native chiefs and people. If this were the only instance of such conduct on the part of France, there might be less ground for complaint either on our part or by the
1883Mr. Forster
 hoped the word concession would no longer be abused by being applied to measures like the present, which were strictly demanded by justice. He was sure the right hon. Baronet would find full co-operation in that House in any measure of that kind which he might introduce. Every day there was growing up in the country, amongst men who thought on these matters, a strong feeling that the Church of England could not receive legitimate, fair, or just support from measures of a similar character to those which were now being abolished.Mr. Monckton Milnes
"And whereas, since the 11th day of November, 1842, the duties of Taxing Master in the Court of Bankruptcy have been performed by one of the Deputy Registrars of the said Court, and the duties of such Deputy Registrar have been performed by Thomas Acton Warburton, Esq., barrister-at-law; be it enacted, that such person shall be paid by the Governor and Company of the Bank of England, out of the fund placed to the credit of the Accountant in Bankruptcy, intituled, 'The Secretary of Bankrupts' Account,' such remuneration for his services, not exceeding, as the Lord Chancellor shall think reasonable, and by his order in writing shall direct." proposed to insert the following Clause:—
"And whereas, since the 11th day of November, 1842, the duties of Taxing Master in the Court of Bankruptcy have been performed by one of the Deputy Registrars of the said Court, and the duties of such Deputy Registrar have been performed by Thomas Acton Warburton, Esq., barrister-at-law; be it enacted, that such person shall be paid by the Governor and Company of the Bank of England, out of the fund placed to the credit of the Accountant in Bankruptcy, intituled, 'The Secretary of Bankrupts' Account,' such remuneration for his services, not exceeding, as the Lord Chancellor shall think reasonable, and by his order in writing shall direct."Mr. Monckton Milnes
 wished to say a word, because in consequence of what had fallen from him upon the second reading of this Bill he had been misrepresented, and had been supposed to have treated the Petition he then presented with something like contempt. Referring to the grounds on which the Petitioners had expressed suspicion, he had stated that the petitioners objected to the time and manner in which the measure was introduced, it not being a Government measure, or brought in upon Government responsibility at the end of a Session, when there was no time for due consideration of its provisions. He had stated that that was quite sufficient to excite the suspicions of the petitioners, in connection with the manner in which former concessions had been received, and their total failure to heal those religious animosities which all deplored. Nothing fell from him to justify the supposition that he had treated the petition with levity.Mr. Spooner
l.l.1891 moved as an Amendment, that the operation of the 54th and 55th Clauses should be postponed until the month of March. He was aware that he was occupying a very ungracious position, in appearing there to advocate the continued imprisonment of various poor debtors now waiting for their liberation. He, however, objected to the Clause, for two reasons, first, because it would inflict a great injury on industrious artisans in large towns, by depriving them of the only means of obtaining credit; personal security is the only security they have to give; and by these Clauses personal security will be made of no avail:—and secondly, because by these Clauses coming into immediate operation, great injustice would be done to numerous small tradesmen who have given credit under the existing law, and who ought to have time to get in their money before the law is altered. He admitted that the state of discipline in small debt prisons was bad; but they ought not to pass a measure of this nature merely on account of local mal-administration in prison discipline. He cautioned the House against attempting to remedy one evil by calling a greater one into existence. If this Bill came into operation at once, it would be impossible for the labouring man to get credit, and credit was necessary to his subsistence; it would certainly greatly palliate the evil to which the labouring classes would be exposed by this Bill, to defer its coming into operation until the month of March, in order to give them time to prepare themselves for the change which was about to come upon them. To show the beneficial operation of the power of ordering imprisonment being conferred on Courts of Request, and the small amount of imprisonment actually inflicted, ha held in his hand a paper by which it appeared that for several years the annual average of causes tried in the Court of Requests at Manchester was 4,000—of these 1,200 proceeded to execution—and of these executions, not 150 were carried on to imprisonment. He had presented a petition from the Chamber of Commerce of Bristol,
l.l.1891Mr. Spooner
 said, the object of his right hon. Friend was to insist on these Amendments being retained. The Lords were not satisfied that the parties originating these fine arts distributions had acted like the Art Unions, in ignorance of the law. But they had followed in the footsteps of the Art Unions, and when among the shareholders and patrons were such men as the Duke of Cambridge and Lord Denman, how could they imagine that they were breaking the law? The House, he understood, was to meet to-morrow, and, if necessary, he should have no objection to a postponement of the question.Mr. T. Duncombe
 presented a petition from the delegated miners of the counties of Durham and Northumberland, complaining that hundreds of persons had been introduced into those counties for the purpose of displacing the labour of the men who had struck work, and that it had been done under the authority of the Poor Law Commissioners. He would take that opportunity of asking the right hon. Baronet a question upon this subject. He had been informed that Sir John Walsham, an Assistant Poor Law Commissioner, had been instrumental in sending into these counties hundreds of persons from Ireland and Wales, for the purpose of interfering in the dispute, unfortunately so long protracted, between the miners of those counties and their employers. He wished to know whether this report were true, and if so, whether the right hon. Baronet thought that the provisions of the New Poor Law gave any power for such an interference with the rights of labourers?Mr. T. Duncombe
 thought, no Gentleman would get up and say, that there was a single enactment repealed by this Bill which was not a disgrace to the Statute Book of a civilized and Christian country. He was quite satisfied from his personal knowledge of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, however much they might differ on many questions in that House, that he would not have opposed this Bill.Mr. Macaulay
1904 rose to second the Motion with pleasure. For many reasons it would be improper now to advert to the details of the intended measure, and the right hon. Baronet did not, perhaps mean, to pledge himself as to all the provisions he had stated. He brought it forward that it might be considered and discussed
1904Mr. Macaulay
19101909J. Graham:1908l.1907 said, that petitions had been presented from all parts of the kingdom on the subject of medical legislation, and what were the prayers of those petitions? Those prayers were invariably that the petitioners might be invested with a controlling power with reference to those Medical Institutions to which they belonged. In other words, they desired to have an opportunity afforded them of electing the controlling body of those colleges of which they were members. How were these petitions answered? Were the petitioners to acquire additional power by the proposition of the right hon. Baronet? Were they to elect the Council? No; but they were to be subject to a Council appointed by the Government, and by Colleges of the conduct of which they had been incessantly complaining. Did the right hon. Baronet consider such a proposal would be satisfactory to the medical profession? He was aware that in the present case the profession should be but a secondary object, and that the public must be looked to first. He gave the right hon. Baronet credit for having attended to the subject, and though what he now said might give offence out of doors,
19101909J. Graham:1908l.1907Mr. Wakley
M. Milnes would support the hon. Gentleman if he divided against the Clause. The principle was so obnoxious and it opened such a door to corruption, that he certainly thought they ought not to sanction it. This gentleman had undertaken it as a speculation, for there were no funds out of which he could be paid. [Mr. M. MilnesMr. Wakley
 said, till the Art Unions were stopped by the Government, no one was aware that they were illegal; and it was on the faith of their being legal that the parties alluded to by his hon. Colleague had commenced their proceedings. He was perfectly willing to leave the matter in the hands of the Government, confident that full protection would be given to all parties.Mr. Wakley
1895s. would put it to the hon. Gentleman whether such a system of credit, was founded on a good basis. No, it was not—it was most injurious and demoralizing. The only sound basis for credit for the poor man was good conduct and good character. The hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Humphery) had just told him that a great number of persons were confined for debt in the Compter prison, and the highest debt was 91895s.Mr. Wakley
 moved the further consideration of the Lords' reasons for rejecting the Amendments of the Commons in the Art Unions Bill.Mr. Wyse
1887 denied that the Roman Catholic clergy objected to the use of the Scriptures, and said that there could be no
1887Mr. Wyse
 said, he had to complain of the precipitancy which this measure had been hurried through the House. A measure of such importance ought not to have been brought forward only three or four days before the termination of the Session, and in the absence of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford.Colonel Verner
 had hoped the righthon. Baronet would have adverted to a subject which he had omitted to mention—he meant the Fishery Convention. The right hon. Baronet had said the noble Lord was fond of making his own panegyric. All he could say was, that if the noble Lord had remained in power, that question would have been settled long since. The right hon. Baronet had stated in the commencement of this Session, as he had done at the close of the last, that the French Chambers were about to pass into a law the provisions contained in the treaty between the two countries. The right hon. Baronet had, last Session, passed an Act carrying into effect only a portion of those provisions; the House was obliged to receive or to reject them. He (Captain Pechell) was very anxious that some parts should pass; to others he objected. He was afraid that now formed an item in the difficulties of this country. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would have no objection to state to the House what was the present state of the legislation in France with respect to the Articles of the Convention agreed upon. Whatever might be the right hon. Baronet's opinion as to the exertions of the noble Lord, and as to what was thought of him at that side of the House, he could only say, that the noble Lord deserved the same encomium which the right hon. Baronet had passed on Mr. Webster—that of being a most honest statesman, and carrying into effect whatever tended to advance the interests of his country. Connected as he had been with the question of the Slave Trade, he did think that all concerned were deeply indebted to the noble Lord for the great exertions he had made, and which certainly had not received great encouragement from Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House. Personally he felt that the noble Lord had made great sacrifices in concluding those treaties with France and Spain for the settlement of a matter which had remained unsettled for 150 years.Captain Pechell
1888 said, that the Lord Chancellor had had nothing to do with the original appointment of Mr. Warburton, who had been selected by Mr. Commissioner Evans as Deputy Registrar. It appeared to him it was a speculation on the part of Mr. Warburton, which had turned out a bad one, and he had now abandoned it, not having performed the duties for two months. It had appeared to
1888Sir J. Graham
1869 said, that since yesterday, when the hon. Gentleman gave him notice of his question, he had not had an opportunity of applying to the Poor Law Commissioners on the subject, but he was quite prepared to state that in his opinion
1869Sir J. Graham
 said, as this was a question of indemnity for the past, he thought both parties ought to have an equal benefit from it, as they had both acted in ignorance of the law, at the same time it would be for the Government to consider whether the use of lotteries, either by companies or individuals, should be tolerated in future. As far as he could promise it, the Members of the Government in the other House would support the view of the hon. Member for Waterford.Sir J. Graham
l.190319021901Wakley:ex-officioex-officio1900ex-officioex-officiode novo.189918981897 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulation of the Medical Practice throughout the United Kingdom. In ordinary circumstances he should have been unwilling to introduce a Bill of this importance without the power of proceeding with it immediately; but he knew the anxiety of the profession to ascertain the details of the proposed measure: in many quarters groundless apprehensions were entertained:—
"Mussat tacito medicina timore."l.190319021901Wakley:ex-officioex-officio1900ex-officioex-officiode novo.189918981897Sir J. Graham
1893 had never heard a fairer speech than that of the hon. Member for Bristol. He believed that if the measure ought to come into operation at all, it ought to come into operation immediately. With regard to the working classes, it was said that the Bill would entirely deprive them of credit. If that were the case, it could make no difference to them when the Bill came into operation. But he could not think that legitimate credit would be at all narrowed. Many were annually imprisoned, without, he believed, much benefit to the creditor and to the system of credit. With respect to the shopkeepers, nothing could be more unwise than the measure proposed by the hon. Gentleman. Every creditor during the next six months would
1893Sir J. Graham
 thanked his hon. Friend for putting the question, and was glad of the opportunity of making it more clearly understood that such was not his intention.Sir. J. Graham
 said, his right hon. Friend had received a memorial from some merchants trading to the western coasts of Africa, complaining of certain acts done by the French authorities in the Gaboon river, and which were stated to be prejudicial to the commerce of this country. The memorial had been presented to Her Majesty, and by her referred to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. But it was drawn up on a total misapprehension of how matters stood upon that coast. For instance, it stated that the Board of Customs had always looked upon the settlement on that river as a British settlement, and that our flag had been flying there for years. Now, that was a total misapprehension of the facts of the case. Our flag had never been hoisted there by any one having authority to do so, and he was informed that the goods imported from this country were always looked upon to be, and paid duty as, foreign goods. He could give no assurance of any proceeding being taken by Her Majesty's Government upon the memorial, but undoubtedly the facts it detailed would be inquired into.Sir R. Peel
 considered, that Mr. Warburton had a fair claim to remuneration Under ordinary circumstances he would have most probably been appointed to an office under the Act; but the House had heard how that office had been disposed of. He thought the claim of Mrs. Warburton to remuneration was clear, and he should give the Motion his cordial support.Sir R. Peel
l.,1886 could bear testimony to the fact, that the hon. Member had not treated the petition with levity, though he had the manliness to say, after learning the object of the Bill, he felt bound not to oppose it. The object of the Bill was to remove what was an incumbrance to the Statute Book. It was no doubt to be regretted that at this period there was not an opportunity of introducing a more comprehensive measure; but about the Repeal of the Statutes to which this Bill applied, barbarous and obsolete as they were, there could be no hesitation; and at his request, his right hon. Friend, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had already given notice of a Motion to extend the Repeal
l.,1886Sir R. Peel
 had alluded to the statements contained in the letter of the British merchants who forwarded the memorial of the natives. They stated that the Gaboon territory was a British settlement, and that its produce was admitted on more favoured terms than that of any other part of the coast of Africa, because it was a British settlement, and that the British flag was flying at the ports on the Gaboon. That was the statement made by the British merchants at Bristol, who forwarded the memorial which had been alluded to. The fact was, that the Gaboon territory was not a British settlement; its produce was not admitted on more favourable terms than that of other parts of the coast, and if our flag was flying, it was without the sanction of the British Government. The occupation of the Gaboon by the French was in consequence of the treaty made two years ago between the two countries.Sir R. Peel
188218811880187918781877: The House will not expect from me any reference to the latter observations of the noble Lord, considering the circumstances in which the question is at present placed. I confess I was not prepared for the speech of the noble Lord, entering, as it did, so widely into the whole foreign policy of the country, upon the Motion for reading the Order of the Day for the Report on the Roman Catholic Penal Acts Repeal Bill. Upon such a question I could not have anticipated that the noble Lord would have questioned, as he has done, the foreign policy of Her Majesty's Ministers, as especially during the last fortnight he had two different opportunities of expressing his sentiments upon the present state of foreign affairs. The noble Lord was in the House yesterday; but he had not the courtesy to give me notice of his intention. It seems to me that the speech which the noble Lord has just made, is intended to supply omissions in former speeches—it seems to have been delivered, in fact, to pass a panegyric upon the noble Lord himself. If that were the object of the noble Lord, in my opinion it is a work which the noble Lord has not neglected before. The noble Lord began by imputing to the Government a system of resistance at home, and concession abroad. Now, that is a very antithetical and fine-sounding sentence, but it is no more. It was only yesterday that the Government was accused of adopting the policy of their predecessors. That was the charge
188218811880187918781877Sir Robert Peel
1884 wanted to ascertain from the Government whether the British flag and British trade were not placed on a more disadvantageous footing in consequence of this treaty than they were before. He had said nothing at all about the Gaboon being a British territory. What he asked was, that Her Majesty's Government should take care that British commerce and honour did not suffer. To
1884Viscount Ebrington
1870 wished to ask a question of the First Lord of the Treasury, of which he had given notice, respecting an agreement prejudicial to our commerce, reported to have been obtained by the French from the chiefs of the Gaboon river, on the west coast of Africa. From the memorial, signed by the chiefs of the banks of that river, which was addressed to Her Majesty, it appeared that the French had, in the month of March last, obtained from the King a paper, conferring upon the French authorities the power of regulating the commerce of the territory, and requiring the French flag to be raised in their towns above those of all other nations. It was said that the King and several of his chief men had been intoxicated, and in that condition induced to sign a paper, transferring the sovereignty of their territories to the French, under the impression that it was a mere formal letter of civility to his Majesty King Louis Philippe. This was said to have been done by M. Amouroux, master of a French merchant brig, and the natives, it appeared, were greatly indignant as soon as they had discovered the imposition practised upon them. As any addition to the settlements of the French on the Guinea coast was of importance to the commercial interests of this country, he wished to know whether Government had received infor-
1870Viscount Ebrington
187618751874187318721871 said, I do not mean to advert to the subject of the occurrences on the west coast of Africa, but I wish to take this opportunity of making a few observations with respect to the position in which the Foreign Affairs generally of the country now stand, as it is the last occasion which will present itself. I am anxious to call the attention of the House and of the Government to the inconvenient consequences which have arisen from the system of policy pursued by Her Majesty's present advisers — a system which appears to be one of resistance at home and of concession abroad. When the right hon. Gentlemen opposite came into office, they adopted a course which they probably thought would lead to a state of tranquillity abroad, and secure to them the good-will of Foreign Governments. I doubted at the time the success of that line of policy, and affairs which have arisen since must have convinced
187618751874187318721871Viscount Palmerston
1923** was opposed to the Bill altogether. It was a most unfair thing to press forward a measure of that nature at that period of the Session, when seamen had had no opportunity of expressing their opinions on the subject. They would, in the course of next Ses-
1923**Admiral Dundas
 did not say that. He had read a paragraph from the local paper which he held in his hand at the time, and he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether it was true? It was because he did not know that it was true that he made the inquiry. With regard to another point the right hon. Gentleman had made another misstatement.Mr. Duncumbe
1944 said, that he could not refuse himself the pleasure of tendering his best thanks to the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, for his introduction of a Bill, which he was sure would be considered as a boon by every Magistrate in England. Magistrates had long been as alive as the hon. Member for Finsbury could be to the objectionable consequences arising from the present state of the law respecting the Clerks' fees. The law, as it now stood, obstructed the administration of justice. Magistrates continually felt themselves compelled to make unseemly bargains with the delinquent, and not to convict when they ought to convict, rather than subject a man who had committed some trifling offence, and whose means were very small, to so severe an infliction as, in many cases, the fees alone on conviction at present entailed—over which fees the Magistrates had no control. The Clerks must be paid, but they ought to be paid in a different way. The hon. Member for Finsbury had spoken slightingly of the country Magistrates; but there could not be a greater mistake than to suppose that they were disliked; and, if the hon. Gentleman would only make an excursion into the country, he would, find that the Ma-
1944Mr. Gally Knight
 said, that the Bill had been well considered, and so far from the merchants or seamen being displeased with the measure, he had received several letters expressing their approval of it, and thanking the Government for having introduced it.Mr. S. Herbert
 moved that the Lords' Amendments to the Merchant Seamen's Bill be agreed to.Mr. S. Herbert
1937 thought the course adopted by the Government was most beneficial, since it afforded the country ample time to consider these important matters before they came under the consideration of Par-
1937Mr. Hawes
 had read the letter with a view to show what were the sufferings to which poor people (not paupers, as the right hon. Gentleman had described them), were liable on their passage between England and Ireland, leaving the House to infer what must be the sufferings of paupers.Mr. Hawes
1943l.l. said, one of the highest objects a Secretary of State could aim at was the purification of the country from that gross system of extortion which had been hitherto practised in those departments which the Bill particularly referred to. He would not enter upon the details; he would content himself with one remark in relation to the provision for abolishing fees. It was proposed that fifty years' usage should be taken as an evidence of the legality of such fees. But what he submitted was, that in cases where fifty years of gross extortion had existed, the clerks, before sending in their average incomes, should first have this system of extortion put an end to. He recollected an instance when three persons had been indicted for perjury at Dorset Assizes, when the expenses they were put to before they were suffered to plead amounted to 91943l.l.Mr. Bickham Escott
l.l. was well aware that there was a great jealousy existing regarding the law of settlement as between the town and country districts. He was not disposed to regard the principle of the Bill unfavourably, but he would not pledge himself to details. There existed great hardships in consequence of the removal of persons who had been residents in a place for many years. It was seen, with regard to the Irish and Scotch paupers, who, probably, had been in a manufacturing town in England for thirty years, when in need of some temporary assistance, have been removed to Ireland or Scotland, where they had no settlement. He considered this a very great hardship. Then with regard to the removal of paupers in England, the right hon. Baronet had stated that there were 30,000 removals in England in the course of the year. In the borough of Salford, consisting of 50,000 inhabitants, the removals were more than 300 per annum. The expense averaged about 2l.l.Mr. Brotherton
1931 wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether it were in the contemplation of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any Bill in the next Session of Parliament, either totally to abolish Capital Punishments or to extend the number of cases of exemption from that punishment? He was quite convinced that these public exhibitions had a very injurious effect on public morals, and the melancholy occurrence which had taken place at Nottingham was a full proof of that. If the House would permit him he would just read an extract from a letter which he had received. He really thought it was more worthy of the attention of the House than some subjects which were introduced in that House. The hon. Member read an extract from a letter relating to the accident which had just occurred on the occasion of an execution, in which thirteen persons lost then lives, and stud he wished to know whether it were the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure to put an end to these disgraceful exhibitions, which, in his
1931Mr. Brotherton
Times. said, he had never stated that he had received positive information. He had founded his question on a paragraph in the newspapers, and he had asked him whether it was true or not. The right hon. Baronet had also fallen into an error in supposing that it was he who stated that Mr. Dampier was the Crown Solicitor; it was Mr. Daniel Dobree who had stated this in his letter to the Times.Mr. T. Duncombe
TimesTimes said, it was with very great reluctance he proposed to occupy the attention of the House with anything personal to himself, but publications were sometimes made with respect to what took place in that House, and made, too, under the sanction of persons in high office, which rendered it necessary to take notice of them. It would be in the recollection of the House that a short debate had recently taken place on the affairs of Guernsey. Certainly the report of that debate in the newspaper was curtailed and inaccurate. Shortly after it was published he received a letter from the rev. Mr. Dobree, whose name had been mentioned in that House by himself and the right hon. Baronet. A letter denying the accuracy of his statements regarding Mr. Dobree had also appeared, two days previously to his receiving that of which he spoke, in the TimesTimesMr. T. Duncombe
1939 thought the Bill would have an opposite effect to that anticipated by the hon. Gentleman, and that it would necessarily throw the burthen on the agricultural districts. He thought, therefore, considering the position of the Government, it was a measure of great boldness, and one for which they were entitled to much credit. Since the Bill had been announced, it had been looked forward to with great anxiety by all who were interested in the law of settlement. He was glad the hon. Member for Lambeth had called attention to the hardships attending the removal of paupers. The frightful sufferings endured by these poor people under the present system could hardly be conceived. Every kind of
1939Mr. Wakley
 would recommend the appointment of a Committee in the next Session, to ascertain by whom, and to what extent, fees had been extorted. He highly approved of the nomination of a lawyer to be Clerk to the Magistrates, for as Justices proverbially had little knowledge of law, it was fit some person who at least pretended to an acquaintance with it should assist them. He congratulated the country on the variety of excellent Bills which within only a few days had been introduced; and as the real business of the country was better done by a small than by a large number of Members, he saw every reason why the Session should be prolonged, at least until these beneficial measures had been passed. While Government was in such a happy mood it would be a pity to deprive it of the opportunity of doing so much good.Mr. Wakley
 said, that Irish Gentlemen had long felt deeply interested in the subject of the removal of paupers. He thought the present Bill calculated to remove many of the evils of the present system. He did not understand whether it was proposed to extend the Bill to Ireland; but he believed that without some such measure it would be impossible to repress mendicancy in that country.Mr. Wyse
: As the right hon. Baronet had laid papers on the Table concerning Captain Warner, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman a question. He had received a model of a vessel from Shoreham, the port from which the ship destroyed by Captain Warner had sailed; and from that it appeared the ship had ropes fitted on board her, fastened from stem to stern, and that after the process it appeared that from 150 to 200 fathoms of line had been thrown overboard from the steam-vessel applied to the barque blown up, showing that a direct communication had been established between the steam vessel and the ship. He wished to know if the Government had received from the naval officers any communication calculated to explain or to affirm the suspicions which most people entertained with regard to that experiment.Captain Pechell
 considered the Bill would improve the existing state of things. He hoped, however, that Petty Sessions would not be granted to those places which had not proper accommodation for the Magistrates. He thought that the practice of holding sessions at inns and public houses ought to be done away with; and he considered that those places which failed to provide a proper building for the bench ought not to have the privilege of Petty Sessions. With respect to the alteration in the appointment of Clerks of the Peace and to Magistrates, he hoped those attorneys who were violent political partizans, would not be allowed to be eligible to the office.Captain Pechell
d.d.,s., although he admitted that much misapprehension existed regarding this measure, thought it was most unreasonable to press it forward at the present time. It was impossible to discuss it properly, or to ascertain the opinions of seamen and shipowners respecting it. It was very well for hon. Gentlemen opposite to say that the interests of landlords and that of agricultural labourers were identical — that fallacy had been pretty well exposed by his hon. Friend below him; but the agricultural labourers were now beginning to be awake to their own interests, and to discover that their interests were concerned in having cheap bread. So the seamen were well aware that their interests were not identical with the interests of the shipowners. The House of Lords, by one of their Amendments, had reduced the amount of remuneration to be awarded to seamen for loss of their provisions from 1d.d.,s.Captain Pechell
 said, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of Her Majesty's Government had promised to state to the House, the course which had been pursued by the French Government on that matter; perhaps the right hon. Baronet would then state, whether any law had been passed by the French Chambers in respect to it.Captain Pechell
1929 said, it was evidently late in the Session, or the hon. Gentleman would never have taken up half an hour of their time to discuss such a question as this. If the hon. Gentleman had asked him whether the letter which had been ad-
1929Sir J. Graham
193619351934de novo."That there was no poor man who had reached the age of forty years, among the working classes, who had not some reason to complain of the Law of Settlement in England; and the cause of this was, that the law in this country was of so remarkable a character and that the boundaries of the parishes in England were so indistinct. In other countries, mountains, rivers, and arms of the sea divided parishes, but in England it was not so."1933 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Law of Settlement; and, important as was the discussion which took place on the subject of the Poor Law only a short time ago, the branch of that law which he was now to bring under the consideration of the House was not to be considered of secondary importance. The difficulties of the subject were best illustrated by the numerous ineffectual attempts which had been made to effect an alteration in the law. He could not better state to the House the magnitude of the question before them than by pointing out the number of orders issued annually in England for removals and the large number of persons affected thereby. From a Return which he held in his hand, it appeared that during the year ending September 29, 1841, there had been upwards of 11,000 orders of removals executed in England, and that no less than 32,000 persons had been affected by those orders. This was independent of the removals to Scotland and Ireland, which amounted to more than 7,000, and affected at least as many as 14,000 persons. The House would thus see that according to this estimate, which was based in actual returns received from 485 Unions, there had been in this country 18,000 orders of removal in a single year, by which the fortunes and happiness of not less than 46,000 persons had been materially affected. The word "removal" implied a great amount of human suffering and sorrow, and its operation was no doubt very painful to the poor upon whom it was inflicted. At the same time, however, it was a necessary law, and it was the duty of the House to consider under what circumstances it ought to be upheld, and how any modifications might be effected in the evils pro-
193619351934de novo."That there was no poor man who had reached the age of forty years, among the working classes, who had not some reason to complain of the Law of Settlement in England; and the cause of this was, that the law in this country was of so remarkable a character and that the boundaries of the parishes in England were so indistinct. In other countries, mountains, rivers, and arms of the sea divided parishes, but in England it was not so."1933Sir J. Graham
 had no hesitation whatever in telling the hon. Gentleman that Her Majesty's Government had no intention to introduce any measure on that subject. His opinion was entirely the reverse of that expressed by the hon. Gentleman, as regarded the moral effect of executions in cases of murder. At the same time he must express his deep regret at the fatal occurrence which had taken place at Nottingham; though he must say, he had never heard an inference which appeared to him to have so little foundation as that this fatal catastrophe was at all to be ascribed to the bad moral effect of a public execution. The event might have occurred at a horse race, or even, through sudden panic, in a chapel. He repeated that he had no intention of proposing either the abolition or the remission in certain cases of capital punishments.Sir J. Graham
1930 said, he had yesterday stated that Sir J. Walsham had not interfered as a Poor Law Commissioner to put down the strike for wages in a district
1930Sir J. Graham
1940 thanked the House for the cordial reception they had given to the Bill, and said he would offer one or two observations with respect to what had fallen from hon. Gentlemen opposite. The hon. Member for Finsbury had said, that by laying measures of this importance before the House at the close of the Session, the Government gave time for deliberation, and evinced a consciousness that they were doing right. But they did more than this—they showed a willingness to correct error, should it be discovered, by bringing public opinion to bear on these questions. They had felt it their duty to take this course in dealing with such an immense subject as that of the medical practice of the United Kingdom, and in presuming to propose an altera-
1940Sir J. Graham
l.19421941 said he was happy to announce to the House that he had now arrived at the last Bill which he had to lay before them at the close of the Session. It was a Bill to which he attached great importance, for regulating the duties, and the amount of fees, to be discharged and received by Clerks of Magistrates, Clerks of the Peace and Clerks of Assize. He would take them in order:—including Clerk of the Arraigns, Clerk of the Indictments, and Clerk of the Assize, and various other officers who go with the Judges on the Circuit. The great object with respect to the two first classes, namely Clerks to Magistrates and Clerks of the Peace, was to substitute salaries in lieu of
l.19421941Sir J. Graham
l.l.1932 had seen the reports which had been made to the Admiralty upon the subject by naval officers; but those officers had not been admitted into any very close communication with the vessels. He could not either confirm or deny the Report to which the hon. and gallant Member had referred. The experiment, he would not deny, might have been performed in the manner in which Captain Warner represented; but with respect to the ropes, he had no opportunity of satisfying him-
l.l.1932Sir R. Peel
l.1925vivâ voce1924: The question which the hon. and gallant Gentleman has put, re-
l.1925vivâ voce1924Sir R. Peel
19751974197319721971197019691968196719661965: Sir, in the time of the late Administration it was the custom that the House should not disperse at the end of the Session until a pamphlet had been delivered by Lord Lyndhurst in the shape of a speech, referring to the various Bills had been introduced into Parliament, pointing out when they had been completed, how often they had been postponed, and how many of them had not arrived at their fitting consummation. I never considered that course very just or very fair. I did not consider it so, in the first place, because the Houses of Parliament themselves, how well disposed so ever they may be to consider measures, yet, in the course of discussion, interpose so many obstacles to rapid progress, that an Administration, I think, can never be justly chargeable with all the legislative failures that may have occurred during the Session. I thought it, in the next place, an unfair course, because it was notorious that the Upper House of Parliament was chiefly composed of members belonging to one political party. It was notorious that that party, having been in power during a long period of years, had placed in that House of Parliament about 200 of its members—that of upwards of 400 Members of which it consisted, not less than 200 had been placed there by the advice of the Ministers of the Tory party to the Crown, during that period. It was natural that those who entertained these politics, who had entered into Parliament with strong prejudices of that kind, should be adverse to a Ministry which was of a different political party. It was not difficult, therefore, for those who had authority with that party, to obtain the rejection of Bills, however useful, which were promoted by a Ministry with whom they did not agree. But, Sir, no doubt that mode of proceeding made its impression. It was considered by many persons that the Ministry must have failed in its duty when so many Bills had not obtained the sanction of the Legislature. That course I have never followed; it is not a course which I am now about to follow. If I were about to do so, I think I should have far more reason to object to
19751974197319721971197019691968196719661965Lord J. Russell
Sibthorp1993s.1992Cochrane:19911990 said, that if the hon. Member was sincere in his wish to better the condition of the poor, and thought that increasing their employment was the way to effect it, he wondered at his complaint of the speech of the right hon. Baronet; for if he rightly apprehended the part of that speech that referred to this matter, it was that of congratulation at the improvement which had taken place. The right hon. Gentleman pointed to the improvement of the Revenue, the prosperity of trade, and the better employment of the poor which had resulted from his policy. As that policy consisted in relaxing the restrictions on trade, lowering the protective duties, and thereby increasing the demand for labour, he roust express his surprise that the hon. Member for Bridport, was always found in opposition to that policy. The right hon. Baronet was right in saying that trade had improved, and that the poor were better off, and as the hon. Gentleman's remedy abolishing the New Poor Law had not effected it, he would do well to inquire whether it had
Sibthorp1993s.1992Cochrane:19911990Mr. Villiers
 answered that it was intended by the Admiralty to institute such a Board immediately, and not to take up any merchant ship for the Queen's service that was not commanded by a master or mate who had been examined.Mr. S. Herbert
 afterwards reported from the Committee appointed to draw up Reasons against the Lords' Amendments to the Merchant Seamen's Bill, and it was ordered that the Reasons be sent to the other House. They were accordingly communicated to the House of Lords; and a Message was subsequently received that the Lords did not insist on their Amendment.Mr. S. Herbert
 said, that there was a single omission in the speech of the right hon. Baronet. He had not held out a hope that it was his intention to introduce any further alterations in the Poor Law. The House must fully concur in the eulogy which the right hon. Baronet had passed upon the ability and temper with which the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had brought forward the question of the Poor Laws. It formed a striking contrast to the conduct pursued by certain hon. Gentlemen on the question who usually supported the Government and sat behind the Treasury Bench. He had some thoughts of bringing forward in the next Session of Parliament a measure for regulating the wages of labour. He would have done so this Session if there had been time to pass it. Nothing had been done for the establishment of the system of allotment to the poor. In those parishes where that system was in operation much distress had been alleviated. In Scotland, where this allotment system was in operation, and where they had no Poor Laws, the distress was not so great as in this country. Were the House disposed to entertain the question, he had it in his power to bring forward fresh cases which would fully demonstrate the harshness of the present Poor Law.Mr. B. Cochrane
1995 said, that he was not aware of any precedent directly applicable to the present case, but he considered that it would establish a most inconvenient and dangerous one if the House were now to entertain the Amendment which had unfortunately been omitted from the Merchant Seamen Bill when it was sent back from the Lords. That omissions and mistakes had occasionally been rectified during the progress of measures in the two Houses of Parliament; but in the present instance the Lords' Amendments had been agreed
1995The Speaker
1994 maintained that more had been done this year for the benefit of the country than in ten years of previous legislation under the late Ministry. He denied that the farmers were discontented. They had a most gratifying harvest, and, moreover, they witnessed the regular decline and fall of the Anti-Corn Law League. Though in some little points the fanners complained, he had no hesitation in saying that both farmers and labourers were in an infinitely better condition than they were formerly, during the constant agitation of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton and the Anti-Corn Law League. He trusted that body was nearly crushed. He knew they were very low in that which they most sought after—funds—and though he did not usually rejoice at the misfortunes of his fellow creatures, yet he could not help rejoicing to hear that they had not a shilling left in their locker.
1994Colonel Sibthorp
 said, that it was all very well for the right hon. Gentleman to congratulate the House on the present state of the country as compared with its condition three years ago; but could any man conscientiously say, when looking at the actual condition of the miners and the manufacturing classes, that he participated in the satisfaction expressed by the right hon. Baronet? The question was, could Parliament better the condition of the working classes? He considered that it was in their power to give great relief by equalizing the taxes which at present pressed most unequally on the people. There was one expression which fell from the right hon. Baronet that he could not allow to pass unnoticed. The right hon. Gentleman had said that Mr. O'Connell had had a fair trial. He believed the reverse—and he believed that the right hon. Baronet's assertion was not only contrary to the opinion entertained by this country, but by the whole civilized world. There was an almost universal conviction that Mr. O'Connell had not had a fair trial. That was a conviction deeply rooted in the general mind—especially on the subject of the Jury—the great tribunal where justice alone could be obtained. It was impossible to say that Mr. O'Connell had had a fair trial. In respect to the policy of Her Majesty's Government, within the last few weeks, with regard to Ireland, he believed it was characterised by the spirit of conciliation, and contrasted favourably with the spirit evinced at the commencement of the Session. If the right hon. Gentleman would persevere in that spirit, he would soon find a response from the people of Ireland. He thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the several excellent measures he had introduced during the latter period of the Session, more especially the Dissenters Chapels Bill. Let the spirit which dictated that measure prevail in the Cabinet, and the right hon. Gentleman might reckon upon the cordial support of the country.Mr. Hume
1961Nation1960195919581957 rose and spoke to the following effect;—Instead of the customary prorogation by the Queen, the adjournment of the House is proposed by the first Minister of the Crown, in order that the opinions of the Judges in the case of Mr. O'Connell may be delivered before the next Session, and to prevent the hazard of a great injustice being done. It is felt by everybody that it would be monstrous that Mr. O'Connell should be kept in gaol for six months, and that he should afterwards be discharged upon the ground that he ought not to have been originally imprisoned. The case is conceived to be one of so much importance and so much difficulty, that a deviation from Parliamentary usage is proposed by the Prime Minister, and on the 5thof September Parliament is to assemble again. If the decision shall be in favour of Mr. O'Connell, if the Judges shall think that the Jury was improperly composed, and that the challenge to the array should have been allowed, Mr, O'Connell will be discharged. For this proceeding the Government do not claim any credit, for by an opposite course the general censure of the country would be incurred. But surely the Government have, by the step which they are now adopting made the most important practical admission. They have, by an irresistible implication, acknowledged that the detention of Mr. O'Connell pending the question whe her he ought to have been imprisoned at all,
1961Nation1960195919581957Mr. Sheil
196419631962 must, on this last day of the Session, before it has yet closed, and whilst the voice of the Representatives of Ireland could still be heard, again protest, as he had done repeatedly during its continuance, against the sentence and proceedings by which Mr. O'Connell and his fellow sufferers were held in prison. He must again raise his voice, in conjunction with his right hon. Friend, against what he had called, and must continue to call, an unfair and most unjust condemnation. Mr. O'Connell was silent, and properly so: he called for no remission, no mitigation of his sentence. Neither he, nor any of his companions in suffering, had for one moment betrayed any unworthy anxiety for pardon. They disdained to plead for a discharge from mere punishment, and he must say that every one who had such an opinion, who had such an opinion as he entertained of the character of the trial, must honour them for such conduct. The people, too, had hardly spoken. Their feelings were of a much stronger character. Not for mercy did they ask, but for justice—not for favour, but for the right of every British-born subject, to fair and impartial judgment. For this the traversers had asked in the Courts below; it was refused them, he cared not upon what technical quibble. They again asked for it from the same tribunal; no new trial was granted. They appealed to the House of Lords; but all the great facts were shut out from consideration. To whom had they to turn, and with them any Irishmen (for in wrong done to their rights, wrong was done to the rights of all), but to that House, the guardian of the franchises of every citizen, however low, the protector of the accused, and the inquirer into every abuse and grievance in the nation? To that House they turned. They asked for inquiry, and for nothing, be it remembered, but inquiry. A great fact was in-contestible, a great Catholic, the first of that powerful community, was tried and convicted, by a Jury from which Catholics, some say, were studiously excluded, but on which certainly there did not sit a single Catholic. Some called that accident—others
196419631962Mr. Wyse
 having moved that the House at its rising do adjourn to Thursday the 5th of September,Sir R. Peel
1988198719861985198419831982l.1981l.;l.l.1980Hawes:1979J. Russell:197819771976: Sir, the speech made by the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) was, in its general character, so entirely divested of anything partaking of party spirit, and the noble Lord imputed so little blame to the Government, that I am almost relieved from the necessity of making any observations in reply; but some remarks I feel it my duty to address to the House, and I shall endeavour to observe the same spirit by which the noble Lord's speech has been characterised. The noble Lord states that he is content to leave the questions connected with the foreign policy of this country in the hands of Her Majesty's Government. The noble Lord, therefore, does not call upon us for any renewed declarations; he does not seek to elicit from us any expression of opinion which might by possibility prejudice our endeavours to maintain peace, consistently with the honour and the interests of this country. In some of the observations made by the noble Lord I entirely concur. I think there is little public advantage in the extreme length to which the Sessions of Parliament are now carried. Our first business is, of course, to discharge those duties which devolve upon us as Members of Parliament;
1988198719861985198419831982l.1981l.;l.l.1980Hawes:1979J. Russell:197819771976Sir R. Peel
 thought the praise of the measures of Ministers did not come very well from the hon. and gallant Member, considering that he had himself opposed several of the most important—such as the Dissenters Chapels Bill, the Poor Law Bill, and the Factory Bill.Lord Ebrington
 wished to ask the Secretary for the Admiralty, whether it was intended next Session to introduce a measure for the examination of masters and mates of merchant vessels?Lord Ingestre
"I return you my hearty thanks for this dutiful and loyal Address. I receive with satisfaction this new token of your affectionate attachment to me and my Family."2000 appeared at the Bar, and acquainted the House that Her Majesty had been waited on by such Members as were Privy Councillors, to offer the congratulations of that House on the birth of another Prince, and that Her Majesty was pleased to receive the same very graciously, and return the following answer:—
"I return you my hearty thanks for this dutiful and loyal Address. I receive with satisfaction this new token of your affectionate attachment to me and my Family."2000The Earl Jermyn
2005 in seconding Mr. Duncombe's Motion, congratulated both England and Ireland on the great event of yesterday—an event immeasureably superior to any party triumph, and but for which Trial by Jury might have become, instead of a safeguard to the innocent, an instrument of Ministerial oppression, a delusion, a mockery, and a snare. He was not without hope that this reversal, by the highest Court in these realms, of one of the most illegal and unconstitutional verdicts ever recorded, might soothe the justly irritated feelings of the Irish people, that it might show them that, even under a Tory Government, the attainment of justice even for them was not altogether impossible, and that the dignity and purity of English law, in spite of political or personal influences, could triumph over any conspiracy of men in power against their rights and liberties attacked in the person of their leader. The conduct of the Judge, the composition of the Jury, and all the unworthy and pettifogging tricks which had been resorted to, to obtain a conviction against Mr. O'Connell, were too well known throughout Europe to need any further comment from him; one remark, however, he must make on the species of sanction given by the Head of the Government to the principle acted on in open Court by his Irish Attorney General—that, namely, of taking the law into his own hands, and appealing to force instead of argument or authority. It was his duty to inform the right hon. Gentleman that the consequences of such conduct passing unreproved by him might be most calamitous in a country so peculiarly circumstanced as Ireland, and where, above all things, it was necessary to inculcate obedience to the law. He therefore greatly lamented this omission, as he feared that the example alluded to might be but too readily imitated and considered by the Irish peasantry as a sanction for what was called the wild justice of revenge. The decision of the House of Lords having for the moment saved the Government from the consequences of their ill-advised and unjust conduct, he implored the right hon. Gentle-
2005Mr. Otway Cave,
2007: I feel equally with the right hon. Baronet the inconvenience of entering at this moment into a discussion upon the recent judgment of the House of Lords. But I must, after what the right hon. Gentleman has said, re-assert the opinion which I formerly expressed. After what the right hon. Gentleman has said of the conduct of the Government, I must, I say, re-assert my own opinion, more than once expressed in this House, that the trial of Mr. O'Connell and the other traversers in Ireland was not such a trial as could give an impression of the fairness and justice of the Government. I shall be ready, therefore, whenever the right hon. Gentleman shall introduce the subject, to enter into the discussion, strengthened and confirmed in my own views by the opinion which has just been pronounced by the House of Lords. If the right hon. Baronet had merely and fairly resorted to the law—if he had given to each person accused the full benefit of Trial by Jury as it is administered in England—I should not have blamed the Government for their course; but that which I then said, and which I think more strongly now, is, that the trial was not a trial by a fair jury, but one elaborately put together for the purpose of conviction, and charged by a Judge who did not allow any evidence or consideration in favour of the traversers to come fairly before his mind, but who charged far more violently than the Attorney General had accused, thus acting towards a prejudiced Jury in such a manner as to prevent due justice being done to the people of Ireland as it was done to the people of England. I trust that the effect of these proceedings will be, that no example of such a trial will again occur, but that hereafter the people of that country may enjoy the benefit of English institutions,
2007Lord John Russell
 wished to know the opinion entertained by the right hon. Baronet relative to the conduct of Mr. Pritchard. That gentleman, now in this country, had had his conduct maligned; he was charged with having acted most imprudently; and it would be but fair that the right hon. Baronet should state his impression as to the course he had pursued.Mr. Hindley
Laughter.: I wish to ask whether the new writ which has been moved for North Lancashire is connected in any way with Lord Stanley's secession from the Cabinet. I beg to inquire if he is still at the head of the Colonial Department? [Laughter.Mr. T. Duncombe
20042003v.: I was not aware that the question I asked was an improper one, or would cause so much ridicule and laughter from noble Lords and right hon. Gentlemen opposite. A noble Lord holding a high office in Her Majesty's Councils—the Colonial Secretary of State—suddenly quits this House. A Member gets up and asks whether he still retains his post, and the right hon. Baronet is facetious at my expense, because I inquired whether the noble Lord's retirement from this House would create a vacancy in Her Majesty's Councils. I still think that was a legitimate question; but I have another question to put. I am about to make a Motion, which I think so reasonable and so just, that I hope the right hon. Baronet will offer no opposition to it. I know that the Black Rod is about to knock at our door, and therefore I will not take up much of your time, as I should wish to have done in making those observations I think necessary on the present occasion. I wish to move for a copy of the opinions delivered by the Judges in the House of Lords, on the questions propounded to them in the case of "O'Connell 20042003v.Mr. T. Duncombe
ecrasè, wished to ask a question of the hon. Baronet opposite, which he hoped his sense of public duty would enable him to answer so as to quiet the excited state of public feeling, which had now existed for some time. About two months ago, the right hon. Baronet declared in that House, in a bold, manly manner, becoming the character of the Prime Minister of the country, that he had demanded reparation from the French Government, for the gross outrages which had been committed on the person of our Consul at Tahiti. Since that time we had received information from Tahiti, which showed, that instead of Queen Pomare asking the French to become her protectors, the protectorate had been established contrary to her wishes. Events of great importance had also taken place in various other parts. A French squadron had been sent to Tangier, and had bombarded that almost defenceless place. The French had not taken possession of Tangier, but another squadron had proceeded to Mogador, which, to use the expression of the Prince de Joinville, had been ecrasè,Sir C. Napier
2001: I think I shall best perform my duty to the House and to the public by making as brief an answer as possible to the questions put by the gallant
2001Sir R. Peel
: I have great satisfaction in stating—and I hope the hon. Gentleman will derive equal satisfaction from learning the fact—that my noble Friend's position in the Colonial Department is not in the slightest degree affected by the writ which has been moved for.Sir R. Peel
2006: Sir, it would be very inconvenient if, under the circumstances in which the House is now placed, we should be drawn into a discussion on what has recently occurred—a discussion in which I must be interrupted before I had concluded my observations. But at the proper opportunity I shall be perfectly prepared to vindicate the course the Government has pursued. The hon. Gentleman (let me remark) has certainly overlooked the fact that seven out of nine of the English Judges affirmed the judgment of the Court below. As to the accusations about packing Juries, I shall not be provoked to enter into any partial discussion of these charges. I content myself with declaring, that whenever the fitting period arrives I shall be prepared to vindicate the course taken by the Government in vindicating the authority of the law by an appeal to the ordinary tribunals, asking no extraordinary power, though at a period of admitted danger—appealing to the law alone for a remedy to the evils with which we had to contend. As to the particular Motion proposed, I certainly have no objection to it, and should be happy if the Message to the Lords for the papers required could be sent now; if not, I give an assurance, which the hon. Gentleman may depend on, that nothing shall prevent the communication being sent at the earliest time possible. I was sorry to hear the allusions of the hon. Gentleman to the conduct of my right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland, after his expressions of frank regret, which I think set him completely right in the feeling and opinion of the House, and ex-
2006Sir R. Peel
: I have already stated that the discussions which have been for some time past pending, have been brought to an amicable and a satisfactory termination—satisfactory to both countries and I do hope that I shall not be pressed to make any farther statement at the present moment. When I say "satisfactory termination," of course I mean one perfectly consistent both with the interest and honour of this country.Sir R. Peel
201020092008 agreed that it would be highly inexpedient to enter at this time into a discussion of the merits and effect of the judgment which had been so recently pronounced by the House of Lords—the discussion could neither be sufficiently full nor fair, and therefore ought not to be entered upon at all, and he should not have risen, except for the extraordinary attempt of the right hon. Baronet to diminish the value and to lessen the effect of the solemn judgment of the House of Lords, by referring to the opinions of the seven judges, and which opinions that House had repudiated, and it was to prevent an incorrect impression being made upon the House and the country as to the effect of these Judges' opinions, as giving any credit to the judgment of the Irish judges, that he wished to say a few words. The conduct of the Government would derive any thing but credit with the country from the attempt to use those opinions; the country would be astonished that it should have been sought to support the unlawful judgment they had obtained by the authority of those opinions; and even those opinions themselves would excite no little surprise in the profession and the country when correctly understood. A motion was made in the Court of Queen's Bench, in Ireland, to arrest the judgment upon the indictment, consisting of several counts, each count being, in contemplation of law, a separate indictment, and containing a separate and distinct charge, and no one count receiving any effect whatever from any other count which may be inserted with it in the same indictment. It was contended, both in the Court below and in the House of Lords, that each and every one of the counts were bad in point of law, because, in truth, although they alleged certain facts with criminatory epithets attached to them, yet the matter set forth did not constitute any crime or offence against the law. The Court of Queen's
201020092008Sir Thomas Wilde
 was proceeding, when the Usher of the Black Rod summoned the House to the Peers. The Speaker immediately left the Chair, and was followed to the House of Lords by all the Members present, when a Speech of the Lords Commissioners was delivered to both Houses by the LORD CHANCELLOR: after which a Commission was read for proroguing the Parliament until Thursday the 10th day of October next; and the Parliament was prorogued accordingly.Sir Thomas Wilde
15 said, that on rising to second the Address which his noble Friend had so ably moved, it was a great satisfaction to him that it would not be necessary for him to occupy much of their Lordships' time. He was sure that it must afford the greatest gratification to their Lordships to find that Her Majesty continued to receive from Foreign Powers the strongest assurances of friendship, and that her Majesty had con-
15Lord Hill
21201918Laughter and1716 said, that as the noble Earl who had moved the Address had commenced his speech by saying, that whatever position Ireland might occupy in the Address which he moved, or, however slight might be the allusion to it in her Majesty's Speech, he felt that it was the
21201918Laughter and1716The Marquis of Normanby
30292827Aberdeen26quod est accusatori maxime optandurn,confitentem reum.Novum crimen et antehunc diem inauditurn—Quinturn Ligarium in Africâ fitisse;25242322 said, that he rose immediately after his noble Friend, not certainly for the purpose of differing from him, for in almost all his statements every one must agree, but to express his great satisfaction at having lived to see the day when, as the noble Earl opposite had, he believed, correctly said, for the first time in the experience of any of their lordships they had been called upon to present, in the language of the Speech and in the language of truth, to the Throne an Address containing from the beginning to the end nothing but congratulation. He certainly never remembered a time when the affairs of this country were in such a state that Parliament, in its return to the Speech from the Throne, should have no regrets to express, there being no one point of the political horizon obscured by a cloud. He observed, and with great approval, that the Speech and the Address abstained from entering into minute discussion of the state of Ireland pending the trials that were at present going on; that was a matter of necessity, and, indeed, of course; for should he be willing to cuter upon the consideration of any part of that question, he would be so hampered—so confined and restrained by a sense of justice to the Crown, and above all by a sense of justice to the defendants, whom he was bound to presume innocent until a verdict of their countrymen pronounced them guilty—that it would be impossible to debate the matter with the least advantage. It was impossible for them to enter at all into the consideration of the state of Ireland without interfering with that wholesome rule which prohibited discussion on any matter involved in a pending trial. Those proceedings, however, were inevitable; they had been instituted in the discharge of the duty of the Crown to protect the constitution, and it now remained for the defendants to defend themselves; and it remained for the court and the jury, unbiassed by any murmur which might escape from any quarters, to do justice between the parties, and to deliver the verdict and the judgment in the cause. But the noble Earl opposite had
30292827Aberdeen26quod est accusatori maxime optandurn,confitentem reum.Novum crimen et antehunc diem inauditurn—Quinturn Ligarium in Africâ fitisse;25242322Lord Brougham
 explained that he thought he had sufficiently drawn the distinction of which his noble and learned Friend seemed to think he had lost sight—between that portion of the relations between landlord and tenant which was dependent on the good will and free co-operation of the respective parties, and that portion which might be reached by legislation.The Marquess of Normanby
353433Devon3231 said, he should not think of detaining their Lordships long, especially after the eloquent speech they had just heard. Unfortunately he could not take so very cheerful a view of the Speech under discussion as his noble and learned friend. He agreed with him on almost every point; but if it were true that the Speech contained nothing but topics of congratulation, he maintained that was because on the most important subject at present to be considered by the Government and people of this country the Speech was entirely silent. I le alluded, of course, to the state of Ireland. To any other part of the Speech he should be un-
353433Devon3231The Marquess of Clanricarde
 had merely given the title of Landlord and Tenant Commission as that by which it was popularly designated. Its real title, as he argued, should have been the Fixity of Tenure Commission—the step being a concession to agitation by those who affected a disregard of it.The Marquess of Clanricarde
3938 said, he did not rise to disturb the unanimity which prevailed respecting the Queen's Speech. He was happy that the Speech had been so framed as to prevent the necessity of such a step. He begged leave, however, to protest against some observations which had been made by his noble Friend who moved the Address, and by his noble and learned Friend who sat behind him. They had asserted that their Lordships could approach Her Majesty in terms of approbation alone. He thought that rather an unhandsome return for the resolution to abstain—in the propriety of which he entirely concurred—from touching on any topics which could show the country was in a state of great alarm and peril. As to Ireland, he thought that while the state trials were pending, it was quite proper to abstain from any topic that could have the slightest connection with them. When they were terminated he should have much to say as to the manner in which they were instituted—he should have much to say as to the manner in which they had been conducted. But, for the present, he would entirely abstain from such topics, lest any mention of them should, in the slightest degree, be supposed to have an influence on the verdict to be pronounced by the jury. But the object of his now addressing the House was not in respect to anything the Speech contained, but in respect to what was omitted from it. It had been usual when any measures were in contemplation for the amendment of the law, to make some direct allusion to them in the Speech from the Throne. That course had been hitherto adopted during the administration of those who now ruled the affairs of this country. In the first Speech they had advised of Her Majesty to make, after the formation of the Administration, Her Majesty intimated
3938Lord Campbell
 begged to say, that it was his intention to introduce, in a few days, a measure directed to one of the objects mentioned by his noble and learned Friend. He meant the revival of the measure as to Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction. It was also his intention to renew the bill brought in last Session for the recovery of small debts. With respect to the last subject mentioned—the compensation awarded to officers who lost their places in the equity courts—he could only state, that the compensation was strictly in accordance with the act of Parliament, which was imperative in its provisions. If his noble and learned Friend conceived, that any impropriety had taken place, he trusted the noble Lord would introduce some motion on the subject, which would bring the nature of this compensation and its effect under the notice of their Lordships. There was no intention on the part of Government to bring in any measure on the subject of duelling. He did not think it necessary to notice the facetious observation of his noble and learned Friend; but to the grave matters he had given an answer.The Lord Chancellor
: His noble and learned Friend complained last year and other years of the performance falling so short of the promises of the Government. Now he did not pretend to be a prophet, or to be in the secret; but he should be very much disappointed, if the performance as to amendments of the law this year did not exceed the promises.Lord Brougham
: Why, there was no promise.Lord Campbell
 begged pardon. There was a charge at the end of the Speech which included law reform.Lord Brougham
40 said, the measures he had mentioned, were the only mea-
40The Lord Chancellor
 said, he understood his noble and learned Friend did not press his measure because there was a bill pending on the subject of small debts in the House of Commons, and also because a noble and learned Friend of his had introduced here a bill on the same subject. He had stated that it was his intention to recommend some alterations and improvements in which his noble and learned Friend concurred, and which he thought would meet all the objects contemplated by his measure. Of course, if his noble and learned Friend chose, it was open to him to bring forward his bill again.The Lord Chancellor
: Nothing could be more satisfactory than the announcement of his noble and learned Friend. He must protest against an observation of his noble and learned Friend (Lord Campbell) by way of parenthesis—that the bankruptcy bill was a complete failure. Never was a bill more completely successful.Lord Brougham
: Never did a measure more thoroughly fail.Lord Campbell
: Well, make a motion on the subject, and he would show the contrary.Lord Brougham
, in putting the question, bore testimony to the long experience, activity and knowledge of his noble Friend.The Lord Chancellor
 thanked their Lordships for the honour conferred upon him, and observed, that he ought to know something of their business, as he had been thirty years their Lordships' Chairman.Lord Shaftesbury
12l.111098"——Tuus, o regina, quod optes
Explorare labor mihi jussa capessere fas est."76 rose, and said, that their Lordships were so habitually accustomed to extend their indulgence to those who rose to address them on occasions of this nature, that he almost considered it
12l.111098"——Tuus, o regina, quod optes
Explorare labor mihi jussa capessere fas est."76The Earl of Eldon
 had denied that the title of the Commission was what the noble Marquess described it. He said it was not a Commission to inquire into the relations between Landlord and Tenant.The Earl of Devon
 said, he was misunderstood. He merely wished to deny that the style and title of the Commission was such as the noble Marquess described it.The Earl of Devon
 moved the Standing Orders, and the appointment of Lord Shaftesbury as Chairman. The noble Duke expressed in strong terms his sense of the ability and courtesy with which the noble Earl conducted the business of the House.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that a bill of his on the subject of Local Courts lay on the Table of the House for a considerable period last Session. He had been prevented from pressing it, from an understanding that some such measure was under the consideration of Government. A noble Friend of his also laid a bill on the Table of the House which was not pressed, he presumed, from a similar expectation. Unfortunately, he had been so patient, that his bill remained on the Table until the close of the Session. Now, unless his noble and learned Friend could assure him it was in the contemplation of Government to bring in a bill on that subject, he should bring forward his own measure at once, and move the second reading very speedily.Lord Cottenham
37"My attention has been directed to the state of the law and practice with regard to the occupation of land in Ireland. I have deemed it advisable to institute extensive local inquiries into a subject of so much importance, and have appointed a Commission, with ample authority, to conduct the requisite investigation." had no doubt that the noble Earl had in his own mind a perfect recollection of the object of the Commission; but he certainly did not appear to have a perfect recollection of the allusion to it in Her Majesty's Speech. He would just beg to call the attention of the noble Earl and the Government to the general tendency of the paragraph in Her Majesty's Speech:—
37"My attention has been directed to the state of the law and practice with regard to the occupation of land in Ireland. I have deemed it advisable to institute extensive local inquiries into a subject of so much importance, and have appointed a Commission, with ample authority, to conduct the requisite investigation."Earl Fitzwilliam
: As the noble Earl I opposite seemed to question the correctness of his noble Friend's description of the Commission, perhaps he will tell them what it really was appointed to inquire into?Earl Fitzwilliam
209 reported Her Majesty's gracious answer to the Address:—209The Lord Chancellor
 wished to ask his noble Friend, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether it was in his power, consistently with his public duty, to give him any information on a subject of very great and general interest. A great deal of uneasiness and anxiety had been excited amongst persons who wished for the abolition of the Slave Trade, in consequence of some reports respecting the course taken with reference to negotiations that were now going on relative to the treaties of 1833 and 1838, on the subject of the Right of Search. Pending any negotiations, he certainly did not wish to press for any information that it might be inconvenient to the public service for his noble Friend to communicate. Perhaps, however, his noble Friend would be kind enough to say a few words that might answer the purpose which he had in view, namely, to allay the anxiety which prevailed in the country upon this subject.Lord Brougham
per se,"——hanc veniam petimusque damusque vicissim," said, he should be very unreasonable, if he did not at once express himself perfectly satisfied with the statement of his noble Friend. He must join with his noble Friend in giving credit to the French ministry for the most anxious desire to put an end to this most detestable and abominable traffic. There had gone an idea abroad among the honest and intelligent people of France (perhaps from some feeling of security of national honour), that this mode of putting down the Slave-trade was inconsistent with their national welfare and interests. His noble Friend had now given the most unanswerable refutation to any such notion; for, if we sought this Right of Search,
per se,"——hanc veniam petimusque damusque vicissim,"Lord Brougham
 thought that it would be better that all the statutes relating to betting and gambling should be referred to a select committee. Those laws had two defects; in one direction they were too stringent and severe, and, as it always happened in such cases, in another they were too lax and too easily evaded. He wished to apply a remedy to such a state of things. Many of their Lordships might not be aware, and he himself, albeit a lawyer by profession, was not aware till that day, that some of the most exalted personages in the country were liable to prosecution at the suit of a common informer; and, if convicted, to be sent to, and imprisoned in the common gaol of the county in which the offence was committed for the space of twelve calendar months, for having engaged in a raffle, to which they might have given a guinea out of pure charity. He had no doubt that some of their Lordships might at that very moment be liable to a benefit of that description, and this circumstance was an illustration of his assertion that the laws with respect to gambling required to be looked into.Lord Brougham
219 thought, that the noble Duke had no greater cause of complaint against him than he had against his noble and learned Friend opposite. He had never for a moment imputed to the noble Duke any design to increase the evils, which he nevertheless thought this bill calculated to augment. The bill appeared to him to be a wholesale abrogation of the restraints on betting, and consequently calculated to increase that evil, and he had therefore desired to call the noble Duke's attention to it. If, however, the noble Duke should introduce any measure with a view to promote the moral and social improvement of the people, he hoped it would be such a measure as he could concur in. No person in the House more entirely concurred in the sentiments expressed by the noble Duke as to the expediency, and he would almost say duty, of providing manly recreations for the poor. He had always held the same language, and had laboured in every place where he had resided to provide means of rational amusement for the people. He held it to be especially incumbent upon them at the present time when they were about to continue the New
219The Bishop of London
quam primum.qui tam took nearly the same view of this subject as his noble and learned Friend. He thought that all these quam primum.qui tamLord Campbell
"To the Rt. Hon. The Lord High Chancellor.""To the Rt. Hon. The Lord High Chancellor.""W. PARKER, Vice-Admiral.""And very humble servant,"Your most obedient,"With the highest consideration,"I have the honour to be, my Lord,"Permit me, on the part of the naval branch of the forces, to assure your Lordship of the grateful feelings with which we receive this most honourable testimonial of their Lordships' commendation; and with my respectful acknowledgments for the courtesy with which your Lordship has announced it,213"My Lord,—I have had the high gratification of receiving and communicating to the naval forces under my command your Lordship's ,letter of the 25th of February, transmitting the distinguished honour conferred on
213"Her Majesty's Ship Cornwallis, at Hong Kong, June 15, 1843. stated to the House that he had received a letter from Admiral Sir W. Parker, acknowledging the Vote of Thanks of that House, for the gallant conduct of Her Majesty's naval force under his command engaged in the operations in China. His Lordship read the letter, as follows:—
"To the Rt. Hon. The Lord High Chancellor.""To the Rt. Hon. The Lord High Chancellor.""W. PARKER, Vice-Admiral.""And very humble servant,"Your most obedient,"With the highest consideration,"I have the honour to be, my Lord,"Permit me, on the part of the naval branch of the forces, to assure your Lordship of the grateful feelings with which we receive this most honourable testimonial of their Lordships' commendation; and with my respectful acknowledgments for the courtesy with which your Lordship has announced it,213"My Lord,—I have had the high gratification of receiving and communicating to the naval forces under my command your Lordship's ,letter of the 25th of February, transmitting the distinguished honour conferred on
213"Her Majesty's Ship Cornwallis, at Hong Kong, June 15, 1843.The Lord Chancellor
 took that opportunity of expressing his regret that the time of the ratification of the treaty with China, had not been taken advantage of for the purpose of conferring some additional mark of Her Majesty's approbation on Sir Wm. Parker, in conformity with the honours bestowed upon the military commander-in-chief on that occasion. He was aware that there was no intention on the part of Her Majesty's Ministers to pass any slight on Sir W. Parker, or to show that they did not appreciate the services he bad rendered; but, at the same time, the same attention was not paid to the naval as to the military officer in command, and he regretted that the opportunity afforded by the completion of the treaty had not been made available.The Earl of Minto
214 observed, that the noble Earl had given him no intimation of any intention to make a statement, nor had he expected him to make any observations. He believed that it had been stated by the noble Duke (the Duke of Wellington) in that Speech which the navy would never forget, when he moved the vote of thanks to the naval and military commanders, and those who served under them in China, that the reason why the two rewards had not been bestowed at once upon Sir William Parker was, that it would have appeared to Sir H. Gough and the military as giving more than their share to the navy. The Ministers had no care but to do justice to both services.
214The Earl of Haddington
 did not recollect this, but if the noble Earl so stated it must have been so.The Earl of Minto
215: It would have been unfair to Sir W. Parker to cut him short of his command, as his time had not expired. He could only say, that it was the desire of Her Majesty's Government to mark in every way that they could in a just manner, the gallant and distinguished services of this officer, and the high sense they entertained of his naval ability, particularly in taking the navy into the very
215The Earl of Haddington
 had only been attracted by the reading of Sir W. Parker's letter, to express his feeling that full justice had not been done to that officer, by making his reward less than that of Sir H. Gough. To be sure, the services of Sir H. Gough were divided into different acts, for the first of which he received the Grand Cross of the Bath, and for the second, a baronetcy; but, looking at the amount and nature of Sir W. Parker's services, they were not, in his opinion, of less value.The Earl of Minto
 hoped that he might interpose. He considered that the House could not do anything more unconstitutional than to discuss the right of the Crown to confer honours. The Crown was the fountain of honour. He did not deny that in cases of gross neglect, the House might interfere, otherwise it was the duty of both Houses to abstain from any expression upon the exercise of the right.Lord Brougham
 could not submit to such a rebuke without saying one word. He was not urging the noble Earl to do anything which he was disinclined to do, or which the Crown disliked, but there was a feeling in the navy that Her Majesty's Government had not done all that they might do for a gallant officer, and for a service in which he (the Earl of Minto) took great interest. What he had done was done in that House every day without notice. He had complained, that Her Majesty's Government, in the exercise of their discretion, had not done all that might have been expected with regard to the gallant officer, and the service with which he was connected. There were many ways in which he might have brought this subject on in a regular form. He might have given notice of an Address to the Crown, praying Her Majesty to bestow some mark of her favour for these services, and he trusted, that what he had said might not have the effect of preventing the Government from granting whatever mark of approbation they might think proper.The Earl of Minto
216 trusted that the discussion would have no such effect. He wished to remind the noble Earl, that Sir Hugh Gough's first services terminated at the heights of Canton, which it was supposed had put an end to the war. The war, however, broke out again. Sir W.
216The Earl of Haddington
224223222221 said, he rose to put a question to some Member of her Majesty's Government. He understood that the noble Duke who held the Privy Seal was informed upon the subject to which he was about to refer, which was quite distinct from the subject which had last occupied their Lordships' attention. It was a subject which affected, not only the comforts, but also the moral and physical condition of a large portion of their unrepresented fellow-citizens; he alluded to a measure which had three times passed their Lordships' House, relating to the Sanatory Condition of the Lower Orders. He approached this question with grievous disappointment, because he saw that during the last three years nothing had been done upon it, and unless some explanation were given, the nature of which he could not anticipate, blame must attach to the quarter from which the delay proceeded. In alluding to former proceedings, he was afraid that he was transgressing the usual limits upon putting a ques-
224223222221The Marquess of Normanby
227l.226225 said, the noble Marquess who had just sat down had addressed their Lordships at some length, and had found great fault with her Majesty's Government, because they had not adopted immediate measures with regard to the sanatory condition of the people; and the noble Marquess had afforded as a reason for so finding fault that the bill he had introduced, and which passed their Lordships' House, and was sent down to the House of Commons, bad not been since taken up by the Government. Now he
227l.226225The Duke of Buccleuch
 said, that with all respect for the noble Duke, he must say, that a more unsatisfactory explanation had never been made in their Lordships' House. The noble Duke had admitted all he (the Marquess of Normanby) had alleged—viz, that the Government had taken no steps in the matter from the presentation of the sanatory report in 1842 until the appointment of the commission on the 9th of May, 1843. The noble Duke had not given the slightest excuse for the delay of the twelve months which had been allowed to elapse. The noble Duke said, that the provisions of his Bill had been tried in Leeds, and had failed. He would not contradict the noble Duke; but information had just reached him from Leeds, that the corporation of that town, were at the present moment putting the Bill into operation, and that they were satisfied with the provisions.The Marquess of Normanby
228 Observed, that the noble Marquess's Bill of 1842 had passed that House and been sent to the other House of Parliament, where it was referred to a select committee, in whose
228The Duke of Buccleuch
 repeated, that as the measure of 1842 had failed, the Government were answerable for having taken no steps from the close of session 1842 until May, 1843.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, the noble Marquess ought to know that measures of that description required great consideration.The Duke of Buccleuch
qui tam had considered a good deal the framework of this bill, which was a most important one. He knew that great objection existed to this bill in several most respectable quarters, all founded on the general subject of gaming. There was no objection, however, to one part of this bill, and he, therefore, advised his noble Friend to restrict the enactments of his measure, which were at present too general. He recommended the noble Duke to withdraw the bill for the present, and introduce one which should have the effect of quashing the qui tamLord Brougham
 hoped, if the suggestion of the noble and learned Lord were adopted, and another bill were brought in upon this subject, it would be a very different bill to the present one. If, on the contrary, it should in any degree tend to do that which this bill did and must, effectually increase the evil of gambling, he should certainly give it his most decided opposition. Whatever contingent advantages might result from the promotion of manly sports and pastimes, if they were to be purchased at the expense of facilitating betting by the removal of legal restraints, he repeated he should feel bound to give them his determined opposition.The Bishop of London
qui tam said, that as his noble Friend proposed to divide his Bill into two distinct Bills, they might get into some difficulty by postponing it, especially if they wanted to proceed at once with the Bill for stopping the qui tamThe Marquess of Normanby
l.l,220qui tam did not agree with his noble Friend (Lord Campbell) that these debts should be made debts of honour. They were debts of honour now, but men made bets who had no honour, and what was to be done with them? This was the cause of the l.l,220qui tamThe Duke of Richmond
218qui tamqui tamqui tam217 complained, that the right rev. Prelate had hazarded an opinion with regard to this bill before an opportunity had been afforded him (the Duke of Richmond) of stating its object. His object was to destroy frau-
218qui tamqui tamqui tam217The Duke of Richmond
 moved the second reading of the Bill to repeal Penalties on Horse-racing, &c.The Duke of Richmond
210: No doubt very great interest was felt upon this subject, for it was one of the greatest importance. For the part which his noble and learned Friend had taken, it was perfectly natural for him, and, perhaps, he might say, it was his duty, to put the question which he was now about to answer. It was perfectly true that the French Government had desired that some modification might be introduced into the treaties establishing the Right of Search, which, without impairing their efficiency, might render them more conformable to the views of the French public and of the French naval service. It was not for him to say what might be the result of these propositions, but his noble and learned Friend and the House might be assured that nothing would be done which could in any degree impair or cripple our exertions in the cause of humanity, or interfere with the great effect of those treaties. He must do the French Government the justice to believe that their object was the same as
210The Earl of Aberdeen
qui tam thought the noble Duke had a right to complain, that after he had put his Bill off, it should be thus attacked, and before he had been heard to say a word in defence of it. He would venture to suggest, that the Bill, and also the whole subject, should be referred to a committee, to consider how the law now stood, and what it ought to be for the future. With regard to the qui tamLord Denman
212 said, the noble Earl opposite (Earl Fitzwilliam) had given not-
212The Duke of Wellington
"A return of the number of Her Majesty's forces in Ireland on the 1st day of January, April, July, and October, in each year, from the 1st of January, 1828, to the 1st of January, 1844, both inclusive; and also a return of the expense incurred in the fortification of barracks and other stations for troops in Ireland in the year 1843." assured the noble Duke that it was quite unnecessary for him to offer any suggestion to him to abstain from making any remarks contrary to the understanding acquiesced in by everybody in that House, in abstaining from all comment on the affairs of Ireland, which might be inconsistent with the state of mind which everybody desired to keep, during the time that the trials were going forward in that country. He was glad, that the noble Duke and Her Majesty's Ministers would not offer any opposition to his motion, as this would supersede the necessity of even the few observations he was about to make. The noble Earl then moved for—
"A return of the number of Her Majesty's forces in Ireland on the 1st day of January, April, July, and October, in each year, from the 1st of January, 1828, to the 1st of January, 1844, both inclusive; and also a return of the expense incurred in the fortification of barracks and other stations for troops in Ireland in the year 1843."Earl Fitzwilliam
 remarked, that it was not quite so easy to legislate effectually upon the matter as some people seemed to imagine. He thought his noble Friend opposite (Duke of Buccleuch) was mistaken in supposing that the corporation of Leeds had found their Bill impracticable, for he was inclined to believe they were now acting upon it, because he had been told by a very ingenious person, that the plan had been carried into effect, and the result had been to drive the evils sought to be remedied from one part of the town to another. The corporation had not been supine with reference to its Act of Parliament; but they had found, on the experience of physicians of eminence, of chymists, and of men of science, it was much easier to find an evil than to discover a remedy for it.Earl Fitzwilliam
 was very glad that this subject had been brought under their Lordships' notice. It was quite impossible to defend the second paragraph of the letter, which was directly contrary to law. It was there recommended, that the constable should inquire into the amount of property belonging, or which he had "reason to believe," belonged to a prisoner. It was utterly impossible to defend such a clause, inasmuch as it encouraged an officer to commit a trespass.Lord Brougham
l., conceived, that it was the duty of the Secretary for the Home Department, or the Lords of the Treasury, to have submitted this letter to his noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor, or to the Attorney-general before it was issued. The second paragraph was evidently contrary to law. With respect to the forfeiture of the property of felons, he was of opinion, that the sooner the law relative to it was revised the better. As the law stood, if a convicted felon were possessed of 100,000l.,Lord Campbell
269 said, he was prevented from making a few observations on the first evening of the Session by his desire not to introduce any topic which might interfere with the unanimity which prevailed on that occasion. He had then intended to put a question to the Government with regard to their intentions on a subject which, although not distinctly mentioned, was yet alluded to by the noble Earl who moved the
269The Duke of Roxburghe
 thought it would be desirable to have a letter written to the different clerks of the peace, directing that the second clause (which he thought ought to be omitted) should not be acted on.The Duke of Richmond
262"I am further directed to suggest, that in cases where there is reason to believe that persons accused of felony have any property whatever other than that found in their immediate possession, inquiry should be made at the residence of the prisoner, or at any other place known to have been frequented by him, for the purpose of ascertaining the particulars and value of such property, and the result communicated to the clerk of the peace, in order that the same may be included in the quarterly return above-mentioned.""That in every case of committal for trial, either at the quarter or general Sessions or to the Assizes, the Magistrate should state on the back of the warrant of commitment what money, goods, or effects have been found in the possession of the prisoner, and in whose hands deposited; so that the same may be entered in the quarterly return sent to their Lordships by the clerk of the peace, and be duly accounted for to the Sheriff."261 said, he rose, in consequence of the notice which he had given yesterday, to call the attention of the House to a circular letter addressed by the Lords of the Treasury to the clerks of the peace of the different counties, on the subject of property belonging to felons. It was dated the 2nd of December, 1843, and was signed by the assistant-secretary of that body. In bringing forward this subject he did so without meaning to impute blame to any one; but at the same time he must observe that all matters of this kind were formerly settled by application to the Secretary for the Home Department, to which department this subject naturally belonged, and he thought that the course taken by the Lords of the Treasury would not have been adopted if the question had been duly considered. As the law at present existed, the property of every person convicted of felony went to the Crown. Under these circumstances, those whose duty it was to look after these matters were naturally
262"I am further directed to suggest, that in cases where there is reason to believe that persons accused of felony have any property whatever other than that found in their immediate possession, inquiry should be made at the residence of the prisoner, or at any other place known to have been frequented by him, for the purpose of ascertaining the particulars and value of such property, and the result communicated to the clerk of the peace, in order that the same may be included in the quarterly return above-mentioned.""That in every case of committal for trial, either at the quarter or general Sessions or to the Assizes, the Magistrate should state on the back of the warrant of commitment what money, goods, or effects have been found in the possession of the prisoner, and in whose hands deposited; so that the same may be entered in the quarterly return sent to their Lordships by the clerk of the peace, and be duly accounted for to the Sheriff."261The Duke of Richmond
268"Whenever a British vessel shall have cast anchor at any one of the above-mentioned ports, the captain will, within four-and-twenty hours after arrival, proceed to the British consulate, and deposit his ship's papers, bills of lading, manifest, &c., in the hands of the consul. The consul, having taken possession of the ship's papers, will immediately send a written communication to the superintendent of customs, specifying the register tonnage of the ship, and the particulars of the cargo she has on board; all of which being done in due form, permission will then be given to discharge, and the duties levied as provided for in the tariff."267 said, the regulations to which his noble Friend referred had been drawn up jointly by Sir H. Pottinger and the Chinese Commissioners, and therefore, certainly might be taken as a part of the Treaty. First, with respect to the punishment of criminal offences, two bills had been passed in the course of last Session—the Chinese Courts Bill, and the Foreign Jurisdictions Bill, by the operation of which Her Majesty's Government were empowered to frame laws for this purpose, and to carry them into execution. The governor and council of Hongkong had been accordingly empowered to frame laws for this purpose, and under one or both of these acts the governor of Hongkong would appoint persons to carry out the regulations, and it was intended that at
268"Whenever a British vessel shall have cast anchor at any one of the above-mentioned ports, the captain will, within four-and-twenty hours after arrival, proceed to the British consulate, and deposit his ship's papers, bills of lading, manifest, &c., in the hands of the consul. The consul, having taken possession of the ship's papers, will immediately send a written communication to the superintendent of customs, specifying the register tonnage of the ship, and the particulars of the cargo she has on board; all of which being done in due form, permission will then be given to discharge, and the duties levied as provided for in the tariff."267The Earl of Aberdeen
266265264 said, he should take that opportunity to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, some questions with reference to one or two points connected with the Treaty recently entered into with the Chinese—an explanation respecting which would render that important document complete and intelligible. That Treaty was, he thought, one of the very utmost importance, and it ought consequently to be well understood. Under that Treaty they were about to enter on anew field of commerce—under that Treaty they looked forward to a great intercourse of trade; and, as much of its success must depend on a strict adherence, on our part, to the terms of that Treaty, and the condition by which their future intercourse with the Chinese was to be regulated, it was essential that no misunderstanding should exist. And this was equally
266265264The Earl of Clarendon
263l. had no objection to the production of the letter. By the common law of the land, as the noble Duke had correctly stated, the goods of convicted felons were forfeited to the Crown; and, until a few years ago, a regular return of such goods was made. Some very strong instances had, however, arisen, where the property of prisoners had fallen into other persons hands illegally, and had been retained by those persons. One occurred at Brighton, when 40 sovereigns were taken from a prisoner, and not given up. A still stronger case had occurred in Westmoreland, when no less a sum than 2,000263l.Lord Wharncliffe
 asked if it was intended by the Government to propose any committee of inquiry into the Irish Poor-law during the current Session of Parliament.Lord Monteagle
"Account of the average liabilities and assets of the Bank of England, during the years 1842 and 1843; balance sheet of the public income and expenditure for October, 1843, and 2nd January, 1844; and an account of the sums received from sale of stock, remittances from China, and from property tax, during the years 1841, 1842, and 1843."271270 in rising to move for the returns of which he had given notice, relating to the liabilities and assets of the Bank of England, said he would first remind their Lordships how the matter now stood. When his noble friend Earl Spencer—then Lord Althorp—introduced the bill for the renewal of the Bank charter, he accompanied that bill with another relating to the circulation. From the state of the public business, and also from the misapprehension which prevailed at that period, the second and most important bill did not pass into a law. The Bank charter having been conclusively settled for ten years, no further measure of importance had since been introduced to Parliament. In the course of last Session he took the liberty of adverting to the subject, when the noble Duke opposite said the present Session would be the most convenient time for entering upon this discussion. In that opinion he concurred entirely, but in exact proportion as it was contrary to the public interest to have a premature discussion, it became important that all the information that could properly be given, should now be laid before Parliament, to enable them to discuss it with advantage; and as a question of this description was likely to
"Account of the average liabilities and assets of the Bank of England, during the years 1842 and 1843; balance sheet of the public income and expenditure for October, 1843, and 2nd January, 1844; and an account of the sums received from sale of stock, remittances from China, and from property tax, during the years 1841, 1842, and 1843."271270Lord Monteagle
 replied to the first question of the noble Lord, that, upon the information at present in possession of the Government, it was not intended to recommend to their Lordships the appointment of a committee of inquiry on the subject, the information already before Parliament being considered sufficient. With regard to the second question, he had to answer that he was not aware of any documents being prepared which it would be desirable to lay before the House; but the noble Lord might rely upon it, that as soon as any documents were in a state to be laid before Parliament, it should be done at once. Upon the last question, the noble Lord was perfectly aware, that the renewal of the charter of the Bank of Ireland depended on entirely different circumstances and different principles from those on which the renewal of the Charter of the Bank of England depended. But it was the intention in the present Session of Parliament to adopt measures for the renewal of the Bank of Ireland charter on the same principles as the Bank of England. He must say, that the noble Lord had clearly shown that he perfectly understood the principles upon which the renewal ought to be carried into execution; but he (the Duke of Wellington) hoped to be excused if he did not then enter into the discussion of a measure the principles of which must be first stated in the other House.The Duke of Wellington
 had stated in the last Session that there would be no objection to such an inquiry. Since that the Government had obtained important information with regard to new buildings in Ireland, and he himself hereafter should have no hesitation in moving the appointment of a committee: but he desired to postpone it until the return of those noble Peers who were connected with Ireland, and who, in consequence of their anxiety to be in Ireland under existing circumstances, were now absent.The Duke of Wellington
stet processus337l.l.l.qui tam336qui tam, in the absence of the Duke of Richmond, moved their Lordships to give a second reading to "A Bill to discontinue certain Actions under the provisions of several statutes for the prevention of excessive Gaming, and to prevent for the future the bringing of such Actions." The noble and learned Lord stated, that the Bill came recommended by the Select Committee appointed by their Lordships on his noble Friend's motion. It had been rendered necessary in consequence of a number of stet processus337l.l.l.qui tam336qui tamLord Brougham
 expressed his approbation of the Bill, which went to put an end to actions, which, he was assured, were commenced either for purposes of extortion, or to avenge themselves for some supposed wrong. The construction given to the law, by the judges, was, although censured by his noble and learned Friend, in his opinion, perfectly correct. The Act against gambling, after mentioning certain games, contained the words "or any other game or games whatever." Now, I horse-racing was a game, chariot-racing was a game—it was one of the ancient Olympic games. He admitted that the common informer was a pestilent character; but the law had always given them the penalty on conviction, together with the costs of action. To deprive them now of what the Legislature had always awarded them—the Legislature by their acts having called them into existence—would be unadvisable.Lord Campbell
minis338particeps cri-Brougham. did not mean to oppose the second reading of this Bill. The noble and learned Lord who proposed the second reading, had removed some of the doubts which he entertained respecting it. He apprehended that the third clause would only extend to such a time as was required to enable the House to give a due consideration to the subject. [Lord minis338particeps cri-Brougham.The Bishop of London
l.339l.popularis action, agreed, that they ought not to have even the appearance of favouring the rich, though gambling had much more fatal consequences, and was far more injurious to morals among the inferior classes than among the superior classes. There was also an evil in putting the law in force by means of a common informer. It was a great anomaly, but the law having trusted to the l.339l.popularis action,Lord Brougham
341censor morum,l.l.l.l.l.340per s, felt it a painful duty to express sentiments at variance, not only with the speech of the noble and learned Lord, but with the unanimous opinion of the committee. He would not enter into a discussion as to the propriety of the law which gave the penalties to informers, but it appeared to him, that the law of the land had given vested interests to persons who should inform, and it should not he without the gravest reason, that the Legislature ought to consent to deprive them of the penalty. The statute invited informers by name. He would not discuss the question, whether horse-racing was a thing, which 341censor morum,l.l.l.l.l.340per s,The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that in these actions all the bets that a man might have made on either side on any occasion were collected together, and this was what gave rise to the large amount of penalties which were sued for against single individuals.Lord Brougham
 believed no action of this kind had been brought on this statute for fifty years. According to the law of some countries, as of Scotland for example, this desuetude of the law would be tantamount to its repeal. In this country, however, it could be revived for vexatious and oppressive purposes. When the object was to put the law in force for such purposes, and not to carry out the just intents of the law, he thought the Legislature ought to interpose to stop those actions. He contended that the Legislature, having only given the power of recovering these penalties by an action of debt, could not be said to have contracted with these common informers, or conferred upon them any right such as they would have had if goods had been sold or money lent, or any such species of contract entered into.Lord Campbell
 said, that he was indebted to the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack for this argument of the vested interests of the informers. The noble and learned Lord had used it when an advocate at the Bar of their Lordships' house in "Wright's case," and it had been taken up by a noble Earl opposite (the Earl of Radnor), and by the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Lansdowne), and by others of their Lordships, and by Mr. Wynn in the other House.The Bishop of Exeter
nil. said, an account had been laid on the Table of all Appeals and Cases before the Privy Council which have not yet been heard, and which were ready for hearing on or before the 1st day of February, 1844, which return, although of a negative character, was very satisfactory, being "nil.Lord Brougham
 took that opportunity of stating his opinion to be unchanged, that it was necessary to have a permanent head of this court.The Lord Chancellor
 had no objection to such a plan, which he had himself proposed; the establishment of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council had been unquestionably productive of great benefit; but he had formerly expressed his opinion, and that opinion he still retained, that it was susceptible of improvement, and, if supported, he would endeavour to remedy its imperfections. He had no objection whatever to bring in a bill for that purpose, embodying such alterations as seemed to him to be necessary, for experience had shown him that the existing law did not go far enough.Lord Brougham
nil, was of opinion that the system, as it stood at present, worked extremely well. With his noble and learned Friend that system had originated, and the public were much indebted to him for what he had done. His noble and learned Friend might be said to be at the head of the Judicial Committee; but still, so excellent was its arrangement, that they contrived to get on very well in his absence, although they missed those witty remarks with which his noble and learned Friend enlivened every subject. His noble and learned Friend was pleased with the return "nil,Lord Campbell
469in banco, thought the objection premature, because his noble and learned Friend did not know his plan. It would be more effectual than his former bill. As his noble and learned Friend had alluded to him, he hoped he might reciprocate the compliment, which he did fully and sincerely, though he could not say, that his noble and learned Friend shed any liveliness on any matters before the Council, which he knew to be of such a nature as to be perfectly dry—they were so remarkably dry that he defied all the liveliness of all the Members to give them anything they had not in their own nature. He would state what he felt himself, that he had very great scruples of conscience and much delicacy in calling upon his noble and learned Friends, who had other duties to perform, to come and give their hours and labour in that Court, and to render perfectly gratuitous services to the public. It was a thing which he abhorred to find the discharge of judicial functions merely voluntary. They had now it was true, the accession of Mr. Pemberton Leigh. Nevertheless, though that gentleman was a very great and beneficial accession to the Judicial Committee, it must not be forgotten, that they had recently been deprived altogether of the services of the Common Law Judges who had sufficient business elsewhere, owing to the winter circuits, and the great increase of business 469in banco,Lord Brougham
471470 laid on the Table a bill which was of considerable importance, but he would content himself on that occasion with very shortly explaining its objects and provisions, and humbly hoped this would enable their Lordships to come to a favourable conclusion with respect to its utility. The bill was to effect this: when a prosecution should take place by the Attorney-general, or on behalf of the Crown, for a libel, or for the use of seditious words, and the libel or words stated facts which might or might not be true, to allow the defendant to give in evidence the truth of the statements, on a notice being served on the prosecutor. Their Lordships would well recollect that the subject of the Law of Libel was brought before them last Session, so far as regarded libels on individuals, or private defamation; there was, however, a great difference between private wrongs and public libels, or the use of seditious words. It was thought more expedient to abstain last Session from touching public prosecutions, that they might not hazard the great good which they then had in contemplation. Their Lordships did agree to a bill, which had, in his opinion, greatly improved the law. Some of the provisions assented to by their Lordships had not met with the agreement of the other House of Parliament. He could not coincide in the view there taken; and though he did not now propose to make any alteration with regard to the provisions on which the two Houses differed, the time might come when they would agree that their Lordships had rightly determined. He thought that the time would come when, in a public place, a man could not be denounced as a liar, a scoundrel, and a coward, without having any remedy, civil or criminal, or that a female reputation could be tarnished by the most opprobrious appellations without any redress being afforded. At present he would be content to leave the law, under its present
471470Lord Campbell
 entirely approved of the course proposed to be taken by his noble and learned Friend. No doubt the Committee of last year would have taken this step also, but preferred completing one step at a time: they had, however, examined the evidence on this part as well as the others. He agreed that it was desirable to read this bill a second time, and then refer it to a Committee. Of course, he fully approved of it, for he had introduced a similar bill twice into the other House, and once into that.Lord Brougham
 observed, that this matter was discussed in the Committee last year, and it would be better to refer this bill to the same Committee, who had considered this point much, though they had not made it a part of their Report. It must not be understood in what he had now stated, that he had expressed any opinion on this bill.The Lord Chancellor
WellingtonCheers.498 said: He trusted he should stand excused before their Lordships if he rose for the purpose of seconding the Resolutions of his noble Friend. He could add but little to what had fallen from him, but it would be a gratification to him to be allowed to say that he cordially, and without qualification, concurred in the Vote of Thanks which he had proposed. No man could be more alive than he was to the excellence of which our Indian army under the direction of its British officers had attained. Thus organised, there was no army that possessed more of the
WellingtonCheers.498Lord Auckland
"That the said Resolutions be transmitted by the Lord Chancellor to the Governor-general of India; and that his Lordship be requested to communicate the same to the several Officers referred to therein.""That this House doth highly approve and acknowledge the brave and meritorious conduct displayed by the Non-commissioned Officers and Private soldiers, both European and Native, engaged in the operations in Scinde; and that this Resolution be signified to them by the commanders of the several corps.""That the Thanks of this House be given to the several Officers of the Army, both European and Native, serving under Major-general Sir Charles Napier, for their unwearied zeal and conspicuous gallantry.""That the Thanks of this House be given to Major-general Sir Charles Napier, G.C.B., for the remarkable skill, energy, and gallantry displayed by him in the recent military operations in Scinde, particularly in the two decisive battles of Meanee and Hyderabad."497496495en echellon,494493492491 said: In rising to move the Thanks of the House to Major-general Sir Charles Napier, and the Officers and Men under his command employed in the operations in Scinde, I will take especial care to abstain from saying anything which may lead to any difference of opinion. It is your Lordships' practice on occasions of this kind to pursue that course, and it seems to me to be recommended by prudence and justice. I may, however, be permitted, before I make the motion, to state to 'our Lordships, as briefly as I can, and in a general way, the grounds upon which I think the conduct of that gallant officer, and the army under his command, are most deserving of your Lordships' gratitude; and I would take the liberty very shortly of detailing to your Lordships the course of those operations which have shed so much lustre on the character of that distinguished man. It appears that in the early part of last year,
"That the said Resolutions be transmitted by the Lord Chancellor to the Governor-general of India; and that his Lordship be requested to communicate the same to the several Officers referred to therein.""That this House doth highly approve and acknowledge the brave and meritorious conduct displayed by the Non-commissioned Officers and Private soldiers, both European and Native, engaged in the operations in Scinde; and that this Resolution be signified to them by the commanders of the several corps.""That the Thanks of this House be given to the several Officers of the Army, both European and Native, serving under Major-general Sir Charles Napier, for their unwearied zeal and conspicuous gallantry.""That the Thanks of this House be given to Major-general Sir Charles Napier, G.C.B., for the remarkable skill, energy, and gallantry displayed by him in the recent military operations in Scinde, particularly in the two decisive battles of Meanee and Hyderabad."497496495en echellon,494493492491The Earl of Ripon
512511510 said, My noble Friend has introduced his question with observations on the state of Spain, and of our relations with that country, in a manner which would better have justified a motion rather than the question with which he concluded, because it imposes upon me the necessity of making more general observations than may be altogether convenient to the House, or useful to the country in which the noble Earl professes so great an interest. I rejoice that my noble Friend has expressed his satisfaction at the establishment of a good understanding between France and this country, and that even those who have war in their hearts—and there may be such in this country—are still obliged to confess that they concur in that satisfaction. My noble Friend has entered at considerable length into the events which have taken place in Spain in the attempts to establish a constitutional system of government in that country, and he has described the various impediments which have occurred to the success of that establishment. No one knows better than the noble Earl the history of Spanish affairs; and if he cannot, I do not think that any one, looking back to the various revolutions, and revolts, and changes, which have taken place during the last ten years, since the death of Ferdinand, can give any intelligible or consistent account of the motives of any one of them. I know that when these events take place great credit is given to foreign influence. This is plotted in Spain—the other is contrived in London. The noble Lord knows that if the overthrow of the Regent was contrived in Paris; his elevation was said to be con-
512511510The Earl of Aberdeen
: I have no reason to think that any recommendation of the kind has been given. The French government may propose whom it thinks proper, but I am no party to anything in the shape of exclusion. It is very likely that the French government may think that the Spanish nation would do well to select a prince of the House of Bourbon. I may be of that opinion too; and a great deal may be said upon the subject. I believe that if the Spanish nation were to vote upon the question, such might be their choice; but I do not enter into a matter which is to be left to the fair choice of the Spanish government. I think that my noble Friend was wrong in what he said of the mission of M. Pageot last year; but it is not for me to enter into that subject: it is not before the House, and it has no practical bearing upon the question which is before it. My persuasion however is, that the noble Earl is mistaken upon the subject of that mission. I think I have now answered my noble Friend's questions, and I hope to his satisfaction, though I do not agree with his description of recent events, or of the nature of those events, yet I entirely concur with him that our greatest endeavour ought to be by every means in our power to secure the independence and the prosperity of Spain. I give him full credit for an absence of all party and personal feeling. I do full justice to the motives by which he is actuated, knowing, as I do, the great interest he has always taken in the affairs of Spain.The Earl of Aberdeen
513: I am bound in justice to say, that I think the answers of
513The Earl of Clarendon
: Does the French government mean to exclude any prince from the throne of Spain, but one of the House of Bourbon?The Earl of Clarendon
509508507506505504503502 said, that in rising to put to my noble Friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, the questions of which I gave him notice, I must, in the first place, assure him, that I am not influenced by party motives, nor by any desire of causing the slightest embarrassment to the Government; but the events which have recently occurred in Spain, and still more those which are impending, are to my mind of a character too serious to be permitted to pass unobserved, and in silence. I am convinced that they received the anxious attention of my noble Friend, and that the House and the public will be desirous of receiving any information upon them, which he may not think it inconsistent with his public duty to communicate, for Spain must always occupy an important place in the general policy of Europe, and the prosperity, and, above all, the independence of that country must always be deeply interesting to the people of England. In fact, the British Statesman would greatly fail in his duty, who neglected every means in his power to secure the independence of Spain, and to resist all attacks upon it, be they open, or be they insidious, and come from what quarter they may. These are, I know, the principles of my noble Friend, which, upon more than one occasion, I have had the satisfaction of hearing him declare in this House, and I trust he may prove to your Lordships, that by them he has been guided, and that we are in no way responsible for, but on the contrary have done what was possible to avert the deplorable state of anarchy into which Spain has now fallen. A state of things, which must be equally alarming to those who wish well to liberal institutions, or who are anxious to maintain the dignity and security of thrones, for the throne and the constitutions of Spain are now in equal danger; both have been alike degraded, and in fact set aside, and in their place has existed a military despotism of the worst and most ferocious description, which, under a reign of terror, has for months past been rioting in acts of violence and illegality, and have trampled upon the laws, and outraged the
509508507506505504503502The Earl of Clarendon
 stated, that having been a good deal in France and Spain, he was able to assert that what his noble Friend had mentioned about proofs, which he did not think fit to bring forward, might be attended with injurious consequences. It was one of the worst things that could have been said in reference to the alliance which all must be anxious to preserve. The effect of what had fallen from his noble Friend might not be overcome in two or three years, and might materially counteract what had been so well stated by the noble Earl at the head of the Foreign Department.Lord Howden
501Cheers.500499: I can assure your Lordships, that it is not my intention, in addressing your Lordships for a few moments, to say anything which may occasion any difference of opinion. And I hope I may congratulate my noble Friend upon having proposed a motion to your Lordships which will be unanimously agreed to. But, my Lords, I cannot listen to such a motion as this, impressed as I am with a strong sense of the importance and the merits of the services which have been brought under your Lordships' attention, without expressing my cordial assent in the expressions of approbation stated by my noble Friends, and in the motion submitted by the noble Earl to your Lordships. My Lords, I must say, that after giving the fullest consideration to these operations, I have never known any instance of an officer who has shown in a higher degree, that he
501Cheers.500499The Duke of Wellington
633l.l.l.l.l.l.632l.l.l.l.Brougham631Haddington630629Cheers."The Catholics had been accused pretty liberally of disloyalty by those very advocates who now seem to think it proper to remove their imputed treasons against the King, provided they shall be followed up by real treasons against the people. I do not believe, I never did believe, the general charges made against the Catholics. I do not dispute, I never did dispute, the propriety of giving salaries to the Clergy; but it should be salaries, not bribes, salaries for the exercise of their religious duty, and not wages for the practice of political apostacy."628"That in treating with persons of a different religion, and allowing them to maintain the truth of their own religion, he did not thereby weaken his own faith in his own."627"It may be proper to leave to Parliament an opportunity of considering what may be done for His Majesty's subjects, without seeking at present any rule to govern the Protestant establishment or to make any provision on that subject.""I have heard such an argument used in this House, but those who apply it, without qualification, to the case of Ireland, forget, surely, the principles on which English interest and English connection have been established in that country, and on which its present Legislature is founded. No man could say, that in the present state of things, and whilst Ireland remains a separate kingdom, full concessions could be made to the Catholics without endangering the state and shaking the constitution of Ireland to its centre.""It is not easy to say, on general principles, what system of Church Establishment in such a country would be free from difficulty and inconvenience. By many I know it will be considered that the religion professed by the majority of the people, would, at least, be entitled to an equality of privileges."626625Wharncliffe624"At an early hour of the morning (some of them, indeed, over night) the great landed proprietors of the county repaired to the different points on their respective estates at which it had been previously agreed they should meet their tenants, and march at their head to the general place of assemblage, so that the area in front of the hustings did not present a very crowded appearance, until the arrival of the men in large masses, each having a pride of marching border fashion, shoulder by shoulder, beside his neighbour and brother, with whom he was ready to sacrifice life in defence of his country and religion. Shortly after eleven o'clock, a tremendous shout from the town announced the approach of the first party. They were from Moira, and were headed by the Rev. Bolt Waring, who was drawn by the people. A flag, the union jack, was hoisted at Mr. E. Rielly's, as the signal of their arrival. In a few moments they were seen descending the steep hill from the town, and approaching the place of meeting in a close, dark, and dense mass, comprising certainly not less than 20,000 persons."623622Lord Chancellor"It was the duty of Government to call on Parliament to give them additional power to put down the agitation. There was no necessity for such a step, for Sir Robert Peel expressed his determination to try the ordinary power to assist him; nor will he, unless their verdict shall have proved the existing law to be insufficient for that purpose.""I should wish, if possible, a panel of unprejudiced men, and if that is not to be obtained, I should wish a panel composed of persons of all opinions, and not confined to persons of one description only."621"Every thing in Ireland at this moment resolves itself into a question of religion, and not of politics. The agitation is religious—the Repeal is religious—the whole organization of the country is religious; and the struggle, whenever it comes—as come it will most assuredly—will be a war of religion, and not of politics."Evening Mail.WharncliffeLord WharncliffeLord ChancellorWharncliffeWharncliffe620619a conspiracy.Loud cries ofand some sensation618Evening Mail,617616615614"It has been stated by persons who must know better, that Mr. O'Connell has all the patronage of the Government in Ireland. I utterly and indignantly deny the truth of that statement. Mr. O'Connell, like any other Member of Parliament requiring information
614613"As long as England conforms to the true principles of the Union, I shall wish the strict
613Laughter.Lord Chancellor612611Marks of dissent from the Ministerial side of the House.Wharncliffe610"We seek for equality with the British people, common interests, and reciprocity of benefits, and to be legislated for as a part of Great Britain. With less we will not be content."609from the Ministerial Benches.608* * ** * ** * *"The preceding great meetings had all ended without a breach of the peace; and the presumption grew stronger and stronger that each succeeding meeting would have a similar peaceable result * * ** * ** * *Quarterly Review607WharncliffeWharactiffe606605604603: There are some subjects, my Lords, of such urgent and paramount importance in the mind of the speaker, that they completely supersede and banish all considerations of self. And it is under this impulse alone that I am induced to undertake the task, to encounter the discouragement, and bear the responsibility of bringing before your Lordships a subject of such magnitude as that of which I have given notice, but I entertain feelings of such intensity as to the present danger and future prospects of Ireland, that whatever other disqualifications I may labour under for the task, I shall at least address your Lordships with that earnestness of purpose which, as it most merits, has always proved the best passport to your Lordships' attention. I may allude to another feeling, because it has its rise in no merits of my own; it arises, my Lords, from the acts of others. My Lords, I have another inducement to address you on this subject, that even at present, in the midst
633l.l.l.l.l.l.632l.l.l.l.Brougham631Haddington630629Cheers."The Catholics had been accused pretty liberally of disloyalty by those very advocates who now seem to think it proper to remove their imputed treasons against the King, provided they shall be followed up by real treasons against the people. I do not believe, I never did believe, the general charges made against the Catholics. I do not dispute, I never did dispute, the propriety of giving salaries to the Clergy; but it should be salaries, not bribes, salaries for the exercise of their religious duty, and not wages for the practice of political apostacy."628"That in treating with persons of a different religion, and allowing them to maintain the truth of their own religion, he did not thereby weaken his own faith in his own."627"It may be proper to leave to Parliament an opportunity of considering what may be done for His Majesty's subjects, without seeking at present any rule to govern the Protestant establishment or to make any provision on that subject.""I have heard such an argument used in this House, but those who apply it, without qualification, to the case of Ireland, forget, surely, the principles on which English interest and English connection have been established in that country, and on which its present Legislature is founded. No man could say, that in the present state of things, and whilst Ireland remains a separate kingdom, full concessions could be made to the Catholics without endangering the state and shaking the constitution of Ireland to its centre.""It is not easy to say, on general principles, what system of Church Establishment in such a country would be free from difficulty and inconvenience. By many I know it will be considered that the religion professed by the majority of the people, would, at least, be entitled to an equality of privileges."626625Wharncliffe624"At an early hour of the morning (some of them, indeed, over night) the great landed proprietors of the county repaired to the different points on their respective estates at which it had been previously agreed they should meet their tenants, and march at their head to the general place of assemblage, so that the area in front of the hustings did not present a very crowded appearance, until the arrival of the men in large masses, each having a pride of marching border fashion, shoulder by shoulder, beside his neighbour and brother, with whom he was ready to sacrifice life in defence of his country and religion. Shortly after eleven o'clock, a tremendous shout from the town announced the approach of the first party. They were from Moira, and were headed by the Rev. Bolt Waring, who was drawn by the people. A flag, the union jack, was hoisted at Mr. E. Rielly's, as the signal of their arrival. In a few moments they were seen descending the steep hill from the town, and approaching the place of meeting in a close, dark, and dense mass, comprising certainly not less than 20,000 persons."623622Lord Chancellor"It was the duty of Government to call on Parliament to give them additional power to put down the agitation. There was no necessity for such a step, for Sir Robert Peel expressed his determination to try the ordinary power to assist him; nor will he, unless their verdict shall have proved the existing law to be insufficient for that purpose.""I should wish, if possible, a panel of unprejudiced men, and if that is not to be obtained, I should wish a panel composed of persons of all opinions, and not confined to persons of one description only."621"Every thing in Ireland at this moment resolves itself into a question of religion, and not of politics. The agitation is religious—the Repeal is religious—the whole organization of the country is religious; and the struggle, whenever it comes—as come it will most assuredly—will be a war of religion, and not of politics."Evening Mail.WharncliffeLord WharncliffeLord ChancellorWharncliffeWharncliffe620619a conspiracy.Loud cries ofand some sensation618Evening Mail,617616615614"It has been stated by persons who must know better, that Mr. O'Connell has all the patronage of the Government in Ireland. I utterly and indignantly deny the truth of that statement. Mr. O'Connell, like any other Member of Parliament requiring information
614613"As long as England conforms to the true principles of the Union, I shall wish the strict
613Laughter.Lord Chancellor612611Marks of dissent from the Ministerial side of the House.Wharncliffe610"We seek for equality with the British people, common interests, and reciprocity of benefits, and to be legislated for as a part of Great Britain. With less we will not be content."609from the Ministerial Benches.608* * ** * ** * *"The preceding great meetings had all ended without a breach of the peace; and the presumption grew stronger and stronger that each succeeding meeting would have a similar peaceable result * * ** * ** * *Quarterly Review607WharncliffeWharactiffe606605604603The Marquess of Normanby
: There are two who have filled the office of Secretary for Ireland.The Lord Chancellor
: I do not dispute the fact, but Sir Robert Peel has been Secretary under circumstances very different from the present: he has been Secretary for Ireland at a time when the toast of "the Glorious and Immortal Memory" was wont to be given from the Secretary's table. His knowledge, therefore, does not apply to the present time, or to the present state of feeling and opinion.The Marquess of Normanby
: Lord Stanley was also Secretary for Ireland.The Lord Chancellor
"That this House having, in answer to Her Majesty's most Gracious Speech, assured Her Majesty that they entered into Her Majesty's feelings in forbearing from Observation on Events in Ireland in respect to which, Proceedings are pending before the proper legal Tribunal, feel it, in consequence, to be their Duty to take the earliest Opportunity, when no Prejudice can arise there from in the Minds of the Jury, to record their Intention to examine into the Causes of the Discontents now unhappily too prevalent in that country. And also, that, with a view to the Removal of existing Evils, and the Restoration of Confidence, this House look to the Development of the only True Principles of a perfect Union, by securing to Her Majesty's Subjects, of all Classes and Persuasions, in all Parts of the United Kingdom, the practical Enjoyment of equal Rights."635634: I am unwilling, for many reasons, to advert to the Irish Administration of my noble Friend Lord Stanley. Excepting the noble Duke, there is not a native of Ireland a Member of the Administration. I see among the Ministers several Scotchmen—one, two, three, or perhaps three and a half, for the noble Lord the President of the Council is in part claimed by Yorkshire, but not a single Irishman, excepting the noble Duke. The loss sustained in the death of my noble Friend, Lord Fitzgerald, may be said to have been felt with double severity. Whatever may have been the faults of his early Irish education, sure I am that my late noble Friend's views regarding his native country were always governed by the strictest sense of justice and propriety. It is no wonder, then, that such ignorance of Ireland prevails
"That this House having, in answer to Her Majesty's most Gracious Speech, assured Her Majesty that they entered into Her Majesty's feelings in forbearing from Observation on Events in Ireland in respect to which, Proceedings are pending before the proper legal Tribunal, feel it, in consequence, to be their Duty to take the earliest Opportunity, when no Prejudice can arise there from in the Minds of the Jury, to record their Intention to examine into the Causes of the Discontents now unhappily too prevalent in that country. And also, that, with a view to the Removal of existing Evils, and the Restoration of Confidence, this House look to the Development of the only True Principles of a perfect Union, by securing to Her Majesty's Subjects, of all Classes and Persuasions, in all Parts of the United Kingdom, the practical Enjoyment of equal Rights."635634The Marquess of Normanby
 wished to say in explanation, that he had never offered any suggestion about the paying of the Catholic clergy. On the contrary, he had said that he thought, it not expedient to attempt it. But he certainly expressed his wish to see the Catholic clergy put on a footing of equality, which was the object of the Emancipation Act.The Marquess of Normanby
659l.658657656"The effect of force can be but temporary. By force you may for a time subdue, but you do not remove the necessity to subdue, and that country is not governed which has continually to be coerced."655654Wharncliffe653652651650Wharncliffe649 said, that undoubtedly the noble Lord, the President of the Council had made an able and eloquent speech, and had addressed himself to their Lordships in a tone with which he (the Marquess of Clanricarde) was highly gratified; but he regretted extremely that he could not agree with the noble Lord in by far the greater part
659l.658657656"The effect of force can be but temporary. By force you may for a time subdue, but you do not remove the necessity to subdue, and that country is not governed which has continually to be coerced."655654Wharncliffe653652651650Wharncliffe649The Marquess of Clanricarde
663662661660 said he could not allow the unwarrantable aspersions thrown out by the noble Marquess to pass unnoticed. In finding fault with the late Government on account of the various agitations which existed during their tenure of office, he (the Earl of Roden) had held it to be his duty to call the attention of the House to what he conceived to be the misgovernment of Ireland by the noble Lords opposite. He was not influenced by any party views or objects, and was actuated by no feeling but a sincere desire to forward the happiness and prosperity of the country to which he belonged. The noble Marquess had said that when other persons were in office he (the Earl of Roden) had taken no notice of such transactions, but passed them over in silence. He would call the attention of their Lordships to the real facts. On the very first day of the last Session he had taken the liberty of giving notice in that House, that in consequence of the agitation for the Repeal of the Union it was his intention to put a question on the subject to Her Majesty's Ministers. He did, on that occasion, give his opinion as to the circumstances which marked the agitation, and called the attention of Government to its progress. Towards the close of the Session he felt it to be his duty to follow the same course he had always followed on this question, and he again appealed to noble Lords behind him to adopt the measures which the state of public affairs pointed out as necessary. He maintained, therefore, that there was no ground whatever for the statement of the noble Marquess with respect to the line of conduct which he (the Earl of
663662661660The Earl of Roden
670669Normanby668667 said, having been in Ireland for some months, he thought that a very good reason why their Lordships on the other side of the House, who were not perhaps very well disposed towards him, should give him an opportunity of expressing his sentiments on this occasion, in preference, perhaps, to any English Lord who had not been there at all. In giving support to Her Majesty's Government on general principles, some noble Lords were doubtless far superior to him, but in respect to his knowledge of the country, he thought he had a fair claim on their Lordships' attention. He might say that, without vanity, as far as residence could entitle him to say so, he possessed knowledge. He must say, he thought the attacks which had been made on the Government were very unfair. They had been charged with that which they could have had nothing to do with. They had not, and they could not have had anything to do with the arrangement of the jury panel on this or any other occasion. The panel was selected by law, and if there was any person to be blamed for what had occurred, it was the Recorder; and he was not blamed, because it was known that he discharged his duties as an honest judge ought to do. He contended that the language of the Attorney-general, in stating the case, was such as a sound lawyer, and a cool, calm, and dispassionate man ought to have used. There were no flowers of eloquence in his speech. He was in great hopes that the noble Marquess would have come forward with remedies proper for the condition of Ireland, instead of confining himself entirely to blaming the conduct of the present Government since they had come into power. The noble Marquess said, the popular will had not sufficient influence on the representation of Ireland. Were not, he would ask, 105 Members sufficient? Would the noble Marquess ven-
670669Normanby668667The Marquess of Westmeath
 wished to correct a supposition of the noble Lord's and to declare that it was utterly unfounded. He had not altered the terms of his motion; it had not ever been in any other shape; he had never contemplated any other motion; and this had been seen by some of his noble Friends six days ago.The Marquis of Normanby
675 wished to explain. What he had stated was, that the people were taught to think, that if Repeal were carried, the Protestant religion would be destroyed, and the Roman Catholic religion would be established instead of it. That that being the general feeling, he thought, particularly after the instance of the grand juror whom he mentioned, who, after taking an oath
675Lord Roden
648647646645Campbell644643642641A laugh.640639638637636 said: When my noble Friend laid his Resolution on the Table of the House, I confess I could not understand what was the object he proposed to accomplish. It appeared to me that there was no part of it to which I could not give my assent. True, in another place, a noble Lord, when giving notice of a similar motion, is reported to have said, that if he should succeed in persuad-
648647646645Campbell644643642641A laugh.640639638637636Lord Wharncliffe
"Magnaque numinibus vota exaudita malignis,"—673672671 stated, that he certainly should not have taken up their Lordships' time, had it not been tor his connexion with Ireland; but he could not refrain from expressing his regret, that his noble Friend should have thought it his duty to have brought this motion forward; or, he should rather say, that in the prosecution of a certain particular object, he should have deemed it expedient to have done so. If the question should come to a vote, he should feel it his duty to vote against the motion, although he agreed entirely with his noble Friend (the Marquess of Normanby) in his wish that equal rights with England should now be given to Ireland. He objected, however, to his motion, on the ground that it was ill-timed, and therefore mischievous; particularly so at this moment, and under the present circumstances, when it was evident that the
"Magnaque numinibus vota exaudita malignis,"—673672671Lord Howden
674 said, that when his
674Lord Beaumont
680679678677676RodenRoden said, he would accept the noble Earl's explanation, and in order to make the explanation consistent, he must suppose the noble Earl to believe, that a jury of Roman Catholics would have found the same verdict as the twelve men who were sworn. [Lord 680679678677676RodenRodenLord Beaumont
666665664 said, as so much allusion had been made to the subject of the Commission of which he was a Member, and as so much misconception ap-
666665664The Earl of Devon
 postponed the motion of which he had given notice two nights since, with respect to the petition presented to the House by Lord Dundonald.Lord Brougham
 took that occasion to bear testimony to the great importance of the inventions of the noble Lord, which formed the basis of his petition. With respect to his improvement in the application of steam machinery to war vessels, experiments had been made as to their efficiency, and these had been highly satisfactory. The very mention of the name of Lord Cochrane—a name associated with such eminent services rendered to the country—would of itself induce their Lordships to look with favour upon the petition.The Earl of Minto
874873872871870869868Lansdowne:867866865 said, the noble Earl who had just addressed their Lordships commenced his speech by complaining of a statement made elsewhere with respect to his appointment of certain stipendiary Magistrates towards the close of his administration in Ireland; and he was anxious, as far as he was informed, to put the question upon its right footing. The present Ministry had been accused of the removal of Stipendiary Magistrates. It was said they had removed ten of the number in consequence of their dislike to that most useful and valuable body of men; and it was in order to defend himself and the Irish Government from that charge, and not with the view of inculpating the noble Earl, that the statement he (Lord Fortescue) referred to was made by the Home Secretary. The facts of the case, however, were these:—When the present Government came into office they found sixty-six Stipendiary Magistrates in Ireland. On looking at the late nominations, they found that the estimates for 1841, which were printed by order of the House of Commons on the 7th June, 1841, provided for fifty-nine Stipendiary Magistrates. They thus found that seven Stipendiary Magistrates had been added, between the 7th June and 28th August, 1841—the day on which the noble Viscount opposite resigned his office and the late Government ceased to exist. One of these Magistrates was appointed on the 15th of June; two were appointed on the 28th of July; two
874873872871870869868Lansdowne:867866865The Earl of Haddington
875 wished to say a few words in explanation. He had been misunderstood as having mentioned an equalisation of the Protestant and Catholic Churches. He did not say a single word on that subject, which was one of so much importance that he would not express an opinion till after mature consideration, and certainly would not introduce it incidentally. He had also been misunderstood on the subject of emigration; he had not recommended emigration, but he had said that it was no use appointing a Commission unless they intended to consider the subject as part of a combined and detailed system for the relief of the pauper population of Ireland. Neither had he said, that the Government could have prosecuted those who had attended at Tara and Mullaghmast as well as at Clontarf; they had not prosecuted those who attended at Clontarf or any other meeting, and he had not said that even these meetings were illegal. He had certainly said, that the charge of conspiracy was one of such a constructive nature, that it would be generally odious to the people of Ireland, and opposed to the feelings of the people of this country, and he had said
875The Marquess of Clanricarde
: That would have made the numbers 63, and not 66.The Earl of Haddington
Order, order.Cries ofHear, hear,and some confusion.Cries of909from both sides of the House.Cries of908 rose to reply. He said he had delayed addressing their Lordships under the impression that the noble Lord who occupied the Woolsack, and who had just retired from the House, would speak on the question, and he had to express his surprise at what he supposed he should now term the determination of the Lord Chancellor not to give them the benefit of his opinion on the question before the House, an opinion which was of the more importance in consequence of the course which the noble Lord had adopted with respect to Ireland, when one of the leaders of the Opposition. It was then the habit of the noble Lord to speak frequently and strongly, he might say vehemently, on the subject of Ireland. Allusion had been made at the very commencement of this discussion to certain expressions of the noble Lord, the effect of which was still rankling in Ireland. It would have been curious to have heard how far he adhered to or qualified the opinions he then entertained; his present opinion had also been asked as to certain judicial proceedings in Dublin. But if his silence had been settled and was the result of predetermination, he would at once proceed to make some remarks upon the observations offered to their Lordships on the subject of the motion. It had been objected, that it was too doubtful in its terms, and the noble President of the Board of Control had reiterated that objection, whilst his noble Friend the
Order, order.Cries ofHear, hear,and some confusion.Cries of909from both sides of the House.Cries of908The Marquess of Normanby
 rose to correct a mistake into which the noble Marquess had fallen with respect to the practice of the House. It was not by any means a fixed rule of the House to prevent noble Lords following after the Mover had spoken in reply. If the noble Marquess did not rightly understand the message delivered to him about the Lord Chancellor's intention, he has no right to feel disappointed at the consequences of his misunderstanding.Lord Kenyon
: There was no misunderstanding; I appeal to the noble Baron (Lord Redesdale).Marquess of Normanby
910RadnorCries of rose to order. It did not he thought much signify how the matter went, for his noble Friend had not heard anything which could influence the remarks he might have to make. [910RadnorCries ofLord Brougham
 said, that with the permission of the House he wished to explain something of his position to their Lordships. He had been sitting in his Court from ten o'clock that morning; from five o'clock until nine o'clock he had been waiting in that House during the address of the noble Earl. Under these circumstances, he had quitted their Lordships' House for the space of five minutes during the address of his noble Friend, and on his return he found the noble Marquess speaking. He had for his own part no desire to address their Lordships except for one reason, which was, that he wished to lay before the House some matter explanatory of his conduct in consequence of what had been said relative to it. However, he had been so nobly defended, so warmly vindicated by his noble Friends, that he never could forget the accusations which had been made against him, they had elicited such a flattering defence. He had been in expectation that some of his noble Friends would have spoken, in order to have got at some or any explanation of the opinions of the supporters of that Motion; but, as they had not done so, he would, for his part, rest satisfied with the decisive and triumphant arguments in refutation of the charges which had been made against him and the noble Lords with whom he acted.The Lord Chancellor
Loud cries of said, that with respect to the facts of the case, he would only observe, that unless it had been brought to his ears by a noble Baron, that the noble Lord did not intend to speak, he would not have risen. He had been told that the noble Lord did not intend to speak, and had left altogether. When, therefore, the noble Lord who sat on the Woolsack was about to put the question, seeing that no other noble Lord rose, he had commenced to reply. But, however, as the noble Lord states the grounds why he now wishes to speak, I at once give way and reserve my reply to the conclusion of the debate. [Loud cries ofThe Marquess of Normanby
 stating he did not now intend to speak, then proceeded to put the question, whenThe Lord Chancellor
911 amid considerable noise and disorder, rose and said, that he must appeal to their Lordships if ever there was a more unfair proceeding attempted to be committed. He had been addressing the House when his Lordship
911The Marquess of Normanby
: I must beg to set the noble Marquess right. He has quite misunderstood me. I said that I would not speak because I considered it unnecessary after the defence which had been made by my noble Friends.The Lord Chancellor
918917Howden"First flower of the earth; first gem of the sea."Howden"Magnaque numinibus vota exaudita malignis."916915914913912 said, to return to my reply: He was stating to the House when interrupted, that he had purposely so framed his motion as that those might vote for it who did not participate in all the feelings with which he frankly confessed he had brought it forward. He did not conceal that it was because he did not think that the Government had acted upon those principles which the resolutions state as the only ones upon which Ireland ought to be governed, that he required the House to affirm these principles. It was, however, in substance, a motion for enquiry, and any noble Lord who thought that the state of Ireland was such as to demand Parliamentary enquiry might vote for his motion, protesting against adopting the inculpatory spirit in which he owned he himself pressed it upon the House. His noble Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty had said, that he had offered no suggestion for the future. As to the past, his noble Friend had himself got confused as to the wings of the Emancipation Bill, but he thought his noble Friend's memory must have flown away even upon the one wing left to him, for he stated one by one the substantive propositions adopted at a meeting at Claremont House, at which the Duke of Leinster had presided, and he had stated, that every one of them was worthy of the attentive consideration of Parliament. He stated, that he looked for the future to an equalisation of religions. He stated, that the first step towards this would be to elevate the character of the Roman Catholic priesthood by every means in their power, and to remove from the hierarchy those disqualifications and degrading restrictions which the Catholic Relief Bill had imposed. The noble Lord opposite had stated, that it would be impossible to alter the proportion of the representation between the two countries—that it had been settled at the Union. Now he felt bound to say he did not admit of any such impossibility. He saw all the difficulties of the question, but as to its being settled at the Union, it had been unsettled then by the Reform Bill. An addition
918917Howden"First flower of the earth; first gem of the sea."Howden"Magnaque numinibus vota exaudita malignis."916915914913912The Marquess of Normanby
919, rising amidst loud cries of "Question," said, he only wished to remind their Lordships of the very extraordinary position in which they were placed. He had opposed the motion for the adjournment on Tuesday night, holding it to be totally unnecessary to adjourn, and that their Lordships might have sat on and finished the debate that night; and so it turned out, because they were now told that a noble Marquess, for whom he (Lord Brougham) would have made any sacrifice, and set all night rather than put to incon-
919Lord Brougham
nil dicit.: The speech of my noble and learned Friend is quite irregular. But I am not surprised at that, because all his proceedings in this House are quite irregular. My Lords, my object in moving the adjournment was, that I thought he would have spoken, and then I should have followed him. My Lords, I may be pardoned for thinking that he would have spoken, for this, I believe, my Lords, is the only debate of importance, that I can remember, in which he has not spoken at least seven times. I expected also that we should have heard the noble and learned Lord upon the Woolsack. My Lords, a grave attack has been made on the legality of the principles which were applied to the conduct of the late trial; yet my noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack has not opened his mouth. He has spoken neither by himself nor by his counsel. [Loud laughter, arising from the circumstance that Lord Brougham was sitting on the Woolsack and conversing with the Lord Chancellor at the time.] My noble and learned Friend has, as the lawyers call it, let judgment go by nil dicit.Lord Campbell
921920: My Lords, I have been charged with irregularity. Any thing more grossly unfounded in point of fact than that charge, I have never happened to have heard even from my noble and learned Friend. My Lords, I had a perfect right to address your Lordships in the course of this debate. The rule of
921920Lord Brougham
: My Lords, I will not detain the House any long time. My noble and learned Friend, as I shall still call him, has said that he will give me an opportunity of entering on these topics. It may happen, perhaps, that he may show that those to whom he now attaches himself have all changed their opinions and adopted the opinions he once held and advocated. Whether they or he have changed, it is not now the opportunity for me to discuss, but I shall be ready to do so at a fitting opportunity.Lord Campbell
 begged the indulgence of their Lordships while he made some observations on what had fallen from the noble and learned Lord (Lord Campbell). The noble and learned Lord had said, that a grave charge had been brought against the Government with respect to the conduct of the trial in Dublin. He (the Lord Chancellor) had heard no such charge from any noble Lord who was a lawyer, and with respect to the charges made by persons who were not lawyers, he considered that those charges were satisfactorily answered by his noble Friend the President of the Council (Lord Wharncliffe), and his noble Friend the President of the Board of Control (the Earl of Ripon); for that reason, and having been absent at the moment, he had not been disposed to trouble their Lordships with any remarks on the subject.The Lord Chancellor
888No, no. observed, that he had been misunderstood: what he had said was, that the prolonged discussions were not occasioned by Ministers [888No, no.The Earl of Haddington
907906"The Attorney-general, in his statement of the case, performed his duty with great moderation, and, indeed, I must say, the counsel for the Crown have conducted this prosecution with great fairness and talent throughout."905NormanbyNormanby904903902901900899primâ facie898, then said, that he concurred in the expression of the noble Lord near him (Lord Wharncliffe), that he was glad the noble Marquess had brought before their Lordships this motion on Ireland, because it had given the Government a natural, a reasonable, and a fair opportunity of explaining to the House and the country the grounds on which their conduct proceeded in the administration of the affairs of Ireland, and because it had led to expressions of opinion from many noble Lords whose general views of policy were different from those adopted by the Government, that in many respects they had satisfactorily explained their conduct; and, that with respect to their prospective measures, they had proposed nothing but that which was in itself right. It was true, many of their Lordships would say they did not proceed far enough, according to their views; but they admitted that Her Majesty's Ministers were treading on sure ground—that, by the course they were taking, the interests of Ireland would be consulted, and that, in their view, many great benefits might be anticipated. He said, then, it was a great pleasure to those who were responsible for what had been done, and for what was proposed to be done, that in respect to the former, complete explanation had been given, and that against what it was proposed to effect no objection could be raised. He should have been content to rest the case of the Government on the speech of his noble Friend the President of the Council, but he thought he could not, with propriety, from some motives influencing himself, abstain from making a few observations on some of the topics that had been introduced into the debate. Not merely as a Minister of the Crown, but as being connected with the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, whose conduct had been impugned, he thought he might be excused for saying a few words with respect to his noble relative, and the course that had been pursued in imput-
907906"The Attorney-general, in his statement of the case, performed his duty with great moderation, and, indeed, I must say, the counsel for the Crown have conducted this prosecution with great fairness and talent throughout."905NormanbyNormanby904903902901900899primâ facie898The Earl of Ripon
897896895894893Comedy of Errors,DromioDromioBrougham892"It was only last Friday (he spoke on the Tuesday) that the precise information arrived; on Saturday His Majesty's confidential servants came to their decision: on Sunday that decision received the sanction of His Majesty; on Monday it was communicated to Parliament; on this day Tuesday, and at the hour I am now addressing you, the troops are on their march."891Wellington.890889venue.—If he had not understood his noble Friend in another sense he would not have made the observations he did; he was incapable of misrepresenting any noble Lord, far less so old an acquaintance for the purposes of debate. The first question he had endeavoured to discuss, was that of confidence or no confidence between the present Government and the Irish people; and the next was, what were the causes of the admitted want of confidence? He had endeavoured to show that the whole course of policy of the present Government was adverse to the feelings and interests of the vast majority of the inhabitants of Ireland, and hence the want of confidence in their intentions as well as in their measures. With regard to the monster meetings, he was bound to admit, that he highly and entirely approved of the course Ministers had taken regarding them in the last Session; and he had frequently said so, although he had been twitted by his political friends as well as his political enemies (he would not call them enemies, but opponents) upon the subject. It had been stated, among other things, that if the present Government had possessed the resolution of their predecessors in 1831, they would have framed a Coercion Bill; but his answer had been that he doubted much whether a Coercion Bill would produce the benefit that some eager politicians expected from it. Neither a great nor even the little Coercion Bill (merely to change the 897896895894893Comedy of Errors,DromioDromioBrougham892"It was only last Friday (he spoke on the Tuesday) that the precise information arrived; on Saturday His Majesty's confidential servants came to their decision: on Sunday that decision received the sanction of His Majesty; on Monday it was communicated to Parliament; on this day Tuesday, and at the hour I am now addressing you, the troops are on their march."891Wellington.890889venueLord Monteagle
Haddington887886tu quoque885884883882881Wellington.880879878877876 said, that he could not help thinking that the appointment of stipendiary Magistrates formed but a very small portion of the subject now under consideration; at the same time, he considered that his noble Friend who had lately filled the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was not only justified in giving, but was compelled to give, the explanation which had just fallen from him; because it was not in the suggestion of the appointment of a greater or fewer number of stipendiary Magistrates that the sting of the charge consisted, but in the imputation that at the period of the breaking up of the late Government his noble Friend, for the purposes of a low and corrupt patronage, had taken the opportunity of adding to the number of that force, a force
Haddington887886tu quoque885884883882881Wellington.880879878877876Lord Monteagle
 rose to explain the statement relative to the stipendiary magistrates appointed immediately preceding his retirement. He would name three persons who had caused vacancies. Captain Hay had resigned, and had left Ireland; Mr. Roche, at his own request, had been permitted to retire; and the third, an old man, had been displaced; his name it was not necessary to mention. Those three had been withdrawn from the bench between the 15th of June and the 28th of August, and four additional magistrates had been appointed at the pressing request of particular districts. He might thus have increased the number beyond those of the preceding year, but it had been the practice of himself and his predecessor, when well-established cases were made out, to appoint Stipendiary magistrates.Earl Fortescue
864s.863l.l.l.l.862861860 rose and said, that before he proceeded to consider the general question then before their Lordships, he wished to advert to one particular point which had personal reference to himself. He understood that representations had been made elsewhere by very high authority, that during the last three months of the late Administration in Ireland seven stipendiary Magistrates had been appointed in excess of the number on the existing list. The terms in which this statement was made and the place where it was promulgated left no doubt of the imputation which it was intended to convey. Now, he would tell their Lordships, that for that act of the Government of Ireland he, as the head of that Government at the time, was solely responsible. Not having access to any official documents, and the unfortunate absence of (Lord Morpeth), who at that time filled the office of Chief Secretary for Ireland, preventing him from deriving assistance from his noble Friend, with whom he had been in the habit of consulting as to these appointments, he could not enter fully into all the circumstances, or afford to their Lordships all the information respecting them which he otherwise would have done. On reference, however, to the only document which he had on the subject—a return of all the appointments made by him during his Government of Ireland—he found that the statement was correct, as to the number of appointments. He found that he had appointed between
864s.863l.l.l.l.862861860Earl Fortescue
 said, that the return had been made out.The Lord Chancellor
997, pursuant to notice, to present to their Lordships a petition from the Earl of Dundonald, on the subject of his Lordship's patent for an improvement in steam machinery, as applicable to ships. The noble and learned Lord took that opportunity to advert at some length to various useful inventions of the father of the Earl of Dundonald. That noble Lord was a most scientific man; but, by his application to scientific discoveries, instead of increasing his wealth, he had greatly impaired his fortune. Amongst his most useful inventions was that of coal-tar, which was now so generally applied for the protection of wood and wooden buildings. At first—nay, for many years, indeed until after the period of the patent had expired, there was a great objection to using that valuable article. It was regarded as most disagreeable in its smell, on account of the hydrogenous gas mixing with the coal; and this was regarded as being disagreeable and tainting the air. But this smell was soon dispersed and lost on account of the volatile compound which formed the coal-tar. The late noble Earl's patent expired at the end of fourteen years, but on application to Parliament the term was renewed. Nevertheless, although he had the patent twenty-eight years, he obtained nothing for his invention, for the public entertained such strong prejudices against using it, that it was not until long afterwards that the invention was held of value. The late noble Earl was also a great promoter of agriculture; so long ago as 1803 he published a work applying chemistry to agriculture, which was at this day considered as a text-book on the ssubject. The noble and
997Lord Brougham rose
998 expressed his entire concurrence in what had fallen from his noble and learned Friend with respect to the discoveries of the late Earl of Dundonald; and it was no doubt perfectly true, that the public were reaping the benefit of the exertions of a whole life,
998The Earl of Haddington
: As his noble Friend had alluded to the first professional distinction of the noble Earl, under his father, he must say, that though he was too young at the time to recollect the services, he had never heard his father mention the noble Lord's name without commendations of his extraordinary professional abilities and determination of character, which led to his employment in the difficult service of the Basque-roads.The Marquess of Normanby
 supported the motion, and said, that discoveries were making before the Committee which would astonish the public.Lord Campbell
 stated, that he was desired by the Committee of their Lordships' House now sitting on the subject of the Gambling Acts, to state to the House that they had been met at the outset of the inquiry by the obstacle that the witnesses did not choose to answer questions lest they should criminate themselves, and to present to their Lordships a Bill for indemnifying such persons as might be summoned to give evidence before the Committee. The noble Duke having laid the Bill on the Table, and moved that it be read a first time,The Duke of Richmond
996995The TimesThe Times,The Times994 hoped it was not very unreasonable to request their Lordships' attention to a matter relating to himself, which he thought likely to have passed away, but which had excited a great deal of discussion in Parliament and in the newspapers. He saw on the Votes of the House of Commons that were lying on their Lordships' Table the following notice:—"Mr. Ferrand, to put the following question to the Secretary of State for the Home Department; "That as Lord Chief Justice Denman has declared it to be the unanimous opinion of the Judges of the Court of Queen's Bench,—'that there are some cases in which it is necessary to break in upon an act of Parliament, and upon that which may have existed from all time; and has also declared that it is the mother who is the proper party to have the custody of all her children under seven years of age, and that it is not for the benefit of the mother, but for the protection of the children;' and that he thinks that 'the Judges ought to crush the first attempt to depart from that principle, and that it is of the highest importance that it should be considered the undoubted law of the land'—of the highest importance whether the Government intend to insert a clause in the New Poor-law Bill, for the purpose of prohibiting the separation of Mother and Child, if they should become the inmates of a workhouse.' "This extraordinary declaration, said to have received the unanimous concurrence of the Judges of the Court of Queen's Bench, had been put conspicuously forward in a leading news-paper as a truth. It would be extraordinary indeed if such an opinion had pro-
996995The TimesThe Times,The Times994Lord Denman
 said, that he had moved for returns relative to the number of troops now stationed in Ireland, which had not been laid on the Table.The Earl Fitzwilliam
1000999 would be glad to see it, and he wished that the people of this country would see the expensive mode in which it was now necessary to govern, or rather to occupy Ireland. He was sure that their Lord-
1000999The Earl Fitzwilliam
1099 observed that he had stated the other evening that he intended to bring in a Bill for the purpose of meeting the case of a noble Friend of his (the Earl of Dundonald), and extending the duration of his patent for Steam-Engines for a certain time. He had since thought that it would be better to introduce a general measure on the subject. He thought it was advisable to consider the whole law, not as regarded each particular case, but as affecting the jurisdiction of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and their power to extend the duration of a Patent in every case, as well as in that of the Earl of Dundonald. He had framed the Bill which he held in his hand with that particular object. By it he proposed that on an applicant presenting a Petition to either House of Parliament for an extension of the term of a Patent, that that House should refer the subject to a Committee for examination, or hear evidence at its Bar on the subject, And if the House thought that a case had been made out, that it should address the Crown on the subject matter, and pray the Crown to take the case into consider-
1099Lord Brougham
1100vinculo matrimonii. said, that he approved of the principle of the Bill, but he wished to suggest to his noble Friend the propriety of making his Bill more general, for the purpose of extending the jurisdiction of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. He thought that this was only one subject with respect to which there should be an extension of jurisdiction. He thought, also, that the Judicial Committee should have the power of extending the term of a Patent for a longer period than his noble and learned Friend proposed. He thought that the power of extending the duration of a Patent for fourteen or even twenty-one years might safely be intrusted to this Tribunal, from the nature of its constitution. There was, however, another point of great importance, connected with the jurisdiction of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council which it would be well to consider whether or not they should introduce into this Bill. The point he alluded to was, whether it would not be advisable to intrust this tribunal with the power of granting divorces a 1100vinculo matrimonii.Lord Campbell
 thought it would not be advisable for his noble and learned Friend to mix up two subjects so dissimilar as the law of Patents and the law of Divorce in the Bill now presented to the House. If, however, his noble and learned Friend would bring in a Bill on the subject of Divorce, and its adjudication by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, it should have his best consideration.The Lord Chancellor
quasi1101 wished only to observe, that the suggestion now thrown out by his noble and learned Friend had not escaped the attention of the framers of the Bill constituting the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. There was in that Bill, as originally introduced, a clause not exactly giving the absolute power to the Committee of the Privy Council to grant divorces, but giving to it power to inquire and report in all cases of application made
quasi1101Lord Brougham
1102vinculo matrimonii, said, he should be the last person to transfer the powers of that House or of Parliament to the Privy Council or any other body. The question, however, of a divorce a 1102vinculo matrimonii,Lord Campbell
l.l. said, the subject was well worthy the consideration of the House; he knew an instance in point himself. He was one of the trustees to an estate, respecting which a Bill had lately been obtained from Parliament. The trustees had just received a bill of 367l.l.Lord Brougham
 repeated, that he had no objection to the principle of his noble and learned Friend's proposition, but he thought that it would not be advisable to mix up this question of Divorce with that of Patents. In cases of Divorce, he thought that in any case a Bill would be necessary for the purpose of enabling the parties to marry again.The Lord Chancellor
 laid on the Table an account of the Fees received in the Court of Chancery during the last year, and said, that he was happy to inform their Lordships, that, in consequence of the alterations in the Court of Chancery, the Fees of last year fell short of those of the preceding year, with the addition of the compensations now paid, the effect of which would be that the compensations continually falling in, the Fees would be greatly decreased, as compared with what they were before the alteration, previous to which the Fees were continually augmenting.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that his noble and learned Friend had alluded to the prospect of the fees decreasing upon the death of the persons to whom compensation had been awarded, but as it had been stated, that the compensation did not cease upon their death, but that their executors would still be able to receive it, he was led to ask the noble and learned Lord how that was?Lord Campbell
 said, it was not necessary for him to inform the noble and learned Lord how that was, for, no doubt, he had read the Act of Parliament, and he would find by a clause in that Act, that the compensation was extended to the widows and children of some of the parties, for a certain number of years.The Lord Chancellor
 would take that opportunity of stating, that in opposing the grant of large powers to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, when the Bill giving these powers was before the House, he was actuated solely by a prudential motive in going step by step where a new tribunal was being constituted. He should say that the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council would be an infinitely better tribunal for this sort of business than that which now existed. It would have also another great recommendation over the present system—that of cheapness, and the law would then be protective, not, as now, to one class alone, but to the whole country. He denied that the impediments thrown in the way of the poor man getting a divorce tended to improve the morality of the country; on the contrary, he was satisfied that it had a directly contrary effect. Before, however, they parted with their own jurisdiction on this subject, it would be well for Parliament to take care and consider whether the proposed tribunal would be a better one than the present.The Marquess of Lansdowne
qui tam1098, in moving the second reading of the Gambling Transactions Witnesses Indemnity Bill, said that the object of it was to afford indemnity to the witnesses called upon to give evidence before the Committee to which the Penalties on Horse-racing, &c., Repeal Bill had been referred. The Committee had found it impossible to make a searching inquiry into Gambling without the examination of persons implicated in transactions for which they were liable to prosecution; and it could hardly be expected that, under such circumstances, they would come for-
qui tam1098The Duke of Richmond
 said, that it might be satisfactory for him to state, that the expense of conducting the new system, considering the compensation as part of that expense, was less than the Fees, which also were less than the charges upon the suitors during the old system.Lord Langdale
 said, that, after the divorce was obtained, then came the question of whether the parties should be allowed to marry again? That he apprehended to be a question for Parliament alone. Again, the future provision to be made for the divorced female was always a matter which was narrowly looked to by that House, and there would be great difficulty in transferring this power to another tribunal. Under these circumstances, the expenses of such proceedings would not be diminished, inasmuch as in the first place, a trial must be had, and then a Bill in Parliament.Lord Wharncliffe
 did not think much expense would be saved by taking questions of this kind before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, except, perhaps, as to the duration of the inquiry. Before the Privy Council, such case would be probably disposed of in one day, whereas before their Lordships' House the inquiry would occupy a longer time. There was a subject connected with this matter, which was worth their Lordships' consideration; namely, the expense of passing divorce Bills through Parliament. This expense arose chiefly from the fees to which the solicitor, agent, and every person who was concerned in passing a Bill through Parliament were entitled. These expenses were not incurred in one stage only, but were repeated in every stage of the Bill, and it was a matter well worthy their Lordships' consideration, whether something could not be done towards reducing these expenses.Lord Redesdale
 wished to obtain certain returns, relating to Holyhead Harbour, which had been laid before the other House. Rapid communication between this country and Ireland was so necessary that he need make no comment upon it. He wished to say one word with respect to Holyhead Harbour, although he did not wish to press the Government for a decisive answer, inasmuch as it was under the consideration of the other House just now, but he should urge upon the consideration of the Government, the great importance of having the utmost facility in the communication between this country and Ireland, and above all, at the present time. To give effect to this, it was essential that the harbour of Holyhead should be as safe as possible. He was induced to allude to this subject, because he felt the great interest which it excited in the public mind in Ireland.Lord Monteagle
 had no objection to the production of the papers. With respect to the improvement of Holyhead Harbour, he could not at present say anything on the subject; but there could be no object more interesting than to render the communication with Ireland as expeditious and convenient as possible.The Duke of Wellington
l.,l.13l.;l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.,l,l.1211109en massel.l.,d.s.8l."The administration of relief to the poor (he said) was attended with difficulties which arose in a great measure from the political agitation going on in the country.""These results may be hastened or retarded according as the measure is worked, and as it is more or less exposed to the assailment of party or conflicting influences;"7"I do not, (he said), complain of Mr. Pennethorne's appointment to inquire professionally into the execution of the workhouse buildings, but I do complain that he was sent on this mission without being assisted by some one acquainted with building operations in Ireland; and, above all, I complain and lament that he did not communicate with Mr. Wilkinson before committing himself, as he has done, on various points respecting which no one but Mr. Wilkinson could have afforded him full and necessary information.""I certainly never supposed that our proceedings in Ireland would be exposed to the kind of ordeal to which they have been subjected by the inquiry which Mr. Pennethorne was commissioned to institute, and by the Report which he had made. If I could have anticipated such a result, even all my earnest wishes to serve and benefit the Irish people would hardly have induced me to enter upon the task, which was, moreover, not of my own seeking, but was imposed upon me by the too partial opinion formed of my own fitness for the duty by a Secretary of State, at whose request I consented to undertake it."ad misericordiam,6l.l.5l.l.,l.,l.,l.,l.;l.;l.l.,l.,43nil,2 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for "Copies of any Declarations in Ejectments or Notices
l.,l.13l.;l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.,l,l.1211109en massel.l.,d.s.8l."The administration of relief to the poor (he said) was attended with difficulties which arose in a great measure from the political agitation going on in the country.""These results may be hastened or retarded according as the measure is worked, and as it is more or less exposed to the assailment of party or conflicting influences;"7"I do not, (he said), complain of Mr. Pennethorne's appointment to inquire professionally into the execution of the workhouse buildings, but I do complain that he was sent on this mission without being assisted by some one acquainted with building operations in Ireland; and, above all, I complain and lament that he did not communicate with Mr. Wilkinson before committing himself, as he has done, on various points respecting which no one but Mr. Wilkinson could have afforded him full and necessary information.""I certainly never supposed that our proceedings in Ireland would be exposed to the kind of ordeal to which they have been subjected by the inquiry which Mr. Pennethorne was commissioned to institute, and by the Report which he had made. If I could have anticipated such a result, even all my earnest wishes to serve and benefit the Irish people would hardly have induced me to enter upon the task, which was, moreover, not of my own seeking, but was imposed upon me by the too partial opinion formed of my own fitness for the duty by a Secretary of State, at whose request I consented to undertake it."ad misericordiam,6l.l.5l.l.,l.,l.,l.,l.;l.;l.l.,l.,43nil,2The Marquess of Clanricarde
 pointed out several passages in the Report, showing the bad manner in which the workhouses were constructed, being damp and made of bad materials. The rates were unequally levied, and the Poor Law Commissioners went upon no fixed principle. It was highly objectionable that the military should be employed to enforce the payment of the rate, yet the 72nd Regiment (Highlanders) had gone from house to house to enforce the payment of the rates, by seizing upon articles. The measure itself was a most improper one, and never would have a beneficial effect. All classes, high and low, equally disapproved of it, and the law must become a dead letter.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, he had heard with satisfaction the expression of the readiness of the noble Duke to grant an inquiry; but he (the noble Marquess) could not undertake to move for a Committee on the whole subject this Session. It was, indeed, a question of so much magnitude that it was difficult for any one but the Government to conduct an inquiry into it. He hoped that a Commission from the Crown might issue in the course of the vacation, so that early next Session they might be able to alter the law. If not, the House might then appoint a Committee.The Marquess of Clanricarde
1514 said, he had no objection to the production of the documents to which the noble Marquess alluded. The noble Marquess, however, in moving for them, had thought it proper to enter into the consideration of the working of the Poor Law in Ireland; but it was impossible for him to follow the noble Marquess into the details which he had stated, and, above all, into some topics which were founded on papers not before the House. He agreed with the noble Marquess as to the importance of the Report of Mr. Pennethorne on the execution of works for poor-houses in different parts of Ireland, and the Report certainly showed that the complaints which had been made were justified to a very great extent. The noble Marquess objected to printing with the Report of Mr. Pennethorne some letters of the Poor Law Commissioners and
1514The Duke of Wellington
75 rose to present a petition from Mr. Mazzini, complaining that his letters had been for a considerable period regularly opened in the Post Office He stated in his petition that he had been residing in England for seven years, and that his occupation was that of a literary man, and he (the Earl of Radnor) had
75The Earl of Radnor
: Have you given notice of the question?The Lord Chancellor
: No.The Earl of Radnor
: Then you cannot require an answer now.The Lord Chancellor
"For the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the practice of opening letters at the Post-office, and particularly into the circumstances connected with the opening of the letters of Mr. Mazzini, and other foreigners residing in England, whose letters had been opened at the Post-office."76 said, the individual from whom the petition came was Mr. Mazzini, whose name had been recently so much before the public, in consequence of his letters having been opened at the Post Office. That individual complained that great injury had been done him by the opening of his letters, and he prayed that their Lordships should take the subject
"For the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the practice of opening letters at the Post-office, and particularly into the circumstances connected with the opening of the letters of Mr. Mazzini, and other foreigners residing in England, whose letters had been opened at the Post-office."76The Earl of Radnor
 said, he wished to correct an erroneous impression into which he had been a party to misleading their Lordships, namely, that the practice of opening-letters by the authority of any of the Secretaries of State originated in the reign of Queen Anne. It was, in fact, one of the numerous legacies left us by the Commonwealth, but it was not by any means one of the best of those legacies. The Ordinance having reference to this authority originated with Cromwell in the time of the Commonwealth and Protectorate, and was given in Scobell's Collection of Acts of Parliament; and curious to say, that Ordinance stated that the very main object of the establishment of the Post Office, or at least one of its main objects, was to enable the Government to prevent wicked and treasonable practices by opening the letters of parties who were at the necessity of communicating their designs to each other in writing. That Ordinance gave no power to the Secretary of State to use such an authority, but it rather took for granted that as soon as the Post Office was established, the Government would exercise such a power. Many admirable legacies had been left by Cromwell, but certainly that was not one of them.Lord Brougham
 agreed that the power had existed before the Statute of Anne, which limited the practice to the opening of letters by warrant from the Secretary of State for every letter so opened.The Earl of Radnor
: I do not think that a special warrant is required for opening every letter.The Lord Chancellor
78toties quoties,suo periculo,77Scobell said he had that morning read in 78toties quoties,suo periculo,77ScobellLord Campbell
79 did not concur with his noble and learned Friend in his views and construction of the Act. Undoubtedly they could not open letters without an express warrant, but he did not believe that an express warrant was required for every letter which was opened, but that a warrant directed to the Postmaster to open the letters of A B within a certain period of time would be, in the sense of the Act, an "express warrant for every such opening." It was quite evident that if that were not the case, any power to issue a warrant for the detection of treasonable correspondence would be rendered altogether nugatory in effect. It struck him as a little singular that his noble and learned Friend should object so strongly that one warrant would not be sufficient to justify the opening of several letters, insisting that there must be a specific warrant for the opening of each letter, when the Act of Victoria was passed under the inspection of his noble and learned Friend himself, when Attorney-General, and yet had not those very words, on which his own construction now depended. But this was not all—in preparing this Act, his noble and learned Friend had introduced an alteration, omitting the very words on the meaning of which he now commented. He did not believe that the power was created by the original ordinance of Cromwell. He believed that the ordinance of Cromwell rather recognised an assumed power in the Secretary of State to issue the warrants. The ordinance did not grant any power to the Secretary of State to issue the warrant, but it assumed that such a power existed in the Secretary of State, and that he could use it. The Act of Anne in like manner gave no power to the Secretary of State, but assumed the power to exist in the same manner as the former Act. Assuming, then, that the power existed in the Secretary of State to issue those warrants to open the letters of persons suspected, could it be said that the power could be practically useful if there were a special warrant required for opening every letter? He would not go at present into full details as, in consequence of the Motion of the noble Earl (Earl Radnor), there would be a future occasion on which they might go at greater length into the Acts of Parliament and the ordinance of
79The Lord Chancellor
 wished to explain. He did not complain of the law as it now stood, but of the manner in which it had been acted upon. He was complaining of the issuing of general warrants.Lord Campbell
 said, that the Acts contained in Scobell's collection did not grant the power, but they assumed that the common law power existed in the Secretary of State to issue the warrant. With respect to the re-sealing of the letters and sending them forward, he could not concur in thinking that it was the greatest evil. If they were opened and read, and their contents copied, and they were afterwards sent to their destination, it was so much the better, for the real grievance was, not sending the letters on, but opening them.Lord Brougham
 agreed that they were not bound to make sense of every insensible Act of Parliament; but for the last 150 years the same form of expression had been used and acted on by all Governments, from Sir R. Walpole to Mr. Fox. He must say that the way pointed out by his noble and learned Friend behind him was, with great respect, one of the most impossible that could be thought of. He assumed that there must be a spy who knew there were letters coming, and who knew the handwriting of the party writing them, and by whose description of the letter the Secretary of State was to find it on a particular day. That would reduce the Act of Parliament to utter insignificance. The power had been exercised for years on the opposite construction, on the practical construction put upon it by his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack, namely, that a general warrant for all openings justified each individual opening.Lord Brougham
83"I, A B, do swear, that I will not wittingly, willingly, or knowingly open, detain, or delay, or cause, procure, permit, or suffer to be opened, detained or delayed, any letter or letters, packet or packets, which shall come into my hands, power or custody, by reason of my employment in or relating to the Post Office; except by the consent of the person or persons to whom the same is or shall be directed,
83Cries of said, that the statute of Anne referred to the "opening of any letter or letters except by an express warrant," plainly signifying that the warrant embraced the plural as well as the singular number of letters. [83"I, A B, do swear, that I will not wittingly, willingly, or knowingly open, detain, or delay, or cause, procure, permit, or suffer to be opened, detained or delayed, any letter or letters, packet or packets, which shall come into my hands, power or custody, by reason of my employment in or relating to the Post Office; except by the consent of the person or persons to whom the same is or shall be directed,
83Cries ofThe Lord Chancellor
 had before declared that the Act had been introduced when he was Attorney General, and he was responsible for the words of it. As to what had fallen from his noble and learned Friend of the impossibility of defining beforehand what letters should be opened, there were sufficient instances in history to the contrary, showing, that where the information to justify opening any letter at all exists, it may very well point out the particular letter which is the object of suspicion, so that on its arrival it may be stopped and examined by a special warrant, specially indicating the special letter. Indeed when the Ordinance referred to was passed, it was said that Cromwell had received information in this way, that on a certain day a certain letter from the King to the Queen would arrive in London, at the sign of the Blue Boar, in the saddle of a particularly indicated messenger. The messenger was arrested on his arrival at the Blue Boar; the saddle was ripped up, and there was the letter, wherein the writer, among other things, intimated that Cromwell, instead of a blue ribband, at which he had aimed, ought to have a halter.Lord Campbell
"For every such opening, detaining, or delaying."84Cries of"No person or persons shall presume wittingly, willingly or knowingly, to open, detain, or delay, or cause, procure, permit, or suffer to be opened, detained, or delayed, any letter or letters, packet or packets, after the same is or shall be delivered into the General or other Post Office, or into the hands of any person or persons employed for the receiving or carrying post letters, and before delivery to the persons to whom they are directed, or for their use, except by an express warrant in writing under the hand of one of the principal Secretaries of State." called attention to the particular Clause in the 9th of Anne, c. 10, s. 40, which enacted that
"For every such opening, detaining, or delaying."84Cries of"No person or persons shall presume wittingly, willingly or knowingly, to open, detain, or delay, or cause, procure, permit, or suffer to be opened, detained, or delayed, any letter or letters, packet or packets, after the same is or shall be delivered into the General or other Post Office, or into the hands of any person or persons employed for the receiving or carrying post letters, and before delivery to the persons to whom they are directed, or for their use, except by an express warrant in writing under the hand of one of the principal Secretaries of State."The Lord Chancellor
85 would submit to their Lordships, that the very terms of the Clause just read by the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack made it clear that, for "every such opening" there must be a special and particular warrant, and that therefore the idea of one warrant applying to a man's whole correspondence was altogether incorrect. One thing was, at all events, clear, that after what had taken place, the matter could not be allowed to stop here. Doctrines had been propounded which no right-minded Englishman could submit to have received in this country. It was said that it was impossible for the Secretary of State to describe beforehand what letters should be opened, and that therefore, as a matter of common sense, and absolute necessity, the whole of a man's correspondence must be opened. Now, on what ground was a Secretary of State to issue a warrant? It must be on information—on sound, clear information—otherwise the Secretary of State would be committing an act of despotic tyranny, to suit his own caprice and pleasure, and for some other even more unworthy motive; if such information were furnished, it could hardly be a matter of much difficulty to ascertain to what particular correspondence the attention of the Government ought to be directed. But it would seem, according to the new doctrine, that no information was necessary. That was part of the question against the Government, because it was stated in a petition before their Lordships' House that a gentleman's letters had been opened in the Post Office unjustifiably. That accusation was brought against a great public department, and it would be necessary for the Government to let their Lordships know upon what grounds that accusation rested. On the other hand, if it could be denied on authority that this gentleman's letters were opened, then might they reject the prayer of the petition; but if not, having received that petition, and seeing that the statement in it was publicly made, he conceived it to be utterly impossible that they could allow the matter to rest until they were informed of the nature of the warrant under which, the Post Office acted, and whether the
85The Marquess of Clanricarde
Lord Chancellor:86 must really say a word as to the gross misapprehension which the noble Lord had formed, and the gross misstatement, founded on that gross misapprehension, which he had given, of what had fallen from him. The noble Marquess imputed to him the doctrine that the Secretary of State had a right to open letters at the Post Office, without any information on which to proceed. Now, this was a most extraordinary misconception on the part of the noble Marquess. There was, he (Lord Brougham) was sure, no other Member of the House who had understood what had fallen from him in that way. What he had said was this. General information, every body knew the Secretary of State must have; he must suspect somebody ere he opens his letters, and he can only do this on information; he is not to open letters because he has had a dream that somebody deserves to be suspected and watched; he must have information that the party is engaged in unlawful transactions—transactions injurious to the tranquillity of the realm at home, or, he would add, for he had some regard for other countries as well as for his own, to the tranquillity of realms abroad; nor did he say that any foreign Minister was to be at liberty to come to the Secretary and say, "I suspect A. B., and therefore you must open his letters for me." God forbid! But, then, if a British Minister has information that a particular person is engaged in dangerous and unlawful practices, which require that he should be watched, the Minister has a right to issue his warrant to the Post Office to detain and examine the letters of that person; as to the proposition that he is to specify what particular letter is to be opened, that was a mere ahsurdity—it was requiring what in 999 cases out of a 1,000 was a physical impossibility. Mr. Fox was certainly a man filled with the highest devotion to the constitutional liberties of the subject—to the freedom of the people in every respect; yet he did not think it necessary to issue separate warrants. He had seen and carefully read the document ordering the Postmaster General to detain and open all the letters to the foreign Ministers, and all letters from the foreign Ministers, without further authority or specification whatever,
Lord Chancellor:86Lord Brougham
87 said, that the question in this case was not whether one or two letters had been opened, but whether the gentleman now complaining, had not been seriously injured and wronged by Slaving all his correspondence regularly opened for a period of several months; and this was the question on which it was his (the Earl of Radnor's) intention to move for a Committee to inquire into the whole matter. The most extraordinary feature was, the five Members of the Government seated in a row on opposite benches and the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack were all of them profoundly ignorant about the matter. Here had this transaction been the subject of general remark out of doors for a full fortnight past, and in the same period been discussed three or four times in the House of Commons; and twice in their
87The Earl of Radnor
 said, that as his noble and learned Friend (Lord Campbell) had commented on the first Act, he wished he would read the Clause in his own Act—the existing law.The Lord Chancellor
"That nothing herein contained shall extend to the opening, or detaining, or delaying of a post letter returned for want of a true direction, or of a post letter returned by reason that the person to whom the same shall be directed is dead or cannot be found, or shall have refused the same, or shall have refused or neglected to pay the postage thereof; nor to the opening, or detaining, or delaying of a post letter in obedience to an express warrant in writing under the hand, in Great Britain, of one of the principal Secretaries of State, and in Ireland under the hand and seal of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland."81 said, that those words were by way of proviso, instead of exception, and he thought if they came judicially before his noble and learned Friend (Lord Denman, who had, by the declaration he had just made, rendered himself more dear to the people of England, if that were possible), that he would be of opinion that they were exactly the same. The 1st of Victoria, c. 36, after making it a misdemeanour
"That nothing herein contained shall extend to the opening, or detaining, or delaying of a post letter returned for want of a true direction, or of a post letter returned by reason that the person to whom the same shall be directed is dead or cannot be found, or shall have refused the same, or shall have refused or neglected to pay the postage thereof; nor to the opening, or detaining, or delaying of a post letter in obedience to an express warrant in writing under the hand, in Great Britain, of one of the principal Secretaries of State, and in Ireland under the hand and seal of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland."81Lord Campbell
 said, that nothing would make his noble and learned Friend who had just sat down more dear to him than his being kind enough to answer him this question. How was it possible for the Secretary of State, who did not know what letters Mr. Mazzini or any other given individual might receive to-morrow morning, to make out a warrant for any one of those letters? If he was to make out a warrant for each letter how was he to know the number of them? and if he was to describe each letter, he must know the postmark, the kind, shape, or something whereby to describe it. Nothing but the construction of his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack could be the rational or sensible construction of the existing law. The construction put on it by his noble and learned Friend (Lord Campbell) was rank nonsense. If there must be an individual warrant for each individual letter, how could Sir J. Graham know anything about the letter, so as to be able to point it out?Lord Brougham
 said that the only way in which it was possible that it could be done was, that the Secretary of State should go to the Post Office and put his finger on a particular letter, and then issue his warrant for opening it.The Lord Chancellor
 asked whether there was any Secret Board at the Post Office to whom these letters when detained were referred?Lord Kinnaird
s.,s.s.90s.s.s.8988, after presenting some petitions in favour of protection to agriculture, said he would throw himself upon the indulgence of their Lordships for a short time, while he endeavoured to show, pursuant to the notice he had given, the expediency and sound policy of establishing National Granaries in this country, under the authority and control of the Government. In doing so, he should studiously refrain from offering any observations on the Corn Laws; because, however widely the three parties—those who advocated the present system of a sliding-scale, those who were for a fixed duty, and those who were opposed to all protection to agriculture, differed upon the question of the Corn Laws, he believed they must all agree that the establishment of National Granaries would be a great public benefit. Their Lordships were doubtless aware that the Corn Trade of this country was in the hands of a very small body of wealthy individuals; he believed he might fairly state that there was a larger amount of floating
s.,s.s.90s.s.s.8988The Earl of Winchilsea
 agreed with his noble Friend who spoke last, as to the importance of producing something like a feeling of certainty in the minds of those engaged in agricultural pursuits. For his own part, he would rather see no duty at all than a fixed duty. He confessed that he was surprised at hearing such observations as he had quoted from Mr. Burke, respecting public granaries. With the opinions of that eminent man he could not agree, although he entertained the highest respect for him.The Earl of Winchilsea
98de factobonâ fide said, since the Bill had been last before the House he had looked over it with great attention, and was convinced that the greatest possible difficulties would exist in the way of carrying its objects into practical effect. He did not, for instance, understand from the Bill who were the persons that were to judge or decide who was the "minister of the district according to the laws, discipline, and institutions of the Roman Catholic Church," or, in other words, who was the Bishop of a diocese or the priest of a parish. He did not see how the trustees were to decide that point under the Bill; for their Lordships were aware that there were to be found in Ireland such persons as degraded priests, who remained sometimes in possession of their parish contumaciously and in opposition to the will of their Bishop. In the Bill which had been brought in by Mr. O'Connell, it was provided that the persons to decide on such points were to be the Roman Catholic visitors of the College of Maynooth; and without saying whether that was the most advisable and best course that could have been taken, this much he would state—that it gave a clear and 98de factobonâ fideThe Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, the trustees would not be able to exercise any material discretion on the charity, and therefore the objection against some of them being Protestants could not be of much weight.The Lord Chancellor
 said, his argument was this: Suppose that a person should have an endowment to a parish priest to have mass said for the benefit of his soul at particular times, and that the legacy came under the control of those trustees, would they not be bound to see that the priest did enjoy the property, and might they not also have a right to ascertain whether the conditions on which it had been bequeathed were fulfilled.The Marquess of Clanricarde
99 said, his noble Friend the Lord Chancellor, ought to have recollected when giving his support to the Bill, that the practice in his own Court was invariably that the trustees of all religious charities should be of the same religious
99Lord Campbell
 was sorry to be obliged to detain their Lordships at that hour of the evening; but, having presented a petition against the Bill, it was his duty to urge some objections which appeared to him to be of a very serious nature. No one could doubt the object of the Bill to be very laudable, namely, the promotion of religion in Scotland; but the question was, whether the means taken were expedient and just. The main enactments in the Bill to which he wished to draw attention were those which related to the division of parishes and the endowments of the new parishes. He should have thought at this time there could be no pressing necessity for multiplying parishes in Scotland. In almost every populous parish in Scotland there was now a new church called the free church. One of the objections to the proposed division was the mode in which it would operate on titheowners, because three-fourths of the heritors had it in their power to appropriate any unappropriated tithes to that division of the parish, and there might not be among them a single person who was a tithe owner. It ought to be made a general burthen, and not fall on any class of proprietors. But there was also another objection which arose out of the 10th section, and he begged particularly to call the attention of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack to it, because he would be bound to say that such a provision was never introduced into any Bill before.Lord Campbell
: You need not call my attention to it. It has been already called to it.The Lord Chancellor
: It has passed through the House of Commons with the objectionable clause—Lord Campbell
: I can't help that.The Lord Chancellor
100 proceeded to say, that in the section referred to, the Clause he complained of enabled any trustee or tutor of a minor to give away property of which he was trustee for the site of a church or
100Lord Campbell
 could not say, that the Bill was altogether uncalled for, considering the present state of the Church of Scotland, nor would he oppose it; but there were some provisions to which he pointed out objections, and he also thought it highly desirable, that the clergy should be required to know Gaelic.The Earl of Minto
 supported the Bill, as important to the Church of Scotland. He did not see how any better provision could be made for the religious worship off the Highlanders in the lowland districts than that provided by the Bill. He believed that if the Bill passed, it would heal a great many sores.The Earl of Haddington
 said, that the Bill gave a greater facility to the payment of teinds, which were subject to the full extent fixed in the time of Charles I., to be applied to the supply of the spiritual wants of the parish, and as they had been purchased subject to liability to this full application, there was no interference with the rights of private property.The Duke of Buccleugh
 said, that there were only four clergymen for 16,000 people in the Islands' districts with which he was connected, and not 100 of them could speak English.The Earl of Dunmore
 said, that he did not agree with his noble Friend in thinking that any advantages would arise from the establishment of public granaries. One speech this week, in the other House, had done more good than would follow from the erection of a hundred granaries—for backed as that speech was by such an increasing majority, it would tend, more than any thing else, to produce something like certainty with respect to agricultural pursuits, and thus ultimately produce cheapness and certainty of price. The noble Lord had alluded to the fluctuations in the corn-trade, He denied that the present law produced these great fluctuations in price, for that was attributable to quite a different cause, namely, the seasons. He denied that there was the prospect of a bad harvest this year. He thought that his noble Friend who spoke last was led away merely by feelings of enthusiasm, when he spoke so strongly of the alleged evils of the sliding-scale, the best way to prevent a scarcity, was to continue to get majorities of 204 against alterations in the Corn Laws in another place.The Duke of Richmond
 approved of that part of the Bill which looked at the size of districts as well as population as the criterion for further church accommodation; but he did not see how the funds were to be provided without interfering with private rights.The Duke of Richmond
94 expressed his regret that the Government had not adopted the straightforward course of admitting the claims of the Roman Catholic clergy, and had not acted upon the principle put forward in the Bill which had been introduced into the other House of Parliament by Mr. O'Connell with respect to the management of the trusts—namely, making the clergymen of the Roman Catholic Church Corporations sole for the management
94Lord Hatherton
97"And be it enacted that the words 'Roman Catholic minister' shall include all persons in holy orders, having authority within the district, and that the word 'district' shall mean any Ecclesiastical division recognised as such
97 said, he thought the words of the Act "Roman Catholic ministers for such district duly appointed thereto according to the law and discipline of the Roman Catholic Church," were sufficiently explicit, as applying to the parish priest of the district. With regard to the other point referred to by his noble Friend opposite, he entirely concurred with him, that the benefit of the Act ought to be extended to the Archbishops and Bishops of the Roman Catholic Church; and he accordingly intended to introduce an interpretation Clause which he had then beside him, and which was in substance to the following effect:—
97"And be it enacted that the words 'Roman Catholic minister' shall include all persons in holy orders, having authority within the district, and that the word 'district' shall mean any Ecclesiastical division recognised as such
97Lord Wharncliffe
 said, he had not by any means intended to convey that the Commissioners were to be entirely Protestants, There were only two of them named, and they were the Lord Chancellor of Ireland and the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, but the other Commissioners would be persons in whom the Roman Catholic population of Ireland would have confidence.Lord Wharncliffe
 moved the second reading of the Parishes of Scotland Bill.Lord Wharncliffe
95 said, he hoped the noble Lord who had just sat down would not think him guilty of taking any ungracious part towards him when he declared that he entirely disagreed with him in the amendment which he had proposed. He was aware that the Roman Catholic Clergy of Ireland wished the thing to be done in the way which the noble Lord suggested, and that Mr. O'Connell had but spoken their wishes in the Bill which had been introduced by him in the other House of Parliament, But he (Lord Beaumont) had since then had communications on the subject with parties that he considered higher authority on the matter than even the Catholic Clergy of Ireland themselves; and he could say distinctly that, with the present relations between this country and Rome, it was not the desire of any higher parties that anything should be done tending
95Lord Beaumont
82 said that would not be necessary, for under a system of espionage the spy could write to the Secretary of State and say that such a particular letter might be expected to reach Portsmouth on a certain day, and in a particular handwriting. There were, in fact, various ways in which it might be done. Perhaps the Secretary of State might not find the express warrant as convenient as a general
82Lord Denman
matus usus abolendus;habeas corpus80 said, that the ordinance in Scobel recited the great convenience to trade and commerce of sending letters through the Post Office, and the advantage of a power to prevent, through that agency, treasonable designs against the Commonwealth of England; but if by implication it may be thought to allow this authority, it did not say one word about Foreign Powers. The first Act, constituting a public Post Office, was passed after the Restoration, the 12th of Charles II., and there was not in that one word about opening letters, or the means afforded of detecting conspiracies, or the Secretary of State's warrant. The 9th of Anne did not create, but it recognised the power, at the same time, however, distinctly requiring that there should be a warrant for every such opening. Language which certainly appeared to him to found a strong argument that every particular letter should be delivered safe, unless it were directed to be opened by an express warrant from the Secretary of State. If it did not mean that, if a special and express warrant were not necessary to authorise every such opening, then the warrant of the Secretary of State might require the Postmaster to single out all the letters directed to any particular individual during a year, or seven years, or during his entire tenure of office. If the later Act was more loosely worded, still this consequence appeared so monstrous as to condemn the construction which would admit it. On the whole matter
matus usus abolendus;habeas corpus80Lord Denman
"There is no way of preventing this evil (fluctuations produced by errors of legislation) which goes to the destruction of all our agriculture, and of that part of our internal commerce which touches our agriculture the most nearly, as well as the safety, and very being of our Government, but successfully to resist the very first idea, speculative or practical, that it is within the competence of Government, or even of the rich, as rich, to supply to the poor those necessaries which it has pleased the Divine Providence to withhold from them for a while. We, the people, ought to be made sensible that it is not in breaking the laws of commerce, which are the laws of nature, and consequently the laws of God, that we are to place our hope for softening the divine displeasure to remove any calamity under which we suffer, or which hangs over us.""A report has gone abroad, that intentions are entertained of erecting public granaries. I hear that such a measure has been proposed—that is, for Government to set up a granary in every market town at the expense of the State, in order to extinguish the dealer, and to subject the farmer to the consumer, by securing to the latter corn at a certain and steady price. If such a scheme be adopted, I should not like to answer for the safety of the granary, of the agents, or of the town itself. The foul storm of popular phrenzy, would fall on that granary. In an economical light I must observe, that the construction of such granaries would be an expense beyond all calculation. The keeping them up would be at an immense charge. The management and attendance would require an army of agents, store-keepers, clerks, and servants. The capital required would be enormous. The waste would be a dreadful drawback on the whole dealing. The moment the Government appears in the market, all the principles of market will be subverted. I do not know whether the farmers will suffer from it as long as there is a tolerable market of competition; but I am sure that in the first place a trading Government will speedily become bankrupt, and the consumer in the end will suffer."9291 wished to say a few words with respect to the very important speech which they had just heard from the noble Earl. In many of the statements made by the noble Earl, he agreed, and above all, as to the inconveniences and evils which resulted to the whole community from the present state of the law, and he especially agreed that these evils were more especially experienced by the agriculturists. The noble Earl said, that the present mode of carrying on the corn-trade, might be productive of great evil to the agriculturists. He (Lord Monteagle) agreed in this, and also that the corn-trade was thrown into comparatively few hands. The noble Earl said, these persons were generally great capitalists; no doubt they sometimes were so, but at other times operations of the utmost importance in the corn-market, were carried on by persons who had no capital of their own, but traded on speculation with capital of other persons. The noble Earl, on the part of the public, complained of the fluctuations which took place in the price of corn, and also said, that the agriculturists suffered more than any other class from this. He also stated that this great rise of price chiefly took place between the month of March and the ensuing harvest, and a rise of price at that
"There is no way of preventing this evil (fluctuations produced by errors of legislation) which goes to the destruction of all our agriculture, and of that part of our internal commerce which touches our agriculture the most nearly, as well as the safety, and very being of our Government, but successfully to resist the very first idea, speculative or practical, that it is within the competence of Government, or even of the rich, as rich, to supply to the poor those necessaries which it has pleased the Divine Providence to withhold from them for a while. We, the people, ought to be made sensible that it is not in breaking the laws of commerce, which are the laws of nature, and consequently the laws of God, that we are to place our hope for softening the divine displeasure to remove any calamity under which we suffer, or which hangs over us.""A report has gone abroad, that intentions are entertained of erecting public granaries. I hear that such a measure has been proposed—that is, for Government to set up a granary in every market town at the expense of the State, in order to extinguish the dealer, and to subject the farmer to the consumer, by securing to the latter corn at a certain and steady price. If such a scheme be adopted, I should not like to answer for the safety of the granary, of the agents, or of the town itself. The foul storm of popular phrenzy, would fall on that granary. In an economical light I must observe, that the construction of such granaries would be an expense beyond all calculation. The keeping them up would be at an immense charge. The management and attendance would require an army of agents, store-keepers, clerks, and servants. The capital required would be enormous. The waste would be a dreadful drawback on the whole dealing. The moment the Government appears in the market, all the principles of market will be subverted. I do not know whether the farmers will suffer from it as long as there is a tolerable market of competition; but I am sure that in the first place a trading Government will speedily become bankrupt, and the consumer in the end will suffer."9291Lord Monteagle
96 said, there were two propositions involved in the objections that had been taken to the Bill by his noble Friend behind him (Lord Hatherton). One was that the provisions of the Bill ought not to be confined to the clergy, but should be extended to the higher dignitaries in the Roman Catholic Church—to the archbishops and bishops. In that he entirely and decidedly agreed with his noble Friend; but with respect to the second objection, he had the misfortune to differ from his noble Friend in the view which he had taken. Whether they were dealing with the clergy of their own (the Established) church or with the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church, he considered that there would be an essential convenience in placing charitable trusts under the care of trustees. No doubt, the beneficial use of such trust-property would be for the parochial minister; but still there would be an advantage in having trustees, which would become apparent when they considered the various changes that took place among the Roman Catholic priesthood, and that they were governed by laws of which they (the House of Lords) knew nothing. Priests might, for instance, be suspended
96Lord Monteagle
 said, that it could not be supposed that he knew anything about the administration of the Post Office.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that as the noble Earl proposed to bring forward the question regularly on Thursday, it might more fitly be further debated then. All he could say was, what he had said before, that the warrant issued by his right hon. Friend was in strict conformity with all the precedents, and that he had done no more than had been done by all the Secretaries of State from the reign of Queen Anne to the present time.The Duke of Wellington
: I do not know the name of the petitioner, nor did I receive any notice from the noble Earl of his intention to put the question.The Duke of Wellington
 said, he was exceedingly glad the noble Duke had called attention to this subject. No one knew better than he did of the attempts daily made to infringe upon the wholesome and necessary rule established by their Lordships, a rule not more necessary for the administration of justice in that House, than essential to the character and honour of their Lordships. He received constant applications on the subject of Private Bills, and he had one answer, and only one answer, for the parties, namely, that he was the last person they ought to apply to, as he was the author of the Standing Order which prevented canvassing, and he uniformly, civilly he hoped, but firmly, turned his back upon the persons so applying, as if he were a judge or a juryman who was asked to misdecide a case. He asked their Lordships to pursue the same course, and thus put an end to what was little short of an insult.Lord Brougham
121 said, that he and every other noble Lord who had the honour of being a member of the Com-
121The Earl of Shaftesbury
Cries of enquired whether it was to be considered a breach of privilege if a circular were sent round stating the case on one side or the other. [Cries ofLord Campbell
 said, what he objected to was the privately waiting and soliciting. As to parties being at liberty to send a printed statement, that was merely enabling noble Lords to obtain information that was necessary for their guidance.Lord Brougham
 conceived that the sending a printed statement had no bearing upon the case referred to by the noble Duke. He understood the noble Duke's objection to be, not to any thing that was addressed to the Members of that House collectively, but merely to statements made privately to Members of a Committee appointed for a particular purpose. No doubt what the noble Duke said was perfectly correct, but the question was, how it was to be prevented. Was a Member of that House to come forward, and say, "Such a person came to me and endeavoured to lay his case before me." He conceived that their Lordships would not be competent to inflict punishment in such a case; but it was only for the Members of the House to understand that it was an insult to them, and to inform the parties coming to them with statements that it was improper to do so, and the evil would soon be put an end to.The Earl of Wicklow
122, in moving the Committee said, that from all he had learned with respect to the subject of this Bill since its introduction, he was more desirous than ever that it should pass, as he was thoroughly convinced of its great importance. Indeed, he was so anxious to see it passed into a law that he was willing for the present to give up all those parts of the Bill which were objected to; the appointment of judicial members to the Privy Council being amongst those which he relinquished,
122Lord Brougham
 inquired whether the noble and learned Lord meant still to continue those parts of the Bill which related to divorce?The Bishop of London
: Yes.Lord Brougham
 thought, that before the Bill passed the right rev. Bench ought to meet and consider how far they could agree to so important a change in the law as affecting the Church.The Bishop of London
 said, there had been no difficulty or difference in the Committee, even among the rev. Prelates who were Members, as to the necessity of making some change in the administration of the law relating to divorce. The question was, how the change should be effected.Lord Brougham
 suggested whether the noble and learned Lord would not be hazarding the loss of the Bill by insisting on those Clauses respecting divorce. He had suggested at the commencement of the Session that they should be made the subject of a separate measure.The Lord Chancellor
 would take the suggestion of his noble and learned Friend into his most anxious consideration. He would print the Bill in its present shape, and then there would be full time to consider it. He wished also to state with respect to this Bill, what he was sure his noble and learned Friend would bear him out in, that in proposing to withdraw the provision of the Bill which related to the appointment of the three Judges of the Privy Council, he did so without reference to any wish or interest of his own. He did this the more anxiously because the most ridiculous opinion had prevailed elsewhere that he had destined one of those places for himself. His noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack and other noble Lords were aware that the opinion was utterly without foundation.Lord Brougham
l.l. said, the noble Lord was entirely mistaken as to the public feeling on this Bill; certainly so far as the clergy were concerned, he did not believe that there were in his diocese two clergymen who were not exceedingly anxious on every ground that this Bill should pass, and that the Act for the union of the two sees should be repealed. This was the common feeling, and the petitions which had been sent up to that House were of the most voluntary nature. The rural dean had no power whatever to get up such petitions. With respect to the living to which the noble Lord had alluded, it was quite true that he had paid only 240l.l.The Bishop of Bangor
 doubted whether he had any authority to put to the House the question for the third reading of a Bill whereby not only the prerogatives but the pecuniary interests of the Crown were affected, and which had not the consent of the Crown to its discussion. Every alteration that could take place with respect to episcopal distribution, affected directly the pecuniary interests of the Crown, inasmuch as during the vacancy of a See, the temporalities belonged to the Crown. There could be no doubt, that the previous consent of the Crown was necessary for the passing of a measure that affected the pecuniary interests of the Crown. He would, therefore, seggest that a Committee should be appointed for the purpose of ascertaining precedents, that their Lordships might know what course should be pursued. If that suggestion met their Lordships approval, the debate should be adjourned for that purpose. He confessed he did not see how the Crown, which would be seised of the temporalities during the vacancy, would be damnified by two Sees being either united or separated.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that as this was a measure to prevent the consolidation of two Sees into one, to keep up two Sees, he could hardly see how the interests of the Crown could be damnified by the House agreeing to it. On the contrary, it was a question whether the interests of the Crown would not rather be benefitted by having two chances of the temporalities during vacancy of Bishoprics instead of the one that it would have were the See to be united.Lord Brougham
 would remind their Lordships that the present measure would prevent the creation of the See of Manchester, and the matter, as regarded the prerogatives of the Crown, was not a question of more or less—for that was a question for the Crown to judge—but of high principle.The Lord Chancellor
 claimed, before he was called upon to give an opinion, an opportunity of considering the question; and he trusted that the noble Earl would acquiesce in the suggestion of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, and either adjourn the question or refer it to a committee. It was not a question of form, but of substance. If it had been a question of form, considering the importance of forms, their Lordships should deliberate well before they proceeded with the Bill when they had a direct declaration of a Minister of the Crown that it had not the assent of the Crown But it was a question of substance affecting the prerogative of the Crown, if not as to the amount of patronage, as to the distribution of patronage, which was equally important, and as to the creation of a new bishopric, which was cut away by this Bill. If he was called on to give an opinion, he would say that the noble and learned Lord on the woolsack was not at liberty to put the question, and he had risen to express a hope that the noble Earl would consent to an adjournment of the question, considering the importance of the topic in all its consequences under future and unforeseen propositions which might be made affecting the interests of the Church of England, and the Constitution of England, and for which this Bill would make a most important precedent, which would not be forgotten.The Marquess of Lansdwne
 said, the House ought to be careful how the appointment of the Committee was worded. Their Lordships must not prejudice the question suggested by the noble Duke as to the right of the House to proceed with a Bill without the consent of the Crown.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, he entirely concurred with the noble and learned Lord.Lord Campbell
 had been forty-two years in Parliament, and his experience was, that there was no irregularity in passing a measure through its stages, including the third reading, whether or not the consent of the Crown had been given. He should certainly vote for the third reading of the Bill, as he considered the opinion of the House to be decidedly declared as to the merits of the Bill. After that had been done he should be ready to vote for a Committee.Lord Kenyon
131 thought it improper to mix up the merits of the Bill with that most important one suggested by the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack. It no doubt had been the practice of Parliament, from almost time immemorial, with regard to certain measures, to obtain the previous consent of the Crown, before any such measure was carried to its last stage. He confessed that he did not think that this was a very easy question to answer at once. The Motion now was for the third reading of a Bill, and then there would be a subsequent Motion that "the Bill do pass." He
131Lord Canterbury
 felt, in common with the noble Viscount (Viscount Canterbury), that the merits of this Bill should be altogether separated from the question of prerogative; but he thought the present the most convenient time for discussing its merits, leaving the question of prerogative to be taken into account on the final question that the Bill do pass.The Bishop of Salisbury
Cries of wished to say one word as to the question of whether the noble and learned Lord was or was not to put the final question. [Cries ofLord Canterbury
 said, he had only to put the question that the debate on the third reading of the Bill be adjourned.The Lord Chancellor
 suggested that the question might be put, whether the Bill be read a third time now or in six months, and if the amendment should be carried, all the difficulty should be at an end.Lord Vivian
l.l.l.in commendam,123 said, that he was not present
l.l.l.in commendam,123Lord Vivian
 said, if the question were put, he should vote for the third reading of the Bill. If, however, the noble and learned Lord on the woolsack should propose a Committee to search for precedents, he was not prepared to say that there would be found any precedent which would preclude the House of Lords from passing any measure through its stages up to the last, though the measure had not the consent of the Crown. He was therefore anxious that such a Committee should be appointed, in order to see whether it was not the privilege of that House to pass a Bill without the consent of the Crown.The Duke of Richmond
130non constat said, there could be no doubt as to their right to read the Bill a third time, as 130non constatThe Duke of Richmond
 said, he wished to call the attention of their Lordships to a matter of considerable importance, of which he conceived it had become necessary to take notice; he alluded to the practice, which had recently been renewed, of canvassing noble Lords on the subject of Private Bills, as he considered that any person who canvassed a Peer was guilty of a gross breach of the privileges of the House. Their Lordships, he thought, ought to declare their determination that if any person was guilty of doing so, he should be liable to the penalties of such breach of privilege.The Duke of Richmond
 said, he protested strongly against any prohibition of two parties, or either of them, sending round a printed statement of their case. He had known several instances of the kind since his noble Friend introduced his measure.Lord Hatherton
128127 opposed the Bill on the ground that its enactments would stand in the way of all effectual amelioration of the condition of the working clergy. He would ask their Lordships, he would ask the noble Earl (the Earl of Powis) himself, whether the state of the Church in North or South Wales was satisfactory to the friends of the Establishment? Had it worked well? Had we an Established Church growing
128127Lord Monteagle
126125 rose to call their Lordships' attention to the state in which this question now stood before the House, and to state the course which he proposed to take in the discussion to-night on the part of Her Majesty's Government. Their Lordships had thought proper to pass the second reading of the Bill by a considerable majority; his noble Friend (Earl Powis) then moved that the Bill be committed to a Committee of the whole House, but had not in Committee proposed any alterations in the Bill, which would have the effect of carrying into execution the measures which formed part of the Act which the Bill now before the House proposed in part to repeal. He had been called on, when the question of the committal of the Bill was under consideration, to state whether or not he was authorized to give Her Majesty's consent to its discussion; he answered that he was not so authorized; and he was not so authorized on this last stage of the Bill. He considered that a very material point for their Lord-
126125The Duke of Wellington
 said, that the present measure affected the prerogatives of the Crown in this manner—the Act of Parliament recited certain reports of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and enabled the Crown, by Orders in Council, to carry the recommendations of these Reports into exeecution. Now, the present Bill by repealing an important Clause of this Act, repealed the foundation on which the Order in Council was based.The Duke of Wellington
132 said, he had
132The Duke of Wellington
Richmond said, the question raised by the noble Duke went to one of the best established rules of Parliament. It was a rule in both Houses of Parliament that a question involving the interests of the Crown should never be debated without, its consent. The noble Duke said, that it was the right of this House to debate, if not to pass the Bill, without the consent of the Crown. [The Duke of RichmondLord Cottenham
 said, that for proceeding without the consent of the Crown he had the precedent of the Act respecting the Bishopric of Sodor and Man, and also of the Act for carrying into effect certain modifications of the fourth Report of the Commissioners of Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues, which passed both Houses of Parliament without the House having sought the previous consent of the Crown, when the noble and learned Lord (Lord Campbell) was Attorney General, and the noble and learned Lord (Lord Cottenham) was Lord Chancellor. If the feeling of the House was against his now pressing the third reading of the Bill, he would give way, but he thought the better course would have been to take the third reading now, and postpone further discussion until the question "that the Bill do pass."The Earl of Powis
 moved, that the Bill be now read a third time.The Earl of Powis
 rose to present a Petition from the Parish of Lyneham, for a repeal of the Corn Laws. He believed that Petitions of a contrary nature had very frequently been got up by means that appeared to him to be altogether unfair, and that signatures to such Petitions had been procured in an improper and oppressive manner. No such objection could be urged against the Petition which he was about to present. One of those tracts that were sent forth by the Association with which the noble Duke on the cross-bench was connected had been disseminated for some time through the district from which this Petition came. He did not know whether it was the same tract to which he had referred on a former occasion, and which he still considered to be a most dishonest production, but it came from the same source. It did not, however, produce the effect that was expected from it, but directly the reverse. A meeting took place of farmers and agricultural labourers, at which a resolution was passed condemnatory of the Corn Laws, and a Petition, founded on it, and praying for their Repeal, was agreed to. That Petition he now presented. The meeting, which he understood was numerously attended, was conducted in the most regular manner. Everything was conducted with propriety, and no violent or irritating language had been used. [The noble Earl also moved for a return of the quantities of wheat sold in each week of the year 1843.]The Earl of Radnor
 said, that instead of being sorry that the Protection Societies had put forth tracts, he was, on the contrary, glad that they had, because he was of opinion that when a measure of importance was brought under consideration, canvassing by the means of fair argument was the only way of arriving at the truth—and if the Protection Societies had published fair pamphlets he should be the last man to complain. He repeated now what he had stated on a former occasion, that the pamphlet which his noble Friend had now adopted was the most discreditable book that he (the Earl of Radnor) had ever read, inasmuch as it falsified facts, misquoted authorities, and perverted the arguments which the author professed to be quoted had laid down.The Earl of Radnor
 said, that the noble Earl had told the House that Petitions had been presented signed by labourers, whose signatures had been affixed in consequence of the exercise of some arbitrary authority. He thought that the noble Earl should inform the House when these Petitions were presented, and where they came from. He often heard charges made in Parliament against the agricultural interest, which, when they came to be sifted, were discovered to have no foundation whatever. It was well known that when the labourer was well paid the price of corn was high. For the last thirty years, the amount of wages had always been regulated by the price of corn. It was impossible for any man with a regard to truth to deny that position. With regard to the fires which had recently taken place, he certainly regarded them as a disgrace to the country. These fires were very prevalent in the year 1822, which was a year of distress throughout the country, in consequence of the low price of corn; and he thought that the late fires had been occasioned by the deficient harvest of last year, and the consequent want of employment which it had produced.The Earl of Stradbroke
193192191190189188187d.d.,186185184 said, that he would not enter upon the present subject more at large than he felt called upon to do, after the pointed and bitter attack of the noble Lord against himself, and upon all those who agree with him on the question of slavery. The noble Lord had said that they were labouring under a delusion, and that they were dealers in hypocrisy and cant. He supposed that every one who laboured under a delusion was not conscious of it, and that he was, like the rest, unaware of the delusion which oppressed him; but at any rate the dealers in hypocrisy and cant were persons generally wide awake. They were especially a class of people who slept with one eye open, and, as far as the fracas was concerned, all he could say was, that it did not rest with him or with those who sided with him on this question. With regard to the speech of the noble Lord, he differed from him in a great part of his arguments, in most of his facts, and in all his conclusions. He was sorry that an arrangement had been made by which he had been prevented from hearing last night the speech of the noble Lord; but he doubted not that the facts of his speech would have been just as inaccurate—the inferences just as illogical—and the doctrines just as crude then, as
193192191190189188187d.d.,186185184Lord Brougham
194 rose to disclaim on the part of the West-India interest, any idea that it would be a benefit to them to have the price of sugar enhanced to such a degree as that it would cease to be an article of consumption amongst the common people.
194Lord St. Vincent
196195 said, that the two noble Lords who had just spoken, had referred to the distress of the West Indies as if it were of recent origin, and as if it had arisen solely out of the Act of Emancipation—whereas, he, who had been in Parliament twenty years had never known the time when the West-Indian interest did not complain. It might be said that it was not owing to the abolition of slavery, but of the Slave Trade. Now, he had before him the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons of 1807, appointed to inquire into the Condition of the West-India Interests; and the Report, which was presented by the present Lord Seaford, said, that, ever since 1799, there had taken place a progressive deterioration in the condition of the planters, resulting from a constant diminution in the prices of sugar, till the depression in the market was such, that during the preceding year the estates had not paid their expenses; and the Report further added, that from 1800, the expenses of cultivation had increased, while the profits had diminished from 10 per cent. to 2½ per cent., and 1½ per cent., and ultimately to nothing; consequently it was not emancipation, or the abolition of the Slave Trade which had caused the distress—it had existed several years before both—it was, therefore, an unfair argument to say that it arose from either. He believed that the difficulties of the West-Indians arose from other circumstances, traced in the same Report, to the monopolies to which the West-Indian proprietors were themselves subjected. One of those monopolies was the prohibibition
196195The Earl of Radnor
: One-half of it was exported again.Lord Brougham
 believed that was the home consumption.The Earl of Radnor
: In 1815, fourteen years afterwards, when 4,000,000 lbs. were imported, only 2,000,000 lbs. were consumed. Where 2,000,000 lbs. were then consumed, there were four now.The Earl of Dalhousie
197: At any rate, in 1840 there was no exportation, and the quantity then imported gave an average consumption per head of only 15 lbs., being two-thirds of the quantity allowed to the old and infirm in workhouses, and not more than one-half of that consumed by each seaman in Her Majesty's ships. He believed that monopolies were injurious to all parties, both those who enjoyed them and those at whose expense they were enjoyed. Now, this was extremely remarkable in the case of the West-India proprietors, and of the value of the produce brought to this country. Monopolies gave no encouragement to cultivate to the best effect; and, consequently, in the generality of cases, where the import was the least, the profit was the most. The noble Earl then read returns of the imports of various years since 1830, to prove that the amount of profit derived was greatest in those years in which the quantity imported was least; and then went on to observe, that this proved that the monopoly took away the incentive to produce as much as possible. Another consequence was, that it set at nought the
197The Earl of Radnor
 explained. He did not think refining sugar in the West Indies was a matter of much consequence to the planters. He wished it to be understood, that there was no complaint on the part of West-Indian proprietors, in consequence of a reduction of the differential duties. The only question with them was, whether, considering their present situation, the proposed reduction was not too great, and whether that reduction should not be postponed for a short period, until our colonies were placed in a position to compete with foreign countries.Earl St. Vincent
 maintained that the price of labour was entirely dependent upon the price of food until the condition of the labourer was so bad that that amount of remuneration could not be obtained without which he must die. Until that point was reached, the wages of labour only depended upon the demand.The Earl of Radnor
l.l. said, the noble Lord had in the latter part of his speech answered the former. Wages were the price of labour, and if you gave more you might call it wages, but the surplus was, in reality, charity. His noble Friend might choose to pay a servant 60l.l.The Earl of Radnor
 quite agreed with his noble Friend, in the straw having borne a goodly crop. It was true also that it had not met the fate of straws when clutched by drowning men, for it had not gone down with them—it remained upon the surface.Lord Brougham
 replied.The Earl of Dalhousie
 moved that the clauses be expunged relating to the jurisdiction in Divorce cases.The Lord Chancellor (with the consent of Lord Brougham, who had left the House)
172s.s.s.s.s.;s.171d.,s.d.s.d.,s.d.s.d.,s.170169"He believed that the people of this country required that the great experiment they had undertaken should be fairly tried, and he was satisfied it would not be fairly tried, if, at the moment when the Colonies were struggling against the difficulties he described, they opened the flood-gates and inundated the British market with sugar the produce of slave labour."168s.s.s.s.167s.;s.l.d.s.d.;s.d.s.d.s.d.s.166165 moved the third reading of the Sugar Duties Bill. In asking their Lordships to give a third reading to a Bill for making certain alterations in the duties on sugar, it became his duty to state to their Lordships the objects of that measure, and the reasons on which it was founded. Their Lordships were aware that the duties which were imposed on the importation of sugar were not imposed by virtue of the Acts which imposed duties on other articles imported into this country, but that they were imposed by an Act which was annually renewed. The Bill which he now had the honour of submitting to the House, was one, however, of a very different nature from those which usually came before Parliament during every Session in relation to the Sugar Duties, for it proposed to introduce considerable alterations into the law as regarded the importation of sugar—not only as regarded the foreign countries from which the importation of sugar was admissible, but also with respect to the rates of duty at which it should be admitted in this. It was unnecessary for him on that occasion to remind their Lordships of the extreme importance of the article which was the subject of this Bill—of the immense and valuable tracts of territory devoted to its cultivation—to the enormous amount of capital involved in its production—or of the number of persons employed in connexion with that production. Their Lordships were all well aware, that these were of such an extent as must at all times afford matter deserving of the gravest consideration of Parliament. It would be superfluous for him to direct the attention of their Lordships to the importance of the
172s.s.s.s.s.;s.171d.,s.d.s.d.,s.d.s.d.,s.170169"He believed that the people of this country required that the great experiment they had undertaken should be fairly tried, and he was satisfied it would not be fairly tried, if, at the moment when the Colonies were struggling against the difficulties he described, they opened the flood-gates and inundated the British market with sugar the produce of slave labour."168s.s.s.s.167s.;s.l.d.s.d.;s.d.s.d.s.d.s.166165The Earl of Dalhousie
162 said, that the noble Earl had called this pamphlet a very
162The Duke of Cleveland
 said, that he hoped the House would permit him to say a word or two on this theory of his noble Friend, that the price of wages followed the price of food. The principle was perfectly true that the price of wages was dependent on the demand for labour—but if that demand for labour was so redundant as it was in this country, the labourer would be reduced to that amount of wages which would keep him alive, and then undoubtedly the price of labour would fall with the price of corn. This was a misfortune that none of them could avoid. That was, unfortunately, the condition of this country, and of the greater part of Europe. That was the condition of Northern Germany, of many parts of France, of Switzerland, and of Italy, still more. It was the condition of almost every part of the civilised world, excepting the Russian empire and the United States. If on the other hand there were scarcity of labour, the noble Earl's rule, that wages did not depend upon the price of food, would apply.Lord Ashburton
199l.l.198 said, after the long discussion which had taken place on the subject before the House, and after the able manner in which the question had been introduced to their Lordships' consideration by the noble Earl who had opened the debate, it was not his intention at any length to trespass upon the indulgence of the House; but he could not rest satisfied without referring to one or two points Which had been urged by the noble Lords who had spoken. The question had, he thought, been treated improperly as one strictly coming within the jurisdiction of the political economist. It was true, but not to the extent represented by the noble Lord opposite, that the West-India Colonies were not competent to supply sugar adequately to the wants of the country. The noble Lord had not stated the case fairly. It should be borne in mind, that the return of the amount of sugar consumed
199l.l.198Lord Ashburton
 said, that the noble Earl, by his principle of allowing the farmer to procure labour for as low a rate of wages as he could, would be justified in seeing the labourer all but starved before he interfered to raise the price of corn. That was not the case of the agricultural labourers of this country, not because there was not a redundancy of labour sufficient to produce that result, but because the farmers and country gentlemen, from motives of consideration and charity, gave higher wages than they could otherwise procure labour for.Lord Ashburton
201200 rose for the purpose of protesting against his noble Friend classing him among the opponents of the measure before the House. He did not intend to oppose the Bill. He considered it an advance towards sound principles. He supported it because it recognised the interest of the consumer. He objected certainly to the Motion, on the ground that it did not sufficiently carry out an important legislative principle. Could they prevent slave-grown sugar from getting into the market? Do what they could with the certificates of origin; adopt the rigid system of commercial policy pursued by Napoleon; bring into active operation every facility placed at the command of the Board of Trade, the Custom-house, and their consuls placed in various ports; and, notwithstanding every precaution of the kind, this article would find its way into their ports. When such an article as timber was carried across the Atlantic in spite of all our differential duties, was he to be called visionary by his noble and learned Friend because he apprehended that sugar would be conveyed from Siam, or the He de Bourbon, to Java. When they remembered in what way the kindred article of coffee had been carried from America to the Cape, was he to be looked on as absurd and theoretical because he feared that sugar would in like manner be brought in in spite of our fiscal regulations? He (the Marquess of Lansdowne) felt no such confidence as that which was felt by the supporters of this Bill—he believed that the attempt was one which must fail. What
201200The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that from what he had heard, he concurred with the noble Lord (Lord Methuen) as to the orderly manner in which the proceedings at this meeting had been conducted.The Duke of Beaufort
161160, having been alluded to by his noble Friend, could not allow that opportunity to pass without making some observations. His noble Friend had stated that Petitions in favour of Agricultural Protection were frequently got up in an oppressive manner. He (the Duke of Richmond) need scarcely state, that he was not aware of any such proceeding, and he should very much regret if any improper means were resorted to for the purpose of procuring Petitions. It appeared
161160The Duke of Richmond
Cries of164 said, the history of
Cries of164Lord Beaumont
 thought it only right to state, that his noble Friend was only doing justice to the conduct of the people who had attended this meeting when he described it as having been decorous and proper. The parties who assembled on that occasion did not indulge in any angry, violent, or vituperative language.Lord Methuen
183l.l.l.,"It was said that we should encourage slave cultivation if we promoted the produce of the islands; but he would show that by indirect means we were encouraging slave cultivation. Our exports to Brazil last year were to the amount of 3,820,000l.l.l.,pro tanto182s.s.s,181180179178177s.176175174173 said, a more clear and satisfactory statement of a complicated question he thought it was impossible to have made to their Lordships than that of the noble Earl. He (Lord Monteagle) had no objection to make to the general
183l.l.l.,"It was said that we should encourage slave cultivation if we promoted the produce of the islands; but he would show that by indirect means we were encouraging slave cultivation. Our exports to Brazil last year were to the amount of 3,820,000l.l.l.,pro tanto182s.s.s,181180179178177s.176175174173Lord Monteagle
 said, he did not, of course, rise to oppose the Instruction, because it would be useless, and perhaps not decorous of him to do so, but he must express his doubt of the expediency and wisdom of it. It would be impossible for the Committee to make a satisfactory report in answer to the question. They must either on the one hand, decide that the Bill was one for the passing of which the consent of the Crown was required, and thereby give to the Minister of the day a power which Parliament had not recognised hitherto, or if, on the other hand, they excluded the Bill from that class, they might inflict a serious blow on the patronage and, perhaps, the prerogative of the Crown. He thought, therefore, it would be right not to moot the question, but to leave it as it stood, no practical evil having arisen.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 did not think it a proper principle to lay down that a Bill of this sort, or of any sort, should be stopped in its progress through that House on the ground that it had not received the Consent of the Crown.Lord Clanricarde
 intimated his acquiescence, and the Instruction thus modified was agreed to.The Marquess of Clanricarde
306"That a Secret Committee be appointed to inquire into the Practice of detaining and opening Letters, under the Provisions of the 1st Victoria, c. 36, and more particularly into the
306305loyauté;304303302301communiter usitate et approbata.300communiter usitata et approbata,"Then as to the authorities, Lord Hale and all the others hold that an uncertain warrant is void. It is said that the usage is so, and that many such warrants had been issued since the Resolution; but such a usage to be law ought to be communiter usitata et approbata,v.v.ipso factoipso facto299298Scobell's Collection297 moved for the appointment of a Committee of which he had given notice for this evening. He would move for the Committee precisely in the words of his notice, with the exception only of adding the name of another foreign gentleman of the name of Stolzman, whose letters had recently been opened at the Post Office. He would persist in his Motion notwithstanding what had passed in the other House of Parliament, although he had been told that the appointment of a Committee in the other House on the same subject as that to which his Motion referred, namely, the opening of letters at the Post Office, would render it unnecessary for him to proceed further. But he had two very good reasons for persisting in the course he had adopted: the first was, that if a Committee of that House were appointed to investigate this matter, it would carry with it a weight which a Committee of the House of Commons could not possess, inasmuch as any evidence taken before their Lordships' Committee would be upon oath, which was not the case before Committees of the House of Commons, and moreover their Committee would have the benefit of the great legal authorities in the investigation; and the other reason was his sense of the great importance of the question itself, an importance which had increased not only every day since the subject was first mooted in that and the other House, but which was constantly manifesting itself in the excitement and irritation which the subject created in the public mind. The question had now assumed a very different aspect from that which it
306"That a Secret Committee be appointed to inquire into the Practice of detaining and opening Letters, under the Provisions of the 1st Victoria, c. 36, and more particularly into the
306305loyauté;304303302301communiter usitate et approbata.300communiter usitata et approbata,"Then as to the authorities, Lord Hale and all the others hold that an uncertain warrant is void. It is said that the usage is so, and that many such warrants had been issued since the Resolution; but such a usage to be law ought to be communiter usitata et approbata,v.v.ipso factoipso facto299298Scobell's Collection297The Earl of Radnor
 (handing the Act to the noble Duke): There is the section, and here is the oath.Lord Campbell
: "Hear, hear." That was my point.The Earl of Radnor
312 was anxious that the noble Duke's Motion should be substituted for that of his noble Friend, because that Motion included in the inquiry, the acts of himself and Lord Normanby when in office, to which the Motion of his noble Friend did not extend. As far as he was concerned, he desired to have the whole matter thoroughly sifted, conscious that it would be found he had exercised this invidious, this unpleasant, but still, in some cases, necessary power, only
312The Marquess of Normanby
 wished to know whether the letters of Mr. Mazzini had been submitted to the representatives of any foreign power?The Marquess of Normanby
 expressed his great satisfaction at the composition of the Committee, and more especially that two such eminent lawyers as his noble and learned Friends had been nominated upon it. He was convinced that the result of their inquiries would be to discover that no such power as that claimed by the Secretary of State existed; that the provisions of the Act only went to indemnify the Postmaster General and his subordinates, leaving the power of the Secretary of State what it was by the Common Law and nothing more. He was quite clear that the Committee would find that a necessity existed for a Bill of Indemnity in favour of the Secretary of State, who had issued these warrants.Lord Campbell
; I can more readily answer that question, and I can assure the noble Lord that not one syllable of the correspondence has been communicated to any person whatever.The Earl of Aberdeen
"That it be an Instruction to the Committee to consider, whether the Bill for preventing the Union of the Sees of St. Asaph and Bangor belongs to that class of Bills for which it has been the Usage to give the Consent of the Crown before passing the House; and to report generally on the Precedents bearing on the case, including the question of the particular stage of the Bill at which such consent has been usually given."295 brought up the Report of the
"That it be an Instruction to the Committee to consider, whether the Bill for preventing the Union of the Sees of St. Asaph and Bangor belongs to that class of Bills for which it has been the Usage to give the Consent of the Crown before passing the House; and to report generally on the Precedents bearing on the case, including the question of the particular stage of the Bill at which such consent has been usually given."295Lord Wharncliffe
296 thought the course proposed was the only proper one to take. There was a question whether the Bill came under a class of Bills for which it was the practice to obtain the Consent of the Crown. It would be anticipating the report which the Committee was about to make, if he said whether the Bill belonged to that class or not; but if there was to be any order in their proceedings, if there was any class of Bills which required the consent of the Crown, and if it was necessary for their Lordships to ascertain whether a particular Bill belonged to that class, the most cleat and satisfactory way of solving the doubt was to institute an inquiry. If the principle laid down by his noble Friend was correct, Parliament had been proceeding—as far back as precedents would carry us—in a very strange course, for they had been asking and receiving the consent of the Crown to Bills; and so far from vesting in the Government
296Lord Monteagle
308307Radnor: said: My Lords, I fully admit that this question has at last been brought to a condition in which it is perfectly necessary that it should be inquired into. I think, my Lords, that the practice and the law and everything relating to the case ought now to be inquired into, particularly when I find a man in the station of the noble Earl opposite attributing to the Government, and is the mouthpiece of those who discharge upon the Government, charges of treachery and fraud and forgery. It is full time, my Lords, when such charges are made, that the subject should be inquired into. But, my Lords, in making this inquiry, it is necessary to inquire into the practice and the law, and not to go into a roving inquiry of the description which the noble Lord indicated in his speech—not an inquiry into whether letters addressed to this man or that man have been opened, or whether "treachery and fraud and forgery" have been committed with respect to those letters, and whether or not all the circumstances adverted to in the noble Lord's speech can be proved. No, my Lords, the real subject to inquire into is the law, and the practice under the operation of the law, and to report it to the House, in order that your Lordships may see whether or not it is expedient that the law should be continued, and, if it should be continued, under what modifications or restrictions. A great portion of the speech of the noble Lord was directed entirely to a total and immediate repeal of the law. [The Earl of 308307Radnor:The Duke of Wellington
 suggested that if the word "required" was altered, perhaps the noble Marquess's difficulty might be removed. The words might be—"to which it has been the usage to give the Consent of the Crown.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that the Post Office of Ireland would be included in the inquiry.The Duke of Wellington
 I have no knowledge of it.The Duke of Wellington
 begged to say, that he had never expressed anything like an opinion that this power should be placed at the disposal of, or that any correspondence should be handed over to, any foreign power. He had said, that it was important that the Government should have the power of watching all foreigners resident in this country, with reference to disturbing the peace of foreign countries; but he had never said anything of handing over their letters to any foreign power.The Duke of Wellington
"A Secret Committee be appointed to inquire into the State of the Law in respect to the detaining and opening of Letters at the General Post Office, and into the Mode under which the Authority given for such detaining and opening has been exercised, and to report their Opinion and Observations thereupon to the House."311310309: There is no express authority in the law, but he has the right to convey Her Majesty's authority to every officer of Her Majesty's Government of all descriptions. He conveys the order, and the Parliament recognises his power to do so, in making it an exception to the law where such a warrant is issued, and requires the Postmaster General to have respect to that exception in carrying the law into execution. The question in such a case must always turn on the exercise of the power, and I say, on the part of my right hon. Friend, that he
"A Secret Committee be appointed to inquire into the State of the Law in respect to the detaining and opening of Letters at the General Post Office, and into the Mode under which the Authority given for such detaining and opening has been exercised, and to report their Opinion and Observations thereupon to the House."311310309The Duke of Wellington
: The Parliament requires the Postmaster to declare that he will deliver the letters, except when a warrant is issued by the Secretary of State to authorise him in detaining them. There is no doubt, my Lords, as to the law. True, there is no express authority in the law to enable the Secretary of State to issue his warrant.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that finding a noble Duke whom he had proposed to place on the Committee, was out of the House, and that another noble Lord was indisposed to serve, he begged, to substitute two other noble Lords in their place. The noble Duke named the Committee as follows;—Earl Somers, Earl of Burlington, Earl of Roseberry, the Bishop of London, Lord Colchester, Lord Brougham, Lord Cottenham.The Duke of Wellington
 observed that the whole question of the Law of Defamation and Libel was under the Consideration of the Committee.Lord Brougham
 remarked that this was embraced in the general question.Lord Brougham
 observed, that if his noble and learned Friend would refer to the case, he would find that Fuller was prosecuted for a libel.Lord Campbell
422421ex officio420, in reply, said, that their Lordships were called upon to reverse their unanimous decision of last Session. Almost every word which had fallen from his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack would apply to the Bill of last year; and, without its being said that that mea-
422421ex officio420Lord Campbell
394393Albion,392l.,"When the Minister who was concerned in carrying on the negotiations on the part of the French Government with respect to the claim for 120,000l.,"Now, he confessed that he could not view the state of our commercial relations, and of our position in the world generally, in connexion with these commercial pursuits, with any degree of unmixed satisfaction. On the contrary, he did deplore the state in which they found themselves placed in many parts of the world, particularly as had been described in the course of the evening by his noble Friend (Lord Strangford). What he attributed that state of our commercial relations to in a great degree was, the extreme weakness and tottering condition of our naval establishments. He did not now mean to complain of the distribution of our naval establishments; though at the same time, he by no means meant to unsay what he had said in respect to the expeditions to Spain, which he could not approve of; but he repeated his expression that he considered our naval establishments to be in too weak and tottering a condition to answer the purpose for which they were intended, which was to give protection to the commercial interest of the country in all parts of the world; for the commerce of England did extend to all parts of the world."391Morocco.390 rose to put to the noble Lord at the head of the Admiralty the question of which he had given notice, as to the intentions of the Government with respect to sending any force to the coast of Morocco or elsewhere, or what measures the Government had in contemplation on that
394393Albion,392l.,"When the Minister who was concerned in carrying on the negotiations on the part of the French Government with respect to the claim for 120,000l.,"Now, he confessed that he could not view the state of our commercial relations, and of our position in the world generally, in connexion with these commercial pursuits, with any degree of unmixed satisfaction. On the contrary, he did deplore the state in which they found themselves placed in many parts of the world, particularly as had been described in the course of the evening by his noble Friend (Lord Strangford). What he attributed that state of our commercial relations to in a great degree was, the extreme weakness and tottering condition of our naval establishments. He did not now mean to complain of the distribution of our naval establishments; though at the same time, he by no means meant to unsay what he had said in respect to the expeditions to Spain, which he could not approve of; but he repeated his expression that he considered our naval establishments to be in too weak and tottering a condition to answer the purpose for which they were intended, which was to give protection to the commercial interest of the country in all parts of the world; for the commerce of England did extend to all parts of the world."391Morocco.390The Earl of Minto
395de omnibus rebus, said, their Lordships had heard the question of the noble Earl, and the speech with which he had thought it prudent and becoming to preface it. The practice of making long speeches, and of entering into general discussion when only a particular question was put, was a very inconvenient one, and was one to which the noble Earl was somewhat prone. It was not only an inconvenient practice, but also an unfair one, because if he had been informed that the noble Earl was going to put a question as to the distribution of the whole naval force of the country, he would have thought it necessary to refresh his memory a little as to the details. He had never been more surprised in his life than at the long speech 395de omnibus rebus,The Earl of Haddington
 said, he was far from being satisfied with the answer he had received. He was told that the Government would do what they thought proper. He knew they could only do what was possible; and out of nine ships of the line, three being necessary here, and three necessary in the East and West Indies, and another necessarily in the Pacific, it was impossible to extract such a fleet as would be adequate to support the credit and character of the British flag.The Earl of Minto
402Craftsman,v."Can you make it appear that the publications are true? You might have had subpœnas for your witnesses against this day. If you take upon you to write such things as you are charged with, it lies on you to prove it at your peril. If you have any witnesses, I will hear them. If you have any witnesses produce them."v.401"With respect to public prosecutions, it seems to me to be contrary to common sense to say that a man is justly liable to the same punishment, whether what he publishes be true or false. The publication may be injurious whether true or false; but it must be always more injurious if it be false, and, at all events, less excuseable if it be false.""I hold that to be the greatest absurdity in the whole Libel Law, or almost in any branch of the law. For, whereas, the utmost that can be said against making the truth evidence that it is not in all cases a decisive test, yet if it is only an unilateral test, surely it is no reason for excluding so material a circumstance from the knowledge of the Court and Jury."400ex officio399Prima facie398ex officio397396 said, he had hoped that it might not have been necessary for him
402Craftsman,v."Can you make it appear that the publications are true? You might have had subpœnas for your witnesses against this day. If you take upon you to write such things as you are charged with, it lies on you to prove it at your peril. If you have any witnesses, I will hear them. If you have any witnesses produce them."v.401"With respect to public prosecutions, it seems to me to be contrary to common sense to say that a man is justly liable to the same punishment, whether what he publishes be true or false. The publication may be injurious whether true or false; but it must be always more injurious if it be false, and, at all events, less excuseable if it be false.""I hold that to be the greatest absurdity in the whole Libel Law, or almost in any branch of the law. For, whereas, the utmost that can be said against making the truth evidence that it is not in all cases a decisive test, yet if it is only an unilateral test, surely it is no reason for excluding so material a circumstance from the knowledge of the Court and Jury."400ex officio399Prima facie398ex officio397396Lord Campbell
406405404403: My Lords, although I entertain a very great respect for the opinion of my noble and learned Friend who has brought forward this Bill, and for the opinion of those who concur with him, still, after the best consideration I have been able to give to the measure I cannot consider it an improvement of the existing law; on the contrary, I think that if the Bill should pass, it will lead to great practical evils. My noble and learned friend, in his ad-
406405404403The Lord Chancellor
412Lord Chancellor411410409408407 said, he had been anxious and alarmed when he saw his noble and learned Friend rise so immediately after he had heard his noble and learned Friend who had argued the question so clearly and so cogently, to take part against a measure which he had so long and so anxiously had at heart; but he could not help thinking that the speech of his noble and learned Friend (the Lord Chancellor), taking it altogether, would be found to make, on the whole, rather for than against the Bill. Nothing was more likely than that their Lordships, not being, generally speaking, professional men, should feel the force of his noble and learned Friend's arguments in the direction in which he intended them, when he exclaimed, "Could anything be
412Lord Chancellor411410409408407Lord Brougham
, as Chairman, reported from the Select Committee appointed to inquire as to the necessity of the Royal Consent being given to the above Bill, that such consent was necessary, and that it had been the custom of the House to receive such consent at various stages of the Bill.Lord Wharncliffe
419v.418v.falsò et illicitè deludere, decipere et defraudere."Have you any counsel? Fuller: No, my Lord; I have none. I have no money to procure counsel. I have put my thoughts in writing, and I beg leave to read it. Chief Justice Holt: but you must speak to the purpose, what do you say concerning the publishing these books? Fuller: That is what I have to offer. Chief Justice Holt: Can you make it appear that they are true? Fuller: my Lord, I hope I shall. Chief Justice Holt: Have you any witnesses? Fuller: I have none here at present; but if your Lordship will please to hear the terms upon which the witnesses would have come in, I can produce them. If your Lordship will grant your warrant for Jones, I will forfeit my life if he appear not, Chief Justice Holt: You might have had subpœnas for your witnesses against this day." said, that the charge directly against him, was, that he was a cheat and impostor. In the course of the trial he was repeatedly designated a cheat and impostor, and was charged with endeavouring to get and obtain money fraudulently and deceitfully from the King. Chief Justice Holt asked him,
419v.418v.falsò et illicitè deludere, decipere et defraudere."Have you any counsel? Fuller: No, my Lord; I have none. I have no money to procure counsel. I have put my thoughts in writing, and I beg leave to read it. Chief Justice Holt: but you must speak to the purpose, what do you say concerning the publishing these books? Fuller: That is what I have to offer. Chief Justice Holt: Can you make it appear that they are true? Fuller: my Lord, I hope I shall. Chief Justice Holt: Have you any witnesses? Fuller: I have none here at present; but if your Lordship will please to hear the terms upon which the witnesses would have come in, I can produce them. If your Lordship will grant your warrant for Jones, I will forfeit my life if he appear not, Chief Justice Holt: You might have had subpœnas for your witnesses against this day."Lord Denman
417ex officioex officio416415bona fide414Morning Chronicle denied that this was the fact, for he had very recently read the evidence, and he could find nothing of the kind. But they had been told that, this Bill was a corollary to the measure of last year. The fact, however, was, that the offence of sedition or seditious libel was a specific offence. His noble and learned Friend appeared to confine his view of this part of the law to one single branch of it, and that of the least importance, namely, to that which was called sedition some forty or fifty years ago, where every newspaper proprietor or publisher was at the tender mercy of the Attorney General—if in any such publication the conduct or the measures of the Government for the time being were discussed with any degree of freedom. Thank God! these times have gone by, and since Mr. Fox's Bill passed, no Attorney General would be stupid enough to bring before a jury such cases as were previously constantly sent to them, and no judge would charge a jury, as was formerly done in such cases, or if any judge did so, he would only lose his credit with the jury, and his verdict too. There was a remarkable case illustrative of this which occurred a few years after the passing of Mr. Fox's Bill. The case he alluded to occurred in 1810, and was a trial for a libel upon His Majesty George III. inserted in the 417ex officioex officio416415bona fide414Morning ChronicleLord Denman
 said, that no doubt the general question of the law of Defamation and Libel was sent to the Committee, but not that part of the subject affecting seditious publications.Lord Denman
413 thought, that such an important alteration in the law as was proposed in the Bill now before their Lordships, should not have been brought forward without further consideration. His noble and learned Friend who had introduced the Bill, had said that the matter had been under consideration of a Committee of their Lordships for two years. Now, what were the facts of the case? At an early period of the last Session, his noble and learned Friend introduced a measure for the alteration of the law of libel; but subsequently, a Committee was appointed to inquire into the Law of Defamation and Libel, which, at a subsequent part of the Session, presented a Report, with evidence.
413Lord Denman
451450: My Lords, I wish to say a few words on behalf of certain of the yeomanry of that county of which I have the honour to be Lord Lieutenant, in reference to certain remarkable and injurious assertions that have been made against them in a newspaper, in which they are charged with having wrongfully applied and mal-administered the New Poor Law, and have thus been the cause of the incendiary fires in their neighbourhood. My Lords, the individuals in question are well known to myself; they are, particularly, Mr. Neave, Mr. Read, and Mr. Gooch. My Lords, I declare, without any qualification whatever, the whole of the statements as to these gentlemen to be utterly false! I declare they are most excellent men, and universally beloved for the kind manner in which they administer the Poor Law; and I am most proud to call them my friends. None are more
451450Lord Wodehouse
 did not wonder at the warmth with which the noble Lord had spoken, considering the characters of the persons attacked, and considering that he is personally acquainted with them. He had been requested by other parties to move for a Return calculated, they believed, to throw light upon the subject (and it is not opposed by the Government),—a return of names, ages, and descriptions of all the persons committed for trial for incendiarism at the last assizes for Norfolk and Suffolk, with the results in each case.The Marquess of Normanby
 begged to be understood as restricting his assertions to what occurred within his own hundred or union.Lord Wodehouse
449 requested permission to state his objections to the measure now, as he should not be able to be present on the day proposed. He objected to the 11th Clause, because it violated a great constitutional principle, for it provided that property bequeathed for Roman
449The Bishop of Exeter
 would not now enter into a discussion of the question, but would merely say that so far as the noble Lord had alluded to the constitution of the Catholic Church as necessarily recognising the Pope's authority in such matters, the noble Lord was correct. And undoubtedly this point should not escape consideration in further deliberations on the Bill the proceeding with which should be postponed till Tuesday, the 16th.Lord Wharncliffe
534 presented several Petitions against the Dissenters Chapels Bill; one from some of the Baptists of Banbury, "praying their Lordships to postpone for six months, the consideration of the Commons Amendment." Now, he should certainly rejoice if the prayer of this Petition were acceded to. But if not, and if the question came to be whether the Bill as originally passed by their Lordships or the Bill as now altered by the Commons were preferable, he should decidedly vote in favour of the latter. He freely admitted that the Bill as thus altered came up strangely inconsistent with itself—grossly absurd—and utterly stultifying the decisions of their Lordships—greater and grosser stultifications of their Lordships' decisions never had occurred. Upon that point, however, he had not a strong feeling, for their Lordships' decisions were not always regarded in quarters where they might most reasonably be expected to find respect. His sensitiveness on that score then was small indeed. But the Bill as it had been altered greatly mitigated, inconsistent and absurd as it was, the iniquity of the measure as originally agreed to by their Lordships. When the Bill came before the Commons (he was aware he was not in order in alluding to what had passed there, but somehow or other their Lordships did become aware of it, and what had passed in their Lordships' House on the subject had been referred to in the other House), it had been a great argument in favour of the Bill that it should have received the approval of all the law Lords. Now as to the concurrence of the law Lords, if what he had gathered from the usual channels of information were correct (and really the country gained most of its information now-a-days from those sources), without wishing at all to undervalue the authority of those learned Lords—they did not concentrate in themselves all the learning of the law; and he could state that several of the most eminent Judges were adverse to the Bill. It might be said, indeed, that Judges were good authorities for what the law was, but not for
534The Bishop of Exeter
 said, the Petition prayed their Lordships to postpone for six months the consideration of the Commons' Amendments; and he apprehended that, before moving that the Petition do lie on the Table, he had a right to show his reasons for that Motion.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, that there was no question before the House, and it would be extremely inconvenient if, on the mere presentation of a Petition, the whole subject was to be gone into, more particularly at the present moment.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 expressed a fear that any attempt to put such houses down by summary means would only lead to their transfer and re-establishment in other parts of the town, at present free from such nuisances. He thought the law as it at present stood, sufficient to abate the evil, but whether that were so or not, he feared that even if their Lordships passed this measure, they would find it impossible to carry its provisions into execution. He did not think the subject had undergone sufficient consideration, and he thought any measure on a subject so important should not have been brought forward without full inquiry. He should therefore, move as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a third time that day six months.Lord Foley
538537536 regretted that unexpected opposition to the Bill should have arisen at the eleventh hour, and sincerely hoped the advice of the noble Lord for its defeat would not be adopted. The affecting details with which the right rev. Prelate in so feeling a manner originally introduced the measure to the notice of the House, and the statements and arguments with which he had enforced—he might say, had demonstrated—its necessity, must be yet present to the minds of most of their Lordships. They were such as had induced their Lordships to give a second reading to the Bill, and to refer it to a Committee up stairs for revision. That Committee had given their attention to the subject at several sittings. He would mention, because he had heard mistaken comments on the subject, that they had been induced to alter the title of the Bill under legal advice, in order that it might be made to conform to the term already known to the law in respect of such subject: they had struck out several provisions which appeared to them to be objectionable, and unlikely to meet with the concurrence of the House, and they had amended others, and the Bill was now produced in a shape in which he (the Earl of Galloway) was of opinion it ought to pass, if their Lordships really wished to abate the evils complained of, if the House was serious and honest in its
538537536The Earl of Galloway
 said, that he did not question the purity of the motives of the supporters of the Bill, but, notwithstanding the excellence of the object, he had some doubts with respect to the machinery by which that object was to be accomplished. He had taken the liberty some days ago of expressing a hope that the Government would take this matter into serious consideration, and be prepared at some future stage of the Bill to give the House some advice as to the course they should adopt on this subject. The Government had the best means of information, through the Commissioners of Police, both with respect to the extent of the evil, which all must deplore, and the probable operation of the measure now suggested, and it was extremely desirable that they should counsel the House as to the course that should be taken on this measure, which undoubtedly was one of a very grave character, which attempted to solve one of the most difficult questions of domestic regulation, and established new and summary penalties of a very stringent character.The Earl of Minto
539 thanked the noble Earl for having given notice of the question he had now put. Having informed himself on the subject, he had now to state, that certainly the desire of the Government was very earnest to mitigate any evil resulting from the establishments alluded to; but there was a very strong feeling of the difficulty of carrying into execution such measures as were proposed in this Bill. It appeared to them that those measures were very stringent, and would require a variety of arrangements
539The Duke of Wellington
 after what had fallen from the noble Duke, would be very sorry to press the Bill one moment longer on their Lordships' attention. He rejoiced to trace such expressions of sympathy on this subject from both sides of the House with respect to the object of this Bill, and he hoped that Government, seeing the great importance of the subject, would take it into their consideration with a view to the production of a measure next Session more likely to accomplish the end he had in view.The Bishop of Exeter,
 regretted exceedingly that this Bill was about to be abandoned. The evils it was calculated to suppress were of the most alarming character, particularly the horrid trade in seduction, which was carried to an incredible extent in this metropolis, with respect to which he had a variety of horrors to detail, and which he would bring before the House Session after Session till some measure was carried similar to the present Bill. The longer that measure was delayed the more stringent its provisions must be made.The Earl of Mountcashell
 in explanation, said he did not refer to a former debate on this Bill, but to a part of the present debate, which had taken place on a former occasion. He should exceedingly regret it, if he had used a single expression which could by any possibility convey anything but real respect for the noble Duke. He (the Bishop of Salisbury) felt that in so doing he should be doing that which would be offensive to every one of their Lordships. He did not accuse the noble Duke of ignorance of Acts of Parliament, but the noble Duke having been inaccurate in some portions of his statement, he (the Bishop of Salisbury), remarked that he might not be so conversant with the details of those matters as the right rev. Prelate was. He (the Bishop of Salisbury) could assure the noble Duke that nothing disrespectful was intended.The Bishop of Salisbury,
 hoped Her Majesty's Government would reconsider the matter before the expiration of the present Session of Parliament.Earl Mount Edgcumbe
608 said, it was evident that the means which Her Majesty's Government had adopted to defeat the Bill
608Lord Lyttellon
602601600599598597596595594 said, that the
602601600599598597596595594The Bishop of Salisbury
603 said, he had on the second reading of the Bill voted in accordance to the recommendations of the noble Duke. He had done so with a very doubting mind, but with a hope that as the arrangement with which the Bill was to interfere would not come into operation until the occurrence of a future event, there would be time for consideration on the part of Her Majesty's Ministers, and that the result of that consideration would be to render the Bill unnecessary. He had, however, another reason. He always thought it the duty of an individual, who could only aspire to the humble position which he occupied, to give to those who filled high offices in the State a steady and a consistent support. The only exception to that rule was, when the principle at stake was higher than the mere question, who might constitute, for the time being, the Government of the country, or where the question did not involve any system of Government. He considered it a great evil when the opinion of a majority of that House was, in the face of the country, overborne by the Government. He admitted that there were cases in which a Government would be fully justified in exercising such a power, where they conceived that the public interests would be prejudiced by the measure which was proposed; but he humbly conceived that such a necessity did not exist in this case, and he was confirmed in this opinion by the statement of a noble Lord opposite the other night, that there were in existence sums for the endowment of a bishopric of Manchester of which the Commissioners had not been aware; and therefore the objection that it would be a bad compliment to the Commissioners not to adopt their decision fell to the ground, because it was only proposed to fulfil the intentions of the Commissioners, and in a manner which it was but reasonable to suppose they would themselves have recommended if they had been aware of the existence of those funds. He thought it would be not more for the interests of the public, than of Her Majesty's Ministers
603The Earl of Mount-Edgecumbe
boni oratoris est servare non ampliare jurisdictionem.boni judicis611610609 said, the noble Lord appeared to be under a mistake with respect to the Bill. He, as a constitutional lawyer, denied that any Bill in that or the other House of Parliament could not be considered without the consent of the Crown. As a constitutional lawyer, he maintained that there was not any subject to the discussion of which the previous
boni oratoris est servare non ampliare jurisdictionem.boni judicis611610609Lord Brougham
Peer:Cries of614613Wellington: entirely agreed with his noble and learned Friend upon the importance of this subject, and thanked him for his speech, because, agreeing with him, that there were rules of Parliament as well as laws of the country which were not to be found in written enactments, he thought it of the highest importance that some protest should be entered against this case being considered a precedent. It was an entirely new precedent, because, though undoubtedly the Committee had reported that upon such Bills as the present it had been usual to have the consent of the Crown before they could be passed, he defied any noble Lord to produce a Bill that had been stopped, and which the House had been precluded from passing before this one, for, virtually and practically, their Lordships were now stopped for want of the consent of the Crown. He would remind his noble and learned Friend how it was, that the word "usages" got into the Instruction to the Committee, and then into the Report of the Committee. The Government took a stronger view of the case than his noble and learned Friend had taken on the present occasion, because the Motion, as moved by the noble Duke, had the word "required" in it, [The Duke of Peer:Cries of614613Wellington:The Marquess of Clanricarde
617 said, that approving as he did of the course pursued by the noble Earl in not pressing the House to any further decision upon his Bill after the report from the Committee who had been required to report upon the question of the royal assent; he, at the same time, must express the great regret which he felt upon this subject. He was sure, too, that that regret would be felt by every person in the Principality of Wales, as he knew it to be by all with whom he had either conversed or corresponded on the subject. He felt certain that the intelligence of the manner in which the Bill had been disposed of would be received with universal regret. He had no doubt that Her Majesty's Government had acted under a strict sense of their duty to their Sovereign on the subject. If the Bill had been thrown out by a majority of their Lordships' House or the House of Commons, then his countrymen and neighbours would have submitted with regret, but without any strong feeling of disappointment; but when they heard that the Bill had been disposed of upon a formal and technical objection, they would feel the deepest sorrow at the matter. It could not be contended that the Bill affected the property or the prerogative of the Crown. He could not concur in what had been said by the noble Earl (the Earl of Powis) as to the statement made by the noble Duke during the previous Session, as he did not understand that any
617The Bishop of Bangor
lex scripta Parliamenti, said, that while concurring with the constitutional law upon the subject, as laid down by his noble and learned Friend (Lord Brougham), yet as the law now stood it was clear, that the consent of the Crown having been withheld, the Speaker of their Lordships' House could not put regularly the question that the Bill do now pass. He would suppose that it was in the power of Parliament to make such a regulation as his noble and learned Friend (Lord Brougham) had contended for, and that it might take the initiative in matters affecting the prerogative and revenues of the Crown; yet it was still clear, from the usage on the subject, that both Houses had laid down as a rule, that unless the assent of the Crown was given, such a Bill should not pass. The usage of the House was the law of the House, as much as it was the "lex scripta Parliamenti,Lord Campbell
 said, it was a very unusual course to refuse the assent of the Crown merely to the discussion on a Bill; but Her Majesty's Government wished to prevent it reaching the House of Commons, and they adopted a mere technical form in order to effect that object. It ought, in his opinion, to be considered a matter of course to allow the discussion. A noble Duke said the other night of this course, that it was a state trick and an unworthy manœuvre. He (Lord Lyttelton) would not go the length of repeating that, but he could not think it a very fair way of stopping a Bill if it could not be resisted on its merits, and he thought it was a proceeding not very worthy of this or any other Government.Lord Lyttelton
 stated that Ministers were quite willing to take upon themselves the responsibility of advising Her Majesty to withhold her assent from the present Bill.Lord Wharncliffe
622 said, the Government would rejoice to have better means of providing for the accommodation of the unfortunate persons to whom the noble Lord's Motion referred. The Government had turned their attention to the subject of providing a central asylum for pauper lunatics, and a plan was now before the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the probability was, that the right hon. Gentleman would take a vote for the purpose of carrying it into effect. That was the probability, but he could not pledge the Government that such would be the case. From the noble Lord's own showing, it would require an Act of Parliament to provide for the regulation of these asylums, and his noble Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland had proposed a Bill, and would, if possible, bring it on this Session, but he (Lord Wharncliffe) would suggest that it would be desirable that the Bill should be submitted to the grand juries of Ireland for their suggestions. He would communicate to the Chancellor of the Exchequer the impression which the speech of the noble Lord had made on their Lordships' House, and he trusted that in the course of this Session some further advance would be made in the matter, and means taken
622Lord Wharncliffe
615 said, his noble Friends never refused the consent of the Crown, nor ever said anything about it until his noble Friend was asked from the other side if he was empowered to communicate her Majesty's consent to the measure. When the question was raised, it was his duty to say that he was not authorized to give the consent of the Crown. The noble and learned Lord on the edge of the Woolsack (Lord Brougham) had given a most able exposition of the rights, both of the Crown and of their Lordships' House, well worthy their attention; but he could not speak so of the Address of the noble Marquess, who had stated that it was because some Minister could not vote against the Bill in the other House, that therefore the Government had taken this course to stop the Bill. How did the noble Marquess know that? Had the Bill passed, what was there to prevent the Chancellor of the Exchequer acting upon principle, perceiving the evils of the Bill, and voting against it? But the noble Marquess seemed to know more of the intention of his Colleagues than he did; for he said one right hon. Gentleman would vote for the Bill. He (Lord Wharncliffe)
615Lord Wharncliffe
616 said, he was the person who first called attention this Session to the question whether this Bill required the assent of the Crown or not, and that entirely without the knowledge or privity of any noble Lord opposite. He had acted only in accordance with what had happened in the antecedent year, when the noble Duke, not after the second reading had been agreed to, not after the question had been put to him, but after the noble Lord who had charge of the Bill had agreed to withdraw it—and then it was in reference to the future—took upon himself to suggest the question whether the assent of the Crown would not be necessary before such a Bill could pass? That was last year; and therefore he utterly denied that this prerogative of the Crown had been called into action to control an adverse majority. When the subject was first mentioned, it was not after an adverse decision; therefore the noble Lord had no ground to complain of underhand proceedings. He had hoped, indeed, that this suggestion made last year would have induced the right rev. Prelate and the noble Lord to withdraw the Bill altogether. No one would wish to deny the force of the exposition of the noble and learned Lord (Lord Brougham), but it must not be carried too far; after all, much must depend upon the wisdom and discretion of the House in the exercise of its rights—what was there, in fact, to prevent them from moving an Address to the Crown praying for the royal assent? That would be no surrender of their rights and privileges, which, he contended, had not been interfered with. At the same time, he thought that it would be convenient in cases where the consent of the Crown was necessary, for the House to be put in possession of that knowledge as early as possible. With respect to official convenience, or any possible difference of opinion among noble Lords and their Colleagues, he had no concern, but undoubtedly the statement made by the noble
616Lord Monteagle
 said, that in the Hebrew language there was no future tense, and he wished he could say so of the present Government; but unfortunately their language upon such subjects as that before the House—upon all matters relating to Ireland—was all in the future tense. The defects of the existing institutions were manifest, but if the object of the Government was to apply to the grand juries for sites, they would be applying to the very worst authorities. The course which the Government were now taking was the very reverse of that which had led to any improvement of lunatic asylums. Sir Robert Peel, when Secretary for Ireland, went to Parliament and got a vote, and established the Richmond Lunatic asylum in consequence of that vole, which was the first effectual step taken towards the improvement of the asylums in that country. If the noble Lords opposite were disposed to bring their future tense into the present tense, there was nothing in the Address which he had named that they could object to, and he should not, therefore, withdraw it.Lord Monteagle
621620 said, that the question which he had then to bring under their Lordships' consideration was evidently not a party question. It was one which he felt willing to bring forward, though at the moment when he addressed them there was not one of his noble Friends present. The question was one which demanded their most serious attention, involving as it did the highest considerations of humanity, expediency, and justice. It must be in their Lordships' recollection, that the subject which he proposed to bring before them was one which had already been deliberately inquired into by a Committee of that House—that witnesses of the highest respectability had been examined, that men of the greatest skill and eminently conversant with the subject had been before the Committee; and the Report which had been presented to their Lordships was one to which the Committee gave their unanimous assent; and that Report was communicated to the other House of Parliament. Before he proceeded further, he begged to say that one of the objects with which he then rose was to inquire what the intentions of the Government were respecting the important duty of making provision for Pauper Lunatics in Ireland, as well as to call the attention of the noble Duke opposite to a conversation which he had held with him during the present Session of Parliament, on the subject which he was now endeavouring to bring under the view of the House. Remembering then, the importance of the subject, and remembering likewise that conversation to which he had referred, he could not help feeling some surprise that nothing had yet been done in a case where the necessity was so urgent, and the evil so great. At present nothing more was done, and according to the present system, nothing could be done for the Pauper Lunatics beyond that of keeping them in safe custody; and here let it not be forgotten that those Lunatics were persons not only not criminal, but not even accused of crime; yet those poor people were detained in confinement, without any of the medical aid or moral discipline which their condition required; they were, on the contrary,
621620Lord Monteagle
618 trusted he would not be deemed guilty of disorder by speaking again, if he rose to offer some explanation. He did give notice to his noble Friend (the Earl of Powis), when his Bill was under discussion last year, that it was a measure upon which it would be necessary to have the consent of the Crown. His noble Friend considered that intimation so conclusive that he had communicated with him (the Duke of Wellington) on the subject before bringing in the Bill in the present Session of Parliament. Upon the third reading of the measure he had intimated that Her
618The Duke of Wellington
 explained that he was not the person who had suggested the word "required," and that all he did was to substitute the word "usage."The Duke of Wellington
607606605l.l.604 said, he should not have said a single word on this subject, if it had not been for what had fallen from the right rev. Prelate, who had thought proper, in a manner which was not at all in conformity with Parliamentary practice, to refer to and go into what had been said in former debates on this subject, and to introduce not only the subject of impropriate tithes, which had been only casually referred to by a noble Friend of his opposite, but also other topics which had been mentioned equally by accident, and which had nothing at all to say to this question, the right rev. Prelate had also brought under review the arguments adduced by so humble an individual as himself, who, as the right rev. Prelate had truly said, could be but little conversant with the subject. He was not a Member of the Commission—he never had been a Member of it, and he knew nothing but what he had seen published in the Reports, all of which he had read very carefully. It was his duty to read those Reports and the Act of Parliament which he had referred to on a former occasion, and he had read them, and was acquainted with their contents, and he was able to state to the House that the Bill of the noble Earl, if passed into a law, would have the effect of repealing part of an Act of Parliament which was the very foundation of the powers that were given to Her Majesty by her Order in Council, and he on a former occasion entreated their Lordships not to agree to the Bill on that account, without the consent of the Crown to the discussion. With reference to the power of appointing a Bishop of Manchester, which subject had been again alluded to by the right rev. Prelate to-night, it was said that it could be provided for in another manner, by the use of the prerogative of the Crown, and by another Act of Parliament. He (the Duke of Wellingson) was not discussing another Act of Parliament, but he was discussing that Bill which was before the House, and the effect which it was likely to have, if agreed to, upon those arrangements which were to be carried into effect by Her Majesty's Orders in Council under the existing law. He referred to the power given to Her Majesty to carry into execution the recommendations
607606605l.l.604The Duke of Wellington
 said, that on the second reading of the Bill last Session he had stated that he had not the authority of the Crown to sanction the consideration of the Bill, and before the Bill was brought in during this Session he had communicated to the noble Earl that the consent of the Crown could not be given to the discussion of the measure.The Duke of Wellington
"Resolved, that the thanks of this Court be given to the right hon. the Earl of Powis and the right reverend the Lord Bishop of Saint David's for their able and manly support and advocacy in Parliament of the continuance as separate bishoprics of the dioceses of Bangor and St. Asaph and of the existing Church Establishment of Wales, by which they have evinced their sincere regard for the national feelings and best interests of an ancient, religious, and loyal people."593592 in moving that the Order of the Day for the resumption of the debate be now read, said, he would avail himself of this opportunity to state to their Lordships that it was his intention to withdraw the Bill for repealing the union of the Sees of St. Asaph and Bangor. Although an unusual course to take under ordinary circumstances with respect to a Bill which had received the sanction of their Lordships by their assent to its second reading, he thought in the present instance he was justified in taking this course, seeing the extraordinary situation in which he found himself placed in consequence of the Report of the Committee which, on the day he last addressed their Lordships had been appointed to search for precedents; and of the statement made since by the noble Duke (the Duke of Wellington), that it was not the intention of the Government to advise the Crown to give its assent to the progress of the measure. It had been his duty to consider what course of proceeding would be most beneficial to the cause entrusted to his care, and most likely hereafter to secure the object he had in view. There were three courses open to him—either to withdraw the Bill or, notwithstanding the Report of the Select Committee to press it forward to its third reading, and be victorious in their Lordships' House, or to be beaten there upon the third reading — with the knowledge that in either of the two last alternatives, he would be ultimately foiled by the interposition of the prerogative. It must
"Resolved, that the thanks of this Court be given to the right hon. the Earl of Powis and the right reverend the Lord Bishop of Saint David's for their able and manly support and advocacy in Parliament of the continuance as separate bishoprics of the dioceses of Bangor and St. Asaph and of the existing Church Establishment of Wales, by which they have evinced their sincere regard for the national feelings and best interests of an ancient, religious, and loyal people."593592The Earl of Powis
 understood the Commons' Committee had for some time ceased to exist, therefore the communication could not have been sent to that noble Lord even in his capacity as Chairmain of the Committee. He considered it most irregular and unfair, that previous to their Lordships' Committee having reported, and despite their prohibition against the evidence being published for the use of any but their Lordships, such a communication should have been made to a Member of the other House, for the purpose of promoting the opposition to a certain course proposed there, as to hearing counsel on the part of a plaintiff about to be effected by a measure before Parliament.The Earl of Radnor
694"I say that there is presumptive proof of a conspiracy between the promoters of the Bill in this House and the Chairman of the Committee in the other place, and whoever that Chairman may be, and he may be the Duke of Richmond, I say that he has abused his position as Chairman of the Committee, and in communicating the evidence in a written state, has been guilty of an irregular proceeding. The circumstances speak for themselves. I leave it to the public to judge of them. They reflect no credit on those who have used the evidence to prevent the petitioner from being heard, nor on the Duke of Richmond, if he has communicated the evidence taken before a Committee of which he may be Chairman."693, as a Member of the Committee which had been referred to, begged to say, that his noble Friend was quite mistaken as to the object in communicating the evidence, which had been done with the consent of the Committee. He was aware, as a Member of the Committee, that his noble Friend had done this. His noble Friend had shown him a pamphlet coming from one of the Gentlemen whose name had been so often mentioned, and in that pamphlet a complaint was made by the writer that he
694"I say that there is presumptive proof of a conspiracy between the promoters of the Bill in this House and the Chairman of the Committee in the other place, and whoever that Chairman may be, and he may be the Duke of Richmond, I say that he has abused his position as Chairman of the Committee, and in communicating the evidence in a written state, has been guilty of an irregular proceeding. The circumstances speak for themselves. I leave it to the public to judge of them. They reflect no credit on those who have used the evidence to prevent the petitioner from being heard, nor on the Duke of Richmond, if he has communicated the evidence taken before a Committee of which he may be Chairman."693The Marquess of Normanby
 knew nothing of what had been said in the other House of Parliament on this subject. He only rose to state his opinion, that as the evidence had been taken before a Select Committee, and was printed only for the use of the Members of the Committee, the evidence ought not to have been communicated in the way it had been. It was, undoubtedly, a very irregular mode of proceeding.The Earl of Radnor
 considered that the noble Duke had completely vindicated himself; but it was very natural that a Member of the other House should be surprised at finding that the evidence which had been taken before their Lordships' Committee had been communicated to other persons; for in the excellent work of Mr. May (of the House of Commons) it was expressly stated that was contrary to the standing Order of the House to communicate the evidence which was given before the Select Committees of that House until it should be reported. He was not aware of what had passed in the other House, and had been anticipated by the noble Lord who had preceded him in the vindication of the hon. Member to whom the noble Duke had alluded. There was not, he believed, a Member in the House of Commons who was more respected than that hon. Gentleman was by both sides of the House. He was regarded and esteemed as one of the most rising men in that House, and would eventually, he believed, become one of the most trusted representatives of the people.Lord Campbell
fait accompli.un fait accompli.701Ripon:700699698697 rose to put the question to his noble Friend opposite of which he had given notice, relative to events of great importance which were now passing in India, and to which it was desirable that the attention of Parliament should be directed. Undoubtedly he knew that it was not usual for Parliament to interfere very actively in Indian affairs, either with respect to what was actually going on, or to what might be in prospect, and he quite concurred in the general conviction that great latitude and
fait accompli.un fait accompli.701Ripon:700699698697The Marquess of Clanricarde
736735l.l.l.s.,l.l.734 said, that in the former part of his speech, in which the noble Lord who had just sat down, had laboured very much to show the propriety of not returning to the old standard at the time when cash payments were suspended in 1797, he certainly entirely agreed with
736735l.l.l.s.,l.l.734The Earl of Radnor
 explained. With respect to the Corn Law, he said, there could be no doubt that the want of corn at particular times must have a considerable effect on the currency; but no state of law could prevent that, unless they could govern the seasons.Lord Ashburton
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l..l.733l.732731d.s.l.l.l.,730"That whereas His Majesty had appointed a Committee of his Privy Council to take into their consideration the state of the coins of the kingdom, and the present establishment and constitution of His Majesty's Mint; and as inconvenience may arise from the coinage of silver until such regulations shall be framed as shall appear necessary; and whereas from the present low price of silver bullion owing to temporary circumstances (this, by the by, was a mere conjecture of his own) a small quantity of silver bullion had been brought to the Mint, and as there is reason to suppose that a still further quantity will be brought,"729d.s.l."And be it further enacted, that no tender in the payment of money made in the silver coin of this realm of any sum exceeding the sum of 25d.s.l.l.Wellington:s.d.s.l.l.728727726 said, that the same sense of duty, arising out of a long course of public life passed in the other House of Parliament, during which he had mingled in discussions connected with the laws relating to Circulation, Currency, and Banking, imposed on him the same necessity as that which had prompted the noble Lord who had just sat down, of troubling their Lordships with some observations on this subject, but he should do so at less length in consequence of the very able speech of his noble Friend who had entered on the question so much more ably than he could pretend to do, that it would be quite unjustifiable in him to enter on any repetition of what he might call the general principles of this question. Now, first, it occurred to him that this measure was not brought before Parliament and the country as a simple question of the renewal of the Bank Charter, but it was evidently intended to be considered as laying down general principles of Banking on this occasion distinguished from those on which the country had hitherto acted. The noble Earl (the Earl of Ripon) had expatiated on the great advance we had made at the present
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l..l.733l.732731d.s.l.l.l.,730"That whereas His Majesty had appointed a Committee of his Privy Council to take into their consideration the state of the coins of the kingdom, and the present establishment and constitution of His Majesty's Mint; and as inconvenience may arise from the coinage of silver until such regulations shall be framed as shall appear necessary; and whereas from the present low price of silver bullion owing to temporary circumstances (this, by the by, was a mere conjecture of his own) a small quantity of silver bullion had been brought to the Mint, and as there is reason to suppose that a still further quantity will be brought,"729d.s.l."And be it further enacted, that no tender in the payment of money made in the silver coin of this realm of any sum exceeding the sum of 25d.s.l.l.Wellington:s.d.s.l.l.728727726Lord Ashburton
696695 said, that as his name had been mentioned he should be excused for saying a few words on this subject. In the first place, he had to observe, that it was at the desire of the Select Committee that the communication of the evidence complained of had been made, and one of the motives of the Committee in sending that evidence was, that the party complained he had not been examined before a Committee of the
696695The Duke of Richmond
 said, their Lordships' Committee upon Gaming had desired him, as their Chairman, to state, in reference to what had fallen from the noble Earl opposite (Lord Radnor) the other night, that it was with their agreement and concurrence he had communicated certain evidence to an individual in another place—the Chairman of the Commons' Committee on Gaming.The Duke of Richmond
704703702 said, that the noble Marquess, in those questions to him, had gone rather beyond the limits which his notice indicated, but, nevertheless, he should endeavour to answer them as explicitly as possible, and he had no doubt that he should be enabled to answer them satisfactorily. He did not anticipate from the terms of the notice that the noble Marquess would put that question with respect to Scinde and its financial resources, and the amount of expense in which it had involved this country, as he thought that it was the intention of the noble Marquess to confine himself rather to the subject of the Punjaub. The noble Marquess said it was rumoured that certain extensive operations were contemplated in India; but it appeared in this case that rumour had, as it generally happens, greatly exaggerated whatever truth there might have been in the accounts which reached this country of the collection of the military force to which the noble Marquess had alluded. It was rumoured that an army of 80,000 men had been collected on the confines of the Punjaub, and that the army so assembled was to be placed under the command of Sir Charles Napier, for
704703702The Earl of Ripon
l.l.711l.710l.l.l.pro tanto709l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.708s.l.707706705 rose to move that the House do resolve itself into a Committee on the Bank of England Charter Bill, and said, that in so doing, he felt called upon to explain to their Lordships the grounds on which it had been brought forward, and the provisions it contained. It was not necessary to detain their Lordships at any length by discussing the principles of Currency and Banking; those principles had been so frequently considered and such extensive inquiries into those subjects had taken place in both House of Parliament, that he apprehended their Lordships were in a condition to satisfy themselves with respect to the principles on which the Currency and Banking of this country ought to be conducted. It was necessary, however, that he should state how it happened that this question was brought before their Lordships in the course of the present year. By the Bank Charter Act of 1833, that at present existing, a provision was made that it should continue in operation to 1834, but that at the expiration of the first ten years it should be competent to Parliament on giving notice to revise the regulations of that Act, and to make such alterations therein as it should seem to require. The provision of the Act was this, notice might be given at the expiration of ten years; but if that
l.l.711l.710l.l.l.pro tanto709l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.708s.l.707706705The Earl of Ripon
725l.,724723722"Cash is withdrawn, not because the circulation is excessive, but by the country hanks and town bankers, for the purpose of meeting possible demands upon them, and by the community at large, either directly from the
722l.721l.720l.l.l.l.l.719l.l.momentum718717716715sad longo intervallo714d.s.l.713712Hansard's Debates,: I trust that my noble Friend, who has moved the commitment of this most important Bill, will not imagine that, in rising to follow him in debate, it is my intention to oppose the measure. So far is this from being the case, that I feel great, satisfaction in admitting that the Bill is founded on principles which, at an early period of the present Session, I ventured to recommend to your Lordships' most serious attention. So long back as the 6th February last, [725l.,724723722"Cash is withdrawn, not because the circulation is excessive, but by the country hanks and town bankers, for the purpose of meeting possible demands upon them, and by the community at large, either directly from the
722l.721l.720l.l.l.l.l.719l.l.momentum718717716715sad longo intervallo714d.s.l.713712Hansard's Debates,Lord Monteagle
, as a Member of the Committee, was willing to share the responsibility with the noble Duke, who had completely vindicated himself from any charges which might have been brought against him. He was not aware of what had taken place elsewhere, but he knew that the hon. Gentleman to whom allusion had been made was the last person in the world who would avail himself of his privileges as a Member of Parliament to cast reflections upon any man.Lord Monteagle
 said, their Lordships would recollect that on Tuesday last he had presented a petition from Mr. Joseph Mazzini, in which the petitioner averred that he understood that statements highly injurious to his character had been disseminated, and as he was apprehensive that similar statements might be made before the Secret Committee appointed to examine into the Opening and Detaining of Letters at the Post Office, he prayed their Lordships that he might have a full opportunity of being heard, to refute any charges that might be alleged against him, either before the Committee, or in such other manner as their Lordships might deem proper. It was his opinion that that petition should be referred to the Secret Committee. But, as some objection was made at the time, he had deferred his Motion, and he should now move that the petition be so referred. He should make no further observation now; but if the noble Duke opposed the Motion, he should reserve to himself the right of stating his opinions at length.The Earl of Radnor
 then withdrew his Motion.The Earl of Radnor
mensa et thoro778 on presenting some petitions, took the opportunity of calling the attention
mensa et thoro778Lord Brougham,
 confirmed the noble and learned Lord's statement respecting the withdrawal of the Clauses, and said, that the noble and learned Lord had declared in the House that he would not accept the judgeship.The Lord Chancellor
779 felt it necessary to state, that in this case gross fraud, almost amounting to perjury, had been committed by the supporters of the Bill. There had been already a Liverpool Dock Bill passed, so that no inconvenience
779The Marquess of Salisbury
: We heard nothing of the Bill.The Earl of Haddington
 then proceeded to propose that a Clause be inserted, securing to the shipowners what had been originally agreed upon. The coasting trade, the only other interest affected, would not (he could state) oppose the Clause; but, even should it lead to the entire defeat of the Bill, it would be only a just punishment on its supporters for the deceptive course they had adopted.The Marquess of Salisbury
, in the name of justice itself, protested against the accusation of perjury, so cruelly urged against a professional man in a place where he could not be heard.Lord Brougham
: I said, "almost perjury."The Marquess of Salisbury
 would rather meet the heavier charge then. The facts alleged only amounted to this — that what the agent for the Bill had stated, had been contradicted by another witness on one point; and who could venture to say which of them spoke the truth? As to the answer of the Admiralty, why, it confirmed the statement of the agent for the Bill, which was only that "the Admiralty had not objected to the Bill," as how could they, if they had not heard of it? Now, he knew nothing of the merits of the subject. All he knew was, that the gentleman accused had been introduced to him that morning by Mr. Wilberforce, who knew him well, as a man of high character: and he certainly should not thus be attacked without any greater ground than had been stated by a noble Marquess evidently inflamed with zeal on the opposite side.Lord Brougham
 said, the agent for the Bill had written that the Admiralty had "insisted" on the insertion of the Clauses as they stood. Was not that statement utterly falsified by the answer of the Admiralty, that they had not heard at all of the Bill?The Earl of Wicklow
 complained of the remarks which had been made by the noble Marquess upon a Gentleman who was not present to defend himself, and which were not borne out by the documents, if fairly read.The Earl of Stradbroke
 vindicated his construction of the document. He was ready to go into evidence at the Bar, but he would not persevere against the opinion of their Lordships.The Marquess of Salisbury
"If," said he, "instead of busying themselves in the depths of the Divine Counsels, they would turn to the mild moderation of the Gospel, they would there read their own condemnation—'O thou unworthy servant, did I not forgive thee, because thou desiredst me? Shouldst not thou have extended to thy fellow servant that which I have extended to thee?' "787locus penitentiæ786785784783782 rose to move the consideration of the Amendments made by the Commons to the Bill, and said that, in performing the duty which he had to discharge on that occasion it would be necessary for him to occupy but a very few minutes of their Lordships' time; indeed, under ordinary circumstances, he should merely have mentioned what the Amendments were which had been made by the other House, and prayed their Lordships' concurrence in them; but in consequence of certain intimations which had been thrown out in different quarters, and of what had passed in that House on a former night, and the intimation given by a noble Lord, for whom he entertained the greatest respect, he felt it his duty to call their Lordships' attention to the progress of the Bill, and the position in which it actually stood at present. When the Bill was submitted to their Lordships for a second reading, it met with a warm and active opposition from his right rev. Friend the Metropolitan, and also from another right rev. Prelate, whose opposition however, was founded upon what he conceived to be a misapprehension of the law relating to Charitable Trusts, which misapprehension was exposed, replied to, and satisfactorily answered by his noble and learned Friend near him. The consequence of this was, that their Lordships agreed to the second reading without a division, those noble Lords and right rev. Prelates who had opposed the Bill by their speeches, not venturing to divide the House, because he presumed they were of opinion that if they had taken that course it would have shown, in a marked manner, that their Lordships approved of the principle of the
"If," said he, "instead of busying themselves in the depths of the Divine Counsels, they would turn to the mild moderation of the Gospel, they would there read their own condemnation—'O thou unworthy servant, did I not forgive thee, because thou desiredst me? Shouldst not thou have extended to thy fellow servant that which I have extended to thee?' "787locus penitentiæ786785784783782The Lord Chancellor
800799798"We were much pressed with quotations on this point by the learned and ingenious gentlemen who argued for the defendants, but they have failed to satisfy us even as to the probability of any such catholic intention as that for which they contend having been entertained by Lady Hewley. Such a view may have been entertained by a few speculative divines of great benevolence of feeling, but was never very generally received.""I am justified, I think, in coming to the conclusion that the great body of the Presbyterians were in their opinions Trinitarians.""It is stated by the witness, and there is no contradictory evidence, that the Trinitarians of that day were believers in the trinity and in the doctrine of original sin, as contained in the Articles of the Church of England."797"Among the Dissenters called Presbyterians a particular confession of faith was formerly required of all candidates for the ministry, their soundness in which was then deemed essential.""Candidates for the ministry are solemnly ordained, after making a public confession of that faith in which they engage to make it their business to instruct others."796"I desire, in the name of Jesus Christ, to bequeath my soul unto the hands of God who gave it, hoping assuredly to be saved by the death and precious blood-shedding of Jesus Christ my Redeemer, and by no other merits."795"Those that build altars for maintaining and propagating any heresy spoil the acceptableness of the altars they build, and it will be construed to be done in transgression against the Lord.""If it appears to have been the founder's intention, although not expressed, that a particular doctrine should be preached, it is not in the power of the congregation or the trustees to alter the designed objects of the institution."794"I shall admit evidence, or if not furnished, I will, if necessary, look for evidence in history, in records, and Acts of Parliament, in the knowledge of the times, in the writings of men of different persuasions on ecclesiastical subjects. I will seek from all these sources for evidence, to ascertain what, at the time of the execution of the deed, was the meaning of the word "Christian," and the meaning of the words "Protestant Dissenters," and that not for the purpose of putting a construction on those words which would do any violence
794793792l.791790789788 could assure their Lordships that he felt all the difficulty and embarrassment of a person who rose to address their Lordships upon a question of so much importance, after the opinion which had been expressed by so grave an authority as his noble and learned Friend. He felt that difficulty considerably increased by the difficult situation in which he stood, because he readily admitted that the course which he intended to pursue, in compliance with the prayer of many petitions which he had lately had the honour of laying upon their Lordships'
800799798"We were much pressed with quotations on this point by the learned and ingenious gentlemen who argued for the defendants, but they have failed to satisfy us even as to the probability of any such catholic intention as that for which they contend having been entertained by Lady Hewley. Such a view may have been entertained by a few speculative divines of great benevolence of feeling, but was never very generally received.""I am justified, I think, in coming to the conclusion that the great body of the Presbyterians were in their opinions Trinitarians.""It is stated by the witness, and there is no contradictory evidence, that the Trinitarians of that day were believers in the trinity and in the doctrine of original sin, as contained in the Articles of the Church of England."797"Among the Dissenters called Presbyterians a particular confession of faith was formerly required of all candidates for the ministry, their soundness in which was then deemed essential.""Candidates for the ministry are solemnly ordained, after making a public confession of that faith in which they engage to make it their business to instruct others."796"I desire, in the name of Jesus Christ, to bequeath my soul unto the hands of God who gave it, hoping assuredly to be saved by the death and precious blood-shedding of Jesus Christ my Redeemer, and by no other merits."795"Those that build altars for maintaining and propagating any heresy spoil the acceptableness of the altars they build, and it will be construed to be done in transgression against the Lord.""If it appears to have been the founder's intention, although not expressed, that a particular doctrine should be preached, it is not in the power of the congregation or the trustees to alter the designed objects of the institution."794"I shall admit evidence, or if not furnished, I will, if necessary, look for evidence in history, in records, and Acts of Parliament, in the knowledge of the times, in the writings of men of different persuasions on ecclesiastical subjects. I will seek from all these sources for evidence, to ascertain what, at the time of the execution of the deed, was the meaning of the word "Christian," and the meaning of the words "Protestant Dissenters," and that not for the purpose of putting a construction on those words which would do any violence
794793792l.791790789788The Bishop of London
801 spoke briefly in support of the measure, but was very indistinctly heard. He could not at all see, in the measure before them, the dangers apprehended by his right rev. Brother. He was sure the introducers of the Bill had had no intention of favouring one body of Dissenters more than another; he believed them to have intended equal protection for all alike—that all alike should have that justice awarded them which all alike, Churchmen and Dissenters were entitled to. Most undoubtedly he himself had no sympathy with the doctrines of the Dissenters; least of all with those to whom his right rev. Brother had more especially referred; but though he had no sympathy with the doctrines of Dissenters, he had very great sympathy with the rights of conscience and the rights of property. As to the legal doubts which had been suggested, he must confess that upon such matters he must rely with more confidence upon the opinions of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, and the other noble and learned Lords who had filled that and other high judicial offices, than upon that of his right rev. Brother, however much he might prefer his interpretation of a text of Scripture. The right rev. Prelate concluded with express-
801The Bishop of Durham
805804803802 was anxious to say a few words with respect to what had fallen from the right rev. Prelate, who moved the Amendment, as to the nature of the Amendments introduced into the Bill by the other House. He agreed with his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack, that the present discussion should be confined to the consideration of the Commons' Amendments, and that they could enter into the other topics of the Bill without great irregularity. The principle of the Bill had been adopted and sanctioned by the unanimous feeling of the House, on the first occasion—so far, at least, that no division took place upon it, and it was carried by very large majorities through its subsequent stages; and in the other House it met with proportionate success from the representatives of the people. They had now only to agree or disagree with the Commons' Amendments; and it was entirely inconsistent with the rules and practices of that House—it was entirely inconsistent with the original proposition—to adopt the right rev. Prelate's Amendment, and hang up for three months the consideration of the whole matter. He regretted that one part of the speech of the right rev. Prelate did not agree with that spirit of candour and fairness which pervaded other parts of it. He regretted that the right rev. Prelate had not pursued the same spirit throughout with which he commenced. The right rev. Prelate said that he objected to some of the Commons' Amendments, but that there were some of which he approved, and which greatly improved the Bill. The right rev. Prelate said, that some of these Amendments tended to improve the Bill, while others tended towards making it worse; instead, however, of agreeing to the consideration of both these classes of Amendments, when he could vote in favour of those he approved, and against those to which he was hostile, the right rev. Prelate proposed that they should not be considered at all for three months. But what would follow this? Why the House of Commons would demand a conference. If the Commons should then inform that House that it did not persist in its Amendments, the result would be, the Bill would pass in the shape in which it was sent down. If, however, the Commons did persist in its Amendments, then, no doubt, the adoption
805804803802Lord Brougham
807806 said, that his intention in the first instance was to oppose the Bill, relying on the testimony of persons in whom he placed implicit credit, knowing them to be religious men. He had determined to oppose the Bill because he had been informed that it was not a Bill for the Dissenters generally, but a Bill designed for the exclusive benefit of Socinians and Unitarians. On looking into the measure he found that he had been misled. This was no question of theology and doctrine, but one of equity and justice. He found that others had been misled like himself, and had in consequence signed petitions against the Bill, acting on the same erroneous opinions upon which he, in the first instance, had been disposed to give it his opposition, and who, on discovering their error, deeply regretted the course they had been induced to take. Did he, then, persevere? No; for his pertinacity would be, not like that of the right rev. Prelate, a virtue, but a culpable perseverance in opposition to his conviction. Many petitions had, undoubtedly, been presented to their Lordships' House against the measure, but he had never known a case in which so many petitions of a contrary character had been presented within the same time. He had glanced over many of these petitions against the measure, and had found that although numerous, they had comparatively few signatures. For instance, last week he had presented a petition from certain Baptists of one of the most populous towns in England, with only eleven signatures. That very evening he had presented a petition in favour of the Bill (as we understood), signed by Baptists and orthodox Dissenters throughout the country, and by churchmen also, to the number of 150, which showed that the feeling of Dissenters and Churchmen were not only not against the Bill, but that there were many, very many of them anxious for it. He quite agreed with the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack,
807806The Bishop of Norwich
811810809808 not having had an opportunity on the former discussion of offering his opinion with regard to this measure, begged to address a few observations to their Lordships. He was sorry to find the Government originating a measure which in his opinion, tended more to wound the religious feelings of the people of England than any measure that had been introduced for a number of years. The great majority of the people of this country were opposed to this measure, and he entirely coincided with the objections to the Bill stated by the Petitioners, whose petitions covered their Lordships' Table. They stated that they conceived the Bill to be unjust, because it gave property to individuals to which by law they were now not entitled, and which
811810809808The Earl of Roden,
 said, it was very true, that under the Order for the Committee, no reference was made to matters of this nature, but it was equally true that there was nothing in the Order to exclude them. It should be observed, that the whole of this investigation originated in a petition which he presented a fortnight ago from Mr. Mazzini, and which was referred to the Committee. He fully admitted, that it was not the mere grievance of Mr. Mazzini, or of anybody else, that ought to be brought before the Committee. It was a general question—a question of the utmost public importance. But still it was very natural for Mr. Mazzini to feel the reports which had been, to his (the Earl of Radnor's) certain knowledge, circulated against him, and to be most anxious to meet and to repel them. In his opinion, under all the circumstances, nothing could be more fair than to refer the petition to the Committee.The Earl of Radnor
817 said, his noble Friend (the Earl of Roden) having observed that he (Lord Brougham) had taken a similar course against a Bill before their Lordships' House in the year 1834, which was now proposed to be taken against this Bill, he begged to say a few words in explanation of the circumstances of that case, which, it would be seen, were quite different from that now before the House. It was quite true, as his noble Friend had stated, that on one occasion in that year, namely, on the 13th of August, he had moved that certain Amendments of the Commons to a Bill before their Lordships should be taken into consideration that day six months. But what were the circumstances under which he did so? Because the Bill (the Justices of the Peace Bill) came back to this from the Lower House with two clauses inserted, one of which would actually have had the effect of doing away with every magistrate in England—obliging them as it did, without the assistance of a clerk or other assistant, to take down in full all the evidence in every case brought before them—the other, giving them power to abrogate and annul a variety of penal Acts of Parliament. Their Lordships agreed with him (Lord Brougham) that they could not
817Lord Brougham
 explained.The Earl of Roden
 admitted, that the Amendments made by the Commons had effected a considerable improvement in the Bill, but still he considered the whole principle and object of the measure to be so utterly faulty, unjust, and irreligious, that he, for one, could never consent to it. Some discussion had been had as to the import of the words "worship of God." He was sure that if some of the original endowers of these chapels were to see the proceedings and the nature of the "worship" which took place there, they would rather have been burned to death at Smithfield than have left their money to be applied to such purposes. The noble Lord, after some further observations, which were interrupted by general cries of "Question, question," concluded by declaring that he should cordially vote for the Amendment of the right rev. Prelate.Lord Teynham
 agreed with the noble Lord in respect to the importance of the Bill, which, in the opinion of the Admiralty, was a good and useful Bill. It was the duty of the Admiralty, when such a Bill was brought before Parliament, to see that the shores and coasts were not interfered with, and that the navigation should not be injured; and he believed that the navigation of the Mersey would not be injured by it. He had looked at all the Clauses of the Bill in respect to the coasting trade. If the seven days had been part of the Clause the Admiralty, as far as he knew, would not have objected to it. He thought that the gentleman alluded to had been borne rather hard upon; but, except so far as concerned the public interests, the Admiralty had had nothing to do with the matter.The Earl of Haddington
781 said, although he could not withhold that confidence which the House always placed in their Committees from the Committee in this case, yet it was a Bill of such importance, affecting the public interests, that their Lordships ought to endeavour to form a judgment for themselves; and, having inquired into the case, he gave his hearty concurrence in the decision of the Committee. It appeared to him, that no interest, and certainly not the coasting trade, was affected by any alteration made in the Bill; the trade was not only not in-
781The Marquess of Lansdowne
dehorsdehors, amid cries of "Question," said he must support the Amendment, and wished briefly to state on what grounds. He declared himself decidedly satisfied with the case of the Unitarians, thinking it had been conclusively established on historical grounds, upon which it should be left to rest. But, with all deference to legal authorities, he must say he believed the 2nd Clause would have the effect of introducing a new general principle into the construction of trusts. This was stated by Chief Justice Tindal in delivering the opinions of the judges in Lady Hewley's case; "where a doubt arises," (said the Chief Justice), "on the true sense of the words themselves, or any difficulty as to their application in surrounding circumstances, the meaning of the language may be ascertained by evidence dehorsdehorsLord Lyttelton
819"Thirdly, because it appears to Petitioner, that to give any Act of Parliament such retrospective effect, as to reverse at the request of interested parties the judgment—not indeed technically pronounced—but yet arrived at, and publicly declared, and that under the most solemn obligations, and in the highest Court of Equity in Ireland, cannot be intended
819"Secondly, because the parties interested in pending suits were lulled into security by the original form of the Clause, and were ignorant of the alteration affecting their rights until it was printed by your Honourable House, and consequently, were thereby prevented from petitioning to be heard by counsel in the House of Lords."To the 3rd Clause of this Bill Petitioner begs leave still further to object. First, because it contains a retrospective enactment, forming no part of the Bill, as originally printed before it came to your Honourable House, and one which bears the marks of its hasty origin, by actually contradicting the marginal reference to its contents, which still remains unchanged.818 rose, amid cries of "Question," and "Divide," and assured their Lordships, that however he might otherwise be disposed, he certainly should not think of occupying their Lordships at that hour of the evening, and in the then state of the House, beyond a very few minutes, and that only by way of explanation, as he had been referred to by two noble and learned Lords. The noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack had, in the course of his speech, more than once alluded to the humble individual who had the honour of addressing their Lordships. But he could assure that noble and learned Lord, he had fallen into a great mistake in supposing that he (Lord Galloway) had been so presumptuous as to threaten to put himself in the fore-front of the battle going on that night in their Lordship's House. He did trust he had formed too just an estimate of his own parliamentary stature to venture on so unequal
819"Thirdly, because it appears to Petitioner, that to give any Act of Parliament such retrospective effect, as to reverse at the request of interested parties the judgment—not indeed technically pronounced—but yet arrived at, and publicly declared, and that under the most solemn obligations, and in the highest Court of Equity in Ireland, cannot be intended
819"Secondly, because the parties interested in pending suits were lulled into security by the original form of the Clause, and were ignorant of the alteration affecting their rights until it was printed by your Honourable House, and consequently, were thereby prevented from petitioning to be heard by counsel in the House of Lords."To the 3rd Clause of this Bill Petitioner begs leave still further to object. First, because it contains a retrospective enactment, forming no part of the Bill, as originally printed before it came to your Honourable House, and one which bears the marks of its hasty origin, by actually contradicting the marginal reference to its contents, which still remains unchanged.818The Earl of Galloway
 said, the Bill was in itself an important one, and deserved the best attention of the House. The Committee had heard counsel upon all the Clauses of the Bill, and had given their opinion upon it. The object of the measure was to extend the dock monopoly of Liverpool, for the benefit of the county generally, and especially of the trade with Ireland. If the large revenues of the Liverpool monopoly were applied to defeat this Bill, they would be abused. It was a question of a public grievance. The Clause complained of, was not a Clause drawn up by the promoters of the Bill for their own advantage, but had been recommended by the Admiralty.Lord Monteagle
777"To inquire into the state of the Law in respect to the Detaining and Opening of Letters at the General Post Office, and into the Mode under which the authority given for such Detaining and Opening has been exercised, and to report their opinion and observations thereupon to the House.""That this Petition be referred to the Secret Committee appointed to inquire into matters concerning certain proceedings in the Post Office." said, the Motion of the noble Earl was—
777"To inquire into the state of the Law in respect to the Detaining and Opening of Letters at the General Post Office, and into the Mode under which the authority given for such Detaining and Opening has been exercised, and to report their opinion and observations thereupon to the House.""That this Petition be referred to the Secret Committee appointed to inquire into matters concerning certain proceedings in the Post Office."The Duke of Wellington
 repeated his observation, that the petition was premature. The subject to which it related had nothing to do with the matter into which the Committee was appointed to inquire.The Duke of Wellington
816l.l.815qui tam814qui tamqui tam813Lord Chancellor.London:London:812 said, he rose for the purpose of protecting Her Majesty's Government from the severe attack which the noble Earl had made upon them for their departure from Conservative principles. If he were right in the meaning which he had always attached to the word "Conservative" the present Bill was entitled to be considered as purely a Conservative measure, for its object was to do justice, by protecting property that had been in the hands of particular parties for a great length of time, and preventing its spoliation from those who were in the enjoyment of it, in order to have it transferred to others who had no earthly right to it. Such was the meaning that he attached to the word "Conservatism." The noble Earl had read to their Lordships, and he thanked him for it, the petition of the orthodox Presbyterians of the north of Ireland. The statements contained in that petition afforded an instance of the very exaggerated feeling that existed out of doors against the measure, and a greater misrepresentation of the objects of it could not well be adduced to their Lordships' House. The petition stated, what indeed had been already alleged in arguments in that House as well as out of doors, that the Bill had for its object, and would have the effect, of transferring property from those who by trust and by the gift of the donors ought to enjoy it, to others who had no right or title whatever to it. But if any noble Lord would take the trouble of reading the Bill, he would find that any such consequences had been carefully guarded against, and could not occur under it. It was expressly provided, that where, either by the trust deeds or otherwise, proof could be given of the intention of the donor, those intentions were to be carried out, and the persons entitled were to be secured in the possession of the property, the Courts of Law and Equity being open to them for redress. But if noble Lords, as well as persons out of doors, were to continue over and over again to state that such was not the intention of the Bill, that it was calculated to effect a totally different result, then it was no wonder that great misapprehensions should exist in the public mind, giving rise to the number of petitions that they had seen laid on the Table against the measure. His principal object, however, in appearing before their Lordships on that
816l.l.815qui tam814qui tamqui tam813Lord Chancellor.London:London:812Lord Cottenham
 said, that to suspend proceedings might in itself incur a positive pecuniary loss.Lord Campbell
877 wished to draw the attention of Her Majesty's Government to a subject which appeared to him to be intimately connected with the peace of Ireland. When, some years ago, the Party Processions Prohibition Act was passed, although it was evidently directed against the Orange party in Ireland, yet it was so framed that it might be extended to all processions of political parties in that country. Unfortunately, since that time a new party had arisen, and the right of meeting had been turned into a curse. A description of processions was now common in Ireland, which arising out of circumstances in themselves great blessings to the country, had been made the occasion for practices which had tended to increase animosity and ill-will (the
877The Earl of Wicklow
 also bore testimony to the assiduity and vigilance with which Earl De Grey discharged the duties of his office. With regard to Lord Lucan's dismissal, he (the Earl of Wicklow) considered it, as he had before strongly declared, one of the most unjust transactions that had ever been known; and he thought that the conditions that had subsequently been proposed—viz. the concurrent restoration of Mr. O'Malley increased the impropriety of the conduct which had been pursued towards Lord Lucan; but with regard to Mr. O'Driscoll, he would not participate in the condemnation of the course pursued by the Irish Government, for he saw nothing in that Gentleman's conduct which would justify his permanent exclusion from the commission of the peace.The Earl of Wicklow
Wharncliffe:897896895Wicklow: said, he totally differed from the noble Earl who had just sat down, in the conclusion at which he had arrived, with respect to the degree of propriety in Mr. O'Driscoll's conduct. The report made by an authorised person, showed that after the Court had intimated to Mr. O'Driscoll the decision to which they had come, he took his seat amongst them, and, after many other observations, said aloud, "I say you have not acted with justice." [Lord Wharncliffe:897896895Wicklow:The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, that he would not enter into the merits of the case, but he wished to state that he knew nothing of the memorial until it was brought to him numerously and respectably signed, and of course he had no previous knowledge of the intention to get up that memorial. Before the memorial reached him, it bore the signatures of nearly 3,000 persons of all political and religious opinions, and two of the Peers who signed it were of the politics, he believed, of noble Lords opposite; in addition to which, it was signed by a number of magistrates, who had been in the habit of acting with Mr. O'Driscoll, when he was on the Bench. He (the Earl of Bandon) had known Mr. O'Driscoll for a long time as a respectable magistrate, and he believed, when that memorial was brought to him, an old magistrate had been sufficiently punished by the degradation of being dismissed from the Commission of the Peace—a punishment which he would not say had been unjustly inflicted.The Earl of Bandon
 said, that the noble Earl had shown a great deal of good feeling in the part he had taken; but he had shown strongly the truth of what fell from his noble Friend—he had shown that the memorial had proceeded merely from good nature. He stated that he was not acquainted with the facts.Lord Campbell
 said, he was well acquainted with the facts; but he had said that he should not enter into them, as it was his intention to confine himself to the subject of the memorial, and the portion of the transaction in which he had been concerned.The Earl of Bandon
899898 said, that the House had a right to be thankful to the noble Earl for the manner in which he had come forward to explain all the transactions with respect to the memorial. It was his
899898Lord Campbell
900l. said, that this was altogether a party proceeding from beginning to end, and the real motives which actuated persons in relation to it, were motives which did not appear on the papers that had been laid before their Lordships. People in this country were not aware how much persecuted magistrates in Ireland frequently were; the lowest, and meanest, and most contemptible species of attornies attended the petit sessions, for the purpose of picking holes in the conduct of the magistrates. Mr. O'Driscoll was a Roman Catholic gentleman, and like all the magistrates who were Roman Catholics, and were at the same time opposed to Repeal, was odious to the conspirators, who were destroying a country that, only for the detestable machinations of those persons, would be one of the most flourishing countries in the world. The case was made up against Mr. O'Driscoll in that low pettifogging manner—it was a case like that which was tried a few days ago in the county of Roscommon, in which the Repeal Association sent down 25900l.The Earl of Glengal
901Laughter. knew Mr. O'Driscoll for a great number of years; that Gentleman had often visited at his House, and he was able to state from his personal knowledge that he stood very high in the opinion of the whole country. He had been a magistrate for a long time, and their Lordships were aware that magistrates in his condition were often obliged to do do things which tended to make them unpopular. Mr. O'Driscoll had been placed in that position and had found himself in the discharge of his magisterial duties opposed to a large number of those around him. He was a Roman Catholic gentleman, and being a Roman Catholic, he was also a Conservative, which caused him to be placed in the black list, and to be extremely unpopular. It ought to be recollected that Mr. O'Driscoll resided in a wild part of the country, where gentlemen were very scarce. [901Laughter.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, he felt it his duty to offer a few words in defence of his learned Friend, that most excellent Judge, whose administration of justice was approved of by all Ireland—one of the most learned and able Judges that ever sat on the Bench—one of the most upright, honourable, and independent men that ever held the office which he now holds—a Judge who has on all occasions been actuated by no other principle and motive than the desire to perform his duty. In his (the Lord Chancellor's) opinion an attack had been made which, in severity and extent, was not warranted by the circumstances; and he believed in his conscience that it arose from nothing but what had been alluded to by two noble Lords who had last addressed the House, and who were well acquainted with the condition and the state of politics in Ireland—namely, the union in the person of Mr. O'Driscoll of what was considered by some as two opposite and inconsistent principles—namely, of being a Conservative Catholic and Anti-repealer. He attributed the attack more to that cause than to any other. What were the facts of the case?—He did not mean to justify Mr. O'Driscoll—but what were the grounds which had been adopted with respect to him. The first charge against him was a charge of committing a person to prison whom he had summoned to appear before him in his own case. He admitted the irregularity of that summons, but this man so summoned went with Mr. O'Driscoll voluntarily to the police barrack, where Mr. Galway, a neighbouring Magistrate, attended. He ought not to have summoned the man before him, but the man walked, not with a constable, but quietly with Mr. O'Driscoll to the police barrack, and Mr. Galway endeavoured to persuade him to admit the name of the party who had committed an offence, and it was because he refused to answer the question, which he was bound by law to answer, that he was committed to prison. The facts were greatly exaggerated.The Lord Chancellor
: Why was he bound to answer the question.The Marquess of Clanricarde
: It was a case of misdemeanour.The Lord Chancellor
 said, there was a particular statute in Ireland relating to poaching, under which he might be committed to prison if he refused to answer.The Earl of Wicklow
902: The
902The Marquess of Clanricarde
Ironical Cheers. said, he did not allude to the subject of poaching; the offence was driving away cattle, which had been seized under distress. The man was asked a question in reference to that offence, and did any man say that if, in such a case, he refused to answer a question which he was legally bound to answer, he could not be committed to prison, he would be committed to prison, and he must say that there appeared to be gross exaggeration and extravagance in the statements. Then there was the assault. It was quite ludicrous. ["Ironical Cheers.The Lord Chancellor
: It appeared in the papers, which gave an account of the proceedings.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland wrote for an account of the matter to the chairman of the tribunal before which the subject was brought, but it would appear that some noble Lords had not read that account. The Chairman said that it was by no means an aggravated assault.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the Lord Chancellor had described it as a ludicrous assault.The Earl of Fortescue
903 denied that it was an aggravated assault. He did not say ludicrous assault; but in reference to the extraordinary course which had been taken, he said that the exaggeration had been ludicrous. How was it proved by the documents? The Chairman's account which was sent to the Lord Chancellor, said, that it was not an aggravated assault. When they came to the affront—to the insult—he (the Lord Chancellor) admitted that it was very improper conduct on the part of Mr. O'Driscoll, according to the statement in the newspaper; but Mr. Jones in his account stated, that when the apology was made it was immediately accepted by the Magistrates, and the Chairman tore in pieces a written paper which he had in his hand (an account of the transaction), and threw it away as if he looked upon the matter as concluded by the apology. Did he (the Lord Chancellor) justify Mr. O'Driscoll in that conduct? Far from it. He thought his conduct highly improper, but he apologised for it, and the Lord Chancellor of Ireland stated to him that it was a grave offence of which he had been guilty. Fault had been found with the minute of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, but no terms
903The Lord Chancellor
904 said the course of the debate had shown him that the subject was of more importance than he at first supposed it to be; and certainly his estimate of that importance was greatly enhanced by the speech of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack. The testimony which the noble and learned Lord had borne to the general manner in which the Lord Chancellor of Ireland discharged the functions of his high office was, he believed, from all he had heard, perfectly just, and thoroughly well merited. Yet it must be admitted by all dispassionate persons, that blame attached to that distinguished person for his restoration to the magistracy of Mr. O'Driscoll. It was stated by the noble and learned Lord, that the memorial in favour of Mr. O'Driscoll emanated from the Lord-lieutenant of the
904The Earl of Radnor
 said, that he should not oppose the second reading of this Bill; but he thought it right to state, that he had been requested by certain parties interested in these actions, to present a petition, praying that they might be heard by counsel at the Bar against the Bill. That petition he had not yet received; but he begged to give notice, that if he did receive it before the remaining stages of the Bill were gone through, he should certainly present it, and make a Motion in conformity with its prayer.Lord Campbell
"Mr. Fleming: Very well.""Mr. O'Driscoll: I have done so, and care little for the course you adopt.""Mr. Fleming: And I tell you also, Sir, that I shall see if you can use such language with impunity."Mr. Somerville: Very well; then, Sir, I shall, and we shall see if you be permitted to insult a Bench who have had a most painful duty to discharge. [Here Mr. Somerville took down in writing the expressions used, and put the paper into his waistcoat pocket.]"Mr. O'Driscoll: I think I ought, and that I have grounds for it, and you may take it in any way you please."Chairman (Mr. Somerville): Mr. O'Driscoll, you have used an expression which I would not expect from you; you have insulted the Bench, and I don't think you ought to have done so."After the Court had intimated to Mr. O'Driscoll the decision to which they had come, he took his seat beside them, and after many observations from him, in such a tone that the persons round the witnesses' table could not hear, and which the Chairman and other Magistrates seemed not to wish to hear, either, as they were proceeding with another case, Mr. O'Driscoll said aloud, 'I say you have not acted with justice.'889888 owned that he had listened with perfect astonishment to the speech which had just been delivered by his noble Friend, the President of the Council. From the very first word to the last he had heard that speech with astonishment—from the very first word in which his noble Friend laid down the extraordinary doctrine that no Parliamentary ground had been stated for this Motion, down to the very last sentence he had uttered, when he again repeated the opinion. His noble Friend had, on a former occasion, declared he would meet the question boldly. He knew his noble Friend sufficiently well to be aware that it was his disposition boldly to meet every question—to expose himself, even where he was not obliged to do so, in defence of others; and when his noble Friend proposed to meet this question, he only gave another extraordinary instance of readiness to fling himself into the breach—to defend, too, a proceeding, even when every word that fell from him must have convinced every one who heard him that he did not think that the step of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland could be justified. His noble Friend had said that he did not think there were Parliamentary grounds for this Motion; and yet how did his noble Friend come to admit that there were good grounds for the original Motion? When he had formerly moved for Papers on this subject they were conceded, and he took no further step in the matter. Why? Because he felt that substantial justice had been done by the removal of Mr. O'Driscoll from the magistracy. But then, when the unexpected, as well as the unexplained, step was taken by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland of restoring Mr. O'Driscoll, there was no person in or out of that House, who heard of it, who was not taken by surprise—and yet his noble Friend said there were no Parliamentary grounds for the Motion! Papers were granted to justify the removal of Mr. O'Driscoll, but when the Government reversed its own decision, were they to be told that no Papers were to be granted to justify his restoration to the magistracy? But, then, indeed, his noble Friend had said, that this objection was merely a technical objection. But his noble Friend said, that what the Lord Chancellor had done was from no political motive — he did not charge the Lord Chancellor with political motives. He
"Mr. Fleming: Very well.""Mr. O'Driscoll: I have done so, and care little for the course you adopt.""Mr. Fleming: And I tell you also, Sir, that I shall see if you can use such language with impunity."Mr. Somerville: Very well; then, Sir, I shall, and we shall see if you be permitted to insult a Bench who have had a most painful duty to discharge. [Here Mr. Somerville took down in writing the expressions used, and put the paper into his waistcoat pocket.]"Mr. O'Driscoll: I think I ought, and that I have grounds for it, and you may take it in any way you please."Chairman (Mr. Somerville): Mr. O'Driscoll, you have used an expression which I would not expect from you; you have insulted the Bench, and I don't think you ought to have done so."After the Court had intimated to Mr. O'Driscoll the decision to which they had come, he took his seat beside them, and after many observations from him, in such a tone that the persons round the witnesses' table could not hear, and which the Chairman and other Magistrates seemed not to wish to hear, either, as they were proceeding with another case, Mr. O'Driscoll said aloud, 'I say you have not acted with justice.'889888The Marquess of Normanby
 here observed across the Table—Mr. O'Driscoll had done nothing to apologise for.The Earl of Glengall
893supersedeas"He is, I am told far advanced in life, and had suffered lately from occasional ill health, and I therefore beg to suggest to him that it will be advisable that he should retire from the Bench. If a supersedeas892891"Mr. Becher: I am glad of it, as the decision was unanimous.""Mr. Somerville: Then I destroy the paper on which I took down your words. [Here Mr. Somerville tore the paper.]"Mr. O'Driscoll (in a distinct voice): Well, I do apologise."Mr. Somerville: Then do so publicly."Mr. Jones having again conversed with Mr. O'Driscoll, the latter said, 'Well, if I must, I must,' and continued in a low tone of voice, 'Well, I will apologise to the whole Bench.'890'Mr. Somerville: An insult offered to the
890"The paper having been handed to Mr. Fleming, he said (addressing Mr. O'Driscoll, and reading from the paper), 'You have, Sir, said, that this Bench has not acted with justice towards you. Remember these words."Mr. Fleming (to Mr. Somerville): Hand me the paper in which you took down his words."Mr. O'Driscoll: Yes."Mr. Fleming: Don't be muttering, Mr. O'Driscoll; speak out! Do I understand you as excepting me?"The case which was thus interrupted was then proceeded with, and after it was concluded, Mr. Gore Jones called Mr. O'Driscoll out of the Court, and after a short absence both returned, when Mr. O'Driscoll said in rather a low voice, 'I have been guilty of insulting the Bench, and I will apologise for it, except to the—.' observed, that it was said by his noble Friend, that Mr. O'Driscoll had done nothing to apologise for; and this after telling the Court and his brother Magistrates, that they had not acted with justice. But hear what was further stated of the conduct of Mr. O'Driscoll:—
893supersedeas"He is, I am told far advanced in life, and had suffered lately from occasional ill health, and I therefore beg to suggest to him that it will be advisable that he should retire from the Bench. If a supersedeas892891"Mr. Becher: I am glad of it, as the decision was unanimous.""Mr. Somerville: Then I destroy the paper on which I took down your words. [Here Mr. Somerville tore the paper.]"Mr. O'Driscoll (in a distinct voice): Well, I do apologise."Mr. Somerville: Then do so publicly."Mr. Jones having again conversed with Mr. O'Driscoll, the latter said, 'Well, if I must, I must,' and continued in a low tone of voice, 'Well, I will apologise to the whole Bench.'890'Mr. Somerville: An insult offered to the
890"The paper having been handed to Mr. Fleming, he said (addressing Mr. O'Driscoll, and reading from the paper), 'You have, Sir, said, that this Bench has not acted with justice towards you. Remember these words."Mr. Fleming (to Mr. Somerville): Hand me the paper in which you took down his words."Mr. O'Driscoll: Yes."Mr. Fleming: Don't be muttering, Mr. O'Driscoll; speak out! Do I understand you as excepting me?"The case which was thus interrupted was then proceeded with, and after it was concluded, Mr. Gore Jones called Mr. O'Driscoll out of the Court, and after a short absence both returned, when Mr. O'Driscoll said in rather a low voice, 'I have been guilty of insulting the Bench, and I will apologise for it, except to the—.'The Marquess of Normanby
: Well, then, and precisely because he could not write himself, was it necessary that, when injured, and seeking redress, he should get others to write for him, without subjecting himself to the charge of having been made a tool of by those whom he sought to aid him in this way. What alarmed him (Lord Radnor) most in this matter was, to hear the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack say, that the proceedings in reference to Dineen were regular and legal.The Earl of Radnor
 had said no such thing. The noble Earl really seemed disposed to misrepresent everybody.The Lord Chancellor
 rose to order. It was altogether out of the rules of the House for any noble Lord to impute to another noble Lord that he had misrepresented a statement.The Marquess of Clanricarde
905 would admit that he should not have used the term misrepresented; he should have said misapprehended, and that in consequence of the noble Earl's misapprehending, he had, therefore, though not wilfully, misrepresented what he had said. Most assuredly,
905The Lord Chancellor
: Yes, the issuing of the summons, but the subsequent proceedings were not spoken of by the noble and learned Lord as irregular or illegal. Again, the noble and learned Lord spoke of the assault upon Dempsey as ridiculous and contemptible, just as if the administration of justice ought not to be alike for rich and poor. Suppose that instead of Mr. O'Driscoll assaulting Dempsey, the latter had assaulted O'Driscoll, would this have been treated as a ridiculous and trumpery affair, not worthy the attention of justice?The Earl of Radnor
 had not spoken of the assault as being ridiculous; what he had said was, that the nature of the assault had been ridiculously exaggerated.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that at all events it was perfectly clear on the face of these papers, on the face of the minutes of the Lord Chancellor, that Mr. O'Driscoll was an entirely unfit man to be in the commission of the peace, and the Lord Chancellor had been, therefore, greatly to blame in reinstating him merely on the ground of a party application in his favour.The Earl of Radnor
 asked, if the memorial was not a party one, why were those who advocated the case of Dineen to be charged with party motives?The Marquess of Clanricarde
 begged to repeat, in reference to what had fallen from the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, his conviction that Dineen was perfectly justified in refusing to answer Mr. O'Driscoll's questions, and that the committal of Dineen to Skibbereen Bridewell was wholly illegal.Lord Campbell
 said, that it was by no means an unusual thing, in getting up such memorials as that in favour of Mr. O'Driscoll, to get one or two names of persons of the opposite party, precisely for the purpose of giving the thing an air of impartiality.The Marquess of Normanby
 said if his noble Friend had any doubt on the subject, he should recommend him to take the sense of the House upon it; but he conceived that the strongest possible parliamentary grounds had been shown. If his noble Friend did not refuse the Papers, he should say no more; but he thanked his noble Friend for bringing the case forward, and he thought the more such cases were brought forward, the more substantial justice would be done.The Marquess of Normanby
 sincerely presented his thanks to the noble Lord for every one of the alterations he had made in the Bill. From the fair and candid spirit which dictated those Amendments he felt confident the Bill would meet with general approbation.The Marquess of Normanby
 highly approved of the Amendments that had been made in the Bills.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 begged to caution his noble Friend against the confusion that might arise from the terms "real and personal property." By real property, land was, of course meant; but in Ireland much of the land, almost all the Church lands, and many of the leases, were held to be personal property.The Earl of Wicklow
 said he had no objection to the parties being heard by one counsel, or two if they pleased; but he only put it to the House whether there existed any precedent for hearing a party against a Bill which did not destroy a right of action, but merely suspended it?The Duke of Richmond
qui tam876,
qui tam876The Duke of Richmond
894 said, as his noble Friend did not mean to press his objection to the production of the papers, he did not think it necessary to enter into the particulars of the case. He felt no disposition to palliate or at least to excuse the conduct of Mr. O'Driscoll in the matter which was first brought under the notice of the Lord Chancellor; but he thought there was nothing of which he was accused which implied misconduct in his magisterial capacity except the insult to the Bench. The noble Marquess had said that he did not wish to throw so much responsibility upon the Lord Lieutenant, because the state of his health had rendered him unable to attend to the duties of his office. Now he must, on the part of the Lord Lieutenant, disclaim all ex-
894The Earl of Ripon
886cries of885884Normanby:Fortescue:883quasi wished to observe in the first place, in reply to the noble Earl, that he had not heard any Parliamentary grounds for the information he sought for. The noble Earl had not shown any grounds for interfering; for he apprehended that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, like the Lord Chancellor of England, when he dismissed from or restored a person to the Commission of the peace, acted in a 886cries of885884Normanby:Fortescue:883quasiLord Wharncliffe
 said, he had observed—rather as a protest than for any other purpose—that no Parliamentary ground had been made out for the Motion; but if the noble Lord wished for the Papers, he had no objection to their production.Lord Wharncliffe
 denied that the memorial in behalf of Mr. O'Driscoll was a party application, it was signed by persons of all parties.Lord Wharncliffe
908l.l.l.,l.l.,907, in moving that this Bill be re-committed, said he had delayed proceeding with it for some time that he might find out what objections were urged against it, in order, if possible, to remedy them. He was very glad he had done so, because he had been enabled to amend the Bill in several points, which he hoped would render it completely satisfactory, although God knew in the present state of feeling in Ireland, it was very difficult to say what would give satisfaction in that country. But this he would say, the Bill was such as he thought should be taken by Roman Catholics as an earnest of the desire of Her Majesty's Government to do every thing they could consistently with their duty to support the Established Church, to place Roman Catholics and Protestants in all other respects on an equal footing.
908l.l.l.,l.l.,907Lord Wharncliffe
 had said nothing of the sort; what he stated of Dineen was, that he looked upon him as a person who had been made use of as the tool of other people for a particular purpose; but he had said nothing implying that because he was a poor man he was not entitled to equal justice with the greatest Duke in the land. All he said about his being a marksman was, simply that he was a marksman, and could not, therefore, write any such memorial to Government.Lord Wharncliffe
878 said, that although his noble Friend had, he thought, rather exceeded the bounds of order in the observations which he had made, he had no objection to give such answers as he could to the questions which he had put. His noble Friend, if he referred to the Votes of the House of Commons, would find that a Bill had been brought in on the subject he referred to, and that it stood for Committee this evening. In what state that Bill might come up to their Lordships it was impossible for him (Lord Wharncliffe to predict; he believed, however, that the Bill renewed till the 1st of June, 1845, an Act already existing against Party Processions in Ireland, which would give Parliament time to reconsider the whole subject. Under these circumstances he did not think it would be right for him
878Lord Wharncliffe
911in articulo mortis,910909 said, that he rose for the purpose of thanking the noble Lord in the first place for the liberal Bill he had presented, and for the purpose of stating his regret in the second place—he might say, even his disgust—at the manner in which it had been received by those for whose benefit it was intended. He con-
911in articulo mortis,910909Lord Beaumont
912 thanked the Government for introducing the Bill, thanked his noble Friend (the Marquess of Normanby) for having called their attention to the subject, and expressed his gratitude, on behalf of the Irish people, for the
912Lord Monteagle
 laid on the Table a Bill for legalising Art Unions under certain circumstances. The noble Lord stated, that the proceedings adopted by Art Unions had gone on for many years undisturbed, and had met with the support of many of their Lordships and some of the Judges; and the result of them had been, that a new field had been opened to the Arts, which had given encouragement to many artists. It appearing, however, that these practices were strictly in violation of the Lottery Act, they had been put a stop to, though he believed that it never had been contemplated to direct the Act against societies united merely for the distribution of works of art. The Bill which he laid upon their Lordships' Table, therefore, provided that the practice hitherto pursued by Art Unions should be allowed to be pursued from and after January next by such Art Union Societies as should obtain a Royal Charter of Incorporation, and also by smaller Art Unions who might not be able to go to the expense of a Charter of Incorporation, if their rules had been previously approved of by the Board of Trade.Lord Monteagle
 said, that the Bill being an enabling Bill, leaving all parties to bequeath, as they may now do by law, he saw no necessity for naming the Roman Catholics in it, except as describing the constitution and duties of the Commission. In this view he was confirmed by the first improvement that was proposed, viz., to strike out from the title of the Bill the words alluding to them, and he, therefore, thought that it would be more consistent with its title if all further allusion to them were omitted. The adoption of this suggestion would merely have the effect of leaving the Roman Catholics to take the same advantage of the Bill that they could do if named in it, and would avoid an unnecessary distinction, because Protestants, who were not named, were to be benefited by its provisions equally with the Roman Catholics who were. If their Lordships would not accede to this proposition, he felt bound to object to the restrictions imposed in the 11th Clause, preventing bequests being vested in the Commissioners, if made within three months of the testator's death, not so much on the ground that such a restriction was uncalled for, as because it was imposed on Roman Catholics only, for if the principle is to be extended to Ireland, it ought to embrace Protestants also.Lord Camoys
primâ facie906 briefly replied: his noble Friend having, on second thoughts, abandoned his opposition to the Motion, he should trouble the House with very few observations, but he must protest against the doctrine, that when a grievance had been
primâ facie906Earl Fortescue
"That there be laid before the House, Copies of any Memorials or Representations addressed to the Irish Government recommending the Restoration of Mr. Alexander O'Driscoll to the Commission of the Peace."882881"In an ordinary case I should not feel myself called upon to take any further notice of this charge; but from Mr. O'Driscoll's explanation it may be inferred, that he would not have struck the boy if he had told him the name of the person who carried the gun that had been shot off. Mr. O'Driscoll states, upon his honour as a gentleman, that he merely gave him one slap of the thong of the whip across the shoulders; but this, like the first act, appears to bear the character of a punishment for not giving evidence to Mr. O'Driscoll in his own case. Mr. O'Driscoll after his conxiction committed one of the gravest faults of which a Magistrate can be guilty; he openly accused his brother Magistrates of not baving done justice in his case; he was,
881l.,880879 said, he would make no apology for the Motion which he was about to bring forward, because he was persuaded that few questions could be submitted to that House of greater importance in their bearings on the social condition of Ireland than those which related to the conduct of her magistrates. And if he could shew from the papers which had been laid before the House, that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland was borne out in the opinion which he had expressed "that Mr. A. O'Driscoll had not that command over his temper which was essentially necessary for the due administration of Justice," he Lord Fortescue thought, that their Lordships would feel with him that some information or explanation was due to that House and to the public, but more especially to the public of Ireland as to the grounds upon which in the face of this opinion of the Lord Chancellor recorded under his hand, Mr. O'Driscoll, after having been dismissed, was within six months restored to the commission of the peace. He should now shortly refer to the facts of the case, as they were detailed in the papers. The first of these is a memorial from one Daniel Dineen, stating that on the 2nd of November he was on the lands of Sulivan, a tenant of Mr. O'Driscoll, whilst a distress was taking for Mr. O'Driscoll's rent. That some cows of his (Dineen's) which had strayed on the land were seized, but soon afterwards rescued by parties unknown to Mr. O'Driscoll's Bailiff, in the presence of Dineen, who in consequence received a summons from Mr. O'Driscoll, calling on him to attend at Mr. O'Driscoll's own house. He attended accordingly on Saturday the 4th when he was required, on oath, to state who the parties were who committed the rescue. On his declining to answer, he was taken before another
"That there be laid before the House, Copies of any Memorials or Representations addressed to the Irish Government recommending the Restoration of Mr. Alexander O'Driscoll to the Commission of the Peace."882881"In an ordinary case I should not feel myself called upon to take any further notice of this charge; but from Mr. O'Driscoll's explanation it may be inferred, that he would not have struck the boy if he had told him the name of the person who carried the gun that had been shot off. Mr. O'Driscoll states, upon his honour as a gentleman, that he merely gave him one slap of the thong of the whip across the shoulders; but this, like the first act, appears to bear the character of a punishment for not giving evidence to Mr. O'Driscoll in his own case. Mr. O'Driscoll after his conxiction committed one of the gravest faults of which a Magistrate can be guilty; he openly accused his brother Magistrates of not baving done justice in his case; he was,
881l.,880879Earl Fortescue
reported, brought up the Report from the Select Committee on those Bills. That the Committee had met and considered the said Bills, and examined witnesses in relation thereto, and have directed the first mentioned Bills to be reported,The Lord Chancellor
1000l. said, that this Bill had the humane object of relieving from imprisonment for debt numbers of unfortunate persons who were now so confined, and, amongst others, those who were imprisoned under the orders of the 280 Courts of Request, or Small Debts Courts, whose sufferings were really enough to make one's hair stand on end—any thing so abhorrent as the treatment of these unhappy people could not be imagined to exist in a civilized country. His noble and learned Friend had introduced provisions in the Bill which practically abolished, without limitation, all imprisonment for debts not amounting to 201000l.Lord Brougham
 objected to any step being taken in the absence of Lord Cottenham, who took a deep interest in the subject, and without notice to him.Lord Campbell
l.l.1001l.,l. proceeded to submit to their Lordships the Motion of which he had given notice, and in the outset disclaimed being actuated by any desire to deal in personalities, or to make reflections on any parties except those whose conduct was, in his apprehension, open to censure. The subject to which he wished to call the attention of their Lordships, had reference to the endowed school of Clonmel, and to the course adopted by the Commissioners appointed under the Act of the 53rd Geo. III. with respect to income derived from the lands belonging to that charity. This school was originally endowed by his ancestors, and it so happened that he was one of the trustees, and that his noble Friend the Marquess of Ormond was another of the trustees; but although the trustees had never violated their trust, the whole management of the charity had been taken out of their hands. What he complained of was, that the Commissioners to whom he alluded, and who had now the management of the lands connected with the charity, had not done what they were bound to do. He was prepared to satisfy their Lordships that the Commissioners had greatly transgressed the duty they were bound to perform, and if he succeeded in this he thought he would establish grounds to make them answerable for their conduct to Parliament. Now, his first charge against those Commissioners, the Commissioners under the Act of the 53rd Geo. III. was, that they had unlawfully usurped the Clonmel school lands. His second charge against them was, that they had not furnished correct accounts of all the instalments of the rents which they had received, and which ought to have been applied in liquidation of an advance of 4,000l.l.1001l.,l.The Earl of Mountcashel
 thought, from the statement of the noble Earl, that this was a subject for inquiry in the Court of Chancery and not in their Lordships' House.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that he meant no reflection on the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, but being a member of the Board of Education the trustees did not think it would be right to appeal to him.The Earl of Mountcashel
: Well, then, why not go to the Master of the Rolls.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the Master of the Rolls stood in the same situation, and this rendered it necessary that their Lordships should interfere.The Earl of Mountcashel
ipso facto.l.996 said, that in moving the Second Reading of the Bill, of which, originating in the other House, he had taken charge, he would state as shortly as he could the nature of this Bill. Their Lordships were, no doubt, aware that in all times the law of this country with respect to Aliens had been, that until they were naturalised by Act of Parliament, or denizened by letters of denization from the Crown, they were debarred from enjoying almost all the rights which belonged to British subjects. They could not hold any office, they could not sit in the House of Commons. They could not inherit or possess by purchase one single acre of real property, or chattels real which savoured of the reality, and to this had been added some other restrictions and regulations which he considered very discreditable and impolitic to the country. They could not, for instance, register themselves as owners of vessels, these were the common and ordinary disqualifications of Aliens—but there were also several Acts, passed at different times, imposing other restrictions. By the Act of Settlement, and again by an Act of George I, it was ordered that Parliament should include in all facts of naturalization a Clause prohibiting the holding of office and the sitting in Parliament. By subsequent Acts these regulations had been in some degree modified; the sons and grandsons of British subjects both abroad were declared to be British subjects; but still with respect to female issue, the old law remained in force. Another anomaly was this. If an Engglish woman married a foreigner, the issue would not be considered British subjects. According to this, a lady whom he had the pleasure of knowing, the Countess Flahaut, who was a Scotch Peeress in her own right, and who had married a foreigner, could not be succeeded in her property in this country by any son which
ipso facto.l.996Lord Brougham
 said, if their Lordships would only allow him, he would show cause against all objections to his Motion.The Earl of Mountcashel
l.l. thought he should be able to show to their Lordships that there were grounds which would justify their interference. He had already said that the Commissioners had rendered no account of the rents which they had received, or in reference to the 4,000l.l.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, that if the noble Duke would undertake to have the subject inquired into, he would withdraw his Motion.The Earl of Mountcashel
 then moved that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the endowment of the School of Clonmel.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, the Notice on the Paper was for a Committee to inquire into the subject generally of Education in Ireland.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that he was aware of the whole case, and knew the master of the school in question, who was a most respectable clergyman. He would advise his noble Friend to withdraw his Motion and adopt the suggestion which had been thrown out.The Earl of Glengall
1003 said, he had guarded himself from casting any imputation on the Lord Chancellor of Ireland,
1003The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, he only mentioned the case of that Bill as a proof that the principle on which the trustees refused to appeal to the Court of Chancery was right. He also thought that a Chancery suit was not likely to contribute to the means of usefulness of a charity.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, that he never meant to make any charge against any one except the Commissioners.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, he must join in the recommendation which had been given to the noble Earl. If this case got into Chancery, it was possible it might come before their Lordships' House, and that was an additional reason why their Lordships should not agree to the Motion of the noble Earl. Although the Lord Chancellor of Leland might be a member of the Board of Education, that was no reason why he should not deal out impartial justice.The Duke of Richmond
 said, that having seen the Motion as it stood on the Paper, he had made inquiry on the subject, but no one connected with the Irish Government seemed to know anything about it. If his noble Friend would allow him to offer a recommendation, he would say that the best way would be for his noble Friend to draw up a statement and forward it either to the Lord Lieutenant or Lord Eliot, and then he would get some answer. In this way the Board of Education would be called on to defend themselves, and no doubt would explain their conduct, whether to the satisfaction of his noble Friend or not he could not determine; but, at all events, even if their Lordships could interfere, it would be preposterous to appoint such a Committee at this period of the Session.Lord Wharncliffe
 did not mean to say that the statements of the noble Lord were wrong, but he would put it to the noble Earl whether it was worth his while to go on with his speech when it was clear their Lordships could not interfere in that which seemed to be a disputed question of right between the trustees of this school and the Board of Education in Ireland.Lord Wharncliffe
 did not think the House of Lords could do anything in such a case.Lord Wharncliffe
999998l.Kunstverein, moved the second reading of a Bill, to which he anticipated that no objection would be offered, namely, a Bill for the purpose of legalising Art-Unions—for on a former occasion, in introducing this Bill, he had stated in a few words the nature and objects of the Bill. These Art-Unions might be simply described as voluntary associations of individuals who contributed their money, with no interest of a pecuniary nature connected with the money subscribed to form a fund to be expended in the purchase of works of art, which were to be afterwards distributed among themselves by lot. These institutions had now for some years existed in this country. In 1835, a Parliamentary Committee sat to consider the subject of the promotion of the Fine Arts, and before this Committee were examined many persons of eminence, and amongst others, Dr. Waagen, who was so well known throughout Europe by his acquaintance with the fine arts. This gentleman stated, that so far back as 1825, Art Union Associations of this kind had existed in Prussia under the name of 999998l.Kunstverein,Lord Monteagle
 wished to know what the Motion was which the noble Earl meant to make.The Duke of Wellington
 was understood to decline giving any promise.The Duke of Wellington
: Well, you can move an Amendment to that Bill.The Duke of Wellington
: My Lords, this seems to me to be a case that ought to be brought before the Court of Chancery in Ireland, because, from what I can gather from the noble Earl, it seems to me that what he complains of is a breach of trust. It is somewhat difficult to understand the questions to which the noble Earl has called on your Lordships to attend. The Board of Education in Ireland is composed of some of the first persons in that country, and the Commissioners are also persons of the utmost respectability, and whether the complaint of the noble Earl is directed against one or the other of these parties it does not appear to me that your Lordships can interfere. His proper course is to make his complaint to the Executive Government of Ireland, to either the Lord Lieutenant or the Secretary of State, and if he adopts that course no doubt whatever statements he may make will be taken into consideration, and the Commissioners will be required to answer them. If the result of such a course shall not prove satisfactory to the noble Earl, why he will have gained the advantage that Parliament will be in possession of the whole case, and enabled to deal with it accordingly. If the noble Earl does not take this course, I hope your Lordships will negative his Motion.The Duke of Wellington
1069 said, the question was one of life and death to artists. The objection raised against Art Unions was, that they had not brought forward any talent of the first order; but in art, as in everything else, time was required before eminence could be attained
1069The Marquess of Northampton
 was heard as counsel on behalf of Mr. C. H. Russell, of Percy-street, Bedford-square, in the county of Middlesex (clerk to Mr. J. T. Russell, of the same place, solicitor), whose Petition against the Bill was presented yesterday.Mr. James
 was then examined in support of the prayer of the Petition.Mr. J. T. Russell
"That any minister of the Crown would have the audacity to maintain a judgment on which is founded a verdict returned by a jury who have been selected from a list which, according to the authority of the Lord Chancellor of England, has been fraudulently concocted, and at the hands of whom a verdict of conviction was anticipated as a matter of course."10651064"We cannot imagine it to be possible that any Minister of the Crown would have the audacity to maintain a judgment which is founded upon a verdict returned by a Jury who have been selected from a list which, according to the authority of the Lord Chancellor of England, has been fraudulently concocted, and at the hands of whom a verdict of conviction was anticipated as a matter of course.""Whilst Mr. Hill was upon the subject of the manner in which the jury had been composed, and which had been made the subject of a challenge by the defendants, the Lord Chancellor said, 'There is no dispute about the facts. It is clear from the record that there was a fraudulent list, that the book was made up from that list, and that the panel was made out from the book.' His Lordship afterwards observed—'The only question was, whether this was the right course of proceeding, whether the fraud formed a ground of challenge to the array.' At the same time Lord Campbell observed—'The question is, whether this [fraudulent composition of the Jury List] 'was a cause of challenge, or whether the parties ought to have applied to the Court of Queen's Bench in Dublin to quash the panel.' Here then, we have the deliberate and judicial declaration of the Lord Chancellor, that the trial took place before a Jury, which, as his Lordship expressly declares, the Crown prosecutors themselves, upon the record, admitted to have been fraudulently composed. Can any mortal who has the slightest acquaintance with the feelings and the temper of the people of England imagine that they will not receive such an admission with an universal burst of execration?"1063Morning Chroniclev.: I beg to call your Lordships' attention to a matter which, although personal to myself, is of importance to the public, as connected with some proceedings which recently took place in your Lordships' House: I allude to the trial and arguments on the writ of error in the case of the Queen "That any minister of the Crown would have the audacity to maintain a judgment on which is founded a verdict returned by a jury who have been selected from a list which, according to the authority of the Lord Chancellor of England, has been fraudulently concocted, and at the hands of whom a verdict of conviction was anticipated as a matter of course."10651064"We cannot imagine it to be possible that any Minister of the Crown would have the audacity to maintain a judgment which is founded upon a verdict returned by a Jury who have been selected from a list which, according to the authority of the Lord Chancellor of England, has been fraudulently concocted, and at the hands of whom a verdict of conviction was anticipated as a matter of course.""Whilst Mr. Hill was upon the subject of the manner in which the jury had been composed, and which had been made the subject of a challenge by the defendants, the Lord Chancellor said, 'There is no dispute about the facts. It is clear from the record that there was a fraudulent list, that the book was made up from that list, and that the panel was made out from the book.' His Lordship afterwards observed—'The only question was, whether this was the right course of proceeding, whether the fraud formed a ground of challenge to the array.' At the same time Lord Campbell observed—'The question is, whether this [fraudulent composition of the Jury List] 'was a cause of challenge, or whether the parties ought to have applied to the Court of Queen's Bench in Dublin to quash the panel.' Here then, we have the deliberate and judicial declaration of the Lord Chancellor, that the trial took place before a Jury, which, as his Lordship expressly declares, the Crown prosecutors themselves, upon the record, admitted to have been fraudulently composed. Can any mortal who has the slightest acquaintance with the feelings and the temper of the people of England imagine that they will not receive such an admission with an universal burst of execration?"1063Morning Chroniclev.The Lord Chancellor
1066 said, that the misrepresentation
1066Lord Brougham
"If the Crown lawyers thought proper they might have taken issue upon the matters of fact averred in the challenge, but, instead of doing so, they demurred to the statement itself." said, that the other passage in the newspaper to which he had referred, but had not read, was as follows:—
"If the Crown lawyers thought proper they might have taken issue upon the matters of fact averred in the challenge, but, instead of doing so, they demurred to the statement itself."The Lord Chancellor
1067, after approving of the conduct of the noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack in correcting the misrepresentation to which his observations had been subject in the paper referred to, said, that when the matter came regularly before the House, and when they would
1067Lord Campbell
: I must beg to set my noble and learned Friend right; I gave no opinion whatever on the subject; on the contrary, I said I would not do so.The Lord Chancellor
: Well, then, he begged to give notice that when their Lordships came to consider this subject in their political and constitutional capacity, he should be prepared to contend that the Attorney General for Ireland was not justified in going to trial in the way in which he had done; that it was his duty to have seen that the Jury was impartially selected which was to try the question between the Crown and the traversers.Lord Campbell
"A Return of all Sums under the Control of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners of England and Wales, not appropriated to any particular Purpose, up to the latest Period to which the same can be made out; distinguishing the Episcopal Fund from that which is appropriated to the Augmentation of small Livings; and stating the sources from which such Sums are derived." rose to move, pursuant to notice, for a return of sums under the control of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners of England and Wales. The noble Marquess said, that he did not anticipate any objection to the Motion; and he should not therefore enter into any lengthened observations upon that occasion. His attention had been directed to the matter in consequence of the debates which had taken place upon the subject of the Union of the Sees of St. Asaph and Bangor. He had observed in the course of those debates that the House possessed no accurate information respecting episcopal revenues; and as the subject of the Union of those Sees would no doubt be again brought under their consideration, he thought it desirable that they should have all the information connected with it which could possibly be obtained. The noble Marquess concluded by moving that there be laid before this House,
"A Return of all Sums under the Control of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners of England and Wales, not appropriated to any particular Purpose, up to the latest Period to which the same can be made out; distinguishing the Episcopal Fund from that which is appropriated to the Augmentation of small Livings; and stating the sources from which such Sums are derived."The Marquess of Clanricarde
1072 said, that this Bill went to repeal no less than twenty-nine Acts or parts of Acts. With regard to many of these Acts no question could arise as to the propriety of their repeal,
1072The Lord Chancellor
 had no doubt that the omission of the Clause would cause the loss of the Bill. In his opinion it was one of those cases which the other House would consider as affecting its privileges.The Lord Chancellor
 would not say that he would vote for the expulsion of the Clause, for he did not know upon what ground the addition to the mileage rested; but clearly the noble Lord had put his objection upon grounds which did not apply. His noble Friend said, that travelling was much cheaper now than it was formerly, because of the railroads. Undoubtedly it was so by railroad, to those who had need to transfer themselves over 200 or 300 miles in a journey; but he doubted whether it would be cheaper to Coroners, who had to travel not merely from one railroad station to another, but from one part of the country to another by the same mode of conveyance as formerly. He would, therefore, reserve his opinion of the Clause in question until he had further considered the matter.The Marquess of Normanby
1071 said, that when he had the honour to be one of the
1071The Marquess of Lansdowne
 acquiesced in the necessity of passing the Bill during the present Session, and suggested that the exhibitions should be kept open somewhat longer than usual, in order to allow selections to be made from the pictures there collected.The Marquess of Lansdowne
 said, that perhaps it was not to be expected that a Bill could be introduced for the regulation of the fees paid to Magistrates' Clerks during the present Session, but he would ask the noble Duke opposite, whether, after the various discussions which had taken place, and the number of Returns that had been moved for, it was intended to bring forward any general measure for regulating the fees of Magistrates' Clerks? A Report had been made by the Commissioners appointed to investigate the causes which led to the disturbances which had occurred in South Wales, in which it was stated that, next only in importance to that great and crying evil, the exaction of illegal and unnecessary tolls on the highways, stood these fees claimed by the magistrates, as an incentive to insubordination. A Bill had, he believed, been introduced to remedy the former evil, which he trusted would not be abandoned; but he did not find that any notice had been taken of the abuse to which he had ventured to direct the attention of the Government.The Marquess of Lansdowne
l.1068 said, I have great pleasure in seconding the Motion of the noble Lord, and I trust your Lordships will forgive me if I take this opportunity of saying a very few words on the subject to which this Bill relates, having had the honour of presiding over more than one association of the kind to which the Bill now before your Lordship refers. The extraordinary interest which I feel for the welfare of the Arts prompts me to address
l.1068The Duke of Cambridge
1070 said, that he
1070The Duke of Richmond
, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said that though he had undertaken its management, there was a Clause in it which he meant to vote against in Committee. The Clause related to the travelling allowance for Coroners. Now that travelling had become so much cheaper in consequence of railroads, he could not see any ground for an increase of mileage to Coroners. If Parliament were of opinion that Coroners were not sufficiently remunerated, let them pay the necessary amount out of the Consolidated Fund. When he looked at the great increase which had lately taken place in the county rates, he objected to this additional charge being imposed upon them.The Duke of Richmond
1073 could not answer the question of the noble Lord. For his own part, he should certainly move the expulsion of the Clause, because he would prefer that the Bill should not be received elsewhere than that it should be passed with this Clause. Let the other House throw out the Bill if they should
1073The Duke of Richmond
 said, that, in his opinion, it would be very advisable that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners should furnish to Parliament an annual Report stating the whole of their proceedings with regard to Church property, and the rules and regulations they might have laid down for their guidance.The Duke of Richmond
 did not think that there would be any difficulty if they should throw out the Clause, whatever there might be in merely amending it.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, he had no objection to the production of those Returns.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, he did not wish to express any opinion as to whether it would be advisable that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners should lay down certain fixed rules for the management of Church property. He should observe, however, that he doubted whether it would be possible to lay down rules upon that subject which would be applicable to all cases. He quite agreed in thinking that the property of the Church ought to be made available for the purposes of the Church, at the same time having regard to the equitable interests of the tenant.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, that the Government would not lose sight of the subject; and they would direct their attention, not only to the case of Magistrates' Clerks, but also to the case of the Clerks of the Peace and the Clerks of Assize. They hoped to be able to introduce a measure upon the subject in the course of the next Session.Lord Wharncliffe
 moved the second reading of this Bill.Lord Beaumont
 assented. Bill read a second time.Lord Beaumont
 expressed himself satisfied with the course proposed to be taken by the noble Duke.Lord Beaumont
 said, that his objection to the Bill rested chiefly on the Clause alluded to by the noble Duke. It was his intention to have moved, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, but as the noble Duke had given notice of his intention to move the erasure of the Clause in question, he had not now the same grounds for opposing the measure. After the increase which had been made to the county rates, he did think it was monstrous to propose an increase of this kind. He would like to know whether the expulsion of the Clause could be effected without defeating altogether the Bill, (it being a sort of money clause) for he would rather that the Bill should be thrown out altogether than that it should pass with such a Clause.Lord Beaumont
 thought these Associations calculated to encourage mediocrity of talent, but, nevertheless, taking into consideration the number of individuals interested, he was anxious that the Bill should pass during the present Session, and then, if it should be found inadequate for the objects contemplated, it might serve as the skeleton of a more comprehensive measure next year.Lord Colborne
 moved, that the House resolve itself into a Committee on this Bill.Lord Monteagle
 said, that the explanation which his noble and learned Lord had given, he was sure must be satisfactory to every one who heard it. The fact was, that the noble and learned Lord's observation to the counsel for the traversers could not have been stated as between court and counsel in any other manner than it had been. Lawyers were so in the habit of treating matters alleged in demurrer as true, that the observation of the noble and learned Lord would have been at once understood by all who were acquainted with the principle and rules of pleading. Such, however, might not be the case with persons who were not informed upon the subject; and therefore he did not think there was any ground even to suspect that the misstatement of the writer now in question had any other origin than his misunderstanding the precise bearing of the case he treated of.Lord Cottenham
: I speak to order.The Earl of Radnor
1148qui tamqui tamqui tamqui tam1147qui tamqui tam1146qui tam said, that on Friday he refrained, with reluctance, from interrupting the examination of his noble and learned Friend. Knowing the great legal abilities of his noble and learned Friend, and hearing it stated that the Lord Chief Justice of England was of opinion that the witness was bound to answer the question, he (the Earl of Radnor) was unwilling to state any reasons why in his opinion the House should not require the witness to answer the question; but the more he considered the matter after he left the House, the stronger the reasons appeared to him why they ought not, in justice or in law, to call on the witness to answer the question, or to commit him if he refused to answer it. Their Lordships would be pleased to consider the situation in which this witness stood, and the circumstances under which he appeared at the Bar of the House. A Bill had been introduced, brought up from the other House, extending for twelve months a Bill brought in and passed early in the Session, for discontinuing certain 1148qui tamqui tamqui tamqui tam1147qui tamqui tam1146qui tamThe Earl of Radnor
WharncliffeLord1150qui tamqui tamqui tam1149 said, he regretted that his noble Friend had given so little of his excellent understanding to the particular question which he had put to the witness.
WharncliffeLord1150qui tamqui tamqui tam1149Lord Brougham
 said, that he had an equal right with the noble Chairman of the Committee to feel aggrieved at the accusation made by the noble Earl (Radnor). He begged to say, in answer to the surmise thrown out by the noble Earl opposite, that until he had mentioned the circumstance he (the Earl of Eglintoun) was not aware that the Committee had asked the question to which the noble Earl objected. He (the Earl of Eglintoun) believed tkat many Members of the Committee were very good friends of his, but he did not think that any of them would ask any questions from such unworthy motives as the noble Earl had imputed to them.The Earl of Eglintoun
 begged to explain that he did not know until after he had got into the House that any action had been brought against the Earl of Eglintoun; and the impression which he had received from reading some of the questions put to the witness—he alluded more particularly to questions 229 and 238—was, that they were put with a view of ascertaining who was the real party who had brought these actions with a view of recovering the costs. He begged to add, that nothing which he had heard from the noble and learned Lord had removed his objection to this course of inquiry.The Earl of Radnor
1156l.l.l.,l.,l.1155l.l.,115411531152 said, that he wished
1156l.l.l.,l.,l.1155l.l.,115411531152The Lord Chancellor
11581157 said, no one could have heard the very luminous statement of his noble and learned Friend without quite going along with him; and often as he had had occasion to admire his noble and learned Friend, he had never admired him more than in the delivery of that perfect model of a clear and perspicuous, and, at the same time, convincing statement of facts. He entirely agreed with his noble and learned Friend in the conclusion at which he had arrived. He wished, however, merely to remark, by way of protest sgainst this being rashly and inconsiderately drawn into a precedent—that it was without example to legislate as the other House had done on a great constitutional question—the question of the disfranchisement of a
11581157Lord Brougham
l.l.1159l.l.l.l. rose to move the second reading of the Bill, and said, that it appeared from the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into Charitable Bequests, that there were 13,000 Charitable Trusts, whose annual incomes did not severally exceed 5l.l.1159l.l.l.l.The Lord Chancellor
1160 said, the country was indebted to the noble and learned Lord for taking up the subject, for there was no doubt that many of the smaller charities of the country had suffered greatly from the effect of the present mode in which they were regulated, and that much of the good which would otherwise arise from them was thus lost. He fully concurred in the principles laid down by the noble Lord; and, indeed, he concurred in the principles of the Bill, but he nevertheless would intreat the noble and learned Lord not to press it through Committee during the present Session. The object of the Bill was to prevent a continuance of evils which
1160The Bishop of London
 said, he had considered the question to which the right rev. Prelate referred, and it was his intention to introduce a Clause for the purpose of preserving that control where there was a legal right to exercise it.The Lord Chancellor
1161 was anxious to see the Bill pass into a law, and he hoped that if it were not agreed to during this Session it would be introduced at an early period next Session. There were some important omissions in the Bill as it now stood. There was no power given, as he understood it, for the appointment of new trustees in cases of real estate, nor was there any authority given to the Commissioners to vary the directions of the founders of charities in cases where they were found impracticable, or unsuited to the present position and character of society. There
1161Lord Wrottesley
 said, that the 26th Clause gave a power to appoint trustees as well with regard to real estate as personal estate. There was also a provision with respect to cases in which the intentions of the founder were not carried into effect under certain circumstances. In cases where the income of Charities was beyond the limit proposed by the Bill, the subject could be brought before the Court of Chancery.The Lord Chancellor
1162 said, they were all indebted to his noble Friend near him for the information which he had given them upon this subject. He (Lord Campbell) felt strongly the importance of legislation on this subject, and he believed that the Bill of his noble and learned Friend, with alterations and amendments, would be a great improvement as regarded the branch of charities to which it was to be applied. He concurred with the right rev. Prelate in requesting the noble and learned Lord not to press the Bill this Session. It was of infinite importance that such a number of trusts, involving so large an amount of property, should be subjected to a proper regulation and supervision. He believed that there were some important omissions, but they might afterwards be supplied. He thought the matter ought to be referred to a Select Committee of their Lordships' House, and he (Lord Campbell) would willingly serve upon it, and afford all the information which he was capable of giving. He felt that, in the present Session, it was impossible that justice could be done to the subject, as it was so far advanced, and so many right rev. Prelates
1162Lord Campbell
 said, he wished the Bill to be read a second time, and allowed to go through Committee, in order to see what amendments might be suggested from any quarter; and if there was anything suggested which he thought would be an improvement, he would show the utmost readiness to adopt it. Some such measure had been recommended eight or ten years ago by the Commissioners of Inquiry into Charitable Bequests, but nothing successful had been done as yet with respect to it. He had framed the Bill at an early period of the Session, but their Lordships were of course aware, that when in order to make the Bill as good as possible he laid himself open to any suggestions to that effect, that weeks or months might elapse before he had an opportunity of carrying his object into execution. In consequence of what had fallen from the right rev. Prelate, he would propose to read the Bill a second time, and go into Committee, with a view to consider and improve the Bill, and when that was done, in all probability the suggestion of the right rev. Prelate would be adopted. It was desirable to make the Bill as perfect as possible during the present Session, in order that it might be proceeded with next Session without delay.The Lord Chancellor
1163 thought, that the worst course they could adopt was to go into Committee, when those who would be the most likely to suggest advantageous alterations would be unavoidably absent.
1163The Bishop of London
 then stated that it was not his intention to take any further steps with respect to the Bill this Session.The Lord Chancellor
1171 observed, that the noble Lord had replied to a speech which he had probably supposed would have been made, rather than to one which had been made. He did not mean to say that it would not be desirable to repeal some of these laws, for he went so far as to say, that he was of opinion that some of them might be safely repealed; but at the same time he thought, that such a change in the law required great consideration, and ought to emanate from the Government and not from any private quarter. He also objected to the Bill on the ground of the time at which it had been brought forward. He objected to such a measure being brought forward at nearly the close of the Session, when it was impossible it could receive that attention in the other House which its importance required, and, above all, he objected to its being brought
1171The Bishop of London
1172præmunire believed that the House would recollect, that he stated on a former occasion, that the Criminal Law would undergo the consideration and revision of the Government during the recess, with a view to make some proposition with respect to its consolidation next year. On this ground he had recommended his noble Friend not to proceed with this Bill; but as his noble Friend was unwilling to do so, he (the Lord Chancellor) requested to have an opportunity of considering the Bill, and then referred it to the Criminal Law Commissioners. Those gentlemen revised the Bill, and they struck out several clauses, and introduced certain alterations, but most of the Bill remained. He had afterwards referred the Bill to a gentleman in the confidence of himself and the Government, who, on consideration, did not think that it was desirable, or that it was expedient, to strike out so much as the Commissioners recommended. He had then asked the right rev. Prelate to name a person in the confidence of the Church to whom the Bill might be referred, but the right rev. Prelate replied, that it was too late to give an opinion on it during that Session. He then told the right rev. Prelate, that he would consent to strike out any Clause about which any doubt was entertained. Some of the old laws, which it was proposed in this Bill to repeal, were of the most severe character, and of which he was sure that the right rev. Prelate would not approve. For instance, by an Act of Elizabeth it was enacted, that any one who disputed the Queen's supremacy as head of the Church, for the first offence was liable to punishment for a misdemeanor, with fine and imprisonment; for the second offence was guilty of felony, and was liable to all the punishment of 1172præmunireThe Lord Chancellor
qui tampro formâ, suggested that the Bill should be committed qui tampro formâ,Lord Campbell
1173 thought that there had been a general understanding that the Bill, as amended by the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, was to pass into a law. He therefore deeply regretted the opposition which had been manifested by the right rev. Prelate. He believed that the Bill, if it passed, would give great satisfaction to the Catholic body both in this country and Ireland; and he was sure that the measure would be attended with
1173The Earl of Wicklow
 observed, that his right rev. brethren were absent attending to more important duties than being in that House. He should press his opposition to the Motion.The Bishop of London
 thought that it was absolutely necessary for his own justification, that the Bill, as amended, should be committed, for the purpose of being reprinted. The right rev. Prelate would then, at a subsequent period, have every opportunity of moving that it be committed this day six months.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that after what had fallen from the noble and learned Lord, he would not then persist in his opposition.The Bishop of London
pro formâ,s.s.1174 rose to move the Second Reading. The object of the measure was to carry out to a still greater extent a principle that had been already recognised by the Legislature. Their Lordships would be aware that as the law now stood, every House or building used for the purposes of public worship was required to be registered, and a certificate of such registration obtained, before any minister could preach, or any number of persons over twenty (exclusive
pro formâ,s.s.1174Lord Teynham
1175 wished to direct their Lordships' attention to what was the existing law on the subject, and what were the reasons for that law. As the law now stood, no meeting for religious purposes was permitted, in any dwelling-house or other building, of more than twenty persons, in addition to the family and servants of the proprietor of such house or building, unless the same were duly registered as a place for religious worship. The noble Lord who had brought forward this Bill did not object to the certificate of registration, he allowed that to remain. Now, what was the reason for the law as it stood? The Members of the family and the servants in any dwelling-house might, under the former law, assemble for religious purposes, without any certificate; but then it was con-
1175The Lord Chancellor
1176 had not expected, at that late period of the Session, that such a measure as the present would have been pressed on the attention of the House, and without consultation with those who were the guardians of the Church. The noble Lord had said that it was hard persons should be placed in the dilemma of being compelled to violate either the law or their consciences; but he (the Bishop of Gloucester) knew of no law that placed persons in this country in such
1176The Bishop of Gloucester
 contended that at present the law of the land and the law of God were at variance, and that in consequence the law of the land was often necessarily, and he would say rightly infringed.Lord Teynham
1164 objected to the Bill, which, he said, was a measure which would go to no less than the establishment of the supremacy of the Pope in this country, and the repeal of some thirty Acts of Parliament, affecting the most important interests of this country, as well as the prerogatives of the Crown, and the religion of the kingdom. Some of the provisions of this Bill would interfere with the Act of Uniformity, and others with more recent enactments, including the great settlement of the question between
1164The Bishop of London
qui tam1151 said that his noble Friend (the Earl of Radnor) had taken up this case with great warmth and but little consideration. The noble Earl had accused the Committee of striving to fish out the name of an individual to serve the purposes of Lord Eglintoun. If that had been said out of the House, he (the Duke of Richmond) would have given it a very short answer—he had had no commucation with Lord Eglintoun upon the subject. The facts of the case, however, were these. The Committee of the House of Commons having refused to examine this person, he complained that he was aggrieved and the Committee of their Lordships' House consented to call him in order that he might
qui tam1151The Duke of Richmond
1170"This is a short summary of the laws against the Papists under their three several Clauses of persons professing the Popish religion, Popish recusant convicts, and Popish priests; of which the President Montesquieu observes, that they are so rigorous, though not professedly of the sanguinary kind, that they do all the hurt that can possibly be done in cold blood."116911681167in terrorem11661165 said, he entirely acquitted the rev. Prelate of being influenced by personal feelings on the present occasion, but he (Lord Beaumont) must beg leave to state his astonishment at a rev. Prelate being found in this the nineteenth century, willing or ready to defend such enactments as the Bill was intended to repeal. Had the rev. Prelate looked into those Statutes, had he studied their character, was he aware of the penalties they inflicted, or the deeds both of commission and omission which they made capital crimes? If he had examined those Acts, if he spoke with any knowledge of the subject, he (Lord Beaumont) would not only express his surprise but his indigna-
1170"This is a short summary of the laws against the Papists under their three several Clauses of persons professing the Popish religion, Popish recusant convicts, and Popish priests; of which the President Montesquieu observes, that they are so rigorous, though not professedly of the sanguinary kind, that they do all the hurt that can possibly be done in cold blood."116911681167in terrorem11661165Lord Beaumont
 moved that the House resolve itself into Committee.Lord Beaumont
 expressed his cordial thanks to the Government for this Bill, which, in its present form, would be in the highest degree satisfactory to the Roman Catholic population of Ireland. He would take this opportunity, also, of offering to the Government his earnest thanks for the declaration which, in another place, they had, with so much courage and honesty, made of their intentions with reference to the promotion of education in Ireland on liberal and comprehensive principles, embracing the academical education there of the middle and higher classes of the Roman Catholics, and, above all, the improved education of the Roman Catholic Clergy, the enabling the College of Maynooth to extend its sphere of usefulness. The declaration thus made by the Government entitled it to the gratitude, not only of the Roman Catholics, but also to that of the Protestants of Ireland.Lord Monteagle
, in the absence of the Duke of Richmond, moved the third reading of this Bill.The Marquess of Normanby
1372qui tam opposed the Bill. The previous Bill, which this proposed to continue, was passed on the ground that the defendants in these 1372qui tamThe Earl of Radnor
 supported the Bill. He was, indeed, rather surprised to hear the noble Earl oppose it at its present stage, because, as he recollected on a former occasion, when it was before their Lordships, the noble Earl seemed to think that it would be better to make the Bill more effective than it was, namely, to go to the entire discontinuance of these actions, instead of merely suspending them. He hoped their Lordships would not hesitate to pass this Bill, the object of which had met with the general concurrence of both Houses of Parliament.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, he had heard with great satisfaction the speech of his noble Friend, and believed the regulations were very satisfactory, and would afford useful instruction to officers as to the mode of carrying into effect the measures for the Suppression of the Slave Trade. His noble Friend had made one or two observations upon the want of such instructions under the preceding Government: but he was not aware of any instance in which the slightest difficulty had occurred on the part of any officer employed in executing the treaties, which were extremely intelligible. Approving as he did of the system which his noble Friend could not call a blockade, but a watchful attention to the coast of Africa, he still thought that there must be a vigilant attention paid to the importation of slaves into Cuba and elsewhere: He thought the reduction of our naval force had had some unfavourable influence upon the trade, and that, by employing a considerable force on the coast of Africa, the trade, if not entirely put an end to, might be very materially reduced.The Earl of Minto
 agreed in all that had been said in approval of the wise, judicious and humane proceedings of the Government, and thanked them for having adopted them. He thought also that the thanks of the Parliament and of the Government were due to those who had long laboured for the suppression of the Slave Trade, and to whom such an acknowledgment would be the only remuneration they could receive. There was one point which seemed to require a little explanation. It would be unfair to conclude that because the number of slaves exported after the Abolition Act of 1805, and the Acts of 1806–7, was as great as before that, therefore those Acts had had no effect, because if those Acts had not been passed, there was every reason to believe the number would have been greater than before, and that while foreign countries increased their Slave Trade, we in Guiana, in Trinidad, and even in our own Colonies, would have been carrying on the Slave Trade with the effect certainly of having cheaper sugar, but at the expense of unfortunate Africa. He heartily hoped that much good would result from the new course suggested by his gallant Friend Captain Denman, and, he was sure, from what had been said by his noble Friend, that we had a just prospect of seeing an end put to the Slave Trade. He agreed with his noble Friend near him (Lord Clarendon) that any thing which tended to promote the supply of free labour to the Colonies would go to the root of the evil—the abolition of slavery, and that would put an end to the Slave-Trade. At the same time neither he nor his noble Friend was for waiting till all slavery should cease before they put a stop to the Slave Trade.Lord Brougham
 moved that the Report on this Bill be received. It had been agreed on a former occasion that the Debate should be taken on the next stage, but he was absent, and instead of the Report being taken on that night, it was put off till this night, when they ought to have had the third reading. He hoped their Lordships would allow the Bill to pass through both stages that night, as it was important that a measure which went to release so many unhappy persons from prison should pass that Session.Lord Brougham
 said his noble and learned Friend had read only a portion of his speech.The Lord Chancellor
: No, it is not necessary.Lord Brougham
 then put the question that the Report be received.The Lord Chancellor
140614051404 was much surprised that his noble and learned Friend on the Wool-
140614051404Lord Campbell
1410capias,1409Cottenham14081407cessio bonorum.cessio bonorum.longo intervallo said, that he would not occupy many minutes of their Lordships' time on the present occasion. The noble and learned Lord who spoke last had reproached him for rising to put the question without addressing their Lordships in answer to what fell from his hon. and learned Friend. He had done so because he was desirous of hearing what the noble and learned Lord had to say in support of his noble and learned Friend; but he might have saved himself the trouble, for the noble and learned Lord had done little else than repeat 1410capias,1409Cottenham14081407cessio bonorum.cessio bonorum.longo intervalloThe Lord Chancellor
l.l.,l.1403l.1402ad invidiam.ex post factol.1401Gazettel.l.,l.,1400l.s.Cottenham:s.d.s.quasi-l.l.l.13991398 did not at all complain of the length of his noble and learned Friend's speech, though he must confess that the far larger portion of it, both speech and extracts, were so familiarly known to him, from having heard it over and over again, that had his noble and learned Friend's physical powers failed him at any part of it, he thought he could have carried it on for him. The case lay in an extremely narrow compass. He had, indeed, himself often stated the case enlarged upon by his noble and learned Friend. Both the measures advocated
l.l.,l.1403l.1402ad invidiam.ex post factol.1401Gazettel.l.,l.,1400l.s.Cottenham:s.d.s.quasi-l.l.l.13991398Lord Brougham
1411 said, it was most true that by some accident such had happened.
1411The Lord Chancellor
1382 said, that having been in command of one of Her Majesty's ships on the coast of Africa, he could not help thanking the noble Earl (the Earl of Aberdeen) for issuing those precise and full Instructions for the guidance of officers on that coast. He knew, from his own experience, the difficult situation in which officers were placed when nothing was put into their hands but the treaties themselves, of which they had to make the best use they could, without any precise instructions. Those Instructions would, therefore, be most useful to officers so employed. With respect to the number of slaves exported from Africa between 1830 and 1835, it was to be recollected that, in 1830, slavery was abolished in the Brazils, or rather a treaty was concluded with the Brazils for that object, and the Brazilians had previously increased their stock
1382Lord Colchester
138113801379137813771376137513741373 said, that he had the honour to lay upon the Table Copies of Instructions which had recently been prepared for the guidance of naval officers in Her Majesty's service engaged in the suppression of the Slave Trade. Early last Session he had stated to the House that Her Majesty's Government had thought it expedient to submit to revision the Instructions under which these officers had hitherto been acting in the discharge of their duty, and that revision being now completed, he thought it proper that the result should be laid before their Lordships, in order that all the world might become aware not only of their general principles and motives, but also of every thing by which the conduct of their cruisers was regulated in the execution of the objects they had in view. Her Majesty's Government felt that as they had nothing to conceal upon this subject, the greatest possible publicity would be desirable—they felt that this course would afford the best refutation to the calumnies and false accusations which had been made against this country for her conduct in the suppression of the Slave Trade, imputing that under the pretext of humanity she only sought
138113801379137813771376137513741373The Earl of Aberdeen
1386138513841383 expressed his satisfaction at the speech of his noble Friend opposite, and his fervent wish that the measures which had been taken would be successful in abating the Slave Trade, and procuring for us what we had never yet obtained, however justly we were entitled to it, namely, the hearty co-operation of other countries in our humans endeavours. From what had fallen from his noble Friend, he was glad to find that we had a right now to expect such co-operation from France and from the United States, and he thought his noble Friend had done extremely well in procuring from the Spanish Government the order which it appeared had been sent to Cuba. It was true that the Treaty to which he (Lord Clarendon) had been instrumental in 1835 did contain an article of a similar purport, but although he had certainly pressed to have that article carried into effect, he was constantly told that it was impossible in the state of feeling then existing in Spain, and that the proposal of such a measure to the Cortes would create a still greater feeling of dissatisfaction. There was one point upon which he thought it desirable that his noble Friend should give an explanation, and that was the mode in which he proposed to deal with the barracoons on the African coast. That point had been adverted to in the other House, and the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Government had said that it was not the intention of the Government to permit the naval officers to destroy the barracoons, unless the previous consent of the African chiefs was obtained. He thought such a regulation would be satisfactory. It was consistent with the law of nations; and he did not believe there would be any difficulty in obtaining such consent. The new regulations in train with respect to the barracoons had no reference to the Spaniards who were called the proprietors of them; for by the Treaty of 1817, all
1386138513841383The Earl of Clarendon
"The Standing Order requiring that every Private Bill which shall be opposed be referred to a Select Committee of Five Lords, who shall choose their own Chairman, be suspended during the remainder of the present Session and that the Lords who are appointed a Committee to select and propose to the House the Names of the Lords, may, if they find it in any case necessary, select and propose Three Lords, to form such Committee, instead of Five." moved, according to Notice, that
"The Standing Order requiring that every Private Bill which shall be opposed be referred to a Select Committee of Five Lords, who shall choose their own Chairman, be suspended during the remainder of the present Session and that the Lords who are appointed a Committee to select and propose to the House the Names of the Lords, may, if they find it in any case necessary, select and propose Three Lords, to form such Committee, instead of Five."Lord Redesdale
13951394Campbell139313921391"He (the Lord Chancellor) did not rise to oppose the Bill of his noble and learned Friend; on the contrary, he begged to say that he fully approved of its object and provisions. His noble and learned Friend was perfectly correct in saying that the subject had been fully approved of by the learned Commissioners to whom he had referred, and that they had reported distinctly in favour of such a measure; and his noble and learned Friend, when he introduced the law for amending the bankrupt law, had provided for such an alteration in the law as this Bill proposed as part of his general measure. Unfortunately, however, his noble and learned Friend had not the opportunity of carrying his intentions in this respect into effect, for while the Bill was on their Lordships' Table his noble and
13911390Lord Chancellor13891388 said, it was immaterial to him which course was taken; but, at the same time, as this was only Thursday, and there was another day this week, he saw no necessity for deviating from the Orders of the House. It would be necessary for him to occupy a little of their Lordships' time, and it should be as little as would enable him to perform a duty which he felt incumbent upon him before this measure passed another stage. On the 30th of April, in this year, he had laid on their Lordships' Table, a Bill, having for its object the abolition of imprisonment for debt, and containing other provisions necessary to that object. That Bill met with the unanimous approbation of that House, and the warm approval of his noble and learned Friend upon the Woolsack; but notwithstanding that approbation, a Select Committee had since reported that that Bill ought not to be proceeded with. It was natural that the House and the public should expect that some explanation should be given of the present extraordinary state of the subject, and he wished now to put their Lordships in possession of the history of those transactions, and to direct their attention to the state in which the Bill now before them, as amended by the Committee, would leave the law. In 1838, he introduced a Bill, which afterwards became a law, for abolishing Imprisonment for Debt in all cases. Their Lordships adopted that Bill so far as it related to imprisonment on mesne process, but rejected that part which related to final process. That law having taken away the power of arrest, and compensated the creditor for the loss of that power by making various descriptions of property liable to the payment of debt which had not been so before, and improved generally the remedy of the creditor against the property
13951394Campbell139313921391"He (the Lord Chancellor) did not rise to oppose the Bill of his noble and learned Friend; on the contrary, he begged to say that he fully approved of its object and provisions. His noble and learned Friend was perfectly correct in saying that the subject had been fully approved of by the learned Commissioners to whom he had referred, and that they had reported distinctly in favour of such a measure; and his noble and learned Friend, when he introduced the law for amending the bankrupt law, had provided for such an alteration in the law as this Bill proposed as part of his general measure. Unfortunately, however, his noble and learned Friend had not the opportunity of carrying his intentions in this respect into effect, for while the Bill was on their Lordships' Table his noble and
13911390Lord Chancellor13891388Lord Cottenham
Brougham:1397l.,l.l.,1396 thought it would not be deemed necessary by the noble Lord. The fact was, that his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack had been running
Brougham:1397l.,l.l.,1396Lord Cottenham
 had no objection to read it all, if his noble and learned Friend wished.Lord Cottenham
 said, that he knew that his course was right, but he did not insist upon it.Lord Cottenham
 explained: With regard to the Clause to which his noble and learned Friend had referred, he (Lord Cottenham) remembered introducing such a Clause into the Bill he had brought in, but as he afterwards considered that it would facilitate the passing of the Bill if it did not remain in it, he was glad when his noble and learned Friend objected to the Clause, and proposed that it should be withdrawn.Lord Cottenham
 observed, that an objection was made to his Bill upon the question of privilege. He put to the test the accuracy of his noble Friend, for a Clause such as was objected to in his Bill was also to be found in the present.Lord Cottenham
14551454 said, that when, on a former occasion, understanding that this Bill was to be brought into the other House, he had put a question to his noble Friend (Lord Wharncliffe), in order that he might have an opportunity of stating his objections to the measure, his noble Friend complained that that course was irregular, and that he should wait until the Bill came up to their Lordships, when he might urge his objections, and move any Amendment he thought proper. He would now, however, confess, that he had adopted that course designedly—for he considered that if the opinions of Members of their Lordships' House were to
14551454The Earl of Wicklow
14571456 was extremely glad that the objection to this Bill had been brought forward so openly and so ably by his noble Friend, whose observations would have the more weight as coming from a neutral party. If the objection had originated with him it might be said
14571456The Earl of Roden
: I never said that it was intended as an insult. I said that it was received as such.The Earl of Wicklow
1477"Marriages take place among the latter (the labouring classes) not merely when there is no reasonable prospect as to future maintenance—not merely at too early an age—but when neither the young husband nor wife is in the slightest degree prepared to fulfil the duties incumbent upon them: Perhaps neither can read; the wife cannot prepare a meal either comfortably or frugally; she is unable to dispose of her husband's wages in the manner best adapted for the support and convenience of their home; she can neither repair his clothing nor her own; and thus good wages are often squandered by ignorance and incapacity, which, under proper management, would procure every requisite and some luxuries, and permit a little to be placed in the savings bank. With such unfitness for the character of a wife, in what light does she appear as a mother? Probably, she is compelled by the necessity of her attendance at the factory, to forego one of the greatest of a mother's delights—the nursing of her child. The infant, when a few weeks old, is committed to the care of a nurse, who exposes it to cold, feeds it improperly, and drugs it with 'Godfrey,' until the little sufferer is soon removed from the world to make room for a successor doomed to the same short but mi-
14771476s.s.l.1475l.l.l.,147414731472ad infinitum.1471We fear to breathe the putrefying mass.""Where flags the noon-tide air, and as we pass1470d.s.s.d.s.viva voce14691468l.146714661465"11. In Friday-street, Cheapside, there is a
1465"10. From No.24 Crown Place, Soho, nine; that is, two, three, and four, form as many different families residing in this filthy den. The following remarkable fact may be mentioned in connection with this house. About five or six weeks before the admission of the nine individuals just mentioned three persons had been sent to the hospital from this same house labouring under fever. For want of room in the hospital no more could be admitted at that time although it was stated that several others were ill of the disease. Of these some were sent to the St. Giles's Workhouse, and others it is believed to the Middlesex Hospital. The house was then shut up. After the house had remained shut up for about a fortnight the landlord without adopting any cleansing or purifying measures whatever, let the house to some other tenants among whom were the unfortunate creatures (nine) received into the hospital on this second occasion of the breaking out of fever in this pest house. It was now again shut up, but this time the parish officers whose attention was directed to the matter, thoroughly cleansed, lime-whited, and purified the house, as well as the adjoining tenements; since which no case of fever, it is believed, has occurred in this place; at all events there has been no application for the admission of any patient into the fever hospital."1464146314621461: I have now to call your Lordships' attention to a subject, in my opinion, of unequalled importance. It is true, that I do so when the Session has almost ran its weary length. It is not for me, on this occasion, to criticise the comparative value of its other labours; but I must remind you that at the very earliest moment, when the forms of the House permitted, after the meeting of Parliament, I put a question
1477"Marriages take place among the latter (the labouring classes) not merely when there is no reasonable prospect as to future maintenance—not merely at too early an age—but when neither the young husband nor wife is in the slightest degree prepared to fulfil the duties incumbent upon them: Perhaps neither can read; the wife cannot prepare a meal either comfortably or frugally; she is unable to dispose of her husband's wages in the manner best adapted for the support and convenience of their home; she can neither repair his clothing nor her own; and thus good wages are often squandered by ignorance and incapacity, which, under proper management, would procure every requisite and some luxuries, and permit a little to be placed in the savings bank. With such unfitness for the character of a wife, in what light does she appear as a mother? Probably, she is compelled by the necessity of her attendance at the factory, to forego one of the greatest of a mother's delights—the nursing of her child. The infant, when a few weeks old, is committed to the care of a nurse, who exposes it to cold, feeds it improperly, and drugs it with 'Godfrey,' until the little sufferer is soon removed from the world to make room for a successor doomed to the same short but mi-
14771476s.s.l.1475l.l.l.,147414731472ad infinitum.1471We fear to breathe the putrefying mass.""Where flags the noon-tide air, and as we pass1470d.s.s.d.s.viva voce14691468l.146714661465"11. In Friday-street, Cheapside, there is a
1465"10. From No.24 Crown Place, Soho, nine; that is, two, three, and four, form as many different families residing in this filthy den. The following remarkable fact may be mentioned in connection with this house. About five or six weeks before the admission of the nine individuals just mentioned three persons had been sent to the hospital from this same house labouring under fever. For want of room in the hospital no more could be admitted at that time although it was stated that several others were ill of the disease. Of these some were sent to the St. Giles's Workhouse, and others it is believed to the Middlesex Hospital. The house was then shut up. After the house had remained shut up for about a fortnight the landlord without adopting any cleansing or purifying measures whatever, let the house to some other tenants among whom were the unfortunate creatures (nine) received into the hospital on this second occasion of the breaking out of fever in this pest house. It was now again shut up, but this time the parish officers whose attention was directed to the matter, thoroughly cleansed, lime-whited, and purified the house, as well as the adjoining tenements; since which no case of fever, it is believed, has occurred in this place; at all events there has been no application for the admission of any patient into the fever hospital."1464146314621461The Marquess of Normanby
"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to thank Her Majesty for the Report upon the state of large towns and populous districts, recently presented to this House by Her Majesty's Command; to assure Her Majesty that this House continue to feel a constant and active interest in the Sanatory Condition of the People; to express our earnest hope, that early in next Session of Parliament, Her Majesty would be pleased to call the specific attention of Parliament to a subject of such paramount importance, and to recommend for adoption some practical measure of a comprehensive character, calculated to remedy evils of such acknowledged magnitude and proved extent."148014791478 states for Ashton-under-Lyne that the infant mortality there is greater there than in any other town in Lancashire, and this he attributes to the neglect of the children forced upon the mothers by the nature of their occupation, engrossing every moment of their time. And he draws a frightful picture of the quantity sold by the druggists of that pernicious compound which is known by a hundred different seductive names, but which was clandestinely called "Infant's quietness." Of this it was stated that the dose was "half a spoonful and more if necessery." If necessary! What was to be the necessity, and who was to judge of it? A person generally without the slightest natural affection for the child, and whose object was, at any risk, for her own comfort to put an end to its cries, Another picture is presented by Mr. Coulthurst of the flourishing town of Ashton-under-Lyne well worthy the serious attention of those who are so ready to boast of the advantages of the present day. Those advantages are great, but there is a dark side to the picture. Mr. Coulthurst states that on searching the marriage certificates of eighty years ago he found that there were then forty-four men and twenty-five females who could sign the marriage certificate out of every hundred; now there were only twelve men and eight women who could do so. It is right, after detailing the want of domestic comfort and this ignorance in Ashton, arising from causes only indirectly connected with the object of our present inquiry, that we should state that here is on the other hand furnished a proof that many of the other evils referred to might be much mitigated by the superintending authority of the landlord. The town belongs principally to Lord Stamford, and his agent has been directed in all leases to the under tenants to insert such sanatory regulations as should be desirable; and the result of this is shown by a comparison of the tables of mortality at Ashton-under-Lyne with other towns similarly situated. By such comparison your Lordships will find to a
"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to thank Her Majesty for the Report upon the state of large towns and populous districts, recently presented to this House by Her Majesty's Command; to assure Her Majesty that this House continue to feel a constant and active interest in the Sanatory Condition of the People; to express our earnest hope, that early in next Session of Parliament, Her Majesty would be pleased to call the specific attention of Parliament to a subject of such paramount importance, and to recommend for adoption some practical measure of a comprehensive character, calculated to remedy evils of such acknowledged magnitude and proved extent."148014791478Mr. Coulthurst
148714861485"Half of those born there appear to die before the fifth year, and no less than 27 per cent. of the remainder die under fifty years of age, and the average age of death of all who
148514841483d.14821481 said, the subject which the noble Marquess had introduced to their Lordships was not one to be lightly treated; nor was it one of a party nature; it was not a question of party feeling, but of public policy and of humanity. The statements made by the noble Marquess of the condition of the poor in some of our public towns were warranted by the accounts which he (the noble Duke) had received, and by what he had witnessed. Until he had entered the precincts of one of these towns, he was not aware of the extent to which the evil existed. The noble Marquess had entered into statistical details of the number of deaths—and he had stated that not less than 50,000 annually—as he had supposed — might have been saved by proper sanatory regulations: but unless these statistical statements were analyzed, they were apt to deceive, and led to no practical result. For example, when it was stated, that of 100 children, one-half died before they had attained one year, he could only say that he did not think that his noble Friend had made due allowance for the ill effects of consumption and those epidemic diseases by which so many children were cut off at an early age; and—it was a curious fact—it would be found that where there was the lowest state of health amongst infants there was the greatest amount of births. It might seem extraordinary that it should be so,
148714861485"Half of those born there appear to die before the fifth year, and no less than 27 per cent. of the remainder die under fifty years of age, and the average age of death of all who
148514841483d.14821481The Duke of Buccleuch
1488 observed, in reply, that he thought his noble Friend
1488The Marquess of Normanby
 said, the Bill provided that persons should not be summarily turned out of cellars until after a certain period. Time was also to be allowed to enable parties to provide sufficient ventilation.The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that although usually opposed to the Government, he felt bound to support them on this occasion. He quite agreed with the noble Duke opposite that the Government ought not to give up the power which the Legislature had so long entrusted to them. If the Bill were allowed to expire, the Government could not but feel responsible for any mischief that might ensue. He gathered from the speech of the noble Duke that he looked forward to better times in Ireland, but that expectation would not justify the Government in neglecting to renew this Bill. The noble Duke spoke also of the present tranquillity of Ireland, but he was afraid that he could not agree with him as to the causes which had produced it. He trusted, however, that it would long continue.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, he must assure his noble Friends (the Earls of Wicklow and Roden) that nothing could be further from his thoughts than to offer an insult, or to do any injury to the Protestants of the north of Ireland, whose conduct had been most praiseworthy, and marked by loyalty and good order. It was certain that the law did not apply to the temperance and monster processions of last year. But they were to recollect that they had to deal with a man who boasted that he could drive a coach and four through an Act of Parliament, and who had contrived to keep those meetings within the verge of the law. Indeed, no Act could be framed effectually to extend this Bill to such meetings without preventing the people of Ireland from holding almost any meeting whatever.Lord Wharncliffe
, in moving that the House resolve itself into Committee on this Bill, stated that the object of the Bill was merely to continue, until next year, an Act that had been annually passed for the last ten or twelve years, and which had been of very great advantage in restraining Orange and other party processions in Ireland, and consequently, in preserving the peace of the country. The present Act would expire on the 1st of August, and it was now proposed to continue its operation, not until the same period in the next year, but till the 1st of June, in order that should any similar measure be then necessary for the peace of Ireland, Parliament might be brought to consider the subject, and legislate upon it.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, that so far from this being a party question, he, when on the opposite benches, supported the measure of the noble Marquess. It was also strongly supported by his noble Friend, since appointed Governor General of India, to whom the noble Marquess expressed his obligation for the pains and attention he had bestowed upon it. His noble Friend at the head of the Commission which had been appointed by the Government, had informed them that the subject was not yet ripe for legislation. The valuable Report before them showed the real nature of the subject, and the enormous difficulties that were connected with it, and proved to him that the utmost attention ought to be paid to the whole question, in order successfully to apply a remedy. The questions contained in that Blue Book had been the subject of legislation in this country from the time of Henry VI. down to the present moment. It showed that there was not a proprietor of a house in this town who was not in some shape or other interested in the question of sewers, for instance, or whose property and life might not be affected by the measures to be adopted respecting them. The subject, therefore, was one which required the utmost care and attention, in order that any measure brought forward should be attended with beneficial results. The very matter of turning people out of their cellars could not be effected until other accommodation had been provided for them.The Duke of Wellington
1460Wicklow:14591458: The fact of the matter is this. There is an Act of Parliament which has existed for many years—which has existed with great benefit to the country particularly in the course of the last year, when, and really I do not believe I am speaking too highly, great apprehensions were entertained; and I think I, as well as my noble Friend near me, and all parties in the House, applauded the conduct of those persons who were the objects of the law which it is the intention of this Bill to continue; ap-
1460Wicklow:14591458The Duke of Wellington
: My Lords, I think that my noble Friends who have just addressed your Lordships do not exactly recollect their own arguments when they describe this Bill as an insult to the people of Ireland, and as a measure of injustice. They say, whilst they call it unjust towards one party, that it is protested against by both. They say that it is an insult.The Duke of Wellington
1506 moved the second reading of this Bill. The principle of the Bill had been already assented to by the House in a former Session. It was rendered necessary by the imperfection of the Act of 1776, which was now in force, but which was quite inadequate to carry out its own enactments. In some cases its provisions were too harshly and oppressively enforced, and in others they were too much relaxed. The present Bill provided for the proper width of streets, alleys, and courts, for the secure building of houses, for the construction of drains for every house, for ventilation, the height of rooms, and the spaces between the rear of houses. It provided also against the occupation of apartments as dwellings in the metropolis unfit for human habitation. All surveyors under this Act would be required to pass an examination as to their qualifications. This was a very desirable provision, for, under the existing system, persons were appointed who, however respectable in other respects, were wholly ignorant of the business of a surveyor. It was proposed to appoint, with salaries, certain official referees, who should determine all disputes under the Act. There would also be a registrar, to whom the surveyors would be required to report their proceedings once a month. Under the present system it frequently occurred that the surveyor was also a builder, and it was obvious that persons having houses to
1506The Duke of Buccleuch
non obstat.l.1507 was sorry to be compelled to oppose the second reading of this Bill. He gave credit to the Government in preparing this Bill for their desire to do what was right in remedying the defects of the present law; but it appeared to him that they had in this respect failed. Then, again, it was impossible to consider so voluminous a Bill at that late period of the Session. The Bill, which contained no less than 118 Clauses, 12 schedules, describing twenty separate forms of notice, and 107 folios, had come up from the Commons only on the 22nd instant. It was as long as the Code Napoleon; and was it to be expected that their Lordships should sit down night and day to examine such a measure at this season, to the entire neglect of everything else. The noble Duke said—"let the Bill go into Committee." But how long would it take to consider these 118 Clauses in Committee? Unless the Committee were a mere farce, it would occupy their Lordships five or six weeks. Their Lordships would scarcely believe that this Bill, which was brought up from the Commons on the 22nd of July, and which they were asked now to go into, affected property within the Bills of Mortality to the extent of many millions. As far as he had had an opportunity of examining the Bill, he found it most imperfect, and in many respects objectionable. He did not mean to say there was no want of legislation as to drainage and ventilation. On the contrary, he admitted that it was of the last importance that the attention of the Legislature
non obstat.l.1507Lord Campbell
 thought it would be more advisable to postpone the Bill till another Session.The Earl of Cadogan
 remarked, that the Bill had evidently been prepared with great care, and it would be most unfair to reject it on the second reading.The Earl of Besborough
1508 supported the Amendment. Though he approved of many of its provisions, he thought it would be much better to defer the consideration of the Bill till next Session. With regard to the proviso which prevented cellars and
1508Lord Kinnaird
 admitted the Bill to be beneficial in its object, but hoped this Bill would not pass into a law this Session. Let them make it as perfect as they could, with the understanding that it should not proceed further.The Marquess of Salisbury
 said, if the noble Duke did not intimate his intention to withdraw the Bill, after it had passed through Committee, then he should press his Motion to a division.Lord Campbell
 thought the House could not enter into such an arrangement as was proposed by the noble and learned Lord. He wished that the Bill should be read a second time, and then let them proceed as far as they could in Committee. They did not know how long the Parliament might sit. The lateness of the Session was not an objection to the Bill, and while there was business it was their Lordships' duty to perform it.The Earl of Wicklow
 replied and maintained that, as the objections of noble Lords opposite applied rather to some of the details than to the principle of the measure, the House might very properly vote for the second reading. It was quite absurd to say that an exception was presented by the possibility of their Lordships not having made themselves minutely acquainted with all the details. Was it not perfectly notorious that ninety-nine out of one hundred noble Peers were never in the habit of looking at a Bill until long after it was placed on the Table of the House? The objections made to the details did not appear to him so strong as to prevent his asking their Lordships to go into Committee. He would therefore ask them to commit the Bill. It was an important and useful measure, and the principle was only that of a measure which had already been in existence for seven years. Any necessary Amendments might be introduced in Committee, when the measure he did believe would be satisfactory, not only inside but outside the walls of Parliament, and would be further useful as laying the foundation for future measures.The Duke of Buccleuch
1509 remarked, that the noble Lord on the Woolsack had, when he sat on the opposition benches, frequently objected to the Bills of the late Ministers on the ground of the late period of the Session at which they were presented to that House. It was a most important Bill, affecting great interests, and involving, not only large masses of property, but great numbers of the population, so difficult and important, so contradictory in some respects were the provisions of the Bill, that it was quite impossible at so late a period of the Session to give it that consideration which was indispensable. In passing the second reading, they were sanctioning the principle, not the mere form, in which an object could be carried into effect. Could they in two days master the details alone of this Bill? Was it fair that the House of Commons should have to consider this from the month of May till July, and now at the latter end of July that the Lords should be called upon to determine upon its merits? It was plain, if their Lordships
1509Lord Cottenham
1550en masse.1549l.1548prœmunire.prœmunire15471546prœmunire,prœmunire.1545prœmunireprœmunireLoud cries of15441543 said, My Lords, I rise to move that the Report on this Bill be now received, with the further view of its being recommitted, when any Amendments may be made which may be considered advantageous. He did this on the part of his noble Friend (Lord Beaumont), and he would take the opportunity of stating what was the position of the matter, and what the part he had taken in it The Bill was introduced by a noble Lord (Lord Beaumont) early in the month of May last, when he recommended his noble Friend to abstain from pressing the measure, because Government had it in view to reconsider the subject of penal enactments as a whole, including, of course, the enactments against the Roman Catholics. To this the noble Lord objected, and when my attention was subsequently called by the noble Lord to the subject, I told the noble Lord that I would look over the Bill, and that I would strike out every Act recited in it, the propriety of the repeal of which there was reason to doubt, and to which repeal strong opposition might of course be expected. The subject is, my Lords, one of a very complicated and intricate nature, as it embraces a great many measures enacted at various times. I, however, turned my earnest attention to it, and I also consulted the Criminal Law Commissioners, and other parties, who were perfectly competent to consider and advise upon the subject. Having so done, I struck out several Clauses of the Bill; and I think I may justly say with respect to what I have done, that no Clause has been left in the Bill as to the propriety of which any reasonable doubt can be entertained. The question before the House is, that the Report be now received; but there is another question to follow, of which the noble Lord (Lord Beaumont) his given notice—namely, that the Bill be re-committed to a Committee of the whole House. When it is so recommitted it will be in the power of any noble Lord or right rev. Prelate to object to the repeal of any Act or part of any Act which is intended in be repealed by this Bill; and I pledged myself to this — that if any reasonable ground shall be advanced for striking out
1550en masse.1549l.1548prœmunire.prœmunire15471546prœmunire,prœmunire.1545prœmunireprœmunireLoud cries of15441543The Lord Chancellor
155315521551 said, that the noble and learned Lord who had just sat down had rendered it extremely difficult for him to oppose the Motion which was now before their Lordships, without appearing to entertain a desire to retain upon the Statute Book of the Realm the obnoxious acts to which the Lord Chancellor had referred. Against that supposition he (the right rev. Prelate) was most anxious to guard himself; indeed, in the few remarks which he had had the honour of addressing to their Lordships on a former occasion he had avoided giving any opinion as to how far it might be desirable to interfere for the purpose of repealing any of these laws, nor should he on the present occasion feel himself called upon to make any declaration as to how far he might or might not be prepared to go in the way of abrogating these different enactments. It might be proper—perhaps many of their Lordships would deem it proper—to make a change in the laws affecting the Roman Catholics; but what he (the Bishop of London) did maintain was this, that the points now brought under their attention only constituted a part of a more extensive subject—of a subject of the deepest interest—of a subject which ought to be considered as a whole, to be made a matter of most mature deliberation, and to be treated and decided on, not upon the recommendation of individual Peers, but upon that of the responsible Government of the nation. To him (the right rev. Prelate) it would be no satisfaction to defend these laws. He should be sorry to follow the noble and learned Lord with any view to extenuate many of their provisions; but, without doing that, he felt that conscientiously he could oppose the further proceeding upon this Bill, and that he was in a position to thank the noble and learned Lord for giving him, in the course of his statement, grounds upon which to base what he hoped would prove a successful opposition to it. From the short history which the noble, and learned Lord had
155315521551The Bishop of London
 having put the question that the word "now" stand part of the Motion,The Lord Chancellor
1554 recommended his noble Friend (Lord Beaumont) to adopt the suggestion of his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack to leave the Government to consider the question during the recess for the purpose of legislating upon it next Session, as being the most effectual means of accomplishing the object he had at heart. He protested, however, against the assertion that the Bill would be injurious to the interests of the Protestant Church; he, on the contrary, believed that it would give I additional security to that Church. The Statutes which it was now proposed to repeal could only be justified by the panic which had seized men's minds at the time they were passed, and were only tolerated for a single hour from the conviction that they would never be enforced. The only real objection that had been urged against the Bill was, that it did not go far enough. That objection he hoped would be obviated next Session, by the introduction of a more comprehensive measure, based upon broader principles, by the Government, which should, have his most hearty
1554Lord Brougham
 said, his first impression was, that the noble Lord (Lord Beaumont) would do wisely to adopt the suggestion of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack; but when he heard the speech of his right rev. Friend (the Bishop of London) he altered his opinion, for it appeared to him that his right rev. Friend, having no ground of opposition to the present Bill, wished to see another and more extensive measure introduced, in order that he might find some ground of objection. He thought that the Government might give more attention if they allowed the Bill to pass, than if the Bill were postponed until the next Session. The right rev. Prelate could not deny that those Acts were a disgrace to the Statute Book, and they ought not, therefore, to be allowed to remain there a single day. If he stood in the situation of his noble Friend he would take as much as was granted to him, and seek for the further and complete remission of the penalties that had been referred to at a future opportunity.The Earl of Wicklow
qui tarnl.London:1555 would also advise the noble Lord to persist with his Bill, and attain now every possible good that could be achieved. No one, he thought, could hesitate in the course that ought to be pursued who had heard the most lucid and learned disquisition that had been given on these Statutes by his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack; for he had pointed out with invincible force all
qui tarnl.London:1555Lord Campbell
 explained. He said the Prelates did not complain as to the ime at which the noble Lord brought in his Bill; but, that considering the late period at which it had been brought forward, they complained of the Government having adopted it. He had not expressed himself, as saying that the repeal of these Statutes could affect the Established Church.The Bishop of London
 said "Not Content" to the Motion.The Bishop of London
 declared the Contents had it.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he did not mean to divide the House. As the Bill had been taken up by the Government it would be fruitless to do so; but he was fortified in his opposition when he considered that so many of his right rev. Brethren were absent.The Bishop of London
: Do you move any amendment.The Lord Chancellor
: No; I do not mean to interfere in this Bill in any way.The Bishop of London
qui-tam1559155815571556 rose to reply and said, that he need hardly inform their Lordships that little was left for him to do in respect to the merits or details of the Bill, since the one had been so eloquently set forth, and the other so minutely described by his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack.
qui-tam1559155815571556Lord Beaumont
 wished to draw their Lordships' attention to the Amendments made by the Commons in these Bills respecting the right of suing parties residing abroad for debt, which had been sent down from their Lordships' House and were now returned. The first Amendment, as it merely explained more fully what he considered the intention of the Bill to be, namely, that the Act should apply only to parties who were actually domiciled abroad, he did not object to, and he would advise their Lordships to agree to it. But the second was a very strange one, and excluded persons domiciled in Scotland from the operation of the Bill. In this he could not conceive that there was any reason, and he therefore should recommend their Lordships not to agree to it. He supposed that a conference with the other House would be necessary.Lord Campbell
1642 (on presenting a Petition) said, that in consequence of the expectation which prevailed for some time past, that a Bill would immediately be passed for the alteration of the laws affecting Insolvent Debtors, many persons had neglected to give the necessary notices, under the existing law, and they were now under the impression that they would be obliged to remain in prison until December next, before they could obtain relief. The best way to dissipate the apprehensions of these poor people would be to make public the effect of the Bill which had passed their Lordships' House, and was now in progress through the House of Commons. Under its provisions, there would be no necessity for any person to remain several months in prison, as it would only require a sheet of paper and a stamp for a statement of any case, which being sent to the Commissioners would insure
1642Lord Brougham
 said, he had given notice of his intention to put a question to the noble Lord opposite, in reference to a letter addressed to the governor of the gaol of Northampton, by the Secretary for the Home Department, requiring a statement of all summary convictions under the Game Act, which had taken place in that county. That letter had created considerable observation; and he wished to know under what circumstances it was written, and whether it was intended to cast any imputation on the Magistrates who had made these summary convictions.Lord Lilford
1643 said, he had given notice to his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, of his intention to ask a question relative to the extraordinary proceedings that had lately taken place in one of the South Sea Islands, when a British subject was seized and confined; but, in consequence of what had fallen from a right hon Gentleman in another place, that question had been rendered almost superfluous. Still, as their Lordships ought not to be dependent for information on reports from other quarters, and as the subject was certainly not unworthy of further notice, he would ask his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether the accounts which had been made public of these transactions were correct,
1643The Marquess of Clanricarde
VindictiveVindictive1645 observed, that nothing could be more satisfactory than the noble Earl's assurance on that point, which, indeed, he believed they were all prepared to expect, namely, that the acts of those officers were wholly unauthorized by the French Government, and were totally foreign to their wishes. It was impossible to imagine that a Government which had the same deep interest with ourselves in the preservation of peace should have lent its authority to an act so calculated to lead to its interruption. He was entirely satisfied, therefore, with all the noble Earl had said as to the feeling of France; and he was satisfied, also, that the noble Earl would be content with nothing less from France than the full atonement for the outrage, which it was the noble Earl's duty to demand. There was one point, however, upon which he did desire some further information, a question which, however, he ought rather to put to the noble Earl of First Lord of the Admiralty, as to the means which had been taken by the Government to provide against the recurrence of any such misfortune. Aware as the Government were of the violent nature of the proceedings of France at an earlier period, he should like to be assured that they had taken proper measures to maintain our naval force at Tahiti in such strength as was necessary to protect the honour and interests of the nation. He hoped he should not find that at the time these outrages occurred we were inadequately represented in the seas of the Pacific? He (the Earl of Minto) would not enter further into the question, unless the answer which he should receive from his noble Friend should satisfy
VindictiveVindictive1645The Earl of Minto
CollingwoodVindictive,America,VindictiveTalbot,CarysfortDublinDublin,Vindictive replied, that at the time this proceeding took place, in March last, Tahiti was not, and indeed it never had been, devoid of the presence of a British ship of war. He was not able at the moment to give full information upon the point, but his opinion was that last March there was present there a frigate of a minor class. His noble Friend appeared to have made himself master of the precise dates, and he (the Earl of Haddington) could not pretend to follow him as the question had been put to him entirely without notice. The CollingwoodVindictive,America,VindictiveTalbot,CarysfortDublinDublin,VindictiveThe Earl of Haddington
Basilisk.Vindictive wished to know this—was not the Basilisk.VindictiveThe Earl of Minto
BasiliskBasilisk. impression was, that there was a larger vessel at Tahiti than the BasiliskBasilisk.The Earl of Haddington's
 felt entirely satisfied that the French Government never had sanctioned, and never could sanction, what had taken place at Tahiti. He thought, however, that some blame attached to our Government for ever letting them take it under their "protection" at all. If there had been any sort of protectorate, it should have been a joint protectorate. He should be glad to know also, if Queen Pomare had not been restored after the first outrage? If that were the case, Mr. Pritchard of course resumed his post as British Consul, and was British Consul when the last act of violence took place.Lord Kinnaird
 asked, whether the French Admiral had been recalled?The Earl of Minto
16481647 moved, that the House do now resolve itself into Committee on this Bill. His Lordship having referred to the evidence taken before the Railways Committee of the House of Commons, on the Report of which the measure
16481647The Earl of Dalhousie
 gave notice, on behalf of the Bishop of London, that it was the intention of his right rev. Friend, on the third reading of the Bill, to move as an Amendment to the 6th Clause, to leave out the words "on every day," and to insert these words, "On every weekday, except Christmas-day and Good Friday."The Bishop of Lichfield
Campbell1650 had still an objection to make to this Bill, which had just been proposed by his noble Friend. By the Common Law of this country, the appointments were in the Judges of those Courts, and he should now read a passage from Lord Coke, for the purpose of showing that that was the law, and also giving reason for it. The passage was to be found in the Second Institute and had reference to the Statute of Westminster. There it was stated, that, by the Common Law, the Judges of the Courts had the appointment of their officers, and the reason given for this was, that it was more their duty to select proper officers, who would faithfully perform the duties imposed upon them—and if these officers did not do that it would be a reproach to the judges themselves, who were responsible for the proper keeping of the records of these Courts. This was the course in England from the earliest periods, and within the last few years when an Act was brought in, similar to that which was then before their Lordships, it was provided, that the appointments should be in the Chief Justices and Chief Baron. That was the course in England. Why were they to deviate from that course in Ireland? The Common Law of England was the Common Law of Ireland, and until a very late period the practice in this respect was the same in both countries. By 1st of Geo. IV. the appointments were taken from the Judges, and given to the Lord Lieutenant. No reason was stated for doing that; but for some particular purpose, which was not stated on the face of the Act, these appointments were taken from the Chief Justices and given to the Lord Lieutenant. It was rather remarkable that two years ago an Act of Parliament for the purpose of remodelling the offices in these Courts was proposed by the same person who brought in this Bill, and in that Bill there was a Clause corresponding with the law in England, by which the appointments were transferred back from the Lord lieutenant to the Judges of the Courts in Ireland, from whom they ought never to have been taken. Now, however, they had the Bill of two years ago again before them, but by it the appointment of officers were continued to the Lord Lieutenant, and not restored, as they should be to the Judges. Under these circumstances, he trusted that their Lordships would be of opinion that
Campbell1650The Lord Chancellor
 said, he had heard with most sincere pleasure, the sentiments which had fallen from his noble and learned Friend, and the irrefragable arguments by which he had supported the views he had expressed. He had likewise with much pleasure heard his noble Friend (Lord Fortescue), who had been Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, cheer the sentiments of his noble and learned Friend. He should move that for the words "Lord Lieutenant or other Chief Governor of Ireland," in the 7th section, should be substituted the words, "Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench, Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and Lord Chief Baron of the Court of Exchequer, as the same shall be in the Court of Queen's Bench, Common Pleas or Exchequer."Lord Campbell
 begged to supply an omission of his, and to state that the Bill went so far as to take away the appointment to some minor offices which had been allowed to remain with the Chief Justices.The Lord Chancellor
: If the appointments are by the Common Law of England in the hands of the Judges, why should not the Common Law of Ireland and of England be the same? Perhaps the authorities of the Crown may have usurped from the Judges what the Law and Constitution gave the latter. I do not deny the possibility,The Lord Chancellor
 said, he had had the honour of having been in communication with some of the high legal authorities at the other side of the water, and their idea as to the Common Law on this point entirely corresponded with the high authority of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack. At the same time he must say, that his noble Friend opposite (Lord Wharncliffe) was quite correct in what he had stated. The Crown had the appointment to these great offices. He knew that the learned Judges on the opposite side of the water were most anxious that they should not be placed on a different footing from the Judges in England, and if no strong reason should be shown against it, he hoped their Lordships would in a prompt and gracious manner accept the Amendment.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, he would withdraw his Amendment as he understood the noble Lord (Lord Wharncliffe) was prepared to assent to the suggestion made by his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack.Lord Campbell
, however, said, as the noble Lord could not agree to the suggestion, he (Lord Campbell) would at once proceed with his Amendment.Lord Campbell
 said, that Admiral Dupetit Thouars had been recalled in March last, in consequence of his assumption of the sovereignty of the island. He had been succeeded by Admiral Hamelin, who was now, he believed, on his way out.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that in dealing with occurrences at the antipodes it was difficult to say precisely when or under what circumstances certain acts took place, but he believed that about the present time, and not before, Queen Pomare would be restored. It was in March last that the French Government repudiated the acts of their officers at Tahiti, and as he had just received accounts from Tahiti, dated in March, it was probable that about this time, and not before, the instructions of the French Government would reach its officers in the Southern Seas. Queen Pomare would then be immediately restored, not to all her rights, but to the same position in which she was placed under the former protectorate. With regard to the joint protectorate of which the noble Lord spoke, he should know that offers of a protectorate of these islands had been on two or three different occasions offered to the British Government, and as invariably refused.The Earl of Aberdeen
1644: It is undoubtedly true, that a gross outrage has been committed against the person of a British subject; indeed, so flagrant an outrage, that, if I had not received an authentc account of the transaction, it would have appeared to me almost incredible. But I wish to observe to the House that this proceeding has taken place, not only without the possible knowledge, or instruction, or participation, of the French Government, but under a state of things which has been disavowed by them. It will be recollected that, in the month of September last, the French authorities in the island of Tahiti dethroned the Queen, and took absolute possession of, and exercised the full rights of sovereignty over that island. As soon as a representation on the subject was made by this country, the proceeding was promptly disavowed by the French Government, just about the time that the transaction at present complained of took place, in the month of March last. But during the intervening months, it is clear that a state of things existed that would account for certain acts which it would be impossible to anticipate under another and a more satisfactory state of things. Now, the gentleman to whom the noble Marquess has referred—at the time when the French took actual possession of the island, and proceeded to exercise all the rights of Sovereignty—that gentleman immediately hauled down his flag, and gave an official intimation or notice to the authorities that he was no longer Her Britannic Majesty's Consul there—that the Queen having been dethroned, he had no longer any official character. So that, in point of fact, however improper and unjust the proceedings might be which placed him under the necessity of abandoning his official position, he was not, at the time when the recent transactions occurred, occupying any, and was not recognized as occupying any official situation. Now, although the power which has been exercised and the arbitrary and unprecedented proceedings that have taken place could not be justified against any British subject, having an official character or not, still the circumstances under which the transaction took place must make some difference in the manner in which it is to be received. I said before that this proceeding had taken
1644The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, certainly no such intention existed. That letter had been addressed to others besides the governor of Northampton Gaol; he believed, indeed, that it was a general circular which had been sent to all the counties. The fact was, that the Secretary for the Home Department found that a great number of convictions took place under the Game Laws, and that many irregularities had occurred. He therefore was anxious to obtain a correct return of convictions under those laws, according to the form pointed out in the letter, in order that such irregularities might be corrected.Lord Wharncliffe
 moved the third reading (according to Order).Lord Wharncliffe
1651 said, it was quite impossible
1651Lord Wharncliffe
 wished to have the Bill now read a third time. He would consult his noble and learned and right hon. Friends and he had no doubt they would be prepared to pay every deference to what appeared to be the opinion of their Lordships.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, it appeared to him immaterial whether the appointments had formerly been in the hands of the Crown or of the Judges. If it was proper that a particular course should be adopted for the future, it was no argument against it to say, that a different and an erroneous one had teen pursued for a century or half a century.Lord Cottenham
1674 said, if he understood rightly the explanation which had been given by the noble Earl, he had seen no ground of complaint in the circumstance of the Consul of a foreign state interfering in a matter purely between a subject of this country, the Consul of this country, and the court to which he was accredited. The noble Earl saw nothing requiring explanation in the circumstance of the interposition of an officer representing another Government in a matter ex-
1674The Earl of Minto
 had understood the noble Earl to convey something in the shape of an apology for the conduct of those countries who had so improperly interfered; but he had not heard from him any assurance that all similar interference would be prevented in future.The Earl of Minto
16761675 rose, pursuant to notice, to move an Amendment, to the 6th Clause, to the intent of preventing railways from being compelled to run trains on the Sabbath. By the present system, perfect freedom of action was permitted to all Railway Companies as to the number of trains run upon their lines on the Lord's Day. There was no interference with them, nor, as originally proposed, had this Bill contemplated any such interference—the Clause respecting the Sunday trains not
16761675The Bishop of London
1679s.,s.s.s.s.16781677 said, he was one of those who looked upon every thing which tended to the desecration of the Sabbath Day and the interruption of Sabbath rest as a great evil, and as a breach of duty—and not only as not conducive, but as prejudicial to the interests of the poorer classes, and by that he meant, above all, the working classes; but, on the other hand, they ought to take into account one circumstance, which was a fact of undeniable truth, that so far from the Sabbath being less well kept in this country now than in former times, it was in every way so much better kept, that there was no foundation whatever for the extravagant and exaggerated zeal that many persons displayed, who viewed as the great and crying evil of the present age the desecration of the Sabbath Day: for he must say, that
1679s.,s.s.s.s.16781677Lord Brougham
 undertook as a lawyer to declare that the Clause was not compulsory, if the Railroad Proprietors thought fit to run no trains on the Sundays. If it were determined to run no train, whether slow or swift, the Clause would not compel them to do so; but then it provided that if the railroad did send on trains for the benefit of the rich, they should, for the benefit of the poor provide third-class carriages. He thought it would be more fair to propose a Clause prohibiting travelling on the Sunday altogether than an Amendment like the present, which drew such a distinction between the poor and the rich.Lord Campbell
1684 said, that a calculation had been made as to 700 persons visiting Hampton Court on the Sunday. These 700 were conveyed by means of the
1684Lord Brougham
 replied: He had been misrepresented on the other side. His simple object was to prevent the direct interference of the Government on the subject; that the Government should not by its interference facilitate traffic on that day.The Bishop of London
 wished, if they were then going to a division, that it might be borne in mind that the Clause was one for enabling the poor to travel by a railway train whenever the rich man did so.The Earl of Radnor
 supported the Amendment.The Earl of Wicklow
 remarked, that the Bill did not compel any railroad to carry passengers on a Sunday. It only established this, that if Dives did travel on the Sunday, so might Lazarus. It did not compel any railway to run on Sundays; but it did compel this, that if a rich man should have provision made for his enjoyment, so also should the poor. If the mere matter of pleasure were to be considered, then he said the poor man ought infinitely to be preferred to the rich, for the rich man had six days in the week for his pleasure—the poor man but one. Then as to business, if it were excusable for a rich man to follow his business on a Sunday, how much more so for a poor man, who had no other day? The plain question was this, whether their Lordships would have accommodation themselves which they would deny to the poor man?The Marquess of Clanricarde
16921691l.,1690168916881687l.,l."And you would live upon that money?—I would.""How much do you expect, how much blood-money for each person you have hanged?—I don't know."Now, did that man ever offend you? had you ever any quarrel? did he ever speak an angry word to you, or had you the least cause for murdering him?—No [great sensation]."Now, Sir, according to your own account, you are a robber, a perjurer, and a murderer. You have sworn that you helped to knock the man's brains out who was murdered?—I did."And you certainly would have done so?—Of course I would [sensation]."But did you ever swear that you would seduce as many as you could?—I did."Were you ever accused of seducing a girl?—No."Where did you get the pistol?—I stole it."Just above it, as if a man's head was in it?—Yes [sensation]."Pray, where did you set that hat when you fired at it?—On the top of a ditch.1686"And why did you fire at that hat—to
1686"With a head in it, I suppose?—No there wasn't."You were fond of firing at a mark? Look how the fellow laughs! Pray, what did you fire at?—At an old hat."Mr. Walsh: Come, Sir, I don't want the day, nor even the month; but tell me how many years it is since you handled a pistol?—About five or six months before the murder."Mr. Walsh: Why, that was only on the 30th of March. Come, tell me on your oath, when did you handle one before the murder?—I could not tell the day; I'm no scholar."Mr. Walsh: You talk of John Wade's asking you for a pistol. Are you in the habit of keeping one?—I told him I had not handled one for that year."To witness: Now, that is your third account?—I dare say it is; but I was keeping myself out all through."The learned Gentleman then read the paper."The Court: Every thing that he has stated should be taken into account. I have not the least scruple in giving the counsel for the prisoner every possible assistance in the cross-examination of this witness."Mr. Scott, Q. C.: Stop; this is not an information; it is only an examination."Mr. Walsh: Now, I will read you another."That about the stranger you talk of?—It is all true except that I called myself the stranger."That is the only lie in it on your oath?—Which?"Mr. Walsh: And that is the only lie in it?—It is."Witness: It is, except that I denied myself to be one of the party."The Court: Now is that information true?"The learned counsel here read the informations sworn to by the witness on the 16th of February, 1844."Did you state that in your first examination?—I don't know."Mr. Walsh; I think you said, in your examination by the counsel for the Crown, that you saw John and Patric Wade inside the ditch on coming up?—I did."Baron Richards: Stop a moment. Now, listen, witness. Would you deliberately swear a lie to save yourself from punishment?—I would [sensation]."But you would swear a lie to save yourself? I would."And hang as many as you could?—I did not say that."And told for a religious motive?—I wished to save myself."And that was lie the second, on your oath?—It was."Well, I suppose you told the truth then?—I did not [sensation]. I did not wish to bring in myself as one of those that done it.1685"I believe it was in consequence of some religious feelings that you came to swear your second informations. Nay, don't smile, man. The question may appear a silly one, but I wish to have it answered. Now, on your oath, was it not on account of some religious scruples that you went a second time to swear informations?—Witness (doggedly): It was; I could not go to my duty till I had done so."You were in custody at that time?—I was."How long was that after the time you swore the first information?—It was last winter."I believe you lodged other informations?—I did."How long was it after the murder before you lodged the first information?—In the July after."Oh, you did not tell the truth? Now, that was lie the first, was it not?—I suppose it was."Will you swear that?—In the first information I swore I did not tell the truth."I suppose you never intentionally told lies?—I did not. called attention, in connection with this subject, to that system which had been discovered to be in active operation in Shinrone. There could be no doubt that police constables there had been inducing persons to commit crimes. He wished now to know from the Government what steps they had been taking on that subject. He hoped that some stringent measures would be adopted; and for the purpose of showing what sort of witnesses the Crown was compelled to rely upon, he should state a case which was mentioned in the papers of that very day:—
16921691l.,1690168916881687l.,l."And you would live upon that money?—I would.""How much do you expect, how much blood-money for each person you have hanged?—I don't know."Now, did that man ever offend you? had you ever any quarrel? did he ever speak an angry word to you, or had you the least cause for murdering him?—No [great sensation]."Now, Sir, according to your own account, you are a robber, a perjurer, and a murderer. You have sworn that you helped to knock the man's brains out who was murdered?—I did."And you certainly would have done so?—Of course I would [sensation]."But did you ever swear that you would seduce as many as you could?—I did."Were you ever accused of seducing a girl?—No."Where did you get the pistol?—I stole it."Just above it, as if a man's head was in it?—Yes [sensation]."Pray, where did you set that hat when you fired at it?—On the top of a ditch.1686"And why did you fire at that hat—to
1686"With a head in it, I suppose?—No there wasn't."You were fond of firing at a mark? Look how the fellow laughs! Pray, what did you fire at?—At an old hat."Mr. Walsh: Come, Sir, I don't want the day, nor even the month; but tell me how many years it is since you handled a pistol?—About five or six months before the murder."Mr. Walsh: Why, that was only on the 30th of March. Come, tell me on your oath, when did you handle one before the murder?—I could not tell the day; I'm no scholar."Mr. Walsh: You talk of John Wade's asking you for a pistol. Are you in the habit of keeping one?—I told him I had not handled one for that year."To witness: Now, that is your third account?—I dare say it is; but I was keeping myself out all through."The learned Gentleman then read the paper."The Court: Every thing that he has stated should be taken into account. I have not the least scruple in giving the counsel for the prisoner every possible assistance in the cross-examination of this witness."Mr. Scott, Q. C.: Stop; this is not an information; it is only an examination."Mr. Walsh: Now, I will read you another."That about the stranger you talk of?—It is all true except that I called myself the stranger."That is the only lie in it on your oath?—Which?"Mr. Walsh: And that is the only lie in it?—It is."Witness: It is, except that I denied myself to be one of the party."The Court: Now is that information true?"The learned counsel here read the informations sworn to by the witness on the 16th of February, 1844."Did you state that in your first examination?—I don't know."Mr. Walsh; I think you said, in your examination by the counsel for the Crown, that you saw John and Patric Wade inside the ditch on coming up?—I did."Baron Richards: Stop a moment. Now, listen, witness. Would you deliberately swear a lie to save yourself from punishment?—I would [sensation]."But you would swear a lie to save yourself? I would."And hang as many as you could?—I did not say that."And told for a religious motive?—I wished to save myself."And that was lie the second, on your oath?—It was."Well, I suppose you told the truth then?—I did not [sensation]. I did not wish to bring in myself as one of those that done it.1685"I believe it was in consequence of some religious feelings that you came to swear your second informations. Nay, don't smile, man. The question may appear a silly one, but I wish to have it answered. Now, on your oath, was it not on account of some religious scruples that you went a second time to swear informations?—Witness (doggedly): It was; I could not go to my duty till I had done so."You were in custody at that time?—I was."How long was that after the time you swore the first information?—It was last winter."I believe you lodged other informations?—I did."How long was it after the murder before you lodged the first information?—In the July after."Oh, you did not tell the truth? Now, that was lie the first, was it not?—I suppose it was."Will you swear that?—In the first information I swore I did not tell the truth."I suppose you never intentionally told lies?—I did not.The Marquess of Clanricarde
170317021701 said, that his noble Friend who began the debate had expressed great alarm at the Repeal agitation in Ireland. Now he (the Earl of Wicklow) did not wish to underrate it, for he must admit that it was one of a very serious nature when they found that the leaders in this association possessed such great influence over the people, and were joined and aided by the Roman Catholic hierarchy and priesthood in this agitation, and it was impossible not to say that the question was one of importance; but still he felt bound to declare that he did not view it with the same alarm as his noble Friend. His noble Friend in allusion to a quotation which he made, referred to two countries, as an example of what was going on in Ireland—namely, to America and to Belgium. His noble Friend had referred to those two states as an historical argument illustrative of the subject. It appeared to him that these cases were totally unconnected with the present subject, and that they could not be referred to as examples. In these two cases the whole of the people, from the highest to the lowest, all the persons of property in those countries, as well as the poor, were engaged in the attempt to establish the independence of their country; but this was not the case with respect to Ireland, and he did not think that it ever would be the case there. Many circumstances existed which rendered it hardly possible that this should be so. There was one thing which gave him great confidence against the success of this agitation. It was that the middle classes and industrious classes of that country, in reference to the feelings of the Government towards Ireland, must be aware that there was a most anxious desire on the part of every Government in this country, whether Whig or Conservative, to do all in their power to advance measures for the amelioration of the moral and physical condition of the people of
170317021701The Earl of Wicklow
1705from the Ministerial BenchesLoud cries of1704 regretted the crippled state in which this important subject of debate had been brought under discussion. The matter in debate was supposed to be the state of Ireland, but how could they do this without taking into consideration the manner in which the State Trials had been commenced, proceeded with, and concluded? He was glad, however, that his noble Friend near him had not introduced that subject on the present occasion, and he was also glad that the noble Lord opposite did not say anything to provoke discussion on the subject. But when they proceeded to talk of Ireland, without allowing the name of O'Connell to be mentioned, it was like enacting the play of Hamlet, the part of Hamlet being left out by particular desire. He had no wish to make illusions to any topics calculated at that time to excite discussion, but he felt that it was absolutely necessary to look to the State Trials as connected with the policy of the Government with respect to Ireland. The noble President of the Council must excuse him, however, in making one remark, in reply to an observation of the noble Lord. The noble Lord, in allusion to the course which had been pursued by the Government to put down agitation, said, that his Colleagues and himself did not call upon Parliament to
1705from the Ministerial BenchesLoud cries of1704Lord Campbell
 said the noble Earl had not understood him. He had stated most distinctly that there had been a most improper interference on the part of the Consuls of other Powers at Tunis, and that he (Lord Aberdeen) had represented to all the Governments whose Consuls had so improperly interfered, and represented in strong terms the opinion of Her Majesty's Government in respect to that interference. But as to reparation—he had none to ask, for the man had been already hanged, and the Governments to which the representations of improper interference had been made had condemned the conduct of their Consuls, and reprimanded them, except. France, who had not seen anything to complain of in the conduct of her Consul. It was thought to be a question of common interest with all Christian Powers that they should have the right to withdraw their subjects from the jurisdiction of Mahommedan courts, and the Consuls of the other European Powers thought we had, in some degree, abandoned those rights which all Christian Powers possessed in the Levant, in the course we had taken in regard to this matter; but there was nothing whatever in the matter for which we could demand reparation.The Earl of Aberdeen
1673 was at a loss to know what more the noble Lord would have. What did he want the Government to do? Were they themselves to execute justice in Tunis, or were they not rather to see that justice was done to British subjects residing there? In the case to which the noble Lord had referred, the criminal was under the protection of this country, and it was the business of the Government to see that justice was done to him, and that had been done. The noble Lord was mistaken in suppos-
1673The Earl of Aberdeen
16721671 said, it was necessary that he should explain to their Lordships the nature of the question just put to him. The case referred to was this:—A Maltese had commuted a double murder at Tunis; he had murdered a Tunisian and a countryman of his own. Now by certain privileges enjoyed by Christian Nations in the East, they possessed right so try criminals, being subjects of their own, by their own tribunals, for crime committed among themselves—this was considered a great privilege, and every Christian Power had a similar interest in its exercise. Now, it appeared to the Consuls at Tunis, that Great Britain ought to have exercised this right of trying this Maltese for the crimes which he had committed, according to English law, instead of handing him over to be dealt with by the Tunisian authorities. There was, perhaps, nothing very unreasonable in this opinion, and he was not surprised that the Consuls should entertain an opinion that the conduct of Sir T. Reade was an abandonment of a privilege always held to be of the first importance to Christian Powers. However, by our treaty with Tunis, there could be no doubt that the representative of Great Britain was bound to deliver up to the Tunisian authorities a criminal under the circumstances of the criminal in this particular case, to be dealt with according to the Tunisian law. We did so, the man was tried by a Tunisian tribunal in the presence of our Consul, and was found guilty—and he had no doubt that the trial was a fair one, there was nothing to complain of on that ground. However, the other Consuls protested against this proceeding, feeling that they had a common interest in protesting against what they considered to be an abandonment of rights which they possessed in common with ourselves. He admitted that this was improper on their part, and that neither they nor their Governments had a right to interfere with us in the execution of a treaty by which we were
16721671The Earl of Aberdeen
169516941693 could assure the noble Marquess and the House that the only desire of the Government was to administer the Government of Ireland fairly and impartially, and that all these measures evinced that this was the only object they had in view. He was not about to follow the noble Marquess through the long historical details with which he had commenced his speech; but should confine himself to an explanation of the conduct of the Government on the different questions which had been alluded to. The noble Marquess complained that the present Government had done nothing for Ireland; that their professions had been great, but their acts insufficient. It was he (Lord Wharncliffe) who, in a speech at the beginning of the Session, had said that the Government were not only anxious to do their duty as regarded Ireland, to keep the peace, and to punish those who so long had kept that country in a state of discomfort and danger, and who had proceeded nearly to the extent of treason; but that when they should have done that, they would be anxious to do all they could for Ireland, and to show that they felt it to be their duty to consider Ireland in every respect as an integral part of the empire, and to legislate accordingly. He then announced that the Government were prepared to enable the Roman Catholics to secure endowments to their priests and Ecclesiastics, and in this respect that they should be placed on a footing in which they should not be subjected to the inconvenience and uncertainty that they had previously ex-
169516941693Lord Wharncliffe
 moved the third reading of this Bill.Lord Wharncliffe
1706 observed, that the noble and learned Lord said, that he would make no allusion to the State Trials, but in reference to a remark of his, he, in a sort of sneering tone, made some observations about a perversion of law in connection with them. How the noble and learned Lord could call that an abstinence from all
1706Lord Wharncliffe
 thought some reparation should have been given by France similar to that which had been given by the other Powers who had recalled or reprimanded their Consuls for interfering. So far, however, from that having been done, they found that the French Consul had received all sorts of thanks and testimonials presented by deputations of his countrymen—and for what? Why for opposing Sir Thomas Reade our representative. The question had now become one between France and Great Britain—and the noble Lord did not seem to him to have met it as such.Lord Beaumont
Laughter. would remind the noble Earl, that our treaties with Tunis were totally different from our treaties with the other dependencies of the Ottoman Empire, or with even the Ottoman Empire itself. There was a treaty existing with Tunis, which specially provided that any party charged with the crime of murder, or any other crime for which the punishment of death was inflicted, should be tried by the courts of that country. So that when Sir Thomas Reade and the Dey were urged to allow the man to be tried in a Christian court, they were urged to break a treaty. He (Lord Beaumont) could not give any merit to the noble Earl opposite for having this man hanged. On the contrary, he thought if credit was due to any one, it was to the Dey. [Laughter.Lord Beaumont
1670 wished to put a question to the noble Earl the Secretary for Foreign Affairs on this subject. From questions which he had already put, and Returns which he had received, he believed that the Dey of Tunis and Sir T. Reade, our Consul, had both of them, in this matter, acted strictly in conformity with treaty; but the behaviour of the Consuls of the European nations at Tunis was by no
1670Lord Beaumont
16821681London:1680 was anxious to say a few words, not with a view of adding anything to that powerful and noble appeal his noble and learned Friend had made to the sympathies and understandings of their Lordships, but rather to place the question on its right foundation, and remove an impression which might otherwise have been created in the minds of their Lordships by the speech of the right rev. Prelate. The right rev. Prelate might turn to his noble and learned Friend, and say that, without following him through all his argument, that argument was not opposed to his proposition. The right rev. Prelate might say, I do not propose to prohibit Sunday travelling; I want merely to leave matters as they are under the existing law; and if, under that law, people could now obtain that enjoyment which he had so well described, we may very reasonably suppose that they will have equal facilities under the new law. According, as he (Lord Monteagle) did, from the bottom of his heart, with his noble and learned Friend in all his observations, he was anxious to reply to the forcible argument which might be urged against him. He would undertake to prove, if their Lordships adopted the Amendment, matters would not be left in their present condition, or remain as they would otherwise have been if this Bill had never been introduced. Practically speaking, all the
16821681London:1680Lord Monteagle
1700l.,l.1699Redesdale:Redesdale:l.1698d.16971696 did not wish to throw any difficulties in the way of the Government with respect to their measures for the benefit of Ireland; but he must say, that if there was any one question more than another which ought to be in a calm and just spirit, it was the consideration of the affairs of Ireland. He thought that a much more important case had occurred than that at Shinrone. The case occurred at the last assizes. It was that of certain parties who had been engaged as witnesses
1700l.,l.1699Redesdale:Redesdale:l.1698d.16971696Lord Monteagle
1683 said, it appeared to him, after having heard this discussion, that their Lordships did not entirely understand the Bill; and, perhaps, it might be desirable for their Lordships to adjourn this discussion. Nobody could desire, and it could not be intended by
1683The Duke of Wellington
1715 said, the noble Duke opposite (the Duke of Wellington) would recollect that on Friday last, the Report of the Secret Committee appointed to inquire into the practice of detaining and opening letters at the Post Office was laid on the Table of the House. He much wished to know if it was the inten-
1715The Earl of Radnor
1717 said he had cursorily read the Report, but he could not say, that from so hasty a view of it, he was prepared to give any opinion on it; he had no doubt, however, that the Secret Committee to whom the subject had been referred had done their duty conscientiously. From the view which he had taken of the Report, he should say that legislation was indispensably necessary upon the subject. The power had been exercised by many Governments, and it could not, therefore, be said to reflect discredit upon one Government in particular. If, therefore, the Government determined on using such a power, they ought to introduce a measure on the subject; but he had no doubt that after deliberation they would abandon such a practice. He was of opinion that more harm than good
1717Lord Campbell
1718l.,l.l.l.l.l.l. presented a petition from certain Leaseholders of Church property in the county of Nottingham, complaining of the course which had been adopted by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners of England and Wales with respect to the description of property which they held. The noble Marquess stated that very great misery had occurred, and was still threatened, from the course which the Commissioners had thought proper to adopt. He would put a case to their Lordships, which was not altogether an imaginary one. What would their Lordships think of a man devoted to agriculture, and who having 5001718l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 denied the assertion that the Commissioners had used their power unequally, and he thought it would have been better if the noble Marquess had waited until an investigation had taken place before he made those charges. That was not the first occasion on which they had been told that they were not the true friends of the Church who maintained the right of the Church to her ancient possessions—it was not the first time that such a charge had been made against those who attempted to secure to the Church the patrimony which had been left her. He was of opinion that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners would have been guilty of dereliction of duty if they had not used the power which the Parliament had given them to make the most, in an honest and proper sense, of the property with the management of which they had been entrusted. He had never noticed anything on the part of the noble Marquess which was not characterised by candour and honour, and he was confident it was only from misinformation, or want of sufficient information, that he had brought forward these charges with regard to the vested rights, as they had been called, of those lessees; they only continued as long as the leases continued; they were purchased with that understanding, and he could not see any principle of justice or equity which obliged the Church to give more than the proper value. It would be inexpedient to interfere with the Ecclesiastical Commissioners managing Church property for Church purposes, when they did not interfere with the management of private trust property.The Bishop of London
 observed, that he understood the noble Marquess to have called upon the Commissioners to cease to act as trustees, and to use a discretion of their own in dealing with the property over which they were placed. Now, as an Ecclesiastical Commissioner, he must say that he conceived it to be his duty to act as a trustee, and only as such, and his duty as a trustee was, he conceived, to make the most of the property placed under his management.The Bishop of Exeter
 was astonished to have heard his noble Friend near him (the Marquess of Clanricarde), and his noble Friend on the cross benches (the Duke of Richmond), contend that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were not acting rightly in making the most of the property subjected to their charge. As trustees, he conceived that they were bound to do so.The Earl of Radnor
1720 hoped, that the
1720The Earl of Besborough
1716 said, that after the statement of the noble Duke, he felt it to be his duty to present to their Lordships a Bill for Amending so much of an Act passed in the First Year of Her present Majesty for Consolidating the Laws relative to Offences against the Post Office, as related to the opening, detaining, or delaying of Letters, and he should move, that it be read a first time. He had prepared the Bill before; but he waited until he saw the Report of the Secret Committee, before he brought it in, and he had seen nothing in that Report calculated to induce him to alter it. The Report was in fact one of the most jejune and poor milk-and-water performances he had ever seen. He had very great respect for the noble Lords who formed the Committee; but, nevertheless, he should say that a more meagre performance than that Report he had never read. It appeared from the Report of the Secret Committee, that what he (the Earl of Radnor) suspected had actually taken place—that the letters of foreign refugees in this country had been opened at the suggestion of a foreign Government, and that such a proceeding was not adopted in order to secure the safety of the realm, but with reference to the affairs of other states. The letters were not opened for the security or the safety of this country, and he was sorry that his suspicions had been maintained by the Report. It appeared, from the last paragraph in the Report, that for a long period of time, and under different Administrations, let-
1716The Earl of Radnor
 suggested that it would be necessary to make an alteration in the Amendment proposed by the right rev. Bishop. This was a Bill that applied to the whole Empire, and it made an exception from the other days of the year of Good Friday and Christmas Day. These were days not observed by the Church of Scotland, and it would give great offence to that country if any Bill were to pass introducing such an observance of those days in that country.The Earl of Minto
 would meet the objection by altering the latter words of his Amendment, as follows: "and of England on Christmas Day and Good Friday."The Bishop of London
 said, as the Bill would stand with the Amendment proposed, every Railway must run cheap carriages at the same fares as those carriages were required to run on week days, with one at least of any trains they might run on the Sunday. He was not prepared, however, to compel the Companies to run the same description of third-class carriages on the Sundays as on the week-days; as the effect would be to induce persons to defer their journeys till the Sundays, and thus, by decreasing the week-day and increasing the Sunday traffic, act injuriously and unfairly upon the Railway Companies. He, for one, had no doubt that the Railway Companies being compelled to provide a particular description of third class carriage on week-days, would, under the influence of public opinion, employ the same kind of carriage on the Sunday; but, looking at the circumstances under which the Bill had been introduced, he did not think they could, with anything like justice to the Companies, make it compulsory on them to do so.The Earl of Dalhousie
1723 did not consider that there was any danger of interfering with the Privileges of the House of Commons in this matter. He thought it highly necessary to the practical working of this Clause, that the poor should not be subjected to higher fares or to worse accommodation on Sundays, than upon
1723The Earl of Wicklow
 wanted to know whether, under this Clause, it would be competent for the Companies to run third class trains for third class passengers only on the Sunday.The Marquess of Clanricarde
: But would they in that case be compelled to put on third class carriages to some one of the first and second class trains.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, by this Clause the Railway Proprietors were not compelled to run any train on the Sunday; but if they did, they must run once a day at least, third class carriages.The Earl of Dalhousie
 objected to the word covered, as not sufficiently explicit. A covered carriage meant merely a carriage with a top to it, but it need not have sides.A noble Lord
 was anxious that the poor who would travel by these third class carriages should be secured the same advantages on Sundays, in respect to the stations at which the trains stopped, as they would have on work-days. He should propose to insert words compelling the trains to stop at proper intermediate stations. His opinion was, that they ought to be made to stop at all the stations.The Marquess of Normanby
1724 said, as the Clause now stood, the third class carriages would stop at all the stations at which the other carriages stopped; but he must object to giving more accommodation in this respect to third class passengers than to those who travelled by the first and
1724The Earl of Dalhousie
 understood from what the noble Lord had said, that he was not now prepared to put the poor persons who travelled on railways on Sundays on the same footing with the wealthier classes who travelled on them. He was not prepared to admit any amendment providing for their accommodation, or any amendment which would tend to prevent the Companies running their trains "right through," without stopping at a single intermediate station at which passengers might choose to alight. Under these circumstances, he proposed that the Clause should be printed, and that the discussion should be adjourned until to-morrow (this day), in order that noble Lords might have time to consider how the Amendments might best be worded.The Marquess of Normanby
 moved that the debate be adjourned till to-morrow.Lord Campbell
 objected to any further adjournment, so far as his Amendment was concerned.The Bishop of London
"A Return of Her Majesty's Ships of War (other than those reserved for Harbour Duty), in Commission, on the 31st of July, 1844; And also, a Return of Her Majesty's Ships of War present at Tahiti, from the 1st of September 1842 to the latest Period to which Advices have been received; specifying the Date of the Arrival there and Departure from thence of each ship."1735Vindictive,1734VindictiveVindictive,1733Vindictive,17321731Haddington:1730Queen1729172817271726 said, that in rising, in pursuance of the notice which he had given a few nights ago, he wished to assure their Lordships that it was with great reluctance he was induced to bring before the House and the public the state of the Navy at the present moment. If he had been less unfortunate in obtaining the information which he had sought from his noble Friend opposite on a former occasion, or if he had heard anything from any noble Lord on the other side of the House to induce him to think that Her Majesty's Government were about to increase the Naval Force of the country, he should certainly not have thought of troubling their Lordships on the subject at present. He was quite aware of the objections and the inconvenience of dealing with such a subject under the existing circumstances of the country; he was aware of the state of feverish feeling that prevailed on the other side of the water, and he well knew how desirable it was that nothing should occur in this country that would be calculated to increase that excitement, for no man valued more than he did the maintenance of peace, or attached more importance to the continuance of the best understanding with France—he held that to be one of the most important objects the Government of this country could keep in view, and as no man, he would venture to say, had laboured with more assiduity to maintain that good understanding, and few had contributed more to extend it, so their Lordships might be assured that nothing should drop from him—at least intentionally—which could in any way be calculated to give just umbrage or offence to any of the members of the French Government, or to any individual of the French people. But all the good understanding which we would cultivate must, be on terms of perfect equality, and not be based upon anything like submission, or sacrifice of the interest or the honour of this country. In calling the attention of their Lordships to the state of the Navy of this country at the present moment, he wished to say that he, for one, was no advocate for very large naval establishments during the time of peace; but when he stated that, he was sure their Lordships would go with him in thinking that there was a limit even to the
"A Return of Her Majesty's Ships of War (other than those reserved for Harbour Duty), in Commission, on the 31st of July, 1844; And also, a Return of Her Majesty's Ships of War present at Tahiti, from the 1st of September 1842 to the latest Period to which Advices have been received; specifying the Date of the Arrival there and Departure from thence of each ship."1735Vindictive,1734VindictiveVindictive,1733Vindictive,17321731Haddington:1730Queen1729172817271726The Earl of Minto
1741MintoMinto:Dublin.Dublin,DublinVindictiveDublin,VindictiveVindictive1740VindictiveTalbotMintoMinto:173917381737Malabar1736 said, that the noble Earl who had just spoken, had at the commencement of his speech taken care to impress on their Lordships the deep sense he entertained of the responsibility of bringing forward questions of a nature like the present at an inconvenient moment. The noble Earl admitted that he was aware of the inconvenience of discussing this matter at the present moment; and yet, with remarkably inconsistency, he proceeded to remark on what he called the deplorably weak state of the naval defence of this country. He (the Earl of Haddington) was also fully aware of the inconvenience at the present time of discussions of a nature like that raised by the noble Earl; and he should therefore feel it to be his duty to abstain from any observations that might add to that inconvenience, and he should therefore only ouch on such parts of the noble Earl's speech, as might be necessary for his own defence and that of the Government. The noble Earl said, that he was not friendly to large naval establishments in times of peace; but that the making such reductions as might be necessary was different from a truckless submission. He (the Earl of Haddington), not being conscious of any truckling submission, was anxious to know to what the noble Earl alluded; but the noble Earl did not proceed to particularize or give any proof of his charge, but merely said that nothing could justify the reduction of the Navy to its present amount. He (the Earl of Haddington) had a return of the number of ships in commission for the three years ending on the 1st of July, 1839, 1840, and 1844, and the result was, that, though undoubtedly the number of ships in commission in 1840 was larger by three than the number in 1844, yet the number in commission on the 1st of July, 1844, was larger by three than the number in July, 1839. He was aware that the number of line-of-battle ships in those periods bore no comparison. On the 1st
1741MintoMinto:Dublin.Dublin,DublinVindictiveDublin,VindictiveVindictive1740VindictiveTalbotMintoMinto:173917381737Malabar1736The Earl of Haddington
Basilisk.Dublin1745Dublin,DublinDublin;Vindictive1744Haddington: thought that however weak the Navy might be, its weakness could not be greater than the answer which had been made by the noble Earl opposite to the Motion before the House. The noble Earl said, that no Parliamentary ground had been shown for the Motion; as if to make up for this alleged deficiency, the noble Earl had himself shown that there was full ground for the Motion. The noble Earl having said that the present Naval Force was proposed to Parliament at a time when we were at "profound peace" with the world, himself gave their Lordships to understand, that since the time the estimate was proposed, circumstances had changed in this respect. [The Earl of Basilisk.Dublin1745Dublin,DublinDublin;Vindictive1744Haddington:The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, that his use of the word "delicate" did not apply to the outrage on Mr. Pritchard, but to the holding of an argument in Parliament on a subject which must necessarily form the subject of discussion between the two Governments. The noble Marquess said, that British commerce was endangered. He challenged him to show where it was not protected. Did he suppose it was only to be protected by line-of-battle ships?The Earl of Haddington
: No; no more than in 1838.The Marquess of Clanricarde
 replied. He must express his regret that such a statement had been made, as that of the noble Earl, even upon the high authority of Sir Charles Napier, that the Mediterranean Fleet had been in such a deplorable condition, that had any collision with the French taken place, the result must have been very disastrous to our arms.The Earl of Minto
 denied that he had referred to Sir Charles Napier as a "high authority"—he had merely quoted the statement of the gallant Commodore.The Earl of Haddington
1751**Captain,Edinburgh,Captain,Edinburgh,Benbow,Hastings,ImplacableRevenge*Implacable.Revenge,Cambridge,17501749: No one could appreciate more highly than he did the great qualities of Sir Charles Napier; no one had been more ready than himself, while at the Admiralty, to employ him, and to entrust to him the discharge of any service. There was, however, a great difference between a high degree of military skill and enterprise for which that gallant Officer was so mnch distinguished, and that sober judgment in forming an opinion, and even upon a subject like this, which was purely a professional one, and he might add that
1751**Captain,Edinburgh,Captain,Edinburgh,Benbow,Hastings,ImplacableRevenge*Implacable.Revenge,Cambridge,17501749The Earl of Minto
1752 observed, that he had only quoted the opinion of Sir C. Napier as to the manning the ships, not to express any concurrence in his opinion of the result. The noble Earl said that Sir C. Napier was a good fighter, but not the best person to decide a question of this kind. Now he (the Earl of Haddington) should have thought that that class of officers were the most likely to give a sound judgment on such a point. Certainly, the feeling must have been very strong to
1752The Earl of Haddington
 moved the Order of the Day for resuming the adjourned Debate on the Amendment moved after the Third Reading of the Law Courts (Ireland) Bill. The object of his Amendment was, that the patronage of the offices in the Courts of Law in Ireland should be transferred from the Lord Lieutenant to the Chief Judges of each Court.Lord Campbell
 remarked that the patronage to the offices in the several Courts of Justice in England rested with the Chief Justice in each Court, and by giving the patronage of these offices in Ireland to the Crown an invidious distinction was drawn between the Judges of the two countries. He had received communications from several of the Irish Judges, expressing their approval of the Amendment which he had proposed.Lord Campbell
 presumed that the noble Duke, entertaining the opinions which he did, would move for leave to bring in a Bill to take away this description of patronage from the English Chief Justices and give it to the Crown. He hoped that this Amendment would be agreed to, as it was another step to assimilate the practice in the Courts of the two countries.The Earl of Wicklow
 remarked, that so far from the Irish Judges regarding the bestowing this description of patronage on them in an invidious light, he knew that it was directly the reverse from communications which he had received from them.The Lord Chancellor
1753 had no doubt but that the fact was as stated by the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, as to the feelings of the Judges. The question before the House was, whether this was a proper course to take. He had been Lord Lieutenant of Ireland for four years, and had often been called upon to exercise patronage in connection with the Irish Courts of Justice, and he should at once say, if the Judges of those Courts were anxious to receive this patronage, any Lord Lieutenant would very gladly part with it. He had ever been of opinion that
1753The Marquess of Normanby
 said, that the Irish Judges felt that they were not on a footing of equality with the English Judges. They felt as if it were thought that they were not competent to be entrusted with the exercise of a species of patronage which ever belonged to English Judges.The Lord Chancellor
 cordially concurred in all that had been said by his noble Friend (the Marquess of Normanby) near him. He did not see that the Judges in Ireland were likely to make a worse exercise of this patronage than the Judges in England. He thought that in every instance it would be much better to leave the Judges to appoint the officers of their own Courts.The Earl of Fortescue
1771 said, that since the adoption of the present Poor Law Act in 1834, he had been Chairman of a Board of Guardians, and he could state with the utmost confidence, that that Act had had a most beneficial effect in all the Unions that had come under his observation. The principal Clauses in the present Bill, were those relating to bastardy. It had been correctly stated by the noble Lord, the President of the Council (Lord Wharncliffe) that, previously to the adoption of the New Poor Law Act in 1834, the gaols of this country were filled with men who had been committed by Magistrates for non-payment of bastardy orders. Under the present Bill the reputed fathers of bastard children were liable to the same misfortune—to the penalty of three months' imprisonment. In fact, they were now going back to the old Saw, and this he thought a valid reason for opposing the present Bill. He understood that this Clause was introduced under the supposition that bastardy was extending. He had taken some pains to inquire into this
1771The Earl of Stradbroke
 moved that the debate be now adjourned.The Bishop of Exeter
1772 said, he would not detain their Lordships many minutes. He entirely agreed in the observation of his noble Friend, who had spoken early in this debate, with respect to the working of the present Poor Law, and he considered that great praise was due to the Commissioners for the manner in which they had carried the measure into operation. He thought, when such warm eulogies had been passed upon the present law, some praise was also due to those persons by whom that law was introduced. A noble Friend of his, who, he regretted to say, seldom attended in that House, and also a noble and learned Friend of his not now present, were, he conceived entitled to the gratitude of their Lordships for their advocacy and support of the existing law. He had not obtruded himself upon their Lordships for
1772The Earl of Radnor
1773 could not allow the question of adjournment to be put without giving his cordial assent to the assertion of the noble Lord on the opposite side, who had stated that it was a positive injustice to their Lordships' House to bring in a Bill of the magnitude and important character of the measure on the Table, and expect it to be passed in three or four days. He would not say more at that moment, as he had already given notice of his intention at the meet-
1773The Marquess of Normanby
pro formâ: Why not go into Committee pro formâA noble Lord
 could not understand why the Bill had not been brought into that House first, as if it had begun there, the eighty-three of their Lordships, who sat as Chairmen of Boards of Guardians could then have taken care of the interests of the poor, and have introduced such modifications of the present law as would have answered all the objects effected by the present Bill. He repeated he could not comprehend why the Bill had not been begun in their Lordships' House.Lord Campbell
1774 suggested that the
1774Lord Wharnciffe
: Then why not omit the money Clauses, which were in no respect essential to the Amendments and alterations effected by the Bill.Lord Campbell
 again put the question of adjournment, and declared the Contents to have it.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 objection to proceeding was simply this, that he had no time to consider the measure at all. He would not undertake to say which Clauses of the Bill were objectionable or which were not; but this he would say, that there were few of the Clauses which did not require consideration, and that a New Poor Law Amendment Bill ought to have proceeded upon a very different principle from that which formed the basis of the Bill now under discussion. At the same time, he would not say that the measure was not one to which he ought to give his support. All he said was, that he required more time to consider it.The Bishop of Exeter's
1769"Your oath shall compel any man to relieve you of your burthen, and while it gives you the privileges of a wife, it may do more—it may get you a husband.""Whatever the enactment be which is most effective in checking bastardy, to that we must look as checking infanticide.…On the other hand, the law which holds out to a woman the prospect of maintenance for her bastard, or holds out the hope of a tardy marriage from compulsion not from affection, that law may be said to promote bastardy, and among its consequences, infanticide."176817671766 thought it could not be denied that their Lordships were a very fitting assembly to discuss this matter, for he believed that there were to be found amongst their Lordships not less than eighty-three Chairmen of Boards of Guardians. The knowledge which they must bring to bear upon the subject—the deep feeling which they must have for the poor, and for those who lived about them, must render them more peculiarly fitting than perhaps any other body in the country to legislate upon this important subject. Unquestionably, he should have liked to make some remarks upon the opinions which had been promulgated with respect to this law for some years past. All he would now say, however, was, that spite of the most powerful resistance from a certain portion of the press,—spite of the excitement which had been attempted to be got up in
1769"Your oath shall compel any man to relieve you of your burthen, and while it gives you the privileges of a wife, it may do more—it may get you a husband.""Whatever the enactment be which is most effective in checking bastardy, to that we must look as checking infanticide.…On the other hand, the law which holds out to a woman the prospect of maintenance for her bastard, or holds out the hope of a tardy marriage from compulsion not from affection, that law may be said to promote bastardy, and among its consequences, infanticide."176817671766The Earl of Hardwicke
Minto:174817471746 said, that the statement of his noble Friend (the Earl of
Minto:174817471746The Earl of Hardwicke
 thought that the Irish Judges would rather be without this patronage. He thought that it was most desirable that the Judges should be kept aloof from any matter of this kind.The Duke of Richmond
176417631762s.s.17611760 said, he was anxious to offer some observations to their Lordships upon the present occasion, because he had been Chairman of a Board of Guardians from the first operation of the new Law, and he believed that no man had been more personally abused than he for taking that office. With regard to the numerous attacks against the Board of Guardians of which he was Chairman, he would only briefly say that every one published in the newspapers was untrue. They very often took up one particular part of a question,—a little truth,—and then argued upon it; they said frequently that the Guardians separated to a great extent, the inmates of the workhouse. He could declare that there was not a man of good character in that workhouse who had not an opportunity of seeing his wife and children three or four times every week if he wished. It had also been stated, that the old people were ordered to go into the house instead of having relief given to them out of it. He never knew an instance in which that had been done, except in one case; a very amiable and charitable lady applied to and canvassed the Board of Guardians to give out-door relief to an individual. The Board felt that if once they permitted a canvass such as that to take place, they would show to the paupers of
176417631762s.s.17611760The Duke of Richmond
 observed that he was perfectly ready to support a measure to take away this description of patronage from the English Judges. He objected to leave this patronage to the Judges, who for any indiscreet exercise of it might be attacked in Parliament.The Duke of Richmond
1719 would remind the right rev. Prelate that a secret tribunal,
1719The Duke of Richmond
1770 concurred with the noble Earl who had just sat down, in regretting that this Bill had not been brought before the House at an earlier period of the Session. They had not had time afforded them to give due consideration to the measure, still less to consider the Amendments which had been suggested by some noble Lords. There was one point to which the noble Lord had called attention, on which he (Lord Lyttelton) wished to correct him, as to the Board of Guardians not being allowed to subscribe to charities or hospitals. He believed that in many cases that was done. He agreed in many of the observations made by the noble Earl who had just sat down, as to the general question, and especially in his remarks on the subject of district
1770Lord Lyttelton
: With respect to the observation that the Bill had been introduced at a very late period of the Session, he regretted that circumstance as much as any of their Lordships, and could only attribute it to the pressure of business, occasioned by the numerous Bills demanding the attention of the other House wherein it originated, and also to the measure itself having taken up so much time during the discussions upon it in the Lower House. If their Lordships took the Bill into consideration, the alterations deemed necessary might be made, and it would be then passed this Session, and he begged to recall to the recollection of the House the fact that the present was the third or fourth Session that the question of amending the Poor Law Bill had been before Parliament.Lord Wharncliffe
 hoped, that the right rev. Prelate would not persevere in his Motion for an adjournment of the debate, as rather than postpone the present Bill until another Session he would consent that the sitting of the House should be prolonged—their Lordships might sit on Wednesday, and even on Saturday, or, if necessary, into next week, in order to give the Bill the consideration they might deem needful. The Bill was of very great importance, and he trusted that it would be suffered to proceed that evening.Lord Wharncliffe
: The Non-contents have it. We want the Bill to go into Committee. I shall divide.Lord Wharncliffe
 suggested to the Bishop of Exeter that they might go through the unobjectionable Clauses.Lord Wharncliffe
17591758175717561755d.s.s.1754, in moving that the House do now resolve itself into Committee on this Bill, proceeded to explain the principal alterations made by it in the existing law. The first he should notice was that respecting bastardy—a subject which was one of the most difficult for legislation that could well be conceived. There was no doubt that the law as it stood at present on that subject was most unsatisfactory, and that the evils which it had given rise to, without, in point of fact, relieving the wants and distresses of those poor women who were the object of it, were so great and the proceedings on the part of the overseers often so shameful and disgusting, that some alteration was deemed to be absolutely necessary. He was one of those who had thought that if the evil of bastardy was to be corrected at all, it must be by improvement in the conduct and behaviour of the women, and for this purpose it was recommended by the Poor Law Commissioners, that the whole burthen of supporting the bastard child should fall upon the mother, under the idea that it would tend to enforce chastity upon the part of the woman. But in that he, and those who
17591758175717561755d.s.s.1754Lord Wharncliffe
 doubted whether it would be competent for their Lordships to make any regulation in the Bill in regard to fares, without infringing the privileges of the other House, by whom a Clause had been inserted to limit the rates of fares. As to the accommodation which the Railway Companies would provide for third-class passengers on Sundays, in other respects he thought they might depend that they would attach third-class carriages on the Sundays of the same description as they were required to provide on the week-days. He objected, however, to making it compulsory on the Companies to provide carriages on Sundays with a certain amount of accommodation, because if that accommodation were nearly approaching that which was given in the second-class carriages, the second-class passengers would go to the third-class carriages; and if, to prevent that, a reduction was made in the second-class fares, and an inferior description of carriage provided, the first-class passengers would resort to the second-class carriages.Lord Wharncliffe
1721 moved the resumption of the adjourned debate on the Amendment moved after the third reading. His Lordship stated, that having fully considered the effect of the words proposed to be inserted by the right rev. Prelate (the Bishop of London) he should briefly state the course which the Government intended to pursue. An Amendment had been proposed by the right rev. Prelate near him upon the sixth Clause of the Bill, in order to do away with the compulsory enactment of the Clause upon Railway Companies to run third class trains upon Sundays. Now, the feeling of the House no doubt was this, that although it might not be desirable to compel trains to be run on the Lord's Day, yet that it would be most unjust to the humbler classes of the public if measures were to be taken under this Act which would give an undue advantage to the wealthy—which would compel the convenience of Dives to be consulted, whilst Lazarus was refused permission to travel. Now, there were certainly two reasons deserving some weight why the Clause, as it at present stood, should be made the subject of some consideration. In the first place, when this Act was originally submitted to the Proprietors of Railways they were not led to expect that anything would appear in it under which they would be compelled to run third-class carriages on Sundays; and secondly, there could be no doubt but that if these trains were run, Government Inspectors and other persons must be compelled to break into their day of rest, in order to superintend and regulate the traffic. Under these circumstances, the Government had come to this decision, that nothing should appear in the Act to compel Railway Proprietors to run trains on Sundays; but that if they did run such trains, they should be compelled to afford as much accommodation to the poor as they afforded to the wealthy. They had, therefore, prepared a Clause to be introduced by way of rider to the sixth Clause, as amended by the Bishop of London, by which Clause it would be enacted that whenever any Railway should run any train whatever upon the Sabbath
1721Lord Wharncliffe
 objected to any further postponement.Lord Wharncliffe
: No.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, it would be perfectly open for the Railway Proprietors to run such third class carriages if they pleased.Lord Wharncliffe
 was not satisfied with the Clause, until words should be introduced which would prevent the poor man from being compelled to travel by the present incommodious third class carriages, which no one had condemned or stigmatised more strongly than the noble Earl himself. He would, therefore, move that words "with such third class carriages as third class passengers shall be conveyed on other days, viz., by carriages covered over and provided with seats," be inserted.Lord Monteagle
 proposed as an Amendment to the Clause to insert after the word "carriages" the words "with seats and protected from the weather." He trusted their Lordships would agree to his Amendment, as the third class carriages on many railways were no better than cattle-trucks, leaving the passengers exposed to the weather to the great hazard of their health and lives.Lord Monteagle
 thought some further explanation was necessary to induce their Lordships to adopt the Bill as now proposed to be altered, instead of in the shape in which it had come up to them from the other House. The question was, whether the accommodation which, under this proviso, the Railway Companies would provide for the poorer class, would be equal in point of accommodation and cost to that which they were required to provide for the same class on week-days? As the Bill came up from the Commons third-class trains were to be provided to run at the rate of twelve miles an hour, so that the proviso now suggested, if in all other respects equal advantages were given, would be an improvement.Lord Monteagle
1722 thought he could undertake to show that there was no question of privilege in the matter. The Bill, as it had come up from the Commons, enacted that the Railways should provide a certain description of third-class carriages at a certain fare, and all he wished was, that the same description of carriage should be provided on the Sunday. He, for one,
1722Lord Monteagle
 said, he was not aware, that more than two persons in the House had read the Report, namely, the noble Earl and himself; and he thought the noble Earl might have postponed his observations on that Report, as well as the introduction of his Bill, until the House was more fully aware of its contents. He did not mean to follow the noble Earl through his observations, for he had already stated, on a former occasion, what he conceived was the real ground on which the question turned. With respect to the observation of the noble Earl, as to the contents of the last paragraph in the Report, he could only state that if their Lordships looked through the Journals and Records of, Parliament for 120 years, they would see that it was a practice which had been recognised by Parliament, and had been followed up with the concurrence of Parliament.The Duke of Wellington
 said he had seen the Report of the Committee, but he was not aware that any one of Her Majesty's Servants had seen it except himself. It was, therefore, impossible, under these circumstances, to answer the question of the noble Earl as to the intention of Government to bring in any such Bill.The Duke of Wellington
17431742: The noble Earl opposite having adverted to some observations of mine some years ago, on the state of the Navy at the time, notwithstanding that I am quite satisfied with the defence which my noble Friend has made of his department, I must trouble your Lordships for a very few moments, in order to show you the difference between the state of things now and at the period when I made those observations. My Lords, at that period this country was engaged in a state of warfare in North America, which required, imperatively required, the assistance of a considerable fleet; also in China, also in India, and even in the Persian Gulf. Though, my Lords, I was not exactly in the service of the Government at that period, I was very much in the habit of communication with a noble Friend of mine, then at the head of the army, now, unfortunately, no more; and when he asked my opinion on any subject, I never failed to communicate it to him freely. I certainly did frequently advise my noble Friend, and consulted with him in respect of the operations of our fleets and armies at that period in all parts of the world; and, my Lords, that of which I complained then was, that being at war—engaged in extensive war—as I have stated, in three quarters of the globe, those wars were carried on with a peace establishment; the consequence of which was that the usual peace services were starved. Now, I am not going to enter into details of the number of men in the different ships, and so on; they are naval details, into which I am not competent to enter, nor will I enter into them. But we all know the number of men voted for the service; that is the criterion of the strength of the Navy—it is, in fact, the provision by the Government and the Parliament for the Naval Service of the year; and,
17431742The Duke of Wellington
1765 would not at so late an hour of the evening detain their Lordships with any lengthened observations; but he was anxious to express the entire concurrence which he felt in all that had been said by the noble Duke who had just sat down, as well as by his noble Friend the President of the Council, with reference to the good effects which had generally resulted from the operation of the Poor Law as it at present stood. He was quite satisfied that whilst it had removed from relief out of the poor-rates a vast number of the idle and undeserving who extorted from the fears of the overseers that to which they were not justly entitled, it had given a more liberal amount of relief to all those objects who were truly deserving of charity and aid. He was happy also to state that he considered all the alterations proposed in the present law, with a few exceptions, to be improvements. If he could not express much confidence with respect to the Bastardy Clause, yet he must admit that the law, as it now stood, had not produced that good effect which he, in common with many others, had expected from it. He was not, therefore, disposed to oppose the proposed change in that Clause, he only hoped it might prove in its working to be a real improvement upon the existing law. To the 26th Clause, which gave the power of granting permanent relief to widows out of the Union to which they belonged, he felt a greater objection than had yet been urged to it. It appeared to him to be the establishment of a new principle in the law to compel Guardians to give relief to persons at a distance from their Union, and over whom they had no
1765Earl Fortescue
: I beg leave my Lords to second that Motion.Lord Melbourne
 asked whether the court-martial which had recently been held on Lieutenant Gray had been held in consequence of any representations made to the Government by any Foreign Power, or whether that proceeding had been adopted by the exclusive directions of the Admiralty in carrying out their own views on this subject.The Earl of Minto
 said, the court-martial had been ordered in consequence of communications made in certain correspondence to the Foreign Office as to the conduct of the officer whose name had been mentioned.The Earl of Haddington
 said, there could be no doubt if a grave complaint was made by a Foreign Government against a British naval officer, and the Admiralty considered the circumstanstances justified an inquiry by court-martial, they would be quite right in instituting it. In this case, what he was anxious to know was, whether the proceeding had taken place in consequence of the complaints made by the Foreign Government, or whether it had originated solely from the view taken by the Admiralty of the circumstances reported to them? For his own part, he saw no such irregularity in the circumstances complained of as to call for an inquiry by court-martial on a charge so serious as that on which this officer had been put on his trial. He would make no observation as to the proceedings which had taken place in regard to the sentence.The Earl of Minto
: Every irregularity ought to be tried by a court-martial.The Earl of Haddington
 thought courts-martial were sometimes resorted to on light occasions, but he would not further enter upon the point. There was one other question he wished to put to the noble Earl—whether the senior Captain at the port at which the investigation took place, Captain Burgoyne, was a member of the court-martial?The Earl of Minto
 had not read the minutes of the court-martial, and therefore was not prepared to answer the noble Earl's question. If the noble Earl wished for any information as to the proceedings of the court-martial, he had better give notice of a question for a future day. As to the noble Earl's previous question, he had only to say that on the face of the papers presented to Government from a Foreign Power, the Admiralty considered that a case for a court-martial was made out.The Earl of Haddington
1798tu quoque17971796Ireland."You will probably find that a Revision of the Law of Registration, taken in conjunction with other Causes at present in operation, would produce a material Diminution of the Number of County Voters, and that it may be advisable on that Account to consider the State of the Law with a view to an Extension of the County Franchise in Ireland.Ireland"I recommend to your early Consideration the Enactments at present in force in IrelandLord Chancellor:s.l.179517941793s.s.17921791humbug1790 said, he would take the opportunity of the Motion for reading the Order of the Day, to call their Lordships' attention to the subject of which he had given notice on the previous evening. In using the words, "call attention," he might possibly have employed an erroneous phrase, for looking at what had passed that evening and the previous night, he felt sure that not one of their Lordships who entertained a conscientious feeling as to the discharge of his legislative duties, could feel other than ashamed of the manner in which, from some cause or other, within the last few days—he would not say their legislative faculties had been called into action, but their machinery for law making had been brought into play. Since he had given the notice last night, he, having remained until an early hour that morning, when most of their Lordships had left the House, had seen several important Bills passed through those stages in which it was usually considered they received the most deliberation, and when the greatest number of alterations were made, with a degree of rapidity and inattention which could scarcely be imagined by those who had not witnessed it. Many measures—not less, he believed, than ten—had passed through the Committee in less than as many minutes, his noble Friend (Lord Shaftesbury), who usually officiated as Chairman of Committees, merely informing the House that each had a title and a preamble. While these proceedings were going on, having been absent from the House for the last two or three days, he was not aware whether or not the subject matter of those Bills had been before explained to their Lordships. He naturally concluded that it had, but on inquiring of some of his noble Friends near him, he discovered that the subject matter of those various measures had not been opened to their Lordships at all. He remembered very well in former years a noble and learned Friend of his, not now in his place, used to insist—and properly insist, as he (Lord Normanby) was quite prepared to admit, that his noble Friend (Lord Besborough) who at that time took charge of the Government measures in that House, should take a different course, and that the subject matter of every Bill should be opened and its principles explained on the second reading. That practice, however, appeared now to have become obsolete. He did not by any means wish it to be sup-
1798tu quoque17971796Ireland."You will probably find that a Revision of the Law of Registration, taken in conjunction with other Causes at present in operation, would produce a material Diminution of the Number of County Voters, and that it may be advisable on that Account to consider the State of the Law with a view to an Extension of the County Franchise in Ireland.Ireland"I recommend to your early Consideration the Enactments at present in force in IrelandLord Chancellor:s.l.179517941793s.s.17921791humbug1790The Marquess of Normanby
"That the Clerk Assistant do prepare and lay on the Table of the House, a Return of the Number of Days in each Month which this House has sat, the Days on which the several Public Bills came from the Commons, and the Days on which they passed their several Stages in this House during the present Session."1799 continued.
"That the Clerk Assistant do prepare and lay on the Table of the House, a Return of the Number of Days in each Month which this House has sat, the Days on which the several Public Bills came from the Commons, and the Days on which they passed their several Stages in this House during the present Session."1799The Marquess of Normanby
18091808 said, he could not acquiesce in the statement of a noble and learned Lord, who, on a former evening, identifying himself with the Government, said, "Whereas last year we promised a great deal, and did little; this year, we promised nothing, and have done a great deal." Nor could he give to noble Lords opposite all the credit they seemed disposed to claim for the measures they had introduced. As to the financial measures of the Government, he admitted them to be good; but when they talked of the conversion of the Three-and-a-Half per Cents. as an extraordinary measure, and one which nobody could have anticipated, he thought such language was more extraordinary than the measure itself; for everybody had calculated upon the adoption of some such plan. The noble Baron claimed credit also for the Factory Bill; but he must remind him, that the most important question connected with that measure—namely, education—had been totally omitted this year. With regard to the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill, it was said to be a very difficult Bill to carry. Nobody denied that; but what he and his noble Friends complained of was, that after that House had been prevailed upon, with a view to secure what they were told would be a great improvement of the law, to make great concessions of principle, even the meagre and mutilated Bill which was sent down from that House did not pass the House of Commons. With regard to Ireland, and particularly the Registration Bill, he admittted that that was a question which did not press, and that it would be better that the question should remain as it was than that the measure proposed by the Government should have been carried; but he must remind the Government that there
18091808The Marquess of Clanricarde
1810 said, that ever since he had sat in that House, he had always heard, at the close of the Session, such discussions as these, the same complaints of the lateness of the period at which Bills came before their Lordships, and the consequent impossibility of considering them properly, and recommendations to the Government to originate more measures in that House; but still it happened that at the close of every Session things were just in the same state as before. He believed that state of things arose from the natural position and circumstances in which the two Houses were placed, and he therefore regretted that noble Lords did not attend more punctually at this period of the Session, when it was known from experience that there would be most business to be done. He had heard his noble Friend, the noble Marquess opposite, with regret, say that he had an annual visit of a week to pay at this period of the year, and in fact that absence of the noble Marquess last week had deprived the House of the valuable assistance of his experience and diligence in the consideration of the whole state of Ireland upon the discussion of an important measure relating to that country, which was debated before precisely the number of Peers which was necessary to constitute a House, namely, six. Noble Lords complained of Bills being forwarded without explanation. Why all the Bills were accessible to themselves, and if they neglected to examine them, and allowed them to pass without asking for observa-
1810The Earl of Wicklow
 in reply, said, that if he had been aware that the Bill to which his noble Friend had alluded was to be hurried through three stages during the three days that he happened to be absent last week, nothing should have prevented his attendance. But he had applied to the noble Baron to postpone the measure, and although there was no discourtesy in his declining to do so, yet the reason he assigned was the strongest possible proof of the justice of the complaints which he (Lord Normanby) had made, for the noble Baron said that it was so late that the measure could not pass this Session unless it was expedited. Before he sat down he wished to repeat a question which he had before put to the noble Duke opposite, whether the Metropolitan Buildings Bill had been referred to the Commission appointed to examine the subject? He would also suggest to the Government whether it would not be possible that that House should meet next Session at four o'clock instead of five. He was sure that by some means or other (the attention of the House having been called to the subject), an end would be put to the present legerdemain mode, as it might be called, of conducting the business.The Marquess of Normanby,
 said he hoped, if the House was to meet at four, the noble Marquess would not expect the attendance of those servants of the Crown who had laborious duties to perform.The Earl of Haddington
 said he had himself had laborious duties to perform, and he had no hesitation in saying that the additional hour might be afforded.The Marquess of Normanby
1811 in answer to the question put to him by the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Normanby), said that the Metropolitan Buildings Bill had not been specifically referred to the
1811The Duke of Buccleuch,
Lord Chancellor182618251824"And to render the provisions of this Act more practicable and beneficial, be it enacted, that no person shall be sent to such poorhouse or houses, except such as are indigent from old age, sickness, or infirmity, or are unable to acquire their subsistence by labour."1823Wharncliffe:"It is perfectly well known to all who have had experience in Poor Law matters, that a very large proportion of the adult workhouse inmates are persons of the worst characters—the very refuse of the population—and there is a reason in the nature of the subject, which it is not now necessary to explain, why it is and always must be so. That this class, morally infected as it is, should be kept separate from the children, is of course of primary importance, and in every union workhouse means are taken to provide for this end by building separate wards and yards for each class. I am confident, however, that architectural arrangements can never effectually secure perfect classification in a workhouse. Conversation, sometimes of the obscenest description, is carried on over walls and through windows. The conversation engendered in such an establishment is anything but moral. Perhaps a woman comes into the house to lie in of a bastard child, and every circumstance relating to it becomes the talk of the house; another dies of a foul and loathsome disease, which gives rise to a multitude of inquiries. The atmosphere of a workhouse that contains adult paupers is tainted with vice; no one who regards the future happiness of the children would ever wish them to be educated within its precincts."1822"There is also considerable danger of moral contamination to the children from their residence in the same house with adult paupers.""The extraordinary blunders I constantly hear committed by the schoolmasters in teaching the children are almost incredible. An hour before I am writing this, I requested a workhouse schoolmaster to examine his pupils on the last chapter they had been reading, which happened to be part of the 4th of St. John, when, amongst other blunders, he mistook the Publican for the Sadducee, confounded John the Baptist with John the Evangelist, made Galilee a city of Samaria, and put Samaria in Jerusalem. I once found a schoolmaster appointed who could neither read nor write.""At present these prison-like appearance, and the notion that they are intended to torment the poor inspires a salutary dread of them. I have taken several persons—ladies as well as others—to visit them, who have invariably turned loud in praise of the comfort they afford, and confest the groundlessness of their previous prepossessions against them. These praises, however, sound to me fraught with evil forebodings, the realization of which can only be prevented by carefully keeping up what seems to me our sole barrier against them—a system of restraint."18211820Mirror of Magistrates,Commentaries,"A man who is born into a world already possessed, if he cannot get subsistence from his parents, on whom he has a just demand, and if society do not want his labour, has no claim of right to the smallest portion of food, and, in fact, has no business to be where he is. At Nature's mighty feast there is no vacant cover for him. She tells him to be gone."Essay on Population1819WharncliffeWharncliffe:18181817181618151814ex officioex officio18131812simpliciter. rose and said,—My Lords, as our hours are becoming important to us, as, in fact, our hours are numbered, for we are not to sit beyond this week for purposes of business, and, as three valuable hours can be employed in the manner they have been employed this evening, it is perfectly certain your Lordships will agree with me that we cannot, with any degree of decency, go into Committee on this Bill. It is preposterous—absolutely preposterous to think of doing so. Your Lordships will recollect the reasons which the noble Lord near me (Lord Wharncliffe) gave last night for now proceeding rapidly with the consideration of this Bill; and, I confess, it struck me as being the most extraordinary reason that was ever suggested by any Minister to any House of Parliament. The noble Lord said, that as a great quantity of time had been taken up by the House of Commons in the discussion of this Bill, your Lordships were to have no time at all to consider it. I took down the noble Baron's words at the time he uttered them, but I will not now taunt him with what took place last night. Let us look at this question Lord Chancellor182618251824"And to render the provisions of this Act more practicable and beneficial, be it enacted, that no person shall be sent to such poorhouse or houses, except such as are indigent from old age, sickness, or infirmity, or are unable to acquire their subsistence by labour."1823Wharncliffe:"It is perfectly well known to all who have had experience in Poor Law matters, that a very large proportion of the adult workhouse inmates are persons of the worst characters—the very refuse of the population—and there is a reason in the nature of the subject, which it is not now necessary to explain, why it is and always must be so. That this class, morally infected as it is, should be kept separate from the children, is of course of primary importance, and in every union workhouse means are taken to provide for this end by building separate wards and yards for each class. I am confident, however, that architectural arrangements can never effectually secure perfect classification in a workhouse. Conversation, sometimes of the obscenest description, is carried on over walls and through windows. The conversation engendered in such an establishment is anything but moral. Perhaps a woman comes into the house to lie in of a bastard child, and every circumstance relating to it becomes the talk of the house; another dies of a foul and loathsome disease, which gives rise to a multitude of inquiries. The atmosphere of a workhouse that contains adult paupers is tainted with vice; no one who regards the future happiness of the children would ever wish them to be educated within its precincts."1822"There is also considerable danger of moral contamination to the children from their residence in the same house with adult paupers.""The extraordinary blunders I constantly hear committed by the schoolmasters in teaching the children are almost incredible. An hour before I am writing this, I requested a workhouse schoolmaster to examine his pupils on the last chapter they had been reading, which happened to be part of the 4th of St. John, when, amongst other blunders, he mistook the Publican for the Sadducee, confounded John the Baptist with John the Evangelist, made Galilee a city of Samaria, and put Samaria in Jerusalem. I once found a schoolmaster appointed who could neither read nor write.""At present these prison-like appearance, and the notion that they are intended to torment the poor inspires a salutary dread of them. I have taken several persons—ladies as well as others—to visit them, who have invariably turned loud in praise of the comfort they afford, and confest the groundlessness of their previous prepossessions against them. These praises, however, sound to me fraught with evil forebodings, the realization of which can only be prevented by carefully keeping up what seems to me our sole barrier against them—a system of restraint."18211820Mirror of Magistrates,Commentaries,"A man who is born into a world already possessed, if he cannot get subsistence from his parents, on whom he has a just demand, and if society do not want his labour, has no claim of right to the smallest portion of food, and, in fact, has no business to be where he is. At Nature's mighty feast there is no vacant cover for him. She tells him to be gone."Essay on Population1819WharncliffeWharncliffe:18181817181618151814ex officioex officio18131812simpliciter.The Bishop of Exeter
 observed, that the centre of such an Union would only be six or seven miles from the extreme point.The Lord Chancellor
18281827 But the seat of the Union is commonly not in the exact centre of the Union, but in the principal town of the district, and therefore I believe you will find that in ordinary cases, certainly in the old counties, they would have to go more than six or seven miles. I think, my Lords, that is a considerable distance for the poor man to go to get an answer, perhaps of no! and then to go
18281827The Bishop of Exeter.
1835Lord Chancellor:18341833 entirely agreed in what had been so well expressed by the noble Duke both with reference to the original intentions of the framers of the Poor Law Amendment Act, the necessity which then existed for its enactment, and the execution since; and he could not help expressing his extreme surprise at the course which had been taken by the right rev. Prelate. When last night the right rev. Prelate proposed the adjournment of the debate, he certainly never contemplated that the result of the delay was to have
1835Lord Chancellor:18341833The Marquess of Normanby
 as Chairman of a Board of Guardians, protested against the first nine Clauses of this Bill, which he greatly feared would reproduce all the evils of the old bastardy laws, by offering a higher premium to perjury and incontinence, and placing the guilty in a better position than the honest and industrious. Still he felt the position a difficulty in which the Government were placed with respect to this measure, and as there were several material amendments of the Poor Law contained in this Bill, he certainly wished to see them carried. But he could not sit down without expressing his grateful thanks to the noble President of the Council for his speech in introducing this measure in favour of the Poor Law Amendment Act, in which he had always felt the deepest interest, and which, in his opinion, had been a most successful one.Lord Wrottesley,
1838Wharncliffe:1837 begged to say a very few words in reply to the noble Ba-
1838Wharncliffe:1837The Bishop of Exeter
1839 moved that the following words in the Clause be struck out, "and if the evidence of the mother be corroborated in some material particular by other testimoney, to the satisfaction of the Court;" the Clause proceeding to say, that in that case "the Court may adjudge the man to be the putative father of such bastard child." He was aware that that was the law at present, but he considered it a very faulty part of the law. It was perfectly conceivable that the Magistrates might have full confidence of the truth of the evidence of the mother, whether corroborated or not, and in such cases he thought the Magistrates ought to proceed accordingly. There were more objections than
1839The Bishop of Exeter
 thought the present Clause went a little too far. He preferred the practice of Scotland of not calling the woman at all unless the other testimony failed. He was, however, favourable to corroborating evidence.The Marquess of Bute
 next called attention to that part of the Clause which enabled the Court to make an order on the putative father for the payment of a certain sum and costs to the mother of the bastard child, or any person appointed to have the custody of such child. He thought it of most importance that some other mode should be devised of enabling the woman to receive the money awarded. If made payable to her by the putative father, see what the consequences would be. She would have to go to him at certain times to receive it, and he asked whether that would not be almost enacting by law either the repetition of her sin or her maltreatment.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, there was an appeal at present, and he thought it right there should be, but he wished to know how the expenses of it were to be met by the woman who would have to bring her corroborating witnesses to the Quarter Sessions. He spoke not of farmers' daughters, or persons who might be supposed to have a sufficiency of means to meet such expences, but of paupers, of poor women who actually required the money they sought for the maintenance of their child, and were unable to meet the expenses of the appeal.The Bishop of Exeter
: No, I have said so already.The Bishop of Exeter
 felt the difficulty of the case, and did not see how it was to be got over. He had not considered the details of the Bill, and would not press his suggestion; but he did feel, if they were to carry out their intentions on this point, they ought to devise some mode for rendering the remedy offered to the woman as perfect and as easily attainable as possible.The Bishop of Exeter
 thought the woman equally entitled to protection. The Common Law applied equally to both, and if there was to be a special protection given by this Statute to the man, he saw no reason why they ought not to give the same to the woman.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, he hoped his noble Friend would consider the petition which he presented from the parishoners of Kensington, complaining of their being included in a Union. Their case was one of some hardship, for the population of the parish of Kensington exceeded 20,000.The Bishop of Exeter
 said, he would take the liberty to suggest that the chaplains of the district schools should not be appointed by the guardians, but by the Commissioners. It was true that the Guardians of the District Boards would be of a higher order than they usually were, but as it was not merely a good kind of man who was wanted as chaplain, but a superior man; he thought that the Commissioners, whose eyes were all over England, would probably make a better appointment than the Guardians were likely to make. Mr. Brown, the chaplain at the Norwood school, had shown himself so admirably qualified for his office, that he was desirous that the chaplains who were to be appointed to all the other schools should be equally effective.The Bishop of Exeter
180518041803 said, that no one would imagine that the mismanagement which had occurred in the Government arrangements of the Session had occurred in consequence of any laxity on the part of the noble Duke. The noble Duke was most regular in his attendance in that House; there was no one who witnessed the proceedings in that House who must not bear testimony to the fact, and to the most useful and beneficial attention, which he gave to public business; but at the same time, he (Lord Lansdowne) must say that despite the noble Duke's attendance, it seemed to him that his noble Friend near him had ample grounds for the complaint which he had made. It was very easy, indeed, to say, that if any one wanted information they might ask for it, and they would obtain it. He had no doubt but that some noble Lord connected with Her Majesty's Government would be able to give some explanation as to these measures; but what was the use of obtaining such explanations, when no time for deliberation could be had? The just complaint that was now made he well knew did not now originate for the first time, for it was a matter in which all previous Governments were more or less to blame. It was a complaint for which additional ground was afforded every year, and it had at last risen to such a height that the House was become a mere court of registration for the Bills that were sent up from the other House of Parliament, for they came at a season of the year when it was impossible to expect, and impracticable to give, a full and deliberate attention to them. As to their measures of legislation, he observed to their Lordships that they would be actually astonished if they were to perceive what numbers of them there were which were merely directed to amend, not the old statutes, but the new laws passed in a hurry by themselves; and all which they seemed to think required a perfection which it also appeared to be manifest they were never destined to attain. If they looked to the recent statutes, they would be amazed to perceive what efforts there had been made to perfect their laws; and he must say, that if they were to judge of them by the continual "amendments" that had been made in them, they might
180518041803The Marquess of Lansdowne
1788 wished to add to the answer given by his noble Friend, that although the court-martial had taken
1788The Earl of Aberdeen
 in answer to the question of the noble Lord, wished to state that he had no knowledge whatever of any such engagement as that referred to by the noble Lord, nor had he any reason to know or to believe that any such promise had been made as the noble Lord had mentioned. But though he had no knowledge or belief of any such engagements, it might be satisfactory to the noble Lord to learn, that, from a recent communication received from Her Majesty's Minister at the Court of St. Petersburg, the Imperial Government had no objection whatever to the return of the two Ministers referred to.The Earl of Aberdeen
 observed, that he had stated the objects of the Bill.Lord Wharncliffe
1807Wellington:d.,s.l.1806 was sure that it would be a great convenience if the business were performed at an early period of the Session; but he did not think that the fault was with that House. It was perfectly true that many Bills passed through that House without more than a few words of explanation. That was the usual custom with that House, and he believed it was the custom also with the House of Commons. Unless Bills were likely to attract a good deal of attention, Members were satisfied with a short explanation respecting them. At the time that he sat in the House of Commons he had seen thirty or forty Bills on the Order Book, and in a very short time disposed of, unless some one required explanation. As to the Railways Bill, the noble Lord had complained that it was a most important Bill, and that it had come up at a time when they could not sufficiently consider its enactments, and he had instanced that which had occurred on the preceding night. Now, it ought to be considered that before such a Bill as that would pass the House of Commons, not only must it have been considered most maturely, but it must have taken great time to mould it, so as to meet the views of those who were interested in it. If they considered the vast property that was invested in Railways, it must be plain that out of doors much influence must be exercised, and much trouble must be taken before parties could come to a good understanding with regard to it. That, then, was some excuse for the lateness of the period at which it was brought into that House. His noble Friend opposite had made it a matter of accusation against the Government that, at the opening of the Session, the Queen's Speech contained less promises of future measures than any Queen's Speech he knew of. He thought that was rather a merit than a fault. He had seen Queen's Speeches promise many things more than were fulfilled. Now what were the suggestions in that Speech, and how many of them had been brought to perfection. Well, then, how many of them had been brought to a conclusion in the course of the Session. It referred to the Bank of England, and its promise had been fulfilled. It then referred to the Irish Registration Bill. That was a measure that undoubtedly they had not completed. It was a measure that affected the interests of Ireland as well as of this country. It was a most important measure, and, as the
1807Wellington:d.,s.l.1806Lord Wharncliffe
 moved that the House should now resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.Lord Wharncliffe
 said he would take the point into consideration, and see how far he could meet the right rev. Prelate's view.Lord Wharncliffe
: Then you must have an appeal to some court, and I see none more eligible than the Quarter Sessions.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, that no doubt such instances as the right rev. Prelate contemplated might exist, but as the man in appealing was bound by this Clause to give security for the payment of all costs, and as by much the greater part of those who were the object of the Clause would be able to find the necessary means of supporting the original application, he thought no hardship was likely to arise from it. If a woman were unable to pay the necessary expenses, he doubted not that there were many attornies who, if they found the case a good one, would readily take it up. Then let the right rev. Prelate look a little at the other side. Did he think it would be right to make the order of the two justices upon the putative father final?Lord Wharncliffe
 admitted the force of the right rev. Prelate's objection, and would see and remedy it on the bringing up of the Report.Lord Wharncliffe
1840 could not agree to the Amendment. The right rev. Prelate had probably had no experience in this matter; but those who had knew that under the old law, that which existed before the present, there were many flagrant instances
1840Lord Wharncliffe
1836 in proposing the first Clause, wished to say a few words, having been several times referred to personally by the right rev. Prelate. In one respect, he was very much obliged to the right rev. Prelate for the course he had pursued to-night; for this was the first time they had been enabled to learn what was the object of those out of doors who cried out so much against the existing Poor Law. The right rev. Prelate said, "Don't amend or improve the present law, for God's sake; let us go back to the 43rd of Elizabeth." But when the right rev. Prelate said, that a Bill passed in 1601, was the only thing that by possibility could answer the purpose of 1844, he would ask what, after all, was that Bill, and what was its occasion? The poor had, previous to the Reformation, been maintained by charity from the monasteries; and when they were put down, their means of relief were entirely cut off. It was necessary to get rid of bands of vagabonds who were going throughout the country; and the 43rd of Elizabeth was a restrictive measure, which compelled them to remain in their parishes. The right rev. Prelate contended that the poor had a right to subsistence;—he admitted that they had a right to relief in case of destitution, and that he maintained was the principle of the
1836Lord Wharncliffe,
 said the Clause had been fairly discussed in the other House. He would take the right rev. Prelate's suggestion into his consideration, but he could not hold out much hope to him that it would be adopted. It should be recollected that the Clause, as it then stood, vested the appointment in the hands of the persons who were to pay the Chaplains.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, that he would consider the case of the petitioners.Lord Wharncliffe
1843 said, he thought this Clause was likely to give rise to abuse as regarded travelling labourers. He was of opinion, too, that until a party who was found destitute could be brought before the Board of Guardians and relieved out
1843Lord Redesdale
 was perfectly satisfied with the answer of the noble Earl. He must have been misled by his information.Lord Beaumont
 repeated a question which he had put on a former evening, as to the restoration of two Ministers by the Porte, on an assumed understanding with Prince Alexander Georgeowitch.Lord Beaumont
180218011800 said, that the noble Marquess had, if he saw fit, a perfect right to refer to the state of public business, and to complain as to the manner in which it was disposed of in that House, and that proper attention was not paid to it. Now, he must say, that he was not aware that there was any inattention to the public business on the part of any noble Peer who represented the Government in that House. He knew that neither he himself, nor his noble Friend the President of the Council, nor the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, nor the Head of the Board of Control, were inattentive to the discharge of the duties that devolved upon them. Each of them attended to the immediate duties, and to the particular measures that belonged to them; and there was not any measure introduced into the other House of Parliament, of the subject of which either he, or some other Member of Her Majesty's Government, did not make himself master, and come prepared to answer any question that might be put to them there respecting it. It was certainly true, that it was not the invariable practice to open every subject in detail in that House; but it was the invariable practice to do so whenever the subject related to any matter that was considered of importance. There was no Bill presented to that House on which noble Lords might not receive every information that they re-
180218011800The Duke of Wellington
1832183118301829: My Lords, I have given my best attention to the speech of the right rev. Prelate, and I beg to call your attention, in the first place, to the argument he has brought forward to induce you to postpone the consideration of this Bill at such a period. He told you about an hour and a half ago that it was too late in the evening to go into the consideration of such a Bill, and he further said that your Lordships were not in sufficient numbers for so important a measure to be disposed of. But I beg to remind your Lordships that we have frequently sat here to a much later hour in the night than this, and that, according to the constitution and practice of this House, you are not at all in numbers too few for the consideration of any measure, and more particularly for the consideration of a measure which has been so long under the consideration of the other House of Parliament, on a subject which is perfectly known to your Lorpships, and which has, in fact, been under the consideration of Parliament not in the present Session only, but also during the last three or four Sessions of Parliament, when measures for the amendment of the existing Poor Law have been considered. Measures recommended by the late Government and by the present Government have been under the consideration of Parliament
1832183118301829The Duke of Wellington
: I beg leave to move that the Address be presented by the Lords with White Staves.The Duke of Wellington
1787"That a humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to congratulate Her Majesty on the Birth of another Prince, and to assure Her Majesty that every Increase of Her illustrious
1787 rose and said: I am sure your Lordships have participated in the joy of the public upon the occurrence of this day, and that you must be anxious to avail yourselves of the earliest opportunity to express your congratulations to Her Majesty for Her safety, and upon the joyful event. I therefore move, in conformity with the usual practice, and without giving notice—
1787"That a humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to congratulate Her Majesty on the Birth of another Prince, and to assure Her Majesty that every Increase of Her illustrious
1787The Duke of Wellington
19201919 begged to draw their Lordships' attention to a Clause which he had to propose, relative to the alterations introduced by the bastardy Clauses of the present Bill into the Poor Law. The subject was one to which he had already drawn their Lordships' attention, by pre-
19201919Lord Teynham
19221921bonâ fide begged to trouble their Lordships again, whilst he stated the object of a second Clause which he had to propose, to the effect that whenever it should be necessary for a married pauper to quit his wife and family, for the purpose of seeking work out of his own immediate neighbourhood, it should be lawful for the Board of Guardians to administer relief to the wife and family of such pauper during his temporary absence. The subject of the Clause which he had just read to their Lordships was one not unworthy of their deepest consideration. On looking at the Returns relative to the number of the vagrant poor, and their committals for having deserted their families, he found that no fewer than 3,930 persons had been so committed, out of whom, the number of those who, it appeared, had left their homes and families with the 19221921bonâ fideLord Teynham
1913 said, he had thought it right on the preceding evening, to give notice of the Petition which he was about to present to their Lordships, not only on account of the importance of the subject to which it related, but also with reference to the public feeling and opinion that prevailed, connected with the late proceedings at Tahiti. It was not, however, his intention in discharging this duty, to say anything that could provoke discussion in relation to those proceedings. The petition was agreed to at a public meeting held in the borough of Leeds, on the 5th of August, and purported to be the petition of the undersigned friends of the Protestant Missions residing in that borough. The noble Marquess then read the petition in which the petitioners stated, that the Missionaries had directed their attention to the South Sea Islands about fifty years ago, and had laboured most successfully in that part of the world. They complained of the recent conduct of the French at Tahiti, which they considered to have been most unjust; they deprecated all hostile feeling between the two countries, but they at the same time condemned the measures that had been adopted at Tahiti as being totally unworthy of the French nation, the petitioners prayed their Lordships to adopt such measures as they might think fit to secure due protection for the Protestant Mission at Tahiti. He had thought it necessary that the petitioners should speak for themselves—he was sure that the prayer of their petition, in which he entirely concurred, would be attended to. With respect to the proceedings at Tahiti, he could not but say that he felt most strongly that the gentleman (Mr. Pritchard) who had been so harshly treated had not, at the time, in any manner, forfeited that position which, as a British subject, he had a right to claim. He did not think that any temporary or unauthorized resignation of his functions deprived him of his fair and just claims to the protection of the Government. He did most sincerely trust and hope when those to whom this petition referred had their grievances and apprehensions thus stated to the House, that no future conduct on their part might add
1913The Marquess of Normanby
 said, he would not reply upon the general topics to which the noble Earl had adverted, after the express declaration made by him that silence was the best course to be pursued. He must not, however, upon that account be supposed to acquiesce in the whole of the policy which the noble Earl had stated to be that which he had acted upon. He begged, however, to express his particular satisfaction with the manner in which the noble Earl had treated the particular question which formed the subject of the petition presented by him.The Marquess of Normanby
1917 so entirely agreed in the view taken by his noble Friend of the speech made by the noble Earl, that he would not make any remarks on it; though be could not help complaining that the noble Earl's remarks on the war party in France, almost implied that in this country Ministers were not altogether in a fit state of preparation for the attempts of those foolish and wicked
1917The Marquess of Clanricarde
 supported the Amendments.The Marquess of Normanby
1918 said, that the transaction referred to by the noble Marquess was one of those operations in Spanish finance which, promising at first the most complete success, led afterwards to disappointment and failure. He would not hold out any greater hopes that those prospects would be realized than those which had been indulged in when they were originally entertained in 1834. The
1918The Earl of Aberdeen
191619151914, said the noble Marquess in presenting this petition had not thought it his duty to enter into any lengthened remarks on the recent transactions that had taken place at Tahiti. Yet, nevertheless, he (the Earl of Aberdeen) wished to offer a few observations connected with the petition itself, which had reference to those transactions. Many of their Lordships would recollect, that early in the last Session of Parliament, when they first heard of the establishment of the French in Tahiti, a noble Friend of his (the Marquess of Lansdowne), who was not then in his place, and who had formerly been President of the Council, had put some questions to him on the subject; and had then stated that he did not regard with any jealous feeling the establishment of the French in the Pacific, and the extension of their system of colonization in that sea; but he expressed an anxious wish that British interests might be properly protected, and, above all, that the security and freedom of the missionaries employed in Tahiti should be provided for. In answer to the noble Marquess who had put the question, he said that in those opinions he entirely concurred, and he could assure him that the Government had received all the guarantees which they could possibly demand, with respect to their perfect freedom, and security in the exercise of their functions, of the British mission established in Tahiti; and of such others as might also seek those countries as the scene of their labours. He (the Earl of Aberdeen) afterwards laid on the Table of the House a correspondence with the French Government on the subject; and,
191619151914The Earl of Aberdeen
 moved that this Bill be read a third time, which was agreed to.Lord Wharncliffe
 objected to the Clause, because it held out a premium to those persons who should hereafter abscond from their families. If the labourer out of work was honest and industrious, and bore a trustworthy character, there would be no difficulty whatever in finding him work in his own parish.Lord Wharncliffe
 moved that this House do not insist upon their objections to the Commons' Amendments of the County Coroners Bill, respecting the mileage.Lord Wharncliffe
 objected to the Clause, and described it as another branch of the out-door relief part of the Poor Law Bill. If any case of real hardship, such as the noble Lord contemplated to afford some mitigation or relief to, were to come under the notice of the Boards of Guardians, there was, he would venture to assert most confidently, no doubt whatever, that in all such cases the Guardians would, upon application to the Commissioners, obtain permission to administer out-of-door relief; he therefore objected to the Clause as wholly unnecessary.Lord Wharncliffe
 hoped the House would, not agree with the Commons' Amendments. The Bill, in its present state, had "job" written upon the face of it.Lord Beaumont
1947l.1946custos rotulorum, said, he could see no reason whatever for departing from the opinion which he had formerly expressed on this subject. He would state to their Lordships what was the position of this question. There was no doubt, that by the Common Law of England and Ireland, the appointment of these ministerial offices was in the Judges. No one, he conceived, could controvert that proposition. He would admit, however, that the Common Law might in this, as in other respects, be controlled by prescription. But prescription in Ireland, except with reference to certain offices, was the same as in England. The case of Chief Baron O'Grady, of the Court of Exchequer in Ireland, was illustrative of this point. The question there turned entirely on prescription. Prescription was there opposed to the claim set up at Common Law, and the decision was against the Chief Baron, that which he resisted being justified by prescription. But many cases could be cited to prove that the Common Law gave to certain officers the appointment to particular situations. Thus, at a long antecedent period, when the Crown claimed the right to appoint to certain offices which had been ordinarily disposed of by the 1947l.1946custos rotulorum,The Lord Chancellor
Wharncliffe:1948 said, he had moved the Amendment which had been objected to; and therefore, though his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack had advanced arguments in favour that were conclusive, he wished to offer a few observations on the subject. A Bill relative to these sinecures had been laid on the Table of the House of Commons two Sessions ago by Lord Eliot. The Bill contained a Clause giving the patronage of certain offices in the Courts to the Judges. That measure had been delayed, why he knew not; and had been at length abandoned. The Bill then before them was introduced in the present Session; but the Irish Judges had never been consulted about it. Not one of them had been asked what course it would be proper to take with reference to his own Court or with regard to public good. In that Bill a Clause was introduced giving the patronage of these offices to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. Deeming the Bill highly objectionable in the form in which it stood, he had prepared an Amendment, which he brought before the notice of their Lordships whilst the Bill was in the Committee. The noble Lord the President of the Council, who was present, had requested him, in his place and openly,—for he was not stating anything that had taken place privately in the matter,—to delay his Amendment for a day or two, whilst he cousulted his Colleagues respecting its insertion, and accordingly the further consideration of the Bill and the Amendment was put off for two or three days, during which interval he felt morally, though he could not say he was possitively, certain the noble Lord had consulted his Colleagues and obtained their consent to his Amendment; for, on the reconsideration of the measure, it was adopted, as he had already stated unanimously. The noble Lord now proposed to strike out his Amendment, and to restore the Bill to its original state, and he
Wharncliffe:1948Lord Campbell
19501949 said, that the Lord Chancellor was the responsible Law Officer of the Crown in their Lordships' House; and it was by his advice and opinion that their Lordships ought to be
19501949The Earl of Wicklow
1951ad captandum said, that if any stranger had entered the House without being previously aware of the exact question before their Lordships, he would have supposed that they were debating some one of the great vital topics which struck home to the hearts of the people of Ireland, and that, in short, their Lordships were discussing the "justice to Ireland" question. Now, what was the subject under consideration? and, notwithstanding the 1951ad captandumThe Earl of Haddington
 protested that he had always entertained a high respect for the noble and learned Lord.Lord Campbell
: The noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, however had not considered it necessary to introduce any Amendment into the Bill, or he would have done so. Besides if the Judges in Ireland were so dissatisfied with the Bill, why had they not complained to the Government?The Earl of Haddington
: Because the only part of the Bill to which they objected was altered when the Amendment of the noble Lord (Campbell) was carried.The Earl of Wicklow
1952l,: That was very true, but why did they not, when the Bill was introduced as it originally stood, protest against it if they considered themselves so much insulted or aggrieved by any particular Clause. The fact was, the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had very little patronage attached to it, and this was felt to be an inconvenience. The Bill proposed to remedy it in some degree—and the question was, how the patronage conferred upon the Lord Lieutenant could be disposed of by him. That functionary was in a very responsible position. He was watched most narrowly by the Irish people, and though the duties of his position never called upon him for any very active exercise of power, he was still considered as responsible for the acts of the subordinates of Government, and was consequently very much in the eye of the public. He therefore would defy any Lord Lieutenant to make an appointment under the present Bill which should be an unfit one. He did not mean by this to deny the fitness of the Judges to make the appointments in question, but he merely meant to assert the propriety of vesting the power to make them in the Lord Lieutenant. He should vote against the Motion of his noble and learned Friend on the Woolsack with great reluctance: but the Bill was in his opinion a good Bill; it saved the country 18,0001952l,The Earl of Haddington
1953 said, that the conduct of the Government upon this measure was marked by considerable vacillation and indecision. The noble Lord the President of the Council had first consulted his colleagues respecting the Amendment of the noble and learned Lord near him (Lord Campbell) and then had permitted it to be inserted in the Bill. When the Bill came up from the Commons both the noble Lord and the noble Earl (Haddington) opposite had declared the difference of opinion in it between their Lordships' House and the Commons' House to be unimportant; and yet, after consulting their Colleagues again, they came to a contrary conclusion and determine upon persisting in the Commons' Amendment, though the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack had expressly stated that the result would be injurious to the Judges of Ireland. The decision of their Lordships on this point would be narrowly observed. He hoped they would not offer so grave an insult to the Judges of Ireland, as the Bill would convey, merely for the purpose of claiming a share of patronage for the Lord Lieutenant. He took the course which he was then pursuing simply on that ground. He had received in common with other noble Lords a letter from Lord Chief Justice Doherty, who had expressed his sentiments strongly against the proceeding. The noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack had said truly, that though the patronage ought to be given to the Judges by the present Bill, he would not put their claim to it on that footing, but would assert it to be theirs by virtue of the Common Law, and the noble and learned Lord had also very justly stated that the question was one affecting the dignity of the Judges of Ireland. It was in order that they might not be subjected to a great and serious slight that the Judges had claimed the patronage, and he still hoped the Government would bear in mind the precedent that had been established by the practice in the English Courts, and not show the people of Ireland that they would not hesitate to cast a slur upon their Judges, if by so doing they
1953The Marquess of Clanricarde
 said, that he had another ground of discussion and of difference with the Government upon the subject of the present Bill, which however was one entirely divested of all party feeling; the present Bill originated in the defective state of the Common Law, as far as related to persons resident abroad, who were not liable to any process issued out of the Courts in their own country. The Bill proposed to make the service of a writ good wherever it might be effected; and consequently when a debtor residing abroad, was once served with the process of the Court of Law of his own country, he was liable, if he had no defence to the action, to have his real and personal estate seized to make good the claim against him. This principle had been adopted by the Legislature, and the present Bill was the result. In conclusion he should move that the consideration of the Commons' Reason be postponed until that day six months.Lord Campbell
 then rose to move, that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty to give directions for carrying into effect the recommendations contained in the last Report of the Committee on the New Houses of Parliament. It was necessary that this step should be taken in order to expedite the building. The Report stated that, with expedition, the Peers might meet in their new House after Easter in the ensuing Session.The Marquess of Clnnricarde
 hoped the words "as far as possible" would be introduced. For his part, he had some doubts as to the possibility of their getting admission into their new House next year.The Duke of Buccleuch
1954 must remind the House of the necessity of taking energetic steps in this matter. If they did not, they might not be in their new House for these
1954Lord Campbell
 also hoped that they would not have to jog through the next Session in their present "omnibus."The Earl of Wicklow
1956 said, in pursuance of the notice which he had given last night, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord opposite respecting the Report which had been laid upon the Table with reference to the Post Office. It appeared from that Report, that the law had not been complied with, and that the practice had not been known to the public, and that no great utility of benefit had accrued to the Government from that practice. As the House was about to adjourn it would be well, before the adjournment, if the Government had come to any determination on the subject, that the noble Lord should inform the House what that determination was. He begged therefore to ask the noble Lord whether the Government had come to any determination as to the propriety
1956The Marquess of Clanricarde
 observed, that eight years had now elapsed, and he believed even the drawings for some of the buildings were not complete. He thought that it was indeed time for their Lordships to exert themselves.Lord Sudeley
 thought some of the deviations from the original design were disgraceful. He particularly alluded to the deviation from the original plan respecting the entrance.Lord Sudeley
 said, the Report had but just been laid upon the Table, and the Government had not had time to take the matter into consideration.Lord Wharncliffe
1945 rose to call their Lordships' attention to the Commons' Reasons for "disagreeing to one of the Amendments made by their Lordships in the above Bill." The Bill as it came from the Commons gave the appointment to certain offices in the Courts of Law to the Lord Lieutenant. Their Lordships had altered that Clause, and placed their patronage
1945Lord Wharncliffe
 owned that he also should be sorry to see money wasted for the purpose of ornamenting mere Committee-rooms. He hoped they would not be obliged to wait until British artists were taught to paint frescoes. If they were, he feared they would have to wait some time.Lord Wharncliffe
1955 understood that Mr. Barry had assigned as a reason for not completing the House of Lords that he had received no positive orders upon the subject. Now, it was perfectly understood that the Lords' House was to be completed first, and if Mr. Barry would not act without orders there was so much the more reason for throwing, by means of this Address, the responsibility upon the Government, who could give him orders. There was another point upon which, as this subject was under consideration, he might, take this opportunity of addressing a few words to their Lordships, He was strongly opposed to all lavish decoration, especially if such decoration would interfere with the erection of the building itself. Now, there were schemes on foot, he understood, for applying to all parts of these new Houses of Parliament all sorts of heraldic ornaments, frescoes, and geldings. Even the Committee-rooms were to be decorated in this way; and he must say, that anything in worse taste or less suited to the simple habits of the English, he could scarcely conceive possible. If they misapplied ornament, they must also misapply time
1955Lord Monteagle
"I have received with great Satisfaction your loyal Address; I thank you for your Congratulations, and I accept this Address as an additional Proof of your Attachment." appeared at the Table, with his wand of office and key, as Lord High Chamberlain, and read the Answer of Her Majesty to the Address of the House, agreed to on the 6th of August, congratulating Her Majesty on the Birth of a Prince. Her Majesty's Answer was to the following effect:—
"I have received with great Satisfaction your loyal Address; I thank you for your Congratulations, and I accept this Address as an additional Proof of your Attachment."Earl Delawarr
 having taken his seat at the foot of the Throne, together with the other Lords Commissioners, viz. — the Lord President of the Council (Lord Wharncliffe), the Lord Privy Seal (the Duke of Buccleugh), the Duke of Wellington, Earl Delawarr, and the Earl of Dalhousie — directed the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to require the attendance of the Commons who haying appeared preceded by their Speaker, and the Royal Assent having been given by Commission to some Bills,The Lord Chancellor,
 on behalf of the LORDS COMMISSIONERS, delivered the following Speech,The LORD CHANCELLOR,
: My Lords and Gentleman, By Virtue of Her Majesty's Commission, under the Great Seal, to us and other Lords directed, and now read, we do, in Her Majesty's Name, and in obedience to Her Commands, prorogue this Parliament to Thursday, the 10th day of October next, to be then here holden; and this Parliament is accordingly prorogued to Thursday, the 10th day of October, next.The LORD CHANCELLOR
 moved that Her Majesty's gracious Answer be printed.The Duke of Wellington
